LEARN TO
•••••♦ ♦••♦ ♦•••••♦ WRITE • • •

I THE RIGHT IATAY; I

♦••••••••••••••♦

F744,1k9ifsi.giS

MULTISTATE EXAMINATION
WORKBOOK

VOLUME II

A Collection of 536 Multiple Choice
Questions and Answers
for

CIVIL PROCEDURE
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

EVIDENCE
REAL PROPERTY

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

[FLEMING'S
FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW PL.!

MULTISTATE EXAMINATION
WORKBOOK
Volume II

ay
Jeff A. Fleming
Attorney at Law

Edited by 
Susan P. Sneidmiller
Attorney at Law

Published by:

Distributed by:

FLEMING'S FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW
23166 Los Alisos Blvd., Ste. 238, Mission Viejo, CA 92691
CALIFORNIA TOLL FREE 1 (800) LAW EXAM
(714) 770-7030 • Fax (714) 454-8556

LEGAL BOOKS DISTRIBUTING
4247 Whiteside Street
Los Angeles, CA 90063
1 (800) 200-7110

All Rights Reserved (© 2005)

Copyright 1997, 2000, 2005 by Fleming's Fundamentals Of Law. Third Edition. All rights reserved. No part of this
book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including photocopy, recording, or
any information storage and retrieval system, without permission from the publisher in writing. Printed in the U.S.A.

SUPERVISING WRITER AND EDITOR

Jeff A. Fleming
Attorney at Law

MANAGING WRITER AND EDITORS

Susan P. Sneidmiller
Attorney at Law

LAYOUT:

Donald F. Bayley II

IMAGEN Company Irvine, CA.

CONTRIBUTING WRITERS:

Professor Todd Brower

Standford University School Of Law, J.D.

Jarod Gross

University Of Santa Clara School Of Law, J.D.

Melody Lynne Jolly

Western State University College Of Law, J.D.

Professor Glenn Koppel

Harvard Law School, J.D.

Steve Liosi

Western State University College Of Law, J.D.

Professor Jeremy Miller

Tulane School Of Law, J.D.

CONTENTS - Volume II

THE RULES OF THE ROAD - An Introduction to the Multistate Method 	

3

CIVIL PROCEDURE - Question Breakdown 	

CIVIL PROCEDURE Questions 	

CIVIL PROCEDURE Answers 	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW - Question Breakdown 	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW Questions 	

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW Answers 	

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE - Question Breakdown 	

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE Questions 	

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE Answers 	

EVIDENCE - Question Breakdown 	

EVIDENCE Questions 	

EVIDENCE Answers 	

PROPERTY - Question Breakdown 	

PROPERTY Questions 	

PROPERTY Answers 	

45

49

 113

149

 153

 191

229

233

275

301

305

351

379

383

441

RULE #1 — FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE MBE TERRAIN

Material released by the NCBE indicates, in an almost lawyer-like disclaimer
fashion, that the MBE is:

1. Not a multiple-guess test, or a test of test-taking skills, but of legal skills and knowl-

edge, with a high correlation to performance on the essays;

2. Not a needlessly difficult, arcane or tricky test, but is designed to be a fair and un-
biased index of whether the applicant has the ability to practice law, regardless or
race or ethnicity;

3. Not a test in which time is a statistically significant factor, as the time allotted is

sufficient for 99 percent of the test takers;

4. Not inferior to essay and performance exams as a measure of minimum competency
to practice law, because the MBE can cover a greater breadth of subjects, can be
scored objectively and scaled to account for variations in difficulty from test to test;
and

5. Not getting easier from year to year.

Perhaps this last representation can go without dispute, but even the less gifted
advocates among us may, after a trip down the MBE road, be able to raise an is-
sue or two.

The landscape on the MBE road looks something like this:

A. TORTS (34 questions)

50% - Negligence, Proximate Cause, Damages (Apportionment), Defenses, Vicarious

Liablility

50% - Divided among remaining Tort areas

Questions here are based on the common law, the majority rule, and, increasingly,
on the Restatement 2d, Torts. The importance of Torts, and specifically of negli-
gence, cannot be overstated. The remaining emphasis is primarily on the intentional
torts and strict liability, with nuisance, defamation, privacy and misrepresentation
also being represented. You can count on at least one question from each of these
seven topics.

The specifications (i.e., subject matter outline) for the Torts MBE questions fea-
ture five main headings. Nuisance, defamation, privacy and misrepresentation
fall under a single heading of Other Torts. Products liability is segregated from 

4

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

D. REAL PROPERTY (33 questions)

75% - Interests in Land, Co-Tenancies, Landlord & Tenant, Ownership in Trusts,
Easements, Profits, Licenses, Covenants, Servitudes, Water and Land Rights,
Zoning, Fixtures (Article 9, U.C.C.), Adverse Possession, Deed, Conveyancing
by Will, Recording Act

25% - Land Sales Contract/Risk of Loss/Marketable Title/Mortgages

The common law, the modern law, the majority rule, and the U.C.C. (Article 9
— Fixtures) are tested in Real Property. The problems are, along with Contracts, the
longest and most complex on the MBE; unfortunately, most students would agree
that the concepts tested are anything but basic. Traditionally, the lowest percent-
ages come out of Real Property. On recent MBE's, there has been a significant
rise in testing on mortgages.

The 33 Real Property questions will draw on the areas of ownership, rights in
land and title for 75% of the questions, land sale contracts and mortgages for the
remainder. Newly tested subjects include zoning, conveyance by will and owner-
ship interests in trusts.

E. CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (33 questions)

50% State Action, Due Process, Equal Protection, Privileges and Immunities, Bill
of Attainder, Ex-Post Facto, Contract Clause, First Amendment (Speech,
Association, Press, and Religion)

17% - Federal/State Conflict
16% - Separation of Powers
16% - Procedure

The principles tested in Constitutional Law are derived from the U.S. Constitution,
the decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, and, apparently, from obscure footnotes
in Nowak's hornbook on Constitutional Law. The good news is that the questions
in this area tend to be the most straight forward on the MBE, accounting for the
highest percentage scores.

The MBE includes 33 questions in Constitutional Law, approximately 50% of
which will test on "individual rights": due process, equal protection and first
amendment freedoms. 

6

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

F. EVIDENCE (33 questions)

33% - Hearsay
33% - Relevancy, Real and Demonstrative & Scientific Evidence, Authentication, Expert

Testimony, Privileges, Best Evidence Rule

33% - Impeachment, Rehabilitation, Opinion, Burdens and Presumptions, Judicial

Notice, Direct Examination, Cross-Examination

The questions arc based on the Federal Rules of Evidence. Throw out those old
outlines based on the common law, with one possible exception — From time to
time, you may see a federal court sitting in diversity jurisdiction. In those situa-
tions, apply state rules of procedure that may be outcome determinative, including
state rules of Evidence, as spelled out in the problem.

Note that if the questions testing on character evidence (from relevance and im-
peachment) are combined with the hearsay questions, the total is generally 60%
or more of the testing in Evidence. The questions tend to be the shortest, yet most
devious, on the MBE.

The MBE includes 33 questions in Evidence, one-third based on presentation of
evidence, one-third based on hearsay, and one-third based on relevancy, privileges
and writings.

The subjects of Crimes, Evidence and Torts tend to emphasize, and will likely con-
tinue to emphasize, the elements of the rule invoked by the facts; in Constitutional
Law, Contracts, and Real Property factual analysis and reading comprehension
is emphasized.

Unlike the essays, cross-over testing is the exception rather that the rule. This is
due, at least in part, to the fact that the questions are drafted by individual com-
mittees, each responsible for one of the MBE areas.

Although Civil Procedure is not considered a testable subject, a recent trend has
been to get to Torts by means of a motion for a directed verdict (known as a motion
for judgment as a matter of law), a motion to dismiss, or a motion for summary
judgment. For example, a question may require you to know that the doctrine of
res ipsa loquitur will raise an inference of negligence sufficient to turn the matter
over to the jury, and overcome a directed verdict motion.  

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD 

7

Prior MBE questions have tested the Erie doctrine in Constitutional Law, have used
a will or trust to get to an issue in Real Property, have used a federal court sitting
in diversity jurisdiction to get to an Evidence issue, or have used a contract to get
into a Real Property issue. Expect to see as many as three or four questions that
could cross-over between Evidence and Criminal Procedure. Remedies, includ-
ing damages and equitable relief, will arise in the context of in Contracts, Real
Property (e.g., specific performance), Torts, and, possibly, Constitutional Law
(e.g., injunctive relief).

It is highly unlikely that anything resembling a cross-over pattern will be seen on
the Baby Bar, as the examiner is unable to assume that you have any knowledge
beyond the Contracts, Crimes or Torts material covered in your first year of law
school. 

8

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

RULE #2 — PREPARE FOR THE LONG HAUL (or, You Have to Get out of the
Driveway before You Can Ride the MBE Fast Lane)

The foregoing subject breakdowns are to be used as study guides, along with
comprehensive outlines, such as the Gilbert series recommended by Fleming's
Fundamentals of Law in the MBE areas. It is recommended that one outline be
reviewed every one and one-half weeks for long term and review two outlines per
week for short term. Greater emphasis should be placed on any weak or highly
testable areas, combined with practice problems as discussed below.

The essentials of preparation for the MBE can be addressed in three words —  prac-
tice, practice, practice.

In gearing up for the practice runs, the student must sort through a potentially
overwhelming assortment of materials. At the outset, a schedule should be pre-
pared that considers the outlines to be covered, as well as the practice problems
to be done. A series of goals, both long term (overall) and short term (daily), will
be helpful, but only if these goals are realistic and within reach.

A successful performance on the MBE requires more than the ability to regurgitate
rules of law and a rote memorization of the outlines. An examinee must be able to
master the rules., the exceptions, the exceptions to the exceptions, the footnotes in
the hornbooks, the Restatement comments and illustrations, the ability to function
in a stress-filled environment, the ability to think on one's feet, and the ability to
apply all of this in 1.8 minutes per question.

Unquestionably, success on the MBE is grounded on a solid foundation of the
black letter law. By itself, however, this is not enough. Each rule, as it is studied,
must be put into a factual context so that the application of the rule is understood
and the associative process is enhanced.

Generally, the commercial outlines, such as the Gilbert series, or the bar review
outlines, will be a sufficient source of the law needed. Despite all of our experi-
ence with last-minute cramming, merely reading the outlines will not be enough
to vanquish the MBE. The study of the law must be incorporated into an approach
that contemplates problem-solving as the goal, rather than rote memorization.

The recommended first step is to break down each subject area into its component
parts and to master each of these areas before moving on to the next. For example,

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD  9

one cannot learn Crimes without first mastering the general requirements of  ac-
tus reus (the criminal act) and mens rea (the mental state) before moving on to
homicide and theft crimes.

While studying the outline materials, take the time to discern the necessary ele-
ments of each rule reviewed. List these elements in your mind, on a piece of paper
or on a flash card and then  contextualize. This means putting the outline aside for
a moment to consider or imagine a set of facts that will call up the rule, element or
exception to be applied. For example, while reviewing contract offers, consider a
number of situations in which an offer may or may not exist, such as Do you want
to go to the movies? (merely an inquiry); If you pay for the movies, I'll pay for the
food (possibly an offer, despite its indefiniteness, if another would be justified in
believing that a power of acceptance has been created); or I'll pay you $5.00 an
hour to come over at 7:00 P.M. this Saturday and watch my kids while I go to the
movies (clearly an offer). If at first this seems difficult, there are a number of flash
card sets, such as those published by Law-in-a-Flash or  PMBR that list examples
or hypotheticals that may prove helpful in helping initiate the process.

The next step is to turn to a source of practice questions, such as the Finz Multistate
Method book utilized by Fleming's Fundamentals of Law, starting with the table
of contents. You will see, for example, in the Criminal Law section, that following
the heading General Principles is a listing of 13 questions that test in that specific
area. Working questions in the subtopic immediately following its review will not
only help you place the rules in context, i.e., to apply the rules, it will also help
you to determine whether or not there is sufficient comprehension of the rules so
as to allow you to move on to the next area of testing. Again, it is vital to achieve
some sense of mastery in each area before moving to the next.

When taking the practice test questions, always time yourself, allowing no more
than 1.8 minutes per question. If you are aware of the time pressure from the very
beginning, then you will start to develop a rhythm or an almost instinctive aware-
ness of the passage of time as you work the problems. 

10

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

RULE #3 — KEEP YOUR EYES ON THE ROAD (or, the Zen of testing)

One of the attributes of the successful examinee is the ability to focus, to the exclu-
sion of all else, while in testing mode. This can be thought of as finding a quiet place,
both externally and internally, in which to perform. The distractions may be external,
such as the continued groans of a neighboring test taker; or the distractions may be
internal, such as wondering what impulse possessed you to sit for the exam.

The key is to block out everything but the test question, and to be able to do that for
an extended period of time. By doing test questions in blocks of no less than 17 at
a time, one half hour per set, you can consciously put yourself in the exam for that
period of time to the exclusion of all else. Consider continuing to practice the half
hour sets until you have mastered the ability to go for thirty minutes without think-
ing about anything but the test questions. Once you have mastered this ability, then
expand to one hour of testing, or 33 questions, and so on, until you can sit for three
hours without a significant break in concentration.

This does mean, however, that no matter how great the temptation, you cannot
look at the answer key until you have completed the set. When you do review the
answers, look at the explanations for both the correct and incorrect responses to
ensure a well-reasoned basis for your selections and to reinforce your grasp of the
rule being tested.

Some students will find it helpful to write out the rule on a flash card for those prob-
lems they got wrong. This, again, helps to reinforce your grasp of the rule, will help
you keep track of areas of difficulty, and will create a valuable study tool.

It is also important to sit for at least one simulated exam so as to test your ability
to focus over the long haul. Use the simulation as an opportunity to diagnose areas
of weakness, not only substantively, but technically or procedurally as well, i.e.,
Does the brain completely fade somewhere around question 75? Does it take 10 to
15 questions to establish a rhythm'? Does the brain think of nothing but lunch as the
clock nears the noon hour?

As the exam draws nearer, the emphasis should shill from outline review to problem
solving, with the outlines being used primarily as a refresher or supplement to the
problems. Again, the exam is testing on problem solving skills, not the ability to
regurgitate the black letter law. The final month should be devoted to doing practice
MBE's.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD 11

RULE #4 — MAXIMIZE YOUR FUEL EFFICIENCY

As mentioned above, study time should be allotted to reflect the relative importance
of each subject area. Of the 200 questions on the current MBE, there are 34 each
in the areas of Contracts and Torts, and 33 each in the areas of Constitutional Law,
Criminal Law and Procedure, Evidence and Real Property.

Factor in the testing on the essays, where typically three out of the six one-hour
questions test on the same rules as the MBE, and that you cannot study law for
the performance essays, and the result is that at least 75% of the black letter law
needed to pass the California Bar Exam comes out of the MBE areas. This same
basic principle, that studying for the MBE will help on the essays, also applies
to the Baby Bar essay questions, but is limited to the topics of Contracts, Crimes
and Torts.

Emphasis in study time for the California Bar Exam should be placed on the MBE
areas. Generally, each MBE area should be studied three times as much as any
individual essay-only subject, such as Wills or Community Property.

As we saw in the subject breakdowns, above, within each MBE subject can be
found certain key areas, for example:

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: .... Individual Rights And
The First Amendment 	

16 Questions

CONTRACTS: 	

Formation (Including U.C.C.), Defenses ... 15 Questions

EVIDENCE: 	

Hearsay And Character Evidence 	

 15 Questions

TORTS: 	

Negligence 	

 17 Questions

PROPERTY .  	 Establishing And Conveying Title 	

20 Questions

(Note: While Criminal Law has a somewhat emphasized area, the
general requirements and defenses will likely be tested directly
or indirectly on the bulk of questions, and should therefore be
considered key, both in study and in the review of the elements
of each criminal offense.) 

12

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

Obviously, the key areas require a greater expenditure of time. Again, the subject
breakdowns will be an important tool in emphasizing specific areas, and getting
the most efficient use of your study time. 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

13

RULE #5 — KNOW WHERE YOU ARE HEADED (Before You Leave the
House)

In order to maximize your reading comprehension and initiate your analysis of
an MBE test question, it will help to know the area of testing, and, if possible, to
determine the rule of application, before you start to read the facts. The area being
tested will not be specifically identified for you.

The typical MBE question is composed of three parts — the  root/stimulus (fact
pattern); the stem  (call of the question); and the  options (answer choices), as in
the following example:

Question 1 is based on the following facts:

Archie, a candidate for Student Body President at the exclusive
Riverdale Academy, was scheduled to debate the other presiden-
tial candidates before the assembled student body in the school's
auditorium. After the students had taken their seats, Ms. Grundy,
the faculty advisor, called Archie to the podium. Just as Archie was
crossing the stage to get to the podium, his opponent Reggie stuck
out his foot, causing Archie to fall off of the stage. As a result,
Archie was deeply humiliated, but suffered no physical harm.

1. If Archie asserts a claim against Reggie due to the humiliation

that he suffered, will Archie prevail?

A. Yes, if Reggie knew that Archie had to walk across the
stage in front of Reggie at the precise moment Reggie
stuck out his foot.

B. Yes, if Reggie carelessly failed to notice that Archie had

to walk across the stage in front of Reggie.

C. No, because Archie suffered no physical harm.

D. No, only if in sticking out his leg Reggie did not intend

to cause physical harm to Archie. 

14

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

The answer to this example can be found in the Rule #7 Section that follows.

Prior to reading the facts, read the stem. In the above example, the asserts a claim
language identified the area of testing — Torts. Now the root can be read with a
eye toward the appropriate cause of action. This is essentially the same as issue
spotting an essay. The facts are designed to trigger the application of a rule. The
examinee's job is to recognize those trigger facts and apply the appropriate rule.

Getting a sense of the ultimate destination helps to initiate the reasoning process
that goes into analyzing the facts. Again, this is the same process that goes into
issue spotting an essay, i.e., Do the facts support a particular outcome or result?
Have all elements been satisfied? Are there additional facts that must be evalu-
ated? Are there missing facts that must be considered before the outcome can be
determined? Is there an exception that will apply?

In the above Archie-Reggie example, once the area of law was established, we can
now consider the various rules which might apply, e.g., negligence, intentional tort
or strict liability. Which facts become significant? The facts state that as Archie
was crossing the stage, his opponent Reggie stuck out his foot. There is no men-
tion of whether or not it was intentional or accidental. It does not appear that any
of the categories of strict liability (products liability, wild animals, abnormally
dangerous activities) can be supported by the facts, so this area can be eliminated.
Negligence is possible, but given the lack of physical harm, we will need to con-
tinue the search for a more appropriate rule. The claim asserted will likely arise
out of the intentional torts, perhaps battery or intentional infliction of emotional
distress. The facts must be scrutinized to see if they will support the claim, or if
something more will be needed.

On occasion, the stem may go further in establishing the rule of application, e.g., if
Defendant is charged with murder..., or if Plaintiff asserts a claim in strict liability
due to the injuries caused by the defective product.... This may allow you to get
further along in the distillation process, but it does not mean that your analytical
skills will not be called into play.

In those problems where the root is followed by more than one stem, i.e., multiple
questions follow a single fact pattern, try to read each stern so as to get a general
sense of the issues or areas being tested. Later, when working through the responses,
you can deal with each stem independently.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD  15

If the stem does not provide you with sufficient information to determine the area
of testing, glance at the options. This means allowing your eyes to drop down an
imaginary centerline through the potential responses, so that you recognize key
words. This should be enough to enable you to determine, at a minimum, the area
of testing. In the above example, you may have noted the words know and care-
lessly in the first two options, suggesting that the key, or correct answer, will be
coming out of intentional torts or negligence, and may possibly require a distinc-
tion to be made as to those two areas.

Consider the following example:

2. In a common-law jurisdiction, Defendant should be found

guilty of:

A. Burglary only

B. Arson only

C. Burglary and arson

D. Neither burglary nor arson

As you have likely observed, the stem did identify the rule of application, the
common-law rules. It did not identify the rule of law; however, a quick glance at
the options clarified the area (Criminal Law) and the crimes of burglary and arson.
Once you have identified the rule or rules of application, your job may merely be
the accounting of all essential elements.

In some examples, the stem essentially replaces or supplements the existing facts
by asking you to assume additional facts. In this situation, reading the entire stem
first may not be as desirable. It may be helpful to first read the last sentence or
phrase of the longer stem, so as to learn the objective of the problem, and then read
the additional facts contained in the stem. Consider the following example: 

16

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

Assume for the purposes of this question  only that instead of
doing the job herself, Builder delegated the remodeling work to
Framington, who was an experienced cabinetmaker. Although
Framington had never worked on a job of this exact type, size and
complexity, she eigerly accepted the delegation because she owed
a sizable gaunbl in debt to Builder. Builder did not inform Owner
of the delegation. Builder then assigned the contract proceeds to
Karman to pay off her car loan.

Will Owner be required to accept Builder's delegation of du-
ties to Framington?

In this example. glancing at the last sentence identifies this stem as testing on a
delegation of contract duties. By having this knowledge, the important facts are
easily distinguished from those immaterial to the inquiry (e.g., that Framington
was inexperienced with the type of job versus Framington's experience as a cabi-
netmaker or the assignment to Karman). Note also that where the stem instructs
you to Assume for the purposes of this question only  do not carry those additional
facts on to other questions and do not allow the new facts to influence your read-
ing of the basic fact pattern.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD  17

RULE #6 — USE ROAD MAPS

Reading the stem, or glancing at the answers, to establish the objective or direc-
tion the problem is taking will help boost your reading comprehension. This can
be compared to using a road map to establish which direction to take in order to
reach your ultimate destination, i.e., the objective of the problem.

Reading comprehension is enhanced if you have a sense of direction, that is, an
idea of which facts are likely to be important and which facts are set forth as mere
distracters. Whole paragraphs may be skimmed if you know in advance that such
paragraphs will not have a bearing on the result. Parties are more easily identified,
issues are more easily narrowed.

Once the objective has been established, it becomes easier to recognize the details
that may be important in resolving the issues presented. For example, the fact that
the plaintiff was an anticipated or known trespasser, and thus a duty was owed,
may be determinative in Torts; or that the seller was an unemployed ballerina, and
thus not a merchant, may help resolve the issue as to whether or not a written op-
tion contract not supported by consideration is enforceable; or that the seller was
planning to sell, rather than presently intending to sell, may indicate that there is
no offer on which to base a contract.

As indicated above, a fact critical to the outcome may be buried within the details
of the fact pattern which, in essence, is identical to the essays. These details may
be seen in adjectives, verbs, adverbs, times, dates, places, quotations, personal
characteristics, names, or intentions. The question to ask is: What is the  legal sig-
nificance of each fact or detail as it relates to our inquiry or call of the question?

In some problems, but not all, a simple, quickly executed diagram may be help-
ful to set out, for example, the chronology or the relationships that are central to
the question. This can be done right in the test booklet, or on the scratch paper
provided by the proctors. Consider the following example:

Question 4 is based on the following facts:

Buss is the owner in fee simple absolute of Lakeracre, a 13,000
acre ranch in Kern County, in the state of Golden. On May 2 , 

18

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

despondent over the playoff loss of her beloved Magicians
basketball team to their arclirivals. the Missiles, Buss eon  ON cd
Lakeracre to Johnson for the price of $150.000.00 by means of a
quitclaim deed. Johnson did not immediately record this convey-
ance. On June 16, Buss conveyed Lakeracre by warranty deed to
Nelson in consideration of $250.000.00 debt owed by Buss to
Nelson, which Nelson forgave. Nelson recorded this conveyance
immediately. On July l . Johnson recorded his quitclaim deed.

On July 10. Johnson conveyed Lakeracre to his friend Threatt
as a gift.

Threats recorded the conveyance immediately. On July 15, Nelson
conveyed Lakentcre to Peeler by quitclaim deed for the price of
$300.000.00. Peeler recorded immediately.

4. Assume for the purposes of this question only that Golden

has a recording statute that reads as follows:

No conoeyance is goad as against 0 subse-
quent purchaser Jar valuable considenaion
and without notice, unless such con vevoncc
be recorded prior to subsequent put-chaYe.

If all necessary parties are joined in a quiet title action. title
will he found in Nkhich of the following of the following par
ties?

This problem can be diagrammed to strip the facts down to the essentials. The
key is to identify the bona fide purchasers. and when each recorded relative to
the other, so as to establish the absence or presence of notice in this race notice
jurisdiction. A diagram may look something like the following:

B to J/BFP B to N, N  rec J rec J to T/gift, T rec. N to P/BFP, P rec

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD  19

Of course, the diagram can be distilled further by using arrows instead of to, or
abbreviating recorded to the letter R, so long as there is no confusion as to mean-
ing or a party.

The areas that are most likely to call on diagramming skills would be Contracts and
Real Property. It is recommended that you practice diagramming, if that technique
is to be employed, wherever appropriate in the practice questions. The objective
to distill the information into a useful format as quickly as possible, keeping in
mind that if you spend more than 1.8 minutes with each stem following the root,
that time must be made up elsewhere.

Some students may wish to highlight or underline the facts. This can either be
helpful, or a waste of time. In order to highlight effectively, there must still be
some awareness of the relative importance of the material highlighted. You may
recall how much material you highlighted in your casebooks during the first weeks
of law school. Soon, as you grew more sensitive to the relevant facts and law,
less and less was being highlighted. This was a product of learning how to read a
case. In much the same way, you will learn how to recognize the vital facts, and
disregard the immaterial.

In reading the root of the Archie-Reggie example, above, it may not be as impor-
tant to note that Archie was running for office as it was to note that the accident
occurred in front of the assembled student body, thus increasing the probability
that Archie would be humiliated. This is not to completely discount the Archie's
purpose for being in the auditorium, or that Reggie was his opponent. The fact
that Archie was there to participate in a debate makes it clear that the audience
would likely watch Archie's every move. The facts are not clear on Reggie's in-
tent in sticking out his leg; while it might appear that he intended to trip Archie,
we have to be careful in making an unwarranted assumption. In this example, we
appear to be missing a critical fact, and cannot make up for it with imagination.
The resolution of this issue is likely the key to the problem, and will be dealt with
in the answer choices.

It is important that you follow the facts and do not fight or respond emotionally to
the facts that are given. This means taking the facts at face value, without reading
too much into the facts. In this regard, you may need to stifle some of the natural
inclinations of an advocate, as arguing or assuming facts may do little except waste
time or lead to an incorrect response. Where the facts state that the arresting officer  

20 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

had a valid warrant, do not attempt to challenge the warrant. Where the facts state
that the police made a random stop, do not go on to consider the possible excep-
tions to the warrant requirement. Where the facts state that a deed is valid and has
been properly executed, there is no need to ask if the description is sufficient.

Some rules may seem unfair, perhaps even illogical, in applying the facts. For
example, Why shouldn't a physician be required to act to render assistance to an-
other who may be seriously injured as a result of the physician's inaction, where
there is no risk to the physician, and despite the fact that the victim was placed
in peril by another'? Why shouldn't a party he allowed to prove up a subsequent
remedial measure to prove negligence or culpability, when such remedy is logi-
cally connected to the dangerous condition causing injury? The MBE is not the
place to argue policy, and attempting to do so will exact a very high toll. Again,
do not respond with emotion, but rather a reasoned approach to applying the law
to the facts.

If a straight forward interpretation is available, do not over-analyze or seek out
an unnecessarily convoluted interpretation. A reasonable, logical inference may,
however, be required. Ensure that the inferred fact logically and necessarily fol-
lows from the information given. Making assumptions, creating new facts, or
working with conclusions that are not warranted by the existing facts will, in most
instances, generate an incorrect response.

Constitutional Law, Contracts and Real Property are where the subjects that are
more demanding on reading comprehension, given the nature of the subject matter
and the tendency that the examiners have to use longer, more complex fact patterns
with multiple parties to test in these areas. Fact patterns in these areas will often
require greater scrutiny, and therefore require more time.

Testing in Crimes, Evidence and Torts tends to emphasize elements and command
of the black letter law. As a result, the fact patterns tend to be shorter, and may
require less in the way of reading comprehension, and more in the way of substan-
tive knowledge of the rules of law.

When reading the facts, regardless of the subject, keep in mind that the examiner is
testing on lawyering skills. Cases very often turn on details, so an effective reading
of the facts will often depend  on the examinee's ability to discern the operative
from the inoperative, the relevant from the immaterial, and the substantial from 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

21

the inconsequential. Also, you must be as flexible and as adaptable as conditions
may demand. This is known as thinking on one's feet. These are qualities that lead
to a successful performance.

As with all the methods and techniques discussed in this introduction, including
the following materials on selecting a response, success is dependent on practic-
ing until the approach is virtually unconscious. Techniques must be adjusted to
fit each individual's approach, and that only comes through practice. You must
sort through each suggestion, and incorporate only that which has produced the
greatest result with the practice questions.

Arguably, if the work done in reading the facts and the call of the question has been
successful, then there should be little effort expended in reaching your destination,
i.e., selecting a correct answer. In the most basic terms, we are usually seeking the
best legal basis on which to support a particular or given outcome. 

22

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

RULE fI7 — DON'T GET SIDETRACKED

On occasion, the correct answer may appear obvious. Certainly, if the answer is
obvious, do not fight it. In other instances, however, it will seem as though the
examiner has taken great pains to hide the ball. The incorrect answers, referred to
as distracters by the examiners, are aptly named.

Consider the Archie-Reggie example (Question 1) above. It would appear that Reg-
gie acted intentionally to trip Archie: however, the facts say nothing about Reggie's
state of mind, and we cannot afford to guess at what Reggie was thinking. The
facts state that Archie was not injured, so the (B) response, based on negligence,
is improbable. The (C) response can be ruled out, because an action for battery or
intentional infliction of emotional distress can be maintained even in the absence
of actual physical harm. The (I)) response can also be eliminated, as it limits li-
ability to intent to cause physical harm; however, a cause of action can be based
on the offense to Archie's dignity' or the intent to cause emotional distress. The
(A) response, therefore, is the key. or correct response. By using the word know
it addresses the missing element at intent.

Typically, the person drafting the question is or has been a law professor. As a
result, he or she has ample experience with the phrasings that are likely to lure an
examinee into an incorrect response. There must be something attractive in a dis-
tracter. It may be an inaccurate or incomplete statement of the law. It may trigger
some faint memory of an arcane rule. It may be a concept that has been drilled into
you. Or, more likely. the distracter may reflect an incomplete understanding of a
rule that has traditionally led to confusion,

In the Archie-Reggie example, the examiner may have been counting on the dif-
ficulty some students may have in distinguishing negligence and the intentional
torts, or the requirement of physical harm that accompanies a negligence action.

One concept that routinely turns up in distracters is promissory estoppel. Those same
people who taught you to love  and cherish the concept, law professors, now turn it
against you. In the absence of a promise and a reasonable expectation on the part
of the promisor that the promise will induce some action or inaction, the doctrine
does not apply. Yet students have routinely attempted to use promissory estoppel
as an all-purpose substitute for consideration, despite the absence of a promise, or
the presence of a more appropriate response that has very real consideration.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD 23

In other situations, the distracter may prey on an examinee's confusion as to the
identity of the holder of a right, or when the right arises. In a problem where the
government is maintaining an action in inverse condemnation, an examinee must
realize the action is one properly maintained against the government. In a prob-
lem where a defendant seeks to assert the last clear chance doctrine, an examinee
must realize that only a plaintiff can assert the doctrine. Where there is a claim of
privilege against self-incrimination, be sure that there is a statement in issue, and
that the statement is testimonial in nature.

Other distracters may seek to create whole new, incorrect concepts. Only a student
with sufficient familiarity with the hearsay exceptions under the Federal Rules
will know that there is no exception for a recent sense impression. Bargained-for
reliance, a concept that withers in daylight, might get a second glance from the
examinee who is unsure of his or her knowledge of Contracts. Keep in mind that
after reading outlines in each of the subject areas, and doing thousands of practice
questions, if there was such a thing as bargained-for reliance you would recognize
the concept.

This is not intended to mean that you will necessarily be familiar with all potential
phrasings. In an area such as negligence we cannot expect to see 17 problems that
may be answered Liable, if negligent. Some synonyms are in order, such as reck-
lessly, carelessly, unreasonably, without due care, and so on. This does not mean,
on the other hand, that new, special duties can be created, e.g., in a negligence
action, the defendant owes the highest or an utmost duty of care.

Ultimately, the best cure is a thorough substantive review, followed by judicious
amounts of practice questions. Adequate preparation will thwart the intentions of
the examiner seeking to trap the unwary examinee. 

24 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

RULE #8 — REMEMBER TO READ THE TRAFFIC SIGNS

A clear understanding of the language in the stem and the options will be critical
to achieving a sense of direction, or, in other words, the objective of the problem
and arriving at the correct response.

The language in the stern may cast the examinee in a specific role, which in turn
will have a bearing on which response is the most appropriate. For example, a stem
that asks for the best hasis on which to support a judge's decision is asking you,
in essence, to act as that judge's law clerk. A question asking for the strongest or
weakest argument is calling for an advocate. On the other hand, a stem seeking
the most probable outcome may require a neutral approach in analyzing the most
appropriate response.

Consider the following example to determine how much information is contained
in the stern:

Question 5 is based on the following facts:

Dennis and Joey operate a private courier service in the city of
Metropolis. They entered into a contract with the law Iirrn of
Ketcham and s Wilson for the delivery of the firm's promotional
calendars to clients throughout the city. Prior to commencing the
deliveries. Dennis suggested to Joey that the two of them throw
away the calendars, pocket the money paid for the deliveries, and
spend the rest of day at the local race track. Joey said nothing.
Dennis then proceeded to dispose of the calendttrs.

. It Dennis and .loey arc charged with conspiracy to commit
larceny in a common law jurisdiction, which of the following
constitutes Joey's weakest defense'?

A. Joey did not have the required intent.

B. Joey did not form an agreement with Dennis, either ex-

plicitly or	

as to tt criminal objective.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

25

C. Joey did not act to take the calendars out of  Ketcham and

Wilson's possession.

D. Joey was feigning agreement.

In the above example, the question stem is identifying the following: (1) the area
of law, (2) the specific rule being tested, (3) the law of the jurisdiction, (4) the
defendant to focus on in applying the rule, and (5) the role to assume in respond-
ing to the question. Actually, very little is needed from the root in this example.
The criminal charge has been set out, so in order to respond, apply the rule of
conspiracy.

The fact that the question seeks the weakest defense should not dramatically affect
your analysis. This question may be more easily solved by working it in reverse;
in other words, re-phrase the call to read Which of the following constitutes Joey's
strongest defenses? In this example, the (A), (B) and (D) responses are all negating
an element of conspiracy, i.e., the specific intent to commit larceny or the agree-
ment between two or more actors, and as such, are very strong defenses. Option
(C) appears to be dealing with the crime of larceny, and not the inchoate crime
of conspiracy, and would not be an adequate defense, is therefore the key in this
example. Note that in the areas of Crimes and Torts the strongest, best defenses
are those which negate an element of the charge or claim.

The same care must be used in analyzing the options. Consider the following
example:

Question 6 is based on the following facts:

Peters was skiing in the exclusive resort of Deer Park, an area
which he was not familiar with, and inadvertently skied out of
bounds. As he attempted to get back on the ski trail, a blizzard
started, making it impossible for him to find his way back. As
darkness descended, Peters started to fear that he would suffer
from hypothermia unless he found shelter. As he was making his

26 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

way through the waist-high snow, Peters spotted a ski cabin owned
by Denver. Despite seeing a sign which read Private Property
— Keep Out!, Peters immediately inLide his  wayy to the cabin and
was able to gain entry by forcing the door open. The cabin was
unoccupied.

Once inside the cabin, Peters started a fire in the fire place. Without
realizing there was a defect in the fire place screen which allowed
sparks to escape. Peters went to sleep. A tire broke out which
destroyed the cabin and caused serious injury to Peters.

6. If Peters asserts a claim against Denver for his injuries. will

he he successful?

A. Yes, if Den\ er was aware of the defective fire place

screen.

B. Yes, only if Denver could have discovered the defective

fire screen by a reasonable  inspection.

C. No, unless Denver had reason to anticipate a skier might

break into the cabin.

D. No, because Peters assumed the risk that a lire might

break out v, hen he went to sleep.

In this example, notice that each option has a result, followed by a suggested basis
on which to support that result. This is the most common formulation of answers
on the MBE. Look closer, and you will notice that each outcome is joined to the
basis by a conjunction, which can he referred to as the modifier, or operative term.
Each different modifier has its own connotation or usage.

The modifier in option (A), if, suggests that the outcome  must follow as a result
of the statement of law of fact given, and no other outcome is possible. The de-
termination that must be made is whether the logical connection is sufficient to
justify the result.  In a problem where there is one missing element in order for the
plaintiff to prevail, and that missing element is preceded by an if modifier, then no 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

27

other result is possible. This would be a very strong choice. The if modifier may
be followed by a new fact, in which case the inquiry is whether no other result
logically follows the new information. In the above example, we do not need to
question whether or not Denver actually knew of the defect. The inquiry is whether
or not Denver would necessarily be liable, given this awareness. Your knowledge
of Torts will tell you that absent some duty owed, this result does not necessarily
follow, and this answer may be rejected.

The only if modifier in option (B) suggests that the basis which follows the outcome
is the exclusive means of arriving at the outcome, and that there is no other way to
logically arrive at the outcome. The word only is a word of restriction or limitation.
If there is another way to arrive at the outcome, then this modifier would indicate
an incorrect response. In this example, the duty to inspect (owed to invitees) would
not be the exclusive basis on which to predicate Denver's liability to Peters, and
therefore must be rejected.

Option (C) features the  unless modifier, which requires a reversal of the analysis
of the only if modifier in options (A). In other words, the outcome stated can only
be avoided by the statement which follows. The unless modifier should be treated
as the logical opposite of only if. Your knowledge of Torts will tell you that Denver
will prevail if Peters is unable to satisfy all of the elements of negligence. All of the
elements needed to find for Peters have been supplied except one — duty. Another
way to view this option is to rephrase it to Peters will recover  only if Denver had
reason to anticipate Peters presence in the cabin. This logically follows, because,
based on the facts, duty to the trespassing Peters will only arise where Denver has
reason to know or anticipate his presence in the cabin; therefore, this is the key
response.

The modifier in option (D), because, can be used interchangeably with the conjunc-
tions since and as. Here the inquiry is two-fold. First examine the basis as a correct
statement of law or fact. If it is correct, then ask if the outcome stated logically and
necessarily follows from the basis. In this example, there is nothing in the facts
that indicates Peters voluntarily and unreasonably encountered the known risk of
a defective fire place screen. As a result of this, this option must be rejected.

The analysis of the language above may seem awkward, even somewhat convoluted
at first. After working through a substantial number of practice questions, you will
find that familiarity and comfort with the language increases at a rapid pace.  

28 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

RULE #9 — BE ALERT FOR CHANGING ROAD CONDITIONS

The three complete examples  above followed a fairly standard format. The root
was followed by the stem. which in turn was followed by options which each
listed an outcome followed by a proposed basis  on which to support the outcome.
The method used to arrive at the correct response in the explanations above was
the process of elimination.  Once we eliminated the false statements, whatever
remained became our selection.

Another way to view the exam is as a multiple true-false test, rather than multiple
choice. That means looking at each option, independently, as a true-false question.
It will be helpful to mark a T or an F next to each option as you read through them.
Alternately, you might use a system of pluses or minuses, or crossing out the false
statements. Selecting the correct option then becomes a function of looking for a
T, a plus, or an option which has not been crossed out.

But what about the options with a question mark next to them? What if you can
only narrow it down to two choices?

If you are able to narrow it down to two choices, one of which is correct, you
are delinitely on the right track. You will have increased the odds of getting the
problem correct by l 00c,4. This is one reason why you may wish to indicate your
second choice as you work through the practice questions. As you read through
the explanatory answers, you will seek to develop a sense of why the examiner
prefers one choice over another.

Remember that the examiner, at least in the problem types we have reviewed so
far, is putting you on the hunt for the best legal basis on which to support a given
outcome. Consequently, the an sw er which is narrower or more specific to the result
is usually preferred; the same is true when comparing a legal basis with a factual
basis. The legal basis is generally preferred. For example, Not guilty, because
the facts do not state that Defendant had an improper motive does not present as
good a legal basis as Not guilty, because Defendant lacked the intent to steal in
exculpating the defendant in an example testing on larceny.

Be on the alert for those answer choices that are underinclusive or overinclusive
in stating the basis for the outcome. For example, the option stating Constitu-
tional, because the 1st Amendment only protects words is likely to be wrong in a
Constitutional Law problem, because certain acts of expressive conduct may be 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

29

within the scope of 1st Amendment protection. If you find that the rationale in an
option eliminates a right which ought to be included, or encompasses a right or
result which does not follow from your understanding of the law, then such option
is to be avoided.

The examiners use a number of variations on the problem-types illustrated above,
such as where the result is the only thing contained in the option. Consider the
following example:

Question 7 is based on the following facts:

During the night, Dexter, a drug addict, broke into Gordon's
apartment, a reputed drug dealer, with the intention of stealing
Gordon's supply of rock cocaine. Although Dexter did not find any
cocaine, he did find some methedrine, an illegal stimulant. Dexter
took the methedrine with him when he left the apartment.

7. In a common law jurisdiction, Dexter is guilty of:

A. Burglary only

B. Larceny only

C. Burglary and larceny

D. No crime

Although the options are not the compound type that we have looked at, the ap-
proach is similar, in that we must still go through each possible response and deem
it either true or false. We do this by reviewing the elements of each charge, and
determining whether or not the facts will support the charge. Where there are mul-
tiple charges (or outcomes), deal with the elements of each individual charge.

In this example, we are in a common-law jurisdiction, and the facts state that
Dexter broke in to Gordon's apartment at nighttime with the intent to steal drugs.
We do not have to struggle with  the elements of breaking and entering because  

30 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

they arc there in the facts. The examiner is hoping for an emotional response, that
somehow stealing illegal drugs is not morally wrong. But the facts make it clear
that Dexter had the intent to commit a larceny at the time of breaking and enter-
ing, therefore Dexter has committed burglary. He has also taken the drugs, which
are the personal property of another, with the intent to steal; therefore Dexter has
also committed larceny. and choice (C) is correct. Keep in mind that each crime
requires satisfaction of an element the other does not, so there is no double jeop-
ardy prohibition.

Another problem type incorporates the facts into the options themselves, which
may be referred to as a  squib -option format, as in the following example:

In which of the following fact situations will the contract
most likely be en forceable despite the absence of a written
agreement?

A. Homeowner and Cable Company have a dispute over the
placement of . Cabie'S use of the utility poles on Homeown-
er's land. In an effort to settle the  matter. Cable offers to
purchase an easement from Homeowner, and Ho m eowner
accepts.

B. Vendor operates vending machines throughout the city
of Sierra Visu.t. Supplier offers to sell S5,000.00 worth
of snack foods to Vendor for only $3,000.00. Vendor ac-
cepts.

C. Agent hears Singer perform in a nightclub and on the spot
offers her a two-year recording contract. In reliance on the
offer, Singer quits her job at the nightclub, and accepts
the offer.

D. Owner asks Builder to submit a bid for the construction
of addition to Ow ner's house. Builder offers to build the
addition for S10,000.00. Owner accepts.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

31

Problems of this type can generally be attacked with a two-step approach. Ask
yourself the following: What is the rule being tested (as identified by the stem)?
And, How is it to be applied, i.e., what is the task to perform? In this example,
the stem indicates that the rule being tested is the Statute of Frauds (requiring a
writing in order to enforce certain types of agreements), and the task is to classify
each contract to see whether it falls within the Statute. Options (A), (B), and (C)
each reflect an agreement that requires a writing under the Statute of Frauds — a
contract for the sale of an interest in land, a contract for the sale of goods for the
price of $500 or more, and a contract that is not to be performed within one year
from the making thereof, respectively. Only  (D), involving a construction contract,
clearly falls outside of the Statute, and is the key response.

Answer choice (C) may present a problem for some students, as they might want
to argue the element of reliance. The examiners are counting on this, expecting
some students will waste time wanting to argue. If you have an arguable response,
versus a clear cut response, do not waste time. Answer the question, and then
completely erase it from your mind. One of the pitfalls of the exam is that certain
problems are so challenging that a student will continue to work it in the back of
the head long after a response has been marked. Resist this temptation, as it will
only slow you down, frustrate you and destroy your effectiveness.

Another problem type the examiners have used is the tiered question, as in the
following example:

Question 9 is based on the following facts:

Thanatos operates a factory in the city of Olympia which manu-
factures air conditioners. One of the ingredients used in the
manufacturing process is freon gas, which when exposed to the
welding torches necessary to the manufacturing process creates
the highly toxic phosgene gas. The phosgene gas is pulled out of
the inside of the factory by means of large exhaust fans, which
are vented directly to the atmosphere. No other means are avail-
able to Thanatos for the removal of the phosgene gas. Morpheus,
who lives next to the factory, inhaled the fumes and was severely
injured. 

32

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

. If Morpheus asserts a claim against Thanatos for her injuries.
which of the following must he established if she is to be
successful'?

Thanatos operated the factory in a negligent man-
ner.

The Calory constituted a public nuisance.

The toxic gas released by Thanatos caused her inju-
ries.

A. III only

B.

I Lttid. III only

C.

II . and III only

D.

I, II. and 111

The most efficient, effective way to work this problem is to treat it in the same way
that we have already seen, that is, to treat it as a compound true-false question.
The stem is asking which of the following is an absolute requirement, regardless
of the cause of action. We can cross out or write an F next to statement I and state-
ment II, because Thanatos is involved in an abnormally dangerous activity giving
rise to strict liability. i.e., disbursing highly toxic gases into the atmosphere in a
populated area. Morpheus can therefore prevail even in the absence of proof of
negligence or nuisance. Option (A) is therefore correct.

Yet another problem type is the complex case precedent. In this problem type,
a series of case precedents are set out, with the stems being fact patterns, and the
options designating which of the precedents will be controlling, as in the follow-
ing example: 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

33

Questions 10 -12 are based on the following facts:

Read'the summaries in the four cases (A— D) below. Then decide
which is the most applicable as a precedent to each of the cases
in the questions that follow, and indicate each choice by marking
the corresponding space on your answer sheet.

Defendant, while in the process of robbing a liquor store,
(A)
dropped his revolver. The gun discharged, and the bullet struck
and killed a customer in the store. Defendant fled, but is later ap-
prehended and charged with murder. At trial, Defendant testifies
that the killing was accidental, and requests that an instruction
for manslaughter be given. Held: Guilty of murder.

Defendant, angered over not being invited to her next-door
(B)
neighbor's housewarming party, discharged her gun into their
common wall while the party was ongoing. The bullet struck a
lighting fixture, and the shards of glass in turn struck and killed a
partygoer. Defendant was apprehended and charged with murder.
At trial, Defendant testifies that she never intended to harm anyone
and requests that an instruction for manslaughter  be given. Held:
Guilty of murder.

Defendant, while in the Mojave Desert region of Southern
(C)	
California, decided to practice target shooting with her new rifle.
Taking aim at a cactus, she discharged a round. The bullet struck
a rock, ricocheted off of another rock, and  struck and killed a
person standing 1.0 yards behind Defendant.  Defendant is ap-
prehended and charged with murder. At trial,  Defendant testifies
that she did not know that the victim was present, and requests
that an instruction for manslaughter be given. Held: Guilty  of
manslaughter.

34 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

(D) Defendant w as away on a two-week lecture tour. On her
return home. she discovered her husband having sex with her
sister. Defendant then removed a revolver from her briefcase
and fired it in the general direction of her husband and sister. The
sister is struck by the bullet and dies. Defendant is apprehended
and charged with murder. At trial, Defendant testifies that she
only intended to shoot her husband, that the shooting °flier sister
was accidental, and she only discharged the gun because she had
lost control and was unable to regain her composure. Defendant
also requested an instruction for manslaughter. Held: Guilty of
manslaughter

10. Defendant, intending to collect on an insurance claim, sets
lire to his witrehouse. The fire spreads to an adjoining build-
ing, which apparently had been abandoned several years
earlier. A vagrant who was living in this adjoining building
wits sleeping at the time and was overcome by the smoke.
As a result. the vagrant was unable to escape in time and
was killed in the ensuing blaze. A statute in the jurisdiction
defines arson as the malicious burning of any structure.

11. Defendant, while driving his car at the posted speed limit on
the Golden State Freeway, began to be perturbed at the close
proximity of the car, driven by Victim, immediately behind
him. In an effort to send a message to the tailgating driver,
Defendant abruptly slammed on his brakes. Victim attempted
to avoid the impact by swerving his car, but instead struck
the concrete center median barrier and Victim was killed.

12. Defendant and Victim were fellow employees ()FIDE a corn-
munici.itions software developer. One night the two of them
began to argue over which long distance telephone service
the company should choose. Victim then reached into her
desk drawer. and started to pull out something that appeared
metallic. Defendimt believed thin Victim was pulling out it
gun and was about to shoot her, so Defendant reached into
her purse and pulled out a gun and shot Victim. Victim, who
was merely taking out a letter opener. died.

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

35

The temptation will be to match the facts in the stems with the facts in the prec-
edents, which will usually result in confusion and one or more incorrect answers.
In the above example, the facts in the question cases did not closely resemble the
precedents. The key is to distinguish each precedent as to the legal basis as it relates
to the result, use your knowledge of the law to determine the result in each stem,
and then match result for result. In the above example, this means identifying the
following:

A. Murder/Felony murder rule — robbery

B. Murder/Depraved heart murder

C. Manslaughter/involuntary — act of criminal recklessness

D. Manslaughter/voluntary — adequate provocation

Now, it becomes a task of matching result and basis with each of the ensuing fact
patterns. This means that the correct answer to Question 10 is (A), because the
accidental killing arose as a foreseeable consequence of the commission of an
inherently dangerous felony, arson. Question 11 was an example of involuntary
manslaughter involving criminal recklessness, and not depraved heart murder, be-
cause the necessary showing of the Defendant's awareness of the high probability
of death was not present; thus, option (C) is correct. Finally, Question 12, is an
example of voluntary manslaughter because of mistaken justification — Defendant
had a mistaken belief in an imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury. The
result must be matched with the result in one of the precedents; consequently,
option (D) is correct. Thankfully for many students, this question type does not
appear with frequency; when it does, usually in Criminal Law/Procedure, you may
recognize that with a workable approach, these questions will not seem overly
difficult.

In the supposition stem problem type, the stem will ask which of the facts con-
tained in the options, if true, will best support a particular result. The goal here is to
treat each of the options as true, combine it with the existing facts, and determine 

36 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

if it logically and necessarily leads to the desired outcome, as in the following
example:

Question 13 is based on the following fact situation:

On Mav 28. Pitcher and Dante. a dealer of vintage  cars, entered
into a w ritten. signed agreemeat whereby, Dante ot L to give
Pilchcr 30 days in which to decide whether or not to purchase
Dante's rare BMW' 507 automobile for $100,000.00. Only 50
BMW 507s were imported to the United States, and only live are
currently known to exist. On June 1, Pitcher tendered a cashier's
cheek for $100,000.00. Dante refused to convey title to the auto-
mobile. Pitcher brings an action for specific performance.

13. Which of the following facts, if true, would provide Dante

with his strongest defense?

A. Pitcher did note give any form of consideration for the

option to purchase the BMW 507.

B. Pitcher had entered into an agreement with another dealer
for the purchLise of a different BMW 507 after May 28,
and had communicated that fact to Dante.

C. At the time of com►nencing the action, Pilcher knew that
another BMW 507 was available for S150,000.00.

D. Both parties thought the agreement  was for the purchase

of DLinte's Mktserati

Again, as each option is examined, it is assumed that it is true. Option (A) does
not have legal significance, as the facts state that Dante was a dealer in this type of
automobile. Under the U.C.C, a merchant who gives assurance in a signed writ-
ing that an offer will not be revoked cannot later claim lack of consideration as a
defense to an option contract. Option ( B) appears to state that Pi Icher revoked his

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD 37

offer; however, this does not follow from the facts, as Pilcher is an offeree who
has not yet rejected Dante's offer. Option (C) cuts against the remedy of specific
performance, yet it is incomplete in that it does not state that the two automobiles
were alike in all practical respects. Option  (D), although it flies in the face of the
facts, is the key response, because if mutual mistake is present, the contract is
necessarily voidable at the election of either party. Remember, in this problem
type each additional fact must be treated as true.

In the three-one split problem type, there will be one option that stands alone as
to result. Do not attach any special significance to this, as it probably has a one in
four chance of being correct. Work it through as you would any other example,
but pay special attention to the modifiers, particularly one that would affect the
result such as unless. If one option does not include a basis or rationale, select it
only if the facts provide sufficient support for the outcome. Consider the follow-
ing example:

Question 14 is based on the following  fact situation.

Di vac, a skater with the Ice Follies, a traveling troupe of ice skat-
ers, stopped into the Fern Bar for a drink after performing  one
evening. After having several drinks, Divac began to speak with
V lade, who was seated next to him at the bar. The topic turned
to the greatest hockey goalkeeper of all time, and the disagree-
ment was so fierce that Divac took a swing at Vlade. The contact
was slight, but it was enough to knock Vlade off of his bar  stool.
Unbeknownst to Divac, Vlade was an undercover officer  for the
federal Drug Enforcement Agency, and was at the Fern  Bar in
order to make a drug buy.

Subsequently, Divac was arrested and charged  with assaulting a
federal officer. At trial, Divac testified that he  was unaware that
Vlade was a federal officer, and that if he had  known , he would
have never struck him. 

38 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

14. If the jury believes Divac, it should find him:

A. Guilty.

B. Not guilty, because he lacked the specific intent to assault

a federal officer.

C. Not guilty, unless assault of this type is considered a gen-

end intent crime.

D Not guilty, because Divac was mistaken as to Vlade's

identity.

In the above example, the only requirement as to mens rea is that Divac intended
the assault. Divac's awareness of Vlade as a federal officer is immaterial. No men-
tal awareness of the jurisdictional element of this type of offense is necessary to
convict. Note that option (B) can be eliminated on this basis. Option (C), which
has the modifier unless, can be eliminated on the basis that the facts indicate that
Divac intended the assault, and so the classification does not have a bearing on
guilt. Option (D) is incorrect, because mistake is no defense on these facts. Again,
only after eliminating all other choices can we properly arrive at the correct an-
swer, option (A).

Other problem types may appear from time to time. It is the ability to think on
your feet and apply the law to the facts in a lawyer-like fashion that will allow
you to vanquish each problem, and, ultimately, the MBE. 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

39

RULE #10 — ENSURE THAT SPEED IS ADEQUATE TO PASS

Be aware that a number of problems do not appear to test your minimum compe-
tency to practice, but rather are designed to screw with your mind. As the exam
is a test against time, you cannot afford to get bogged down on any one problem.
If the answer proves elusive, mark down a response, and move on. If the facts
are lengthy, and there is only one problem, consider skipping it to conserve time,
especially if it is testing on arcane or obscure material. For example, if the prob-
lem has two full columns of facts, and a single question testing on planned unit
developments and the mutuality of equitable servitudes in Real Property, Burby
himself might skip it. Before moving on, though, glance at the options to see if
any can be eliminated as clear false statements of law, so as to improve the odds
of a guess.

Always be sure to mark down an answer so as to avoid skewing the Scantron. If
you have skewed the answer grid, say around problem 15, you cannot afford to
discover this as the proctor is calling time. You must always be aware of time and
speed, so that you do not run into the situation where no time remains, and yet
you are still trying to fill in the bubbles.

Avoid changing answers unless you specifically see where you have misread a
problem, or later remember the formulation of a rule that applies in a earlier prob-
lem; however, if you are still thinking about an earlier problem, the concentration
is not there, and speed is likely lagging. If you spend enough time practicing, your
first guess will probably be correct anyway.

Remember, no one gets them all, not even the law professors who take the exam.
In fact, the examiners will typically throw out two to three questions on each exam
due to ambiguity or inconsistency. Of the 200 questions on the bar exam MBE,
most examinees will get at least 100 correct. The key to success is getting the next
40 to 60 problems correct.

Always, always remain positive. Indicate to yourself that you are ready to pass by
doing the things that you, and only you, know you need to do.

Treat the exam like a game, and do it for the sake of the game. Don't think about
the result or the stakes, just enjoy the ride. 

40 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

THE RULES OF THE MBE ROAD, IN REVIEW:

1.

2.

4.

5.

6.	

7	

K.	

9.

Familiarize Yourself With The MBE Terrain

Prepare For The Long Haul

Keep Your Eyes On The Road

Maximize Your Fuel Eficiency

Know Where You Are Headed

Use Road Maps

Don't Get Sidetracked

Remember To Read The Traffic Signs

Be Alert For Changing Road Conditions

10.

Ensure That Speed Is Adequate To Pass

Good luck on the MBE! 

INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

41

42 INTRODUCTION: THE RULES OF THE ROAD

 
CIVIL PROCEDURE - QUESTION BREAKDOWN

1. Personal Jurisdiction

Diversity of Citizenship

2.

Personal Jurisdiction — Service of
Summons

15. Venue

3. Third Party Claim — Derivative Claim

and Witnesses

16. Removal — Convenience of the Parties

4. Third Party Claim — Joinder of Claims

17. Personal Jurisdiction — Quasi-In-Rem

5.

6.

7.

8.

Subject Matter Jurisdiction —
Diversity of Citizenship

Personal Jurisdiction — Minimum
Contacts

Personal Jurisdiction — Long Arm
Statute

Personal Jurisdiction — Quasi-In-Rem
Jurisdiction

9. Removal

10. Personal Jurisdiction — Minimum

Contacts

11. Personal Jurisdiction — Minimum

Contacts

12. Venue — Waiver

13.

Joinder

14. Subject Matter Jurisdiction —

18. Supplemental Jurisdiction

19. Subject Matter Jurisdiction

20.

Impleader — Personal Jurisdiction

21. Joinder of Claims

22. Personal Jurisdiction — Diversity of

Citizenship

23. Supplemental Jurisdiction

24.

Joinder — Impleader

25.

Joinder — Necessary and
Indispensable Parties

26. Class Action — Adequate

Representation

27. Class Action — Damages

28. Discovery — Interrogatories

29. Discovery — Interrogatories 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 45

30. Discovery - Admissibility of

Fairly Litigated

Deposition

31. Discovery - Work Product

32. Discovery - Witness

48. Res Judicata - On the Merits

49. Res Judicata

50. Collateral Estoppel - Mutuality Rule

33. Discovery - Production of Documents

Exception

34. Class Action - Collateral Estoppel

51. Pleadings

35. Right to a Jury Trial

52. Discovery - Disclosures

36. General Appearance

53. Discovery - Experts

37. Pretrial Disposition - Voluntary

54. Discovery

Dismissal

38. Pretrial Disposition - Summary

Judgment

55. Discovery - Witnesses

56. Summary Judgment

39. Pleadings - Leave to Amend

57. Res Judicata

40. Attack on the Verdict

58. Summary Judgment

41.

Jury

59. Summary Judgment

42. Appellate Review

60. Discovery - Witness Statement

43. Appellate Review

61. Discovery - Work Product

44.

Joinder

62. Discovery

45. Pretrial Disposition - Summary

63. Discovery - Work Product

Judgment

46.

Joinder - Cross-Claims

47. Summary Judgment - Fully and

64. Discovery - Work Product

65. Subject Matter Jurisdiction -
Diversity of Citizenship 

46 CIVIL PROCEDURE

66. Subject Matter Jurisdiction -
Diversity of Citizenship

85. Subject Matter Jurisdiction -
Diversity of Citizenship

67. Supplemental Jurisdiction

86. Jurisdiction - Person/Subject

68.

Impleader

87. Res Judicata

69. Supplemental Jurisdiction

88. Personal Jurisdiction - Due Process

70. Counterclaims

71. Counterclaims

89. Subject Matter Jurisdiction

90. Res Judicata

72. Subject Matter Jurisdiction - Federal

91. Collateral Estoppel

92. Subject Matter Jurisdiction

93. Subject Matter Jurisdiction

94. Erie

95. Res Judicata

96. Collateral Estoppel

97. Mutuality Of Estoppel

98. Judgment As A Matter Of Law

99. Jurisdiction

100. New Trial Motion

Question

73. Class Action

74. Class Action - Notice

75. Class Action - Representative

76. Class Action - Notice

77. Discovery - Relevancy

78. Discovery - Automatic Disclosure

79. Judgment As A Matter Of Law

80. Discovery - Physical Examination

81. Discovery - Physical Examination

82. Summary Judgment - Burden Of

Persuasion

83. Renewed Judgment As A Matter Of Law

84. Juror Misconduct 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

47

48 CIVIL PROCEDURE

 
CIVIL PROCEDURE
QUESTIONS

Questions 1 - 5 are based on the
following facts:

Mack is an interstate truck driver. He sud-
denly fell ill while driving his rig through
Phoenix, Arizona, after returning from a
delivery in Houston, Texas. He was on his
way to his home in Los Angeles. Mack
pulled off the interstate onto Main Street
in downtown Phoenix and pulled into the
first doctor's office that he saw nearest to
the interstate. It was Dr. Feelgood's office
on Main Street. Dr. Feelgood had a sign
that was visible to motorists just after they
exited the off-ramp and entered Main Street.
After being treated by Dr. Feelgood, Mack
got back on the interstate and returned home
to Los Angeles. When he arrived home,
Mack became violently ill and brought suit
against Dr. Feelgood for malpractice in fed-
eral district court in Los Angeles, claiming
$100,000 in damages.

Q

0 0

0 <-

1. Mack served Dr. Feelgood pur-
suant to California's Long Arm
statute, which authorizes the
exercise of personal jurisdic-
tion to the extent permitted by
the Fourteenth Amendment. Dr.
Feelgood made no pre-answer
motions and, in his answer, de-
nied the allegations in Mack's
complaint. He also asserted the
affirmative defense that the court
lacked personal jurisdiction over
him. Dr. Feelgood then moved
to dismiss for lack of personal
jurisdiction. Which of the fol-
lowing is the most correct ruling
by the court on Dr. Feelgood's
motion?

A. The court has personal jurisdic-
tion, because Dr. Feelgood failed
to assert lack of personal juris-
diction in a pre-answer motion;
thus, he waived this defense.

B. The court has personal jurisdic-
tion because Dr. Feelgood did
not confine his response just to
attacking personal jurisdiction
but also addressed the merits of
the suit, which is deemed to be
a general appearance and, thus,
consented to personal jurisdic-
tion by Dr. Feelgood. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 49

A. The court cannot exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Dr. Feel-
good, because he did not pur-
posefully reach into California
to receive a benefit. He came to
California because his son hap-
pened to be lying in a hospital
bed in California.

B. The court cannot exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Dr. Feel-
good, because California has no
interest in adjudicating a dispute
arising out of medical services
rendered in Arizona.

C. The court can exercise personal
jurisdiction over Dr. Feelgood,
because Dr. Feelgood was served
with a summons in Los Ange-
les.

D. The court can exercise personal
jurisdiction over Dr. Feelgood,
because California has an over-
whelming interest in opening its
courts to one of its citizens who
was injured by medical malprac-
tice.  

C. The court does not have personal
jurisdiction over Dr. Feelgood
because he is just a local Phoenix
doctor who intends to serve only
the market in and around the
neighborhood where his office
is located.

D. The court has personal jurisdic-
tion over Dr. Feelgood because
his location near an interstate
off-ramp, with a sign visible by
motorists after they exited the
off-ramp, constitutes purposeful
availment of interstate business
by Dr. Feelgood.

2. Assume, for purposes of this question
only, that the court granted Dr. Feel-
good's motion to dismiss in Question 1.
Two months after Mack's federal court
suit was dismissed, Dr. Feelgood's son
was seriously injured in an automobile
accident while he was vacationing
in southern California. Dr. Feelgood
rushed to Los Angeles to be at his son's
bedside in the hospital. While at the
hospital, Mack had Dr. Feelgood served
with a summons in connection with
a second suit (for malpractice claim-
ing $100,000 in damages) that Mack
had filed in the federal district court
in Los Angeles. Dr. Feelgood made a
pre-answer motion to dismiss on the
grounds that the court cannot assert
personal jurisdiction under the Due
Process Clause. Which of the following
is the best ruling on this motion?

50 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Q

3. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that the court denied Dr. Feelgood's
motion in Question 2. Dr. Feelgood
filed a timely answer denying all of
the allegations in Mack's complaint.
Dr. Feelgood also served a summons
and third-party complaint on Drugco, a
pharmaceutical company incorporated
in California whose principal place of
business is in California. Dr. Feelgood
claimed that Mack became violently ill
upon his return to Los Angeles because
of a drug - Cyclopropane - which Dr.
Feelgood administered to Mack. Dr.
Feelgood alleges that Cyclopropane is
defective under the law of products li-
ability, and that Drugco is solely liable
to Mack. Drugco moved to dismiss the
third-party action. Which of the fol-
lowing is the best ruling on Drugco's
motion?

A. The third-party action should
be dismissed, because Drugco
and Mack are both California
citizens, and Drugco's impleader
destroyed diversity of citizen-
ship.

B. The third-party action is proper,
because Dr. Feelgood is assert-
ing a derivative claim against
Drugco, claiming that, if Dr.
Feelgood is passively liable to
Mack for administering the drug
Cyclopropane to Mack, then
Drugco, the active tortfeasor,
must indemnify Dr. Feelgood.

C. The third-party action is im-
proper, because Dr. Feelgood's
complaint does not assert a de-
rivative claim against Drugco.

D. The third-party action is proper,
because Dr. Feelgood's claim
against Drugco arises out of the
same transaction or occurrence
as Mack's main claim against Dr.
Feelgood.

4. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that the court granted Drugco's motion
in Question 3. Dr. Feelgood then served
another timely summons and third-
party complaint against Drugco making
the following claims against Drugco: 1)
if Dr. Feelgood is held to be liable to
Mack for having administered Cyclo-
propane to Mack, then Drugco is liable
to Dr. Feelgood for all or part of Mack's
claim against Dr. Feelgood; and 2) a
slander claim for $80,000 arising out
of a statement by Drugco to a Phoenix
newspaper reporter that Mack's injuries
were caused by Dr. Feelgood's lack of
rudimentary sanitary practices in con-
nection with administering injections;
and 3) a claim for a $60,000 unpaid
fee for Dr. Feelgood's participation in
a testing program involving an experi-
mental drug (Fixall) manufactured by
Drugco. On Drugco's motion to dismiss
all of these claims, which is the correct
ruling?

CIVIL PROCEDURE 51

Q  

A. Claim 1 is proper, because it is a
derivative claim against Drugco;
Claim 2 is proper because it
arises out of the same transaction
as Mack's main claim; Claim 3
is improper because it does not
arise out of the same transaction
as Mack's claim.

B. Claim 1 is proper, because it is a
derivative claim against Drugco,
but Claims 2 and 3 are improper
because they are not derivative
claims against Drugco.

C. Claim 1 is proper, because it is a
derivative claim against Drugco;
Claim 2 is proper under F.R.C.P.
18; but Claim 3 is not proper
under F.R.C.P. 18.

D. Claim 1 is proper, because it is a
derivative claim against Drugco;
and both Claims 2 and 3 are
proper under F.R.C.P. 18.

5. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that the court denied Drugco's motion
in Question 3. It dismissed none of the
three claims in the third-party com-
plaint. On the fourth day of trial, the
judge discovered that two weeks after
Dr. Feelgood filed the second third-
party complaint with the court, Drugco
had changed its state of incorporation
from California to Arizona. The judge
asks you, his law clerk, whether the
court can still exercise subject matter
jurisdiction over claim 3 in the third-
party complaint. Which of the following
responses is most nearly correct?

A. Dismiss claim 3, because the
court cannot exercise supple-
mental jurisdiction over that
claim since it does not relate to
either claim 1 or to Mack's main
claim.

B. Do not dismiss claim 3, because
any subject matter jurisdiction
objection relating to this claim
is, by now, waived.

C. Do not dismiss claim 3, because
it was properly joined under Rule
18 and supplemental jurisdic-
tion is intended to support the
policies underlying the liberal
federal joinder rules. 

52 CIVIL PROCEDURE

D. Do not dismiss claim 3, because
citizenship of the parties, for
diversity purposes, is determined
at the time the third-party com-
plaint was filed and, at that time,
diversity was complete.

Q

o

cl
c

<

Questions 6 - 9 are based upon the
following facts:

Dave owns and operates a BurgerQuick
restaurant under a franchise agreement with
the BurgerQuick Corporation. BurgerQuick
Corporation franchises fast-food restaurants
nationwide and advertises the BurgerQuick
trade-name nationally. BurgerQuick Cor-
poration is a New York corporation with its
headquarters in New York City. Although
Dave resides in San Diego, Dave's restaurant
is located in Santa Ana, California just off
the 17th Street exit ramp of the Interstate
5 freeway. Pat, a New Yorker, was touring
southern California and was en route from
Los Angeles to San Diego when she spotted
Dave's BurgerQuick sign from the freeway.
She pulled off the freeway, pulled into
Dave's restaurant, had a "Big Quick" with all
the fixings. She then proceeded on her way
to San Diego. When she reached San Diego,
Pat suffered severe stomach cramps. She at-
tributed the cramps to food poisoning from
the "Big Quick" she had consumed. When
she returned to New York City, she filed a
personal injury suit against Dave in a federal
district court in Manhattan for $80,000. Pat
served Dave under New York's Long Arm
statute. New York law requires a defendant
to enter a special appearance to challenge
personal jurisdiction. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 53

Q

6. Dave filed an answer denying that his
food caused injury to Pat. Dave also as-
serted a defense of lack of personal ju-
risdiction. Dave then moved to dismiss
Pat's complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction (under the Due Process
Clause of the U.S. Constitution). Which
of the following is the most nearly cor-
rect ruling?

A. The court can exercise personal
jurisdiction over Dave, since
Dave has waived his lack of
personal jurisdiction defense
because, under Erie, New York
State's "special appearance" law
governs the issue of how to chal-
lenge personal jurisdiction in a
diversity case in federal court.

B. The court cannot, under the
Due Process Clause, exercise
personal jurisdiction over Dave
because Dave did not intend to
serve the national or New York
market with his burgers, fries and
shakes; Dave's contact with New
York is merely unilateral.

C. The court can, under the Due
Process Clause, exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Dave
because Dave did intend to serve
the national or New York market
with his burgers, fries and shakes
by deliberately choosing to lo-
cate his restaurant alongside an
interstate off-ramp with his sign
visible from the interstate.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

D. The court can, under the Due
Process Clause, exercise person-
al jurisdiction over Dave because
Dave deliberately entered into
a long-term franchise contract
with a New York franchiser.
Further, Dave reaps the benefits
of national advertising by the
franchiser of the BurgerQuick
trade name.

7. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that Dave timely amended his motion
to add a second ground for challenging
personal jurisdiction, namely, lack of
authorization by the New York Long
Arm Statute. The relevant section of
the Long Arm Statute provides:

"As to a cause of action arising from
any of the acts enumerated in this sec-
tion, a court may exercise personal
jurisdiction over any non-domiciliary
who commits a tortious act within the
state causing injury to person or prop-
erty within the state if he regularly does
or solicits business, or engages in any
other persistent course of conduct, or
derives substantial revenue from goods
used or consumed or services rendered,
in the state."

Which of the following are plausible
arguments for Dave to make under New
York's Long Arm statute?

I. Dave did not cause injury
to person or property
within New York State.

II. Dave does not derive
substantial revenue from
goods used or consumed
or services rendered in
New York State.

III. Dave does not regularly
do or solicit business in
New York State.

IV. Dave did not purpose-
fully avail himself of the
benefits and protections
of New York law.

V. Dave did not transact
business within New
York State.

A. I, II and III only.

B. I, H, III and V only.

C. All of the above.

D. None of the above.

0 0
0 -
m <
0 -
C.

8. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that in addition to serving Dave with
a summons pursuant to New York's
Long Arm Statute, Pat, for the purpose
of securing quasi-in-rem jurisdiction,
had the sheriff seize a Certificate of
Deposit that Dave maintained in the
Bank of New York in New York City.
Dave opened the account in New York
City because of the favorable interest
rates. Assume that New York has a
limited appearance statute observed by
the federal court. This statute allows
a defendant whose New York prop-
erty has been seized for jurisdictional
purposes to enter an appearance for
the limited purpose of defending the
property on the merits without being
deemed to have appeared generally. On
a motion by Dave to dismiss for lack of
quasi-in-rem jurisdiction under the Due
Process Clause, which of the following
arguments are not plausible under the
Supreme Court's opinion in Shaffer v.
Heitner?

A. The court cannot exercise quasi-
in-rem jurisdiction, because
Dave's property is completely
unrelated to the cause of action
asserted by Pat.

B. The court can exercise quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction, because prop-
erty owned by Dave was seized
within the territory of New York
State.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 55

III. Removal is improper
because Dave did not file
the petition for removal
in the proper federal ju-
dicial district.

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. III only.

D. II and III only.

LLI
ce

w
—
0 0
ce
cL.

C. The court can exercise quasi-
in-rem jurisdiction, because
Dave deliberately purchased a
Certificate of Deposit in a New
York bank and he can defend that
property by entering a limited
appearance.

D. The court cannot exercise quasi-
in-rem jurisdiction, because
Dave has no other contacts with
New York and the Certificate of
Deposit, viewed as Dave's only
contact with New York, is not
indisputably and permanently
located in New York.

9. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that Pat had filed suit against Dave in a
California Superior Court in San Diego
(which, in the federal court system,
is located in the Southern District of
California). Dave filed a petition to
remove the action in the federal district
court in Santa Ana, which is located in
the Central District of California. On
motion by Pat to remand, which of the
following arguments are correct?

I. Removal is proper be-
cause the federal court
has diversity jurisdiction
over the action.

II. Removal is improper
because Dave is a citizen
of California. 

56 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 10 -14 are based upon
the following facts:

Dirk owns a business in Fullerton. This
business assembles custom "special order"
motorcycles. Paul, one of Dirk's customers
and a Nevadan, asked Dirk to put together a
"souped-up" motor bike that would "really
burn rubber." Dirk knew of a "special" fuel
injection system microchip that enables the
motorcycle in which it is installed to accel-
erate three times faster than commercially
manufactured bikes. The "special" micro-
chip is not sold in the U.S. because it is il-
legal under the laws of most states, including
California. However, it is manufactured and
sold only in Japan by CompuChip, Inc., a
Japanese corporation. Dirk asked a friend of
his to buy ten "special" chips for him while
in Tokyo on a business trip. Dirk's friend
purchased the chips and told CompuChip
that they were going to be installed in mo-
tor bikes in California. Aside from the one
sale to Dirk's friend, CompuChip has sold
no other "special" chips in the U.S. Dirk as-
sembled the motorcycle requested by Paul,
installing the "special" computer chip. Paul
was seriously injured in an accident with
his new motorcycle. He brought a products
liability suit for $100,000 in damages against
Dirk and CompuChip, Inc. in federal district
court in Santa Ana, California, claiming that
the special computer chip was defective.
Both Fullerton and Santa Ana are located
within the Central District of California.

Q

-co
0 0
<
c 

10. CompuChip made a pre-answer motion
under F.R.C.P. 12(b)(2) to dismiss the
claim against it for lack of personal
jurisdiction under the Due Process
Clause. Which of the following is (are)
a plausible argument(s) for either Paul
or CompuChip?

I. As in the Asahi case,
whether or not Com-
puChip purposefully
availed itself of the Cali-
fornia market, it would
be fundamentally un-
reasonable and unfair
for a court in California
to exercise personal ju-
risdiction because the
interests of the plaintiff
and the forum in the as-
sertion of jurisdiction by
the federal court in Cali-
fornia is slight and the
burden on CompuChip
in defending thousands
of miles from Japan and
in a foreign legal system
is great.

II. CompuChip did not pur-
posefully avail itself of
the California market
because it performed
no action that was pur-
posefully directed at the
forum state. Therefore,
the court cannot exer-
cise personal jurisdiction
over CompuChip.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

57

Q

11. For purposes of this question only,
assume that the court granted Compu-
Chip's pre-answer motion in Question
10. Which of the following additional
facts would have arguably changed the
result?

A. Although CompuChip has never
intentionally marketed its "spe-
cial" high acceleration com-
puter chips in the U.S., it does
regularly and deliberately market
"ordinary" computer chips for
installation in fuel injection sys-
tems in motor cycles.

B. Evidence reveals that Compu-
Chip knew of the defect in the
design of its "special" computer
chip, that there was a feasible,
though more expensive, alter-
native design, but CompuChip
deliberately refused to adopt the
alternative design.

C. CompuChip has extensive real
estate holdings in California for
investment purposes.

D. CompuChip entered into a con-
tract with a California company
to design certain computer soft-
ware to go with CompuChip's
PC computers.

III. CompuChip did purpose-
fully avail itself of the
California market by
deliberately placing the
ten "special" computer
chips into the stream of
commerce when it rea-
sonably knew that such
chips would flow to Cali-
fornia where they would
be installed as a compo-
nent in motorcycles to be
sold in California.

IV. Even though Compu-
Chip did not purpose-
fully avail itself of the
California market, the
court can exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over
CompuChip because it
is fair and reasonable in
light of the great interest
to both the plaintiff and
the forum state in having
Paul's claim adjudicated
in a California court.

A. I only.

B.

II only.

C. IV only.

D. I and III only.

58 CIVIL PROCEDURE

12. For purposes of this question only,
assume that the court denied Compu-
Chip's pre-answer motion in Question
10. CompuChip subsequently moved
to dismiss Paul's claim against it on
grounds of improper venue. Which of
the following rulings is most nearly
correct?

A. Venue is proper, because both
defendants reside in California.
In addition, the computer chip in
question was incorporated into
Paul's motorcycle in Fullerton.

B. Venue is improper, because
CompuChip resides in Japan and
Dirk resides in California.

C. Venue is proper, because Paul
resides in Orange County.

D. CompuChip has waived its venue

objection.

13. Assume, for purposes of this ques-
tion only, that CompuChip's motions
in Questions 10 and 12 were denied.
Dirk timely amended his answer to
assert two claims against codefendant
CompuChip: (1) a claim for indemnity
in the event that a judgment is entered
against both defendants, holding them
jointly and severally liable to Paul, and
Paul collects the entire amount from
Dirk; and (2) a claim for $80,000 in
damages to Dirk's business, arising
out of the failure of certain "ordinary"
computer chips purchased by Dirk
from CompuChip to perform as war-
ranted. CompuChip moved to dismiss
the second of these two claims. Which
of the following rulings is most nearly
correct?

A. The second claim should be dis-
missed, because the court cannot
assert supplemental jurisdiction
over a claim that is neither re-
lated to Paul's main claim nor to
Dirk's proper cross-claim against
CompuChip for indemnity.

B. The second claim should be dis-
missed, because it is an improper
cross-claim. It does not arise out
of the same transaction as Paul's
main claim.

C. The second claim should not be
dismissed, because it is properly
joined. The first claim asserted
by Dirk against CompuChip is a
proper cross-claim.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 59

D. CompuChip waived its objection
to subject matter jurisdiction,
because it omitted that objec-
tion from its pre-answer motion
before the district court. 

Q

D. The second claim should be dis-
missed on the grounds that the
court cannot exercise personal
jurisdiction over CompuChip.

14. Assume that Paul's lawsuit against Dirk
and CompuChip proceeded through
trial culminating in a judgment for
$40,000 in damages against both de-
fendants imposing upon them joint and
several liability for injury to Paul. For
the first time on appeal (to the Court
of Appeals), CompuChip attacked the
validity of the judgment on the grounds
that the district court lacked subject
matter jurisdiction. Which of the fol-
lowing rulings by the Court of Appeals
is most nearly correct?

A. CompuChip cannot challenge the
validity of the judgment against
it on grounds of lack of subject
matter jurisdiction, because
alienage jurisdiction supports
Paul's claim against Compu-
Chip.

B. The judgment against each
defendant is invalid for lack of
diversity jurisdiction, since the
damage award against each de-
fendant was only $30,000.

C. The judgment against each
defendant is invalid for lack of
diversity jurisdiction, since Paul
and Dirk are both Californians.

60 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 15 -18 are based upon
the following facts:

Pam, who lives in San Diego, brought suit
in the federal district court for the Southern
District of California in San Diego against
Doug and Diana. Doug also resides in San
Diego, and Diana, a U.S. citizen, resides in
Istanbul, Turkey. Pam served Diana under
California's Long Arm statute. Pam's com-
plaint alleged that Doug and Diana conspired
in Istanbul to violate the Sherman Antitrust
Act. Diana's answer raised the defense of
improper venue. She subsequently moved
to dismiss the suit on grounds of improper
venue.

15. Which of the following rulings is most

nearly correct?

A. Diana has waived her venue
objection, because she failed to
raise it in a pre-answer motion.

B. Venue is improper, because both
defendants do not reside in Cali-
fornia and a substantial part of
the events giving rise to the claim
did not occur in California.

C. Venue is proper, because both de-
fendants are subject to personal
jurisdiction in the Southern Dis-
trict of California at the time that
the action was commenced.

D. Venue is proper, because Doug
could be found in the Southern
District of California and there
was no district in which the ac-
tion could otherwise have been
brought.

16. Assume, for purposes of this (and suc-
ceeding) questions, that the court denied
Diana's venue motion in question 15.
Diana then moved to transfer the suit to
Turkey under Title 28, U.S.C. section
1404 "for the convenience of parties
and witnesses" and "in the interest of
justice." Which of the following argu-
ments for either plaintiff or defendant
is the least plausible?

A. A Turkish court would be likely
to apply Turkish law and, al-
though Turkey has a body of law
that is roughly the equivalent of
U.S. antitrust law, it would be
somewhat more difficult for Pam
to win a judgment against Diana
under substantive Turkish law.
Therefore, a Turkish court is not
a viable alternative forum and
the suit against Diana cannot be
transferred.

B. The action against Diana should
be dismissed under forum non-
conveniens, because all the evi-
dence is in Turkey and most of
the documents are in Turkish. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

61

Q

ce

>
— C3
Uv
0
ce
a.

C. The action against Diana cannot
be transferred from a U.S. court
to a Turkish court because the
U.S. court has no authority in
Turkey.

D. The action against Diana should
not be dismissed under forum
non-conveniens, because Pam's
claim against Doug would re-
main in the federal court in Cali-
fornia thereby splitting the two
related claims into two lawsuits
in two countries.

17. Diana also timely asserted the defense
of lack of personal jurisdiction over her
and moved to dismiss on that ground.
The court granted her motion and dis-
missed Pam's claim against Diana find-
ing insufficient contacts between Diana
and California that relate to the antitrust
claim. Pam, thereupon, located a bank
account maintained by Diana with the
Bank of America in San Diego where
Diana had deposited money she inher-
ited from her Aunt Cecily. Diana has
made no other deposits or withdrawals
from that account since the original
deposit of the inheritance money. Pam
attached Diana's bank account for
the purpose of securing quasi-in-rem
jurisdiction. Assume that California
offers Diana the right to enter a limited
appearance. Diana timely moved to
challenge the exercise of quasi-in-rem
jurisdiction, requesting the court again
to dismiss Pam's claim against her on
jurisdictional grounds. Which of the
following arguments for either plaintiff
or defendant is the least plausible?

A. It is fair to exercise quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction, because Diana
deliberately chose to open the ac-
count in a California bank. Any
judgment entered against Diana
will be limited to the money in
that account.

62 CIVIL PROCEDURE

B. It is unfair to exercise quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction, because the
sole contact between Diana and
California appears to be the bank
account. Pam's cause of action
does not relate to that bank ac-
count.

C. The court can exercise quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction based upon the
attachment of the bank account,
because the bank account was
seized within the territory of the
State of California.

D. It is unfair to exercise quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction, because Diana
should not reasonably anticipate
that, as a consequence of opening
a bank account in California, she
would have to defend an antitrust
suit having nothing to do with
California in a court located in
California.

'CP

O<

rrl

18. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that the court denied Diana's motion
in Question 17. Two months later, Pam
amended her complaint to include ad-
ditional claims against Doug and Diana
under the state common law of business
torts (based upon the same conduct by
Doug underlying Paul's antitrust claim).
After two years of discovery, Doug and
Diana each moved for summary judg-
ment to dismiss Pam's Sherman Act
claim. The court granted this. Doug then
moved to dismiss the state tort claim
against him on the ground that the court
lacks subject matter jurisdiction to hear
that claim. Which of the following rul-
ings is most nearly correct?

A. The court lacks subject matter
jurisdiction over the state law
claim, because Pam and Doug
are both California citizens.

B. The court must exercise supple-
mental jurisdiction over the state
law claim against Doug.

C. The court may, in its discretion,
exercise supplemental jurisdic-
tion over the state law claim
against Doug.

D. The court cannot exercise sup-
plemental jurisdiction over the
state law claim against Doug
because the Sherman Antitrust
claim was dismissed. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

63

Questions 19 - 23 are based upon
the following facts:

Pauline was involved in an automobile col-
lision with Dan and Dotty in Las Vegas,
Nevada on June 1, 1990. At the time of
the collision, Pauline, a native Californian,
lived in Hollywood and was struggling to
"make it in the movies." Dan, also a native
Californian, lived in Fullerton, California.
Dotty was a citizen of Nevada. Two weeks
after the collision, on June 14, 1990, Pauline
terminated the lease on her Beverly Hills
apartment and rented an apartment in Las
Vegas, where she commenced working as a
blackjack dealer in a local casino. A month
later, on July 14, 1990, Pauline filed a per-
sonal injury suit against Dan for $200,000
in federal district court in Los Angeles, and
served process on Dan a week later. Three
months after filing suit (October 14, 1990),
Pauline won $14 million in the Nevada State
Lottery. She subsequently quit her casino
job, rented out her house in Las Vegas and
moved back to Bel Air, California where she
bought an expensive home. She started her
own movie company (so she could star in
her own pictures.) She has remained there
ever since.

19. On November 1, 1990, Dan moved to
dismiss Pauline's claims against him
on the grounds that the court lacked
subject matter jurisdiction. Which of the
following arguments are not correct?

I. The fact that Pauline
moved back to Califor-
nia three months after
filing suit and bought an
expensive home there
shows that Pauline was
not a Nevadan at the
time she filed suit. Thus,
diversity was not com-
plete.

II. The fact that Pauline and
Dan were both Califor-
nians at the time of the
collision deprives the
court of diversity juris-
diction.

III. The fact that Pauline
terminated her Beverly
Hills lease and was living
and working in Las Ve-
gas at the time she filed
suit shows that Pauline
was a Nevadan at that
time. Thus, diversity was
complete.

IV. Because the collision
occurred in Nevada, Pau-
line's cause of action has
no substantial connection
with California. Thus,
the federal court in Los
Angeles does not have
subject matter jurisdic-
tion over this claim.

A. I only.  

64 CIVIL PROCEDURE

B. I and II only.

C.

I, II and III only.

D. II and IV only.

20. Assume, for purposes of this question
(and succeeding questions), that Dan's
motion in Question 19 was denied.
Dan subsequently served a timely
third-party complaint and summons on
Dotty while she was visiting her aunt
for a day in Banning, California. Dan's
third-party complaint stated a claim for
contribution among joint-tortfeasors, a
state-law tort, alleging that Dotty was
50% at fault. In response, Dotty served
on Dan a third-party answer in which
she denied any responsibility for the
collision and also included a defense
of lack of personal jurisdiction. Dotty
then moved to dismiss the third-party
complaint. Which of the following rul-
ings is most nearly correct?

A. Because the sole basis for subject
matter jurisdiction over Dan's
third-party claim is diversity
jurisdiction, Erie requires that
the court apply California's state
court "special appearance" rule.
Applying such rule, Dotty has
waived her defense of lack of
personal jurisdiction.

B. The court cannot exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Dotty, a
non-resident of California, be-
cause Dan's contribution claim
against Dotty arose out of Dot-
ty's driving a car in Nevada, not
in California.

C. Dan improperly impleaded
Dotty, because it is solely the
prerogative of the plaintiff which
of the several joint tortfeasors to
sue.

D. Dotty was properly impleaded
and is subject to personal juris-
diction, because she was served
with process in California.

21. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that Dotty's motion
in Question 20 was denied. Dan subse-
quently amended his third-party com-
plaint to assert a claim against Dotty
for $30,000 worth of property damage
to his car caused by Dotty's negligent
driving. Dotty moved to dismiss this
new claim. Which of the following rul-
ings is most nearly correct?

A. Dan's second claim for property
damage is improperly impleaded
because it is an independent, and
not a contingent, claim.

B. Dan's second claim for property
damage is not supported by di-
versity jurisdiction because the
amount in controversy is only
$30,000. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 65

Q

D. Pauline's claim against Dotty
is supported by supplemental
jurisdiction, because her claim
against Dotty is sufficiently re-
lated to her claim against Dan.

23. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that Dotty's motion in Question 22 was
granted. Subsequently, Dotty asserted,
in the appropriate manner, a negligence
claim in the amount of $40,000 directly
against Pauline for personal injury
arising out of the same auto accident.
Pauline moved to dismiss this claim.
Which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct?

A. Dotty's claim is supported by
supplemental jurisdiction, be-
cause this "Rule 14" counter-
claim is sufficiently related to
Pauline's claim against Dan.

B. Dotty's claim is supported by
supplemental jurisdiction, be-
cause prior to the Judicial Im-
provements Act, case law ruled
that federal courts will assert
ancillary jurisdiction over "com-
pulsory" counterclaims.

C. Dotty's claim is not supported
by supplemental jurisdiction,
because it would violate the
principle of the Kroger case by
opening the door to wholesale
evasion of the complete diversity
requirement. 

C. Dan's second claim for property
damage is properly joined under
F.R.C.P. 18. Further, Dan's two
claims together meet the amount
in controversy requirement.

D. Although Dan's second claim for
property damage falls below the
amount in controversy require-
ment, the court can adjudicate
the claim because of supplemen-
tal jurisdiction.

22. On August 1, 1991, Pauline amended
her complaint to add a personal injury
claim for $200,000 directly against Dot-
ty. Dotty moved to dismiss this claim on
the ground that the court lacked subject
matter jurisdiction. Which of the fol-
lowing rulings is most nearly correct?

A. Pauline's claim against Dotty
should be dismissed, because at
the time Pauline filed her claim
against Dan, Pauline, like Dotty,
was a Nevada citizen.

B. Pauline's claim should be dis-
missed, because the California
court cannot exercise personal
jurisdiction over Dotty who is a
Nevada citizen.

C. Pauline's claim is supported by
diversity jurisdiction, because
at the time Pauline amended
her complaint, she had become,
once again, a California citizen
and Dotty remained a Nevada
citizen.

66 CIVIL PROCEDURE

D. Dotty's claim is supported by
diversity jurisdiction, because
at the time Dotty asserted this
claim, Pauline had become,
once again, a California citizen
and Dotty remained a Nevada
citizen.

24. Shrimpboats, Inc. owns seven com-
mercial fishing vessels. Each of these
boats is operated by a captain and two
crewmen. The I.R.S. assessed and
collected employment taxes for the
crewmen from Shrimpboats, Inc., tak-
ing the position that Shrimpboats, Inc.
was the "employer" of the crewmen.
Shrimpboats, Inc. thereupon sued the
U.S. Government for the refund of the
employment taxes. The U.S. Govern-
ment served a third-party complaint and
summons on each of the captains alleg-
ing that, if Shrimpboats, Inc. was able
to prove that it was not the "employer"
of the crewmen and, thus, not liable
for their employment taxes, it would
automatically follow that the captains
were the "employers" of the crewmen
and would be liable to pay the U.S. the
very employment taxes the U.S. would
have to refund to Shrimpboats, Inc. The
captains moved to dismiss the third-
party complaint against themselves.
Which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct? 

0 0
-<
-

C

A. Impleader of the captains is prop-
er, because the liability of the
captains arises out of the same
operative facts as Shrimpboats,
Inc.'s refund claim against the
U.S. Government.

B. Impleader of the captains is prop-
er, because either Shrimpboats,
Inc. or the captains are liable as
"employers" for the crewmen's
employment taxes.

C. Impleader of the captains is
improper, because the U.S.
Government's claim against the
captains is not a contingent or
derivative claim but, rather, an
independent claim based upon
the captains' liability to the U.S.
(under the tax code).

D. Impleader of the captains is
proper, because, otherwise, the
U.S. will be exposed to the risk
of inconsistent judgments if it
has to assert its claim against
the captains in a separate lawsuit
with a separate trial.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

67

C. The motion should be granted,
because it is prejudicial to the
defendants to have the two
separate lawsuits being carried
on simultaneously. Medco's de-
fense will be that the plate was
not defective but that the doctor
and hospital were negligent. On
the other hand, the doctor's and
the hospital's defense will be that
they were not negligent, but that
the plate was defective.

D. The motion should be denied, be-
cause plaintiffs have an absolute
right to decide whom to sue.

LU
ce
LU>
0 0
0-

25. Pete underwent surgery in which a
"plate and screw" device was implanted
in his lower spine. The surgical proce-
dure caused Pete greater discomfort
than did his previous condition. The
device was manufactured by Medco,
Inc. The surgery was performed by Dr.
Zorba at St. Nowhere Hospital. Pete
brought a state court suit against Dr.
Zorba and the hospital for malpractice
and negligence. Pete also filed suit in
federal district court against Medco,
Inc. alleging defective design and
manufacture of the device. Medco filed
a motion: (1) to require Pete to join the
doctor and the hospital as defendants
arguing that they are "necessary par-
ties" under F.R.C.P. 19(a); and (2) if
Pete is unable to join the doctor and
hospital, the court must dismiss Pete's
suit arguing that doctor and hospital are
"indispensable" parties under F.R.C.P.
19 (b). Which of the following rulings
is most nearly correct?

A. The motion should be denied,
because joint tortfeasors are not
"necessary" or "indispensable"
parties.

B. The motion should be granted,
because the public's interest in
judicial economy will be harmed
by multiple lawsuits where one
federal suit can resolve the con-
troversy. 

68 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Q

0 0
-
<
CV -
C

Questions 26 - 34 are based upon
the following facts:

On June 1, 1992, a Global Airways jetliner,
Flight 101, crashed at San Diego airport,
seriously injuring most of the 700 passengers
on board. On August 1, 1993, Pete, a partner
with a large firm specializing in air-disaster
litigation, was one of the lucky passengers on
board Flight 101 who suffered only a broken
arm and a concussion. Pete commenced a
class action against Global in federal dis-
trict court in San Diego claiming $75,000
in individual damages and an aggregate of
$40 million in damages for the class. Pilot
error was alleged as the proximate cause of
the crash. Pete, who himself has extensive
experience in air-disaster litigation, named
himself as the class representative and hired
his law firm as counsel for the class. Pete
headed up the litigation to prosecute the class
action against Global.

26. At the class certification hearing on the
issue of the adequacy of class represen-
tation by Pete, which of the following
arguments is most nearly correct?

A. Class representation by Pete
would be adequate, because Pete
has extensive experience as an
attorney in air-disaster litiga-
tion.

B. Class representation by Pete
would be adequate, because
Pete's law firm gives the class
access to substantial financial
and clerical resources.

C. Class representation by Pete
would be inadequate, because
he claims only $75,000 in dam-
ages.

D. Class representation would be
inadequate, because Pete's serv-
ing as class counsel and as class
representative would present a
conflict of interest.

27. At the certification hearing, the court
must categorize Pete's class action as a
(b)(1)(A), (b)(1)(B), (b)(2) and/or (b)(3)
class action. On this issue, which of the
following classifications is most nearly
correct?

A. This is a "prejudice" (b)(1)(A)
class action because the pros-
ecution of individual damage
suits by class members could
prejudice Global by imposing
on Global inconsistent results.
Some plaintiffs could win and
some could lose.

B. This is a "prejudice (b)(1)(B)
class action because some class
members who are the first to
bring their individual suits and
who win large damage awards
against Global could bankrupt
the airline leaving no funds re-
maining to pay later judgments
in favor of other plaintiffs. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 69

C. This is an "injunctive" (b)(2)
class action because Global has
acted on grounds generally ap-
plicable to the class. It flew all
class members as passengers on
the same plane, thereby making
appropriate declaratory relief
with respect to the class as a
whole.

D. This is a "damage" (b)(3) class
action because all members of
the class claim to have been
injured by Global in a similar
way.

28. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court grant-
ed class certification. Global served
on Pete, as class representative, a set
of interrogatories. One asked: "State
the factual basis for your contention in
paragraph 3 of the class action com-
plaint that Global's pilot of Flight 101
flew the plane in a negligent manner."
Pete objected to this interrogatory and
Global moved to compel an answer.
Which of the following is the most cor-
rect ruling on Global's motion?

B. This interrogatory requires the
attorney for the class to evalu-
ate facts in light of his legal
knowledge and, therefore, is
objectionable as calling for
that attorney's mental impres-
sions which are protected under
F.R.C.P. 26(b)(3).

C. This interrogatory is objection-
able because it is overbroad.

D. This interrogatory calls for the
opinion of experts in air disas-
ters who have been employed
by the class to prepare the case
in anticipation of litigation and,
therefore, calls for informa-
tion protected under F.R.C.P.
26(b)(4).

29. To which of the following information
is Pete not entitled under the mandatory
("required") disclosure rules?

A. Any liability insurance policy
held by Global for inspection and
copying.

B. The identity of any trial ex-

A. This interrogatory is allowed by

perts.

F.R.C.P. 33.

C. The identity of each individual
likely to have discoverable in-
formation relevant to issues
alleged with particularity in the
pleadings.

D. The identity of each trial wit-

ness. 

70 CIVIL PROCEDURE

30. Pete examined the captain of the plane
by oral deposition. In response to a
question asking whether he had been
drinking prior to take-off, the captain
replied: "Yes." Pete wants to know what
use he can make of this portion of the
captain's deposition transcript at trial.
Which of the following answers is most
nearly correct?

A. The deposition is inadmissible
for any purpose under the hear-
say rule.

B. The deposition is admissible
only to impeach the captain in
the instance that he testifies that
he had nothing to drink prior to
take-off.

C. The deposition is admissible
to help prove plaintiffs' case of
negligence as well as to impeach
the captain in the instance that
he testifies that he had nothing
to drink prior to take-off.

D. The deposition is admissible to
conclusively establish that the
captain had been drinking prior
to take-off thereby removing that
issue from the case and prevent-
ing the captain from testifying to
the contrary.

Q
0<-c

31. Immediately after Flight 101 crashed,
Global asked Prof, a professor of aero-
nautical engineering who lived near San
Diego Airport, to investigate the wreck-
age. Global sent Prof to the crash site
for the purpose of determining whether
he would make a good trial witness.
Prof spent two hours investigating the
wreckage and wrote a five-page report
concluding that pilot error was the sole
cause of the crash. Prof was paid an
agreed honorarium of $200 and was
never contacted by Global again. Pete,
as class representative, demands a copy
of Prof's report to Global through the
appropriate method. Global objects
and Pete moves to compel production
of the report. Which of the following
rulings on Pete's motion is most nearly
correct?

A. The report should be produced,
only if Pete can show a substan-
tial need for it and an inability
to get the substantial equivalent
of the report's contents without
undue hardship.

B. The report should be produced,
because its contents are relevant
to the subject matter and it was
not prepared in anticipation of
litigation.

C. The report should be produced,
only if Pete can show excep-
tional circumstances. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

71

LLI
ce
w
00
ce

D. The report should not be pro-
duced under any circumstances,
because Prof is an informally
consulted expert.

32. Pete served a notice of deposition on
Mack, an employee of Global who
works in Global's Accident Preven-
tion Department. Mack has a degree
in mechanical engineering and was the
person who first examined the wreck-
age of Flight 101 immediately after the
crash to determine the cause of the crash
as part of his accident prevention duties.
Two months later, Mack was assigned
to Global's legal team as an expert
whose duties were to re-examine the
wreckage to assist Global's attorneys
in the preparation of Global's defense
to Pete's lawsuit. Mack will not testify
for Global at trial. Global moved for a
protective order that Mack's deposition
not take place. Global argued that Mack
is a non-testifying expert who Global
specially employed in preparation for
trial and, therefore, Pete needs to make
a showing of "exceptional circumstanc-
es" under which it is impracticable for
Pete to obtain Mack's facts and opinions
by other means. Pete responds that he
wants to question Mack solely about
the facts acquired by Mack during his
initial examination of the wreckage
immediately after the crash. Which of
the following rulings is most nearly
correct?

72 CIVIL PROCEDURE

A. Global's motion should be grant-
ed, but only if Pete can show
substantial need for Mack's de-
position and that Pete is unable
without undue hardship to obtain
the substantial equivalent of the
information known to Mack by
other means.

B. Global's motion should be de-
nied, because Mack is an or-
dinary percipient witness with
respect to the facts sought to be
discovered by Pete on deposi-
tion.

C. Global's motion should be de-
nied, but only if Pete can show
exceptional circumstances for
deposing Mack.

D. Global's motion should be grant-
ed, because the facts Pete seeks
to discover on Mack's deposition
are irrelevant to the subject mat-
ter of the lawsuit.

33. Whit, a mechanic employed by the San
Diego Airport, witnessed the crash of
Flight 101. Knowing that Global would
likely be facing a lawsuit by the injured
passengers, Whit sent Global's lawyers
a signed note recounting what he had
observed. Pete seeks to discover this
note and Global objects. On a motion by
Pete to compel production of the note,
which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct? 

Q

-CP
0 0
-
<
-

C

A. The note is discoverable, because
it is relevant to the subject mat-
ter.

B. The note is not discoverable,
because Whit's status as an ex-
pert mechanic protects the note,
under F.R.C.P. 26(b)(4).

C. The note is not discoverable,
because it is a written witness
statement that is protected as
ordinary work product.

D. The note is not discoverable,
because it is protected under the
attorney-client privilege.

34. The class action went to trial and the
plaintiff class won. Judgment was en-
tered for the class. Opie had previously
opted-out of the class action. However,
in response to the class action notice
that he had received from Pete, Opie
brought a personal injury suit against
Global in California superior court for
damages arising out of the air crash.
After judgment had been entered for
the class in the federal class action
suit, Opie moved for partial summary
judgment requesting the court to order
that, based upon the federal class action
judgment, it is conclusively established
in Opie's suit that Global was liable in
negligence to Opie (leaving only dam-
ages to be determined). Which of the
following statements is not correct?

A. If the case law of the Federal
Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit clearly forbids plaintiffs
who opt out of a class actions
from using collateral estoppel
offensively but California state
case law does allow such plain-
tiffs to use collateral estoppel
offensively, the California court
could not grant Opie's motion.

B. The Due Process Clause forbids
Opie from invoking collateral es-
toppel against Global in reliance
upon the class action judgment.

C. If the California state court
determined that Opie had been
motivated to opt-out in order to
"wait and see" whether the class
action turned out to be success-
ful, the court would likely deny
Opie's motion.

D.

If the federal courts still applied a
strict mutuality of estoppel rule,
the California court could not
grant Opie's motion.

35. A bill is pending before Congress to
deter sexual harassment in the work-
place. You clerk for a U.S. Senator and
an issue has arisen whether juries or
judges should determine fact issues in
trials involving lawsuits brought under
the new Act. Which of the following
versions of the statute will violate the
Seventh Amendment? 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

73

Q

IV. The statute creates a com-
prehensive federal regu-
latory program intended
to stop sexual harass-
ment in the workplace
and permits the federal
government to bring suit
against violators before
the federal Sexual Ha-
rassment Agency seek-
ing the imposition of
fines. All actions brought
under the statute shall
be tried before the fed-
eral Sexual Harassment
Agency.

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. II and III only.

D. II, III and IV only. 

I. The statute creates a new
private right of action
for sexual harassment,
allows both injunctive
relief and damages, and
provides that all issues
of fact will be tried by a
judge without regard to
the remedy sought.

II. The statute creates a new
private right of action
for sexual harassment,
allows both injunctive
relief and damages, and
provides that all ques-
tions of fact shall be
tried by a jury without
regard to the remedy
demanded.

III. The statute creates a new
private right of action
for sexual harassment,
allows both injunctive
relief and damages, and
is silent on the issue of
who shall be the trier of
fact, judge or jury.

74 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 36 - 43 are based upon
the following facts.

On April 1, 1992, Hack, an unsuccessful
and unknown composer of popular songs,
brought a copyright infringement suit in
federal court against the world-famous
composer, Cole Sporter. Hack alleged that
many of Sporter's most famous songs - Be-
gin the Levine, My Heart Belongs to Laddie
and DeLightful DeLorian - were copied by
Sporter from Hack's tunes.

36. Following the service of the sum-
mons and complaint, and at Hack's request,
Sporter engaged in settlement discussions
with Hack for six weeks before Hack, with-
out indicating any previous intent to do so,
filed with the court a motion for default
judgment. The court granted Hack's motion.
Sporter then moved to set aside the default
judgment under F.R.C.P. 60(b). Which of the
following rulings is most nearly correct?

A. The default judgment should
be set aside, because Sporter's
act of entering into settlement
negotiations shows that he was
not in default.

B. The default judgment should
be set aside, because Sporter's
act of entering into settlement
negotiations constitutes an ap-
pearance by Sporter.

C. The default judgment should not
be set aside, because Hack prop-
erly sought the default judgment
before the judge rather than the
clerk.  

D. The default judgment should not
be set aside, because Sporter's
conduct clearly indicated his
intent to avoid complying with
orderly judicial procedures.

-v

0
o -m <

C7-
C. 1-

37. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court set
aside the default judgment and that
Sporter served an answer to the com-
plaint denying the operative allegations
of the complaint. Shortly thereafter,
Hack filed a notice of dismissal and
Sporter moved to quash and vacate
the notice of dismissal. Which of the
following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The motion should be denied, be-
cause Sporter had not yet moved
for summary judgment.

B. The motion should be granted,
because Sporter had previously
answered the complaint.

C. The motion should be denied,
because the action had not pro-
ceeded to the point where Sporter
would be prejudiced.

D. The motion should be granted,
because plaintiffs never have
an absolute right to voluntarily
dismiss their own actions.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

75

Q

38. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court granted
Sporter's motion to quash in question
37. Sporter moved for summary judg-
ment. He attached to his moving papers
the sheet music of Sporter's songs
that he allegedly copied and Hack's
songs from which Sporter allegedly
copied. Hack responded by submitting
his complaint. The court believes that
Hack's songs and Sporter's songs are
so dissimilar that they do not indicate
copying by Sporter. Which of the fol-
lowing rulings is most nearly correct?

39. Assume, for purposes of this and
succeeding questions, that the court
denied Sporter's motion for summary
judgment. The court held a pre-trial
conference. The pre-trial order that
resulted from the conference specified
copyright infringement under the Fed-
eral Copyright Act as Hack's only cause
of action. On the third day of trial, Hack
wanted to amend the pre-trial order to
add certain state common law claims.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

A. The motion should be granted,
because the songs are so dis-
similar that the court does not
believe they indicate copying by
Sporter.

B. The motion should be denied,
because Sporter did not meet his
movant's burden.

C. The motion should be granted,
because Hack did not meet his
respondent's burden.

D. The motion should be granted,
because the absence of affidavits
or deposition testimony means
there are no credibility issues to
resolve.

A. Hack has a right to amend the
pre-trial order to add another
related cause of action.

B. Hack may amend the pre-trial
order provided he can show
exceptional circumstances for
doing so.

C. Leave of court to allow plaintiffs
to amend the pre-trial order shall,
as a matter of policy, be freely
granted.

D. Leave of court to amend the pre-
trial order shall be granted only
to prevent manifest injustice. 

76 CIVIL PROCEDURE

40. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court did not
approve amendment of the pleadings
to add state common law claims. The
case went to trial. An essential element
of Hack's infringement case is to show
that Sporter had access to Hack's songs.
Hack's sole evidence on this element
was Hack's own testimony that Sporter
broke into his house on the night of June
15, 1989 and took pictures of Hack's
musical manuscripts with a special
"spy" camera. In rebuttal, Sporter testi-
fied that he was 1000 miles away from
Hack's home on the night of June 15,
1989. In addition, four disinterested
witnesses each testified for Sporter that
they had heard from someone with per-
sonal knowledge that Sporter had been
1,000 miles away from Hack's house
on the night in question. At the close
of all the evidence, Sporter moved for
a judgment as a matter of law. Which
of the following rulings is most nearly
correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion, because Sporter's case,
consisting of corroborated and
disinterested testimony, over-
whelms Hack's weak case on the
issue of access.

B. The court should deny the mo-
tion, because Sporter did not
make the motion before the close
of Hack's case.

-D

0 0
o -m <
-
c

C. The court should grant the mo-
tion, because Hack's testimony is
not credible as a matter of law.

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion, because the jury should
have the opportunity to deter-
mine the credibility of Hack's
testimony.

41. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court denied
Sporter's motion in Question 40. The
jury rendered a verdict in favor of
Sporter. Hack moved for a new trial.
Hack submitted the affidavits of three
jurors each stating: (1) that each had
observed that Hack had shifted uncom-
fortably in his seat at plaintiff's counsel
table throughout the trial; and (2) that
Hack looked scared— which caused
each of the three jurors to believe that
Hack was lying on the stand. Which
of the following rulings is most nearly
correct?

A. The motion should be denied,
because, under F.R.E. 606(b), no
juror may testify to the effect of
anything upon his or any other
juror's mind.

B. The motion should be granted,
because what the jurors observed
in the courtroom amounted to ex-
traneous prejudicial information
improperly brought to the jury's
attention. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

77

D. The objection is reviewable,
because this is an "exceptional
circumstance" where justice
might otherwise not result.

43. On Hack's appeal, referred to in Ques-
tion 42, Sporter, as appellee, asked the
Court of Appeals to reverse the district
court's denial of Sporter's request for
attorney's fees. Which of the following
rulings by the Court of Appeals is most
nearly correct?

A. The error is not reviewable,
because Sporter is only an ap-
pellee.

B. The error is reviewable, because
Sporter had previously raised the
error in the district court.

C. The error is reviewable, because
Sporter is not attacking the trial
judge on the underlying merits
of the court's judgment in favor
of Sporter (on Hack's copyright
claim).

D. The error is not reviewable, be-

cause it is harmless error.

Q

LLI

LLI
0

0ceo_

C. The motion should be denied, be-
cause the jurors' three affidavits
contained no evidence of jury
misconduct.

D. The motion should be denied,
because even if the jurors had
engaged in jury misconduct, that
misconduct could not be deemed
prejudicial.

42. Assume, for purposes of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that Hack's new trial
motion was denied. Hack appealed rais-
ing for the first time the objection to the
admission into evidence of the hearsay
testimony of the "four disinterested
witnesses" referred to in Question 40.
Which of the following rulings by the
Court of Appeals is most nearly cor-
rect?

A. The objection is not reviewable,
because Hack did not raise it in
the trial court.

B. The objection is not reviewable,
because the trial judge commit-
ted the error during the middle of
the trial; therefore, it is interlocu-
tory.

C. The objection is reviewable,
because if the testimony was
hearsay, it could have prejudiced
the verdict. 

78

CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 44 - 47 are based upon
the following facts:

Pat, a Californian, Dan, a Nevadan, and
Dave, an Arizonan, were involved in a
three-way collision. On January 1, 1990, Pat
sued Dan and Dave for negligence demand-
ing $55,000 in property damage to her car.
Dan and Dave each denied the allegations
in Pat's complaint and Dan and Dave each
asserted Pat's contributory negligence as
an affirmative defense to Pat's claims. Dan
cross-claimed against Dave for property
damage in the amount of $500. Dave as-
serted contributory negligence as an affirma-
tive defense to Dan's cross-claim. Assume,
for purposes of the foregoing questions, that
contributory negligence is an absolute bar
to recovery.

44. After a trial, the jury rendered a gen-
eral verdict for Dan and Dave on Pat's
claims, and a general verdict for Dan
on Dan's cross-claim against Dave.
Judgment was then entered on each of
these verdicts on June 1, 1990. Dan then
brought a negligence suit against Pat
for personal injury claiming $5,000 in
damages. Pat's answer asserted Dan's
contributory negligence against Pat as
an affirmative defense to Dan's claim.
Pat moved for summary judgment to
dismiss Dan's claim relying on the June
1, 1990 judgment in Pat v. Dan and
Dave. Under the traditional common
law, which of the following rulings is
correct?

A. If Pat v. Dan and Dave had been
brought in a state court following
the traditional common law ap-
proach to counterclaims, but Dan
v. Pat had been brought in fed-
eral court, Pat's summary judg-
ment motion should be granted
because Dan's claim arises out
of the same transaction or oc-
currence as Pat's claim against
Dan.

B. If Pat v. Dan and Dave had been
brought in a state court fol-
lowing the traditional common
law approach to counterclaims,
Pat's summary judgment mo-
tion should be granted because
Dan's claim arises out of the
same transaction or occurrence
as Pat's claim against Dan.

C. If Pat v. Dan and Dave had been
brought in a state court fol-
lowing the traditional common
law approach to counterclaims,
Pat's summary judgment motion
should be granted because Dan's
claim arises out of the same set
of operative facts as Dan's con-
tributory negligence affirmative
defense in Pat v. Dan.

D. If Pat v. Dan and Dave had been
brought in a state court fol-
lowing the traditional common
law approach to counterclaims,
Pat's summary judgment motion
should be denied. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

79

ce

—
> w
0

45. Assume that the court denied Pat's mo-
tion for summary judgment in Question
44. Dan moved for partial summary
judgment on Pat's affirmative defense.
He requested that the court find conclu-
sively that Dan was not contributorily
negligent based upon the June 1, 1990
judgment in Pat v. Dan and Dave.
Which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct?

A. Dan's motion should be denied
because the general verdict for
Dan against Pat, on Pat's claim
against Dan, prevents Dan from
proving that the jury actually
determined that Dan was not
negligent.

B. Dan's motion should be granted
because the jury in Pat v. Dan
and Dave actually and necessar-
ily determined that Dan was not
negligent.

C. Dan's motion should be denied
because the jury's findings of
fact in Pat v. Dan and Dave are
unreliable. Their verdicts for
Dave against Pat (on Pat's claim)
and for Dan against Dave (on
Dan's cross-claim) are hope-
lessly irreconcilable.

D. Dan's motion should be denied
because Pat did not have a full
and fair opportunity to litigate
the issue of Dan's negligence.

80 CIVIL PROCEDURE

46. Assume that Pat v. Dan and Dave had
been brought in federal district court
(properly invoking diversity jurisdic-
tion). Dan sued Dave in state court for
personal injury claiming $60,000 in
damages. Assume the res judicata law
followed by the jurisdiction in which
the state court sits (in Dan v. Dave)
applies the "primary rights" definition
of "cause of action." Dave moved for
summary judgment to dismiss Dan's
claim in reliance on the June 1, 1990
judgment in Pat v. Dan and Dave.
Which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct?

A. Dave's motion should be granted,
because Dan violated the cross-
claim rule of F.R.C.P. 13(g) by
failing to join his personal injury
claim against Dan with his prop-
erty damage claim.

B. Dave's motion should be granted,
because Dan's claim for personal
injury is part of the same cause
of action as Dan's cross-claim
against Dave for property dam-
age.

C. Dave's motion should be denied,
because there are no compulsory
cross-claims in federal court.

D. Dave's motion should be de-
nied, because Dan sued Dave
in state court, which follows the
"primary rights" definition of
"cause of action" for res judicata
purposes. 

47. Assume, for purposes of this question,
that the court denied Dave's summary
judgment motion in Question 46. Dan
moved for partial summary judgment
requesting the court to find that it has
been conclusively established, by virtue
of the June 1, 1990 judgment in Pat v.
Dan and Dave, that Dave was negligent.
Which of the following rulings is most
nearly correct?

A. Dan's motion should be denied,
because the general verdict on
Dan's cross-claim against Dave,
in Pat v. Dan and Dave, prevents
Dan from showing what the jury
actually determined.

B. Dan's motion should be granted,
because the jury actually and
necessarily determined that Dave
was negligent and Dave had a
full and fair opportunity to liti-
gate that issue.

C. Dan's motion should be denied,
because Dave did not have a full
and fair opportunity to litigate
the issue of Dave's negligence.

D. Dan's motion should be denied,
because of the doctrine of mutu-
ality of estoppel.

Questions 48 - 50 are based upon
the following facts:

Pat claims ownership of Blackacre, located
in Wyoming, through adverse possession.
Paul is the owner of record and has a deed
bearing his (Paul's) name on file in the
County Recorder's office. Don came onto
Blackacre without Pat's or Paul's permis-
sion and cut down timber which Don hauled
away and sold.

48. Pat brought a trespass action against
Don in federal district court in Ne-
vada. Don's answer asserted, by way
of defense, that the Nevada statute of
limitations on trespass had run. Don
then brought a pre-answer motion to
dismiss Pat's case on statute of limita-
tions grounds, which the court granted.
Pat brought another trespass action
against Don in the federal district court
in Wyoming where the statute of limita-
tions on trespass is long enough to allow
Pat to seek to enforce her claim in a
Wyoming court. Don's answer asserted
the following by way of defense against
Pat's claim: (1) that Pat did not own
Blackacre; (2) that Don did not come
upon Blackacre and cut the timber, and
(3) that Pat's claim is barred by res judi-
cata. Don then moved to dismiss Pat's
suit on grounds of res judicata. Which
of the following is the most likely ruling
of the court (for either Pat or Don)? 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

81

LU
ce

—>
0 0

A. The court should grant Don's
motion, because Pat has previ-
ously sued Don on the same
cause of action in the Nevada
court and the Nevada federal
court rendered a final judgment
on the merits.

B. The court should deny Don's mo-
tion, because the Nevada federal
court's judgment was not ren-
dered after a hearing based upon
evidence and, therefore, was not
a judgment on the merits.

C. The court should deny Don's mo-
tion, because the Nevada federal
court's judgment is not deemed
to be on the merits as long as
Wyoming allows Pat to take
advantage of its longer statute of
limitations.

D. The court should grant Don's
motion, because the Nevada
federal court has already made a
final determination that Pat's ac-
tion is barred by Nevada's statute
of limitations.

82 CIVIL PROCEDURE

49. Assume, for the purpose of this and suc-
ceeding questions, that the court denied
Don's motion in question 48. After a
trial, in which evidence was admitted on
both of Don's defenses (i.e., that Pat did
not own Blackacre and that Don did not
come onto Blackacre), the jury rendered
a general verdict for Don and the court
thereupon entered judgment for Don
on June 1, 1990. Pat then sued Don for
conversion in a Wyoming federal court
to recover the value of the trees which
Don allegedly cut down and sold. Don
asserted, in his answer, the defense
of res judicata and moved to dismiss
Pat's suit on that ground. Which of the
following is the most likely ruling (for
either Pat or Don)?

A. The court should grant Don's
motion, because the conversion
and trespass are part of the same
transaction or occurrence.

B. The court should deny Don's
motion, because conversion and
trespass are different transac-
tions.

C. The court should deny Don's
motion, because conversion and
trespass are based upon different
wrongful acts by Don.

D. The court should deny Don's mo-
tion, because Pat's conversion
and trespass claims involve sub-
stantially the same evidence.

Q

50. Assume, for purpose of this question,
that the court granted Don's motion
in question 49 and dismissed Pat's
conversion suit against Don. Paul,
the record owner of Blackacre, then
brought a trespass suit against Don in
federal court in Wyoming. Don moved
for partial summary judgment, asking
the court to find that it has been con-
clusively established, by the June 1,
1990 judgment in Pat v. Don, that Don
did not come upon Blackacre. Which is
the most nearly correct ruling (for either
Paul or Don)?

A. The court should grant Don's
motion because the jury, in Pat
v. Don, has already determined
that Don did not come upon
Blackacre.

B. The court should deny Don's mo-
tion because Don cannot show
that the jury, in Pat v. Don, actu-
ally determined that he did not
come upon Blackacre.

C. The court should deny Don's
motion because, whether or not
the jury actually determined that
Don did not come upon Black-
acre, Paul was not a party in the
Pat v. Don suit.

D. The court should deny Don's
motion, because the doctrine of
mutuality of estoppel prevents
Don from invoking collateral
estoppel against a stranger to the
Pat v. Don suit.

Questions 51 - 55 are based on the
following facts:

Paul was driving his two year old "Flexus"
automobile on the Riverside Freeway when
the engine suddenly quit and the car slowed
down to a stop before Paul could steer the
vehicle to the shoulder of the road. Conse-
quently, Paul's car was rear-ended, causing
injury to the car and to Paul. Paul brought
a products liability suit in federal district
court against the Flexus Motor Company, the
manufacturer of Paul's car. The complaint
alleged, in pertinent part, that Paul's car
was defectively designed and manufactured,
without specifying the nature of the defects,
and that said defects were the proximate
cause of injury to Paul and his car.

51. Flexus did not make a pre-answer mo-
tion, but filed and served a timely an-
swer to Paul's complaint. In addition to
denying the allegations of Paul's com-
plaint, the answer stated, as a defense,
that the allegations regarding the car's
defects were vague and conclusionary
and, because they were central to Paul's
products liability claim, the complaint
should be dismissed. On a motion by
Flexus to dismiss the complaint, which
of the following statements is most
nearly correct?

A. The motion should be granted
because "defect" allegations,
going to the heart of Paul's prod-
ucts defect claim, should at least
notify Flexus of the particular
parts of the car alleged to have
been defective. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 83

Q

B. The motion should be denied
because the "defect" allegations
are adequately pleaded.

C. The motion should be denied
because Flexus should have
attacked the sufficiency of the
allegations in Paul's complaint
through a pre-answer motion
under Rule 12(b)(6).

D. The motion should be denied
because Flexus waived any ob-
jection to the sufficiency of the
complaint when it responded to
the complaint's allegations by
denying them.

84 CIVIL PROCEDURE

52. Assume, for purposes of the rest of this
series of questions, that Flexus' motion
in question 51 was denied. Shortly
thereafter, the parties met as required
by Rule 26(f), in part, to arrange for
the "disclosures" required under Rule
26(a)(1). At this conference, Paul in-
sisted that Flexus had an obligation,
under Rule 26(a)(1), to "disclose" to
Paul all persons possibly involved in,
and all documents affecting, the design,
manufacture, and assembly of the same
model and year of Flexus car Paul was
driving. Flexus adamantly refused and
asked Paul to identify more particularly
the parts of Paul's car that were defec-
tive. Paul argued that it was too early
in the case to do so. Paul then moved
for sanctions against Flexus under
Rule 37(a) for failure to comply with
its "disclosure" obligations. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Paul's motion should be granted
because Paul is not required,
early in his case, to know the
particulars of his case against
Flexus.

B. Paul's motion should be denied
because Flexus did not violate its
"disclosure" obligations under
Rule 26(a).

C. Paul's motion should be granted
because Flexus did violate its
"disclosure" obligations under
Rule 26(a). 

'CP
0 0
<

C7

D. Paul's motion should be denied
because Paul's discovery request
called for irrelevant informa-
tion.

53. Paul sought to depose Egbert, an expert
who was retained by Flexus to provide
expert testimony on behalf of Flexus
at trial. After being retained by Flexus,
Egbert inspected the wreckage of the
automobile after it had been towed
away by the police. Flexus moved for
a protective order to bar the deposition
of Egbert. Which of the following state-
ments is most nearly correct?

A. Flexus' motion should be granted
because Paul should hire his own
expert to inspect the wreckage.

B. Flexus's motion should be
granted because Paul failed
first to serve the required inter-
rogatories described in Rule
26(b)(4)(a)(i).

C. Flexus' motion should be granted
because the facts and opinions of
Flexus' expert are protected by
the work product immunity.

D. Flexus' motion should be de-

nied.

54. Six months later, Paul narrowed the de-
fect that he alleges caused the engine in
his car to quit to a defect in the design of
the fuel injection system. Immediately
thereafter, Flexus sent to Paul a list
identifying all Flexus employees who
had been involved with the design of
the fuel injection system in question and
describing by category and location all
documents in the possession, custody
and control of Flexus relating to the
design of that fuel injection system. On
motion against Flexus for sanctions,
Paul asserts that Flexus was obligated
by the "disclosure" requirements of
Rule 26(a) to provide Paul with actual
copies of these documents, not merely
a description. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. Flexus is not obligated, under
the "disclosure" rules, to pro-
vide copies of the documents in
question as long as it provides a
description of the documents by
category and location.

B. The "disclosure" rules only al-
low Flexus to provide Paul with
a description of the documents
in question, but not copies; to
obtain copies, Paul must serve
on Flexus a formal request under
Rule 34. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

85

C. Flexus' motion should be granted
because the identity of Paul's
trial witnesses is relevant in-
formation and is not protected
from discovery as Paul's trial
strategy.

D. Flexus' motion should be granted
because Paul is obligated to pro-
vide this information to Flexus
under the "disclosure" rules.

Q

C. By providing Paul with a de-
scription of the documents in
question, pursuant to the "disclo-
sure" rules, Flexus has waived
its right to object to production
of those documents on the basis
of privilege and work product
protection.

D. Flexus is obligated, under the
"disclosure" rules, to provide
copies of the documents in ques-
tion.

55. Twenty days before the commencement
of trial, Flexus had not received a list of
Paul's trial witnesses. Flexus told Paul
by telephone and letter that he was ob-
ligated by Rule 26(a) to "disclose" this
information but Paul adamantly refused.
Flexus moved for sanctions under Rule
37(a) and included a certification that
it had attempted to confer with Paul in
an effort to secure disclosure without
court action. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. Flexus' motion should be denied
because Paul's trial strategy
constitutes mental impressions
and, as such, are protected from
discovery.

B. Flexus' motion should be denied
because Flexus should have
sought this information by serv-
ing a formal interrogatory. 

86 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 56 - 59 are based on the
following facts:

Pete and Joe moved into a rental apartment,
owned by Larry Lessor, on January 1, 1992.
The rent was $500 a month, to be paid on the
first of each month. On December 1, 1991,
Larry had mailed an original and a copy of
the lease to Pete and Joe with a space for
the signatures of Pete and Joe, respectively.
On December 15, 1991, Larry received the
original by mail and it contained signatures
purporting to be both Pete's and Joe's. On
June 1, 1992, Larry brought suit against Pete
and Joe claiming Pete and Joe failed to pay
rent for March and April and demanding
$1000, the rent for those two months.

Q

56. Before filing an answer, Joe immedi-
ately moved for summary judgment to
dismiss the claim against him on the
grounds that the signature on the lease
purporting to be his is a forgery and that
he did not sign the lease. In support of
his motion, Joe submitted the follow-
ing evidence: (1) his affidavit swearing
that he did not sign the lease; (2) the
affidavits of 10 handwriting experts
who, based upon a comparison of the
signature on the lease with signatures
on 25 checks drawn on Joe's account
(each of which "cleared"), each affirm
that the signature on the lease is a plain
forgery; (3) an affidavit by Joe's prior
landlord that he was familiar with Joe's
signature and that the signature on the
lease is a forgery and (4) the copy with
no signature in the space reserved for
Joe's signature. In response, Larry sub-
mitted no affidavits or other evidence
but argues in his Memo of Points and
Authorities that the court should deny
the motion because he may be able to
show, at trial, that Joe signed the lease.
There were no eyewitnesses to Joe's
signing of the lease. Assume the rules
and case law relating to summary judg-
ment are those applicable in federal
court. Which of the following states the
most appropriate disposition of Joe's
motion (for either side)?

A. Joe's motion should be granted
because Larry did not meet his
respondent's burden. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

87

A. Pete's motion should be denied
because he did not submit any
evidence to support his movant's
burden.

B. Pete's motion should be denied
because each monthly obligation
to pay rent constitutes a separate
"cause of action."

C. Pete's motion should be granted
because Larry split his cause of
action.

D. Pete's motion should be granted
because Larry did not meet his
respondent's burden.

58. Assume, for purposes of this series of
questions, that the court granted Pete's
summary judgment motion referred
to in Question 57. Larry, immediately
thereafter, commenced a second suit
against Joe for the "May" rent. Joe
moved for summary judgment citing
the summary judgment in his favor in
Larry v. Joe. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court should grant Joe's
motion because Larry did not
include Joe in his suit against
Pete for the May rent, and Larry,
having lost his suit against Pete
for the May rent, cannot now
come after Joe. 

B. Joe's motion should be denied
because Joe did not meet his
movant's burden.

C. Joe's motion should be denied
because he did not previously
serve and file an answer before
moving for summary judgment.

D. Joe's motion should be denied
because Joe did not negate every
possible way that Larry might
prove that Joe had signed the
lease.

57. Assume, for the remainder of this series
of questions, that the court granted Joe's
motion for summary judgment and dis-
missed Larry's claims against Joe. Pete
answered Larry's complaint, admitting
failure to pay the March and April rent
but asserting as a defense Larry's failure
to repair the heater which provides heat
to the apartment and hot water. Assume
that, if proved, this would state a valid
defense to payment of rent under appli-
cable substantive law. At trial, evidence
was presented on both sides of the issue
of the repair of the water heater and the
judge, as trier of fact, found that the
heater had been repaired and found for
Larry. Judgment was entered for Larry
on August 1, 1992. On August 15, 1992,
Larry brought another suit against Pete
for alleged failure to pay the May rent.
Pete moved for summary judgment cit-
ing the prior judgment in Larry v. Pete.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

88 CIVIL PROCEDURE

B. The court should grant Joe's
motion because, in the prior suit
against Joe, Larry only asserted
a claim for the March and April
rent, and omitted the May rent.

C. The court should grant Joe's
motion because the court, in the
prior suit against Joe, found that
Joe had not signed the lease.

D. B and C.

59. Assume, for purposes of this series of
questions, that the court denied Joe's
motion referred to in Question 58. Joe
answered Larry's complaint, denying
the allegations therein and asserting,
as a defense, that the water heater had
broken down again in May and that
Larry failed to repair it. Larry moved
for partial summary judgment to strike
Joe's defense regarding the water heater
citing the prior judgment for Larry en-
tered August 1, 1992. Which of the fol-
lowing statements is the best answer?

A. Larry's motion should be denied
because Joe did not have his day
in court on the issue of the bro-
ken water heater.

B. Larry's motion should be granted
because (assuming Joe is found
to have signed the lease and that
he is jointly liable as a cotenant
to Larry for the full amount of
the rent) Joe is in privity with
Pete and is, therefore, bound by
the judgment for Larry entered
August 1, 1992.

C. Larry's motion should be denied
because mutuality of estoppel
prevents Larry from invoking
collateral against a stranger to
the Larry v. Pete suit.

D. Larry's motion should be denied
because the issue of the state of
the water heater in May is not
necessarily identical with the
state of the water heater in March
and April.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

89

Q
LUce
—> 0
U 0
cea_

Questions 60 - 64 are based upon
the following facts:

D. Pat's motion should be granted
because Sam is not a lawyer.

61. Lou, Plucky's lawyer, tracked down
Wally, another witness to Pat's acci-
dent and got a written statement from
Wally. Pat properly served on Plucky's
a discovery demand for Wally's state-
ment. Plucky's objected and Pat moved
to compel production. Which of the
following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Wally's statement is not discov-
erable because it is protected by
the attorney-client privilege .

B. Wally's statement is not discov-
erable because it is protected by
the work product immunity.

C. Wally's statement is not discov-
erable because it is irrelevant.

D. Wally's statement is not discover-
able because it is confidential.

Pat slipped on the floor in a Plucky's Su-
permarket in Anaheim Hills. Pat brought
suit against Plucky's in federal district court
(assume jurisdiction exists) for personal
injury.

60. Pat's friend, Joe, who accompanied
Pat to the market and claims to have
seen what happened, gave a written
statement to Sam, the store manager,
immediately after Pat slipped on the
supermarket floor. Neither Pat nor
Joe had a copy of Joe's statement. Pat
properly served on Plucky's a discov-
ery demand for Joe's statement. After
Plucky's objected to producing Joe's
statement on work product grounds, Pat
moved to compel production. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Pat's motion should be granted
because Pat has an unqualified
right to discover Joe's state-
ment.

B. Pat's motion should be denied
because Joe has an unqualified
right to get a copy of his state-
ment from Plucky's.

C. Pat's motion should be denied
because neither Pat nor Joe
has an unqualified right to get
a copy of Joe's statement from
Plucky's. 

90 CIVIL PROCEDURE

	
	
Q

62. In response to a different "slip and fall"
incident that occurred a year prior to
Pat's accident, Plucky's President re-
tained Ed, a safety expert, to examine
Plucky's Anaheim Hills store for poten-
tial safety hazards and to make recom-
mendations for preventing future ac-
cidents. Ed drafted a memo containing
his findings and recommendations and
sent it to Plucky's President. Although
Pat's case has not yet reached the trial
phase, because the parties are still in
discovery, Plucky's lawyer knows that
Ed's memo would not be admissible
evidence at trial under the evidence
law known as the "subsequent reme-
dial measures" exclusionary rule. This
rule bars the admission into evidence
at trial of measures taken by a party to
remedy a dangerous situation to prove
negligence. The rule is concerned that
parties would be deterred from taking
such remedial measures. Pat properly
served on Plucky's a discovery demand
for Ed's memo. Plucky's objected
and Pat moved to compel production.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

A. Ed's memo is not discoverable
because it contains the mental
impressions of an expert.

B. Ed's memo is not discoverable
because the purpose of the memo
is to avoid future litigation.

C. Ed's memo is discoverable.

D. Ed's memo is not discoverable
because it is protected by the
"subsequent remedial measures"
rule.

63. Pat seeks to discover a report by a city
Health Department officer regarding
fruits and vegetables which he found on
the floors of all Plucky's Supermarkets
— including the Anaheim Hills store.
Plucky's objected and Pat moved to
compel production of the report. Which
of the following statements is most
nearly correct?

A. The report is not discoverable

because it is irrelevant.

B. The report is not discoverable

because it is confidential.

C. The report is not discoverable
because it is protected by the
work product immunity.

D. The report is discoverable.

64. In anticipation of Pat's lawsuit, Sam,
the store manager, investigated Pat's
"slip and fall" incident and wrote a
report which he sent to Lou, Plucky's
lawyer. On oral deposition of Sam by
Pat, Pat's lawyer asked Sam the follow-
ing question: "Describe the condition
of the floor where Pat fell at the time
you arrived at the scene of Pat's ac-
cident." Plucky's counsel objected and
Pat moved to compel Sam to answer.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct? 

CIVIL PROCEDURE

91

Q

LLI
Ce

—> w
Uv
0
ce

A. The information requested by Pat
from Sam is discoverable.

Questions 65 - 71 are based on the
following facts:

B. The information requested by Pat
from Sam is not discoverable be-
cause it is protected by the work
product immunity.

C. The information requested by
Pat from Sam is not discoverable
because it is confidential.

D. The information requested by
Pat from Sam is not discoverable
because it is protected by the at-
torney-client privilege.

Owner, a New Yorker, contracted with Gen-
eral, a California general contractor, to build
a house for Owner in Anaheim, California.
Owner had previously hired Archie, a New
York architect, to draw up the plans for the
house. Owner gave these plans to General
who relied upon them in building the house.
When the house was completed, Owner
found that the house started to sink. Owner
brought suit in federal court for $80,000
in damages, jointly and severally, against
(1) General, for defectively constructing
the house, and (2) the City of Anaheim for
negligently allowing the reservoir adjacent
to Owner's house to leak water, causing the
ground underneath the house to give way.

65. The two defendants moved to dismiss
the complaint for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction, contending that the amount
in controversy was insufficient since
$80,000 split between two defendants
was only $40,000 per defendant. There-
fore, each claim lacked the requisite
jurisdictional amount. Which of the
following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court has subject matter ju-
risdiction because the two claims
arise out of the same transaction
and occurrence.

B. The court has subject matter ju-
risdiction because the court can
aggregate the two claims. 

92 CIVIL PROCEDURE

C. The court has subject matter ju-
risdiction because the damages
were pleaded against the defen-
dants jointly and severally.

D. The court does not have subject

matter jurisdiction.

66. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
denied the motions in Question 65.
The City of Anaheim counterclaimed
against Owner for $10,000 which it
claimed was a special city tax assess-
ment for the building of the reservoir
which Owner should have paid (but
didn't) when he purchased the land
upon which his house was built. Owner
filed and served a Reply which asserted,
as an affirmative defense, that the tax
assessment violated his rights under the
14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitu-
tion. Owner moved to dismiss the City's
counterclaim. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion to dismiss because of lack
of subject matter jurisdiction.

B. The court should deny the mo-
tion to dismiss because federal
courts can exercise supplemental
jurisdiction over compulsory
counterclaims.

C. The court should deny the mo-
tion because the court has federal
question jurisdiction over the
counterclaim.  

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion because a municipality can
always sue a citizen in federal
court.

0 0-<

0 -
C

67. General asserted a cross-claim for con-
tribution against the City of Anaheim.
The City of Anaheim moved to dismiss
the cross-claim. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion to dismiss because a claim
for contribution or indemnity
can only be joined by means of
impleader.

B. The court should grant the
motion to dismiss because the
cross-claim is not supported by
an independent basis of subject
matter jurisdiction.

C. The court should deny the mo-
tion to dismiss because joinder
is proper.

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion to dismiss because the court
can exercise supplemental juris-
diction over the cross-claim.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 93

Q

68. Assume, for purposes of the remain-
der of this series of questions, that the
court denied the motion in Question
67. General served a timely third-party
complaint and summons on Archie,
the architect, claiming that Archie's
defective plans caused the house to
sink. As a result, General had to spend
$60,000 more on the project than he had
anticipated which caused General to
go bankrupt. Archie moved to dismiss
the third-party complaint. Which of the
following statements is most nearly cor-
rect?

A. The court should grant Archie's
motion because impleader is
improper.

B. The court should grant Archie's
motion because the impleader
of Archie, a New Yorker, would
destroy diversity.

C. The court should deny Archie's
motion because impleader is
proper.

D. The court should deny Archie's
motion because the court can ex-
ercise supplemental jurisdiction
over General's third-party claim
against Archie.

69. Assume, for purposes of the remain-
der of this series of questions, that the
court granted the motion in Question
68. General served a timely third-party
complaint and summons on Fred, a
California sub-contractor, who was
hired by General to lay the foundation
for Owner's house. The third-party
complaint contained two claims: In
Claim #1, General alleged that the
foundation was defectively laid and
this caused the house to sink. In Claim
#2, General alleged that Fred failed to
repay a loan General had made to Fred
in connection with another project. Fred
moved to dismiss both claims. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court should dismiss Claim

#2 but not Claim #1.

B. The court should dismiss Claim

#1 but not Claim #2.

C. The court should dismiss both

Claims.

D. The court should not dismiss

either Claim. 

94 CIVIL PROCEDURE

70. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
dismissed only Claim #2. Assume, fur-
ther, that Fred, the sub-contractor, was a
New Yorker, not a Californian. Owner
moved for leave to amend his complaint
to add a claim against Fred alleging that
Fred's defective laying of the founda-
tion contributed to the sinking of the
house. Fred opposed Owner's motion.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

0 0
<

CP

71. Assume that, after a trial, judgment
was rendered in favor of Owner against
both General and the City of Anaheim
and appeals by each defendant failed.
Owner collected the full amount of his
judgment from the City of Anaheim.
The City of Anaheim sued General for
contribution, claiming reimbursement
in proportion to General's degree of
fault for the sinking house. General
moved to dismiss the City's suit. Which
of the following statements is most
nearly correct?

A. The motion should be denied
because Fred will be prejudiced
in having to defend against two
claims (General's and Owner's)
instead of only one claim (Gen-
eral's).

B. The motion should be granted
because Owner's claim against
Fred arises out of the same
transaction and occurrence as
his claims against General and
the City of Anaheim.

C. The motion should be denied,
otherwise, diversity will be de-
stroyed.

D. The motion should granted be-
cause Fred has waived his sub-
ject matter jurisdiction defense.

A. The motion to dismiss should
be granted because the City of
Anaheim should have counter-
claimed for contribution in the
previous suit by Owen against
General and the City of Ana-
heim.

B. The motion to dismiss should be
denied because cross-claims are
never compulsory.

C. The motion to dismiss should be
denied because when the City
of Anaheim failed to assert its
contribution claim in the previ-
ous suit, General failed to object
at that time, thereby waiving its
objection.

D. The motion to dismiss should
be granted because cross-claims
which arise out of the same
transaction and occurrence are
compulsory. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 95

Q

C. The court has subject matter ju-
risdiction because Joe and I.B.N.
are diverse parties since I.B.N. is
also a Delaware corporation.

D. The court has subject matter
jurisdiction because the claims
arise under federal law.

73. Under which category or categories
of class action does Joe's class action
fit?

A. "Prejudice" class action [Rule

23(b)(1)].

B. "Injunctive" class action [Rule

23(b)(2)].

C. "Damage" class action [Rule

23(b)(3)].

D. Both "Prejudice" and "Damage"

class actions.

74. Which statement best defines the notice
requirement applicable to Joe's class
action?

A. The best notice practicable under

the circumstances.

B. The best notice practicable under
the circumstances, including
individual notice to each class
member. 

Questions 72 - 76 are based on the
following facts:

Joe, a New Yorker, bought stock in the I.B.N.
Corporation, a Delaware Corporation with
its principal place of business in New York
City, on the basis of glowing reports in an
I.B.N. stock prospectus about a revolution-
ary new invention. Joe bought the stock at
$100 a share. When the Wall Street Journal
reported that I.B.N.'s reports regarding this
invention were false, the price of the stock
plummeted to $1.00 per share. Joe brought a
federal class action against I.B.N., on behalf
of himself and as representative of all others
who purchased I.B.N. stock in reliance on
the misleading prospectus, alleging violation
of the federal Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934. Joe alleged $10,000 in damages
and none of the 100,000 class members
individually had more than $6,000 in dam-
ages. The aggregate class damages exceeded
$3,000,000.

72. I.B.N. moved to dismiss Joe's claim and
those of the class on the grounds that
the federal court lacked subject matter
jurisdiction. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court has no subject matter
jurisdiction because the damages
of Joe and the class members
may not be aggregated.

B. The court has no subject mat-
ter jurisdiction because Joe and
I.B.N. are both New York citi-
zens.

96 CIVIL PROCEDURE

C. The best notice practicable under
the circumstances, including
individual notice to all class
members who can be identified
through reasonable effort.

D. Publication of the class action
notice in newspapers of wide
circulation.

75. Assume for this question that Joe is also
an attorney and, in addition to class rep-
resentative, intends to serve as counsel
to the class. I.B.N. contends that this
fact makes Joe an inadequate class
representative. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court will find that Joe's sta-
tus as class attorney makes Joe
an inadequate class representa-
tive.

B. The court will find that Joe's sta-
tus as class attorney makes him
an adequate class representative
because it gives him an even
greater stake in the successful
outcome of the suit.

C. The court will find Joe's status
as class attorney makes him an
adequate class representative
because it will save the class the
cost of hiring a separate attor-
ney.

D. The court will find Joe's status
as class attorney to be irrelevant
to whether Joe will adequately
represent the class.

Q

76. Joe learns that mailing notice to the
class will cost $300,000. Joe has rep-
resented to the court that he has no
more than $10,000 to pay for notice to
the class. Which of the following best
describes how a court will handle this
situation?

A. Joe will have to pay the entire

$300,000 himself.

B. The court will order I.B.N. to pay
the $280,000 if it determines,
after a preliminary hearing, that
Joe is likely to win the class ac-
tion on the merits.

C. The court will scale down the
number of class members who
will receive individual notice and
authorize notice to the remain-
ing members by publication in a
newspapers of wide circulation.

D. The court will reduce the size
of the class until the cost of
mailing individual notice equals
$10,000.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

97

D. The report is protected by F.R. C P.
26(b)(4) [facts and opinions of
experts].

78. Donna sought to depose Eggbert, an
expert in accident reconstruction, who
has been identified by Paula, pursuant
to disclosure requirements, as a wit-
ness she has retained to provide expert
testimony in the case. Donna wants to
depose Eggbert and has served upon
him a notice of deposition. Donna has
not yet served any interrogatories on
Paula, nor has she received any reports
prepared by Eggbert on his proposed
trial testimony. Paula moved for a pro-
tective order to prevent Donna from
proceeding with Eggbert's deposition.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

A. The protective order should be
granted because Donna has not
yet received any reports prepared
by Eggbert regarding his pro-
posed trial testimony.

B. The protective order should be
granted because Donna has not
yet served, and received answers
to, interrogatories regarding
Eggbert's proposed trial testi-
mony. 

Questions 77 - 79 are based on the
following facts:

Paul, an Oregonian, and Don, a Californian,
were each independent truckers who were
driving their respective trucks on a two-lane
highway and were approaching each other
from opposite directions. Their side-mir-
rors struck each other, causing each truck to
swerve off the highway killing each driver.
Paula, Paul's wife and executrix for Paul's
estate, brought suit in federal court against
Don's estate, represented by Don's wife
Donna as executrix, for wrongful death,
alleging that Don's truck had veered into
Paul's on-coming lane, thereby causing
the mirrors to come into contact. Assume
diversity of citizenship exists. There were
no eyewitnesses to the accident.

77. A year before he died, Don thought it
would be prudent to draft a will. Don
asked his accountant to review Don's
assets and draft a report so that Don
would know the extent, nature and
worth of his estate. Paula served a
request to produce that report. Donna
objected. Which of the following is
the strongest objection Donna could
make?

A. The report is irrelevant.

B. The report contains confidential

information.

C. The report is protected by the

work product immunity.

98 CIVIL PROCEDURE

C. The protective order should be
granted because the facts and
opinions held by an expert,
like Eggbert, who has been re-
tained or specially employed in
preparation for trial, can only be
discovered upon a showing of
exceptional circumstances.

D. The protective order should be

denied.

79. At trial, Paula's only evidence on liabil-
ity is the expert testimony of Eggbert
who testified that, based upon the cir-
cumstantial evidence he viewed at the
scene of the accident, including skid
marks, the position of the trucks and
the condition of the wreckage, it was
his opinion that Don's truck could well
have veered into Paul's lane. On cross-
examination, Eggbert also testified that
it was equally possible that Paul's truck
could have veered into Don's lane. Be-
fore Paula had an opportunity to put on
her damage evidence, Donna moved for
judgment as a matter of law on the issue
of causation. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. Donna's motion is premature
and, therefore, should not be
granted because Paula has not
yet put on her whole case.

B. Donna's motion should be de-
nied because the credibility of
Eggbert is for the jury to deter-
mine, not the court.

Q

0 0
<

c

C. Donna's motion should be de-
nied because, when there is a
conflict in the evidence, the jury
should resolve that conflict, not
the court.

D. Donna's motion should be grant-

ed.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

99

B. The court should deny the mo-
tion because Willy is not a party
nor in the custody nor a person
in the custody or under the legal
control of a party.

C. The court should grant the mo-
tion because the condition of
Willy's eyesight is relevant to
the case.

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion because Willy's ex-wife is
biased.

81. Pam moved, under F.R.C.P. 35(a), to
compel Del to submit to a neurological
and a psychological examination based
upon an affidavit from Pam's attorney
that his review of court files shows that
Del has been convicted of reckless driv-
ing four times. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion because Del is a person who
is under the control of Acme,
Inc., a party defendant.

B. The court should deny the motion
because Pam has not shown that
Del's nervous system and mental
state are "in controversy."

C. The court should grant the mo-
tion because Del's ability to
drive a vehicle safely is centrally
relevant to the case. 

Questions 80 - 84 are based on the
following facts:

Pam and Del collided at an intersection at
2:00 a.m. Believing that Del was driving in
the course of his employment for Acme, Inc.,
Pam, an Arizonan, brought a personal injury
suit in federal court against Acme, Inc., a
California corporation, alleging that Del ran
a red light at the intersection. (Assume di-
versity jurisdiction.) Acme, Inc. denied that
Del ran the light and alleged that Pam ran the
red light. As a result of the accident, neither
Pam nor Del recall the circumstances leading
up to the collision. Pam's only evidence to
prove Del caused the accident is Willy who is
prepared to testify to the following: that, for
10 minutes before the collision, he had been
following Del's vehicle and that, at each red
light, Del ran the light. However, Del turned
off the street prior to the intersection where
the collision occurred and, thus, did not wit-
ness the collision.

80. Acme moved, under F.R.C.P. 35(a), to
compel an eye examination of Willy,
submitting an affidavit from Willy's
ex-wife in which she affirmed that Willy
suffers from serious night blindness.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion because the affidavit from
Willy's wife shows that the
condition of Willy's eyes are "in
controversy."

100 CIVIL PROCEDURE

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion because the affidavit of
Pam's attorney is not based upon
personal knowledge.

82. Pam moved for summary judgment
submitting in support of her motion the
affidavit of Willy that states, under oath,
what he is prepared to testify to at trial
(as set forth in the base facts above).
In response, Acme, Inc. only submitted
its answer, in which it denied that Del
ran the red light and alleged that Pam
did. Which statement most correctly
expresses how the court should rule on
Pam's summary judgment motion?

A. The motion should be denied
because Pam did not meet her
movant's burden.

B. The motion should be granted
because Acme, Inc. did not meet
its respondent's burden.

C. The motion should be denied
because there is a two-sided fact
issue regarding causation which
should go to the jury.

D. The motion should be granted
because courts never grant offen-
sive summary judgment motions
based on affidavit testimony.

—co
0 0
<

CP

83. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that Pam's
summary judgment motion in Question
82 was denied. At trial, Pam's liability
case consists of (1) Willy 's testimony
as described in the base facts above and
(2) the testimony of two bishops (newly
discovered by Pam) who swear that they
saw Del run the red light. Acme, Inc.'s
rebuttal case consists of one witness, a
twice-convicted perjurer, who swears
that he saw Pam run the red light. After
the jury returned a verdict in favor of
Acme, Inc., Pam moved for a judgment
as a matter of law in her favor and, in
the alternative, for a new trial. Which of
the following statements most correctly
expresses how the court should rule on
Pam's motion for judgment as a matter
of law?

A. Pam's motion should be denied
because an offensive motion for
judgment as a matter of law can
never be granted where the mov-
ant has offered oral testimony,
since credibility is always a jury
issue.

B. Pam's motion should be granted
because Pam met her burden of
production and Acme, Inc. did
not.

C. Pam's motion should be denied
because Pam did not make a mo-
tion for a judgment as a matter
of law before the close of all the
evidence. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 101

D. Pam's motion should be grant-	
ed because Pam's case "over- 	
whelmed" Acme's case.	

D. The reversal was proper because
Juror Joan's affidavit was inad-
missible.

84. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
granted Pam's motion for judgment as
a matter of law. The court also condi-
tionally granted Pam's motion for a
new trial. Her motion was based upon
an affidavit of a juror, Joan, who swore
in an affidavit, that she voted against
Pam because she was biased against
Pam based on Pam's race. Acme, Inc.
appealed the granting of the judgment a
matter of law and the new trial motion.
The Court of Appeals reversed the grant
of the judgment as a matter of law and
also the grant of the new trial motion.
Which of the following statements best
expresses the correctness of the Court
of Appeals reversal of the lower court's
new trial order?

A. The reversal was improper
because appellate courts never
reverse the exercise of discretion
of the lower court on new trial
motions.

B. The reversal was improper
because the lower court's con-
ditional grant of a new trial was
not a "final decision."

C. The reversal was improper be-
cause bias is an improper basis
for determining a jury verdict. 

102 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Q

0 0
<

C -I
C

m

Questions 85 - 91 are based on the
following facts:

Darren was a student at Hower U., a college
located on the Nevada side of Lake Tahoe,
10 miles from the Nevada-California border.
Darren's parents live in Anaheim, Califor-
nia. One night, Darren had been drinking
all evening at Beers, a bar located on the
California side of the border, and 20 miles
from Hower U. Beers advertised itself in the
student newspaper at Hower U. as a "way
cool" student hangout. The bar was very
popular with Hower U. students. Totally
"lit," and headed back to the dorm, Darren
got into a collision near the campus, inside
Nevada, with a Jaguar automobile owned
and operated by Pam, whose home is in Las
Vegas. Pam brought a personal injury suit,
in a federal district court in Nevada, against
Beers for $105,000, including $75,000 for
pain and suffering alleging that Beers con-
tinued to serve alcohol to Darren knowing
he was drunk and was, therefore, responsible
for the collision and Pam's injuries.

85. Beers made a pre-answer motion to dis-
miss Pam's suit on the ground that the
court lacked subject matter jurisdiction
over her claim. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court has diversity jurisdic-

tion.

B. The court does not have diversity
jurisdiction because Beers is also
a Nevada citizen, like Pam, since
it "does business" in Nevada by
soliciting business in Nevada.

C. The court does not have diversity
jurisdiction because Pam cannot
prove to a legal certainty that she
will recover the full $75,000 in
pain and suffering damages.

D. The court does not have diver-
sity jurisdiction because Darren
is also a California citizen like
Beers.

86. Assume, for purposes of the remain-
der of this series of questions, that the
court denied Beers' pre-answer motion
in Question 85. Beers then answered
Pam's complaint, denying, in part, (1)
that Darren was drunk when he left the
bar and (2) that Darren caused the col-
lision. Beers' answer also affirmatively
alleged, as affirmative defenses, (a) that
Pam's negligence caused the collision
and (b) that the court does not have
personal jurisdiction over Beers. Beers
then moved to dismiss Pam's complaint
for lack of personal jurisdiction. As-
sume Nevada has a long arm statute
which limits tort actions in Nevada
courts against non-residents to actions
arising out of tortious conduct (not just
injury) occurring in Nevada. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court can exercise personal
jurisdiction over Beers because
it solicited business in Nevada. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 103

B. The court cannot exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Beers
because Beers serves customers
(including Darren) exclusively
in California.

C. The court cannot exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction over Beers
because Pam's action arises out
of tortious conduct occurring in
California.

D. The court can exercise per-
sonal jurisdiction because Beers
waived its personal jurisdiction
defense.

87. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
denied Beers' motion in Question 86.
Beers then abandoned defense of the
suit, ignoring all discovery orders. The
court finally entered a default judg-
ment for Pam for $30,000 on July 1,
1992. Two months later, Pam brought
another suit against Beers arising out
of the same auto collision with Darren,
demanding $80,000 in damages for
injury to her Jaguar automobile. Beers
moved to dismiss Pam's suit based upon
the July 1, 1992 judgment in Pam's
previous suit against Beers. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-

tion.

104 CIVIL PROCEDURE

B. The court should not grant the
motion because the 7/1/92 judg-
ment was not "on the merits."

C. The court should not grant the
motion because Pam's second
suit against Beers asserts a differ-
ent right than her previous suit.

D. The court should not grant
the motion because the 7/1/92
judgment is not "valid" since
that judgment was for less than
$75,000.

88. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
granted Beers' motion in Question 87
and entered judgment for Beers on Sep-
tember 1, 1992. Pam filed suit against
Darren in a federal district court in Cali-
fornia demanding $80,000 in damages
for injury to her Jaguar automobile,
serving him personally while he was
home visiting his parents in Irvine.
Darren made a pre-answer motion to
dismiss Pam's complaint on the ground
that the court lacked personal jurisdic-
tion over him. Which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The court should deny Darren's
motion because Pam's cause
of action arose out of Darren's
drinking in California.

B. The court should grant Darren's
motion because the collision
arose directly out of Darren's
driving in Nevada. 

C. The court should grant Darren's
motion because most of the evi-
dence relating to the cause of the
collision, including witnesses, is
located in Nevada.

D. The court should deny Darren's
motion because Darren was
served in California.

90. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
denied Darren's motion in Question 89.
Darren moved to dismiss Pam's action
based upon the September 1, 1992 judg-
ment in the second Pam v. Beers suit.
Which of the following statements is
most nearly correct?

89. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
denied Darren's motion in Question
88. Darren moved to dismiss Pam's
suit on the ground that the court lacked
subject matter jurisdiction. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Darren's motion should be de-
nied because Darren is a Califor-
nia citizen and Pam is a Nevada
citizen.

B. Darren's motion should be grant-
ed because Darren is a Nevada
citizen like Pam.

C. Darren's motion should be grant-
ed because Darren is a citizen of
the forum state, California.

D. Darren's motion should be de-
nied because he waived his sub-
ject matter jurisdiction defense.

A. The court should deny Darren's
motion because neither res judi-
cata nor any joinder rule required
Pam to join Darren as a co-defen-
dant alongside Beers.

B. The court should deny Darren's
motion because Darren waived
his res judicata defense by failing
to include it in his pre-answer
motion.

C. The court should grant Darren's
motion because Pam should not
be allowed to "hedge her bets"
by suing a series of defendants,
one-by-one, on the same prop-
erty claim until the supply of
defendants runs out.

D. The court should deny Darren's
motion because the 9/1/92 judg-
ment was not "on the merits." 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 105

91. Assume, for this question, that the court
denied Darren's motion in Question
90. Pam moved for partial summary
judgment, based on the July 1, 1992
judgment in Pam's favor in the first Pam
v. Beers suit, on the issue of Darren's
liability for causing the collision. Which
of the following statements is not cor-
rect?

A. Pam cannot invoke collateral es-
toppel because the Due Process
clause prevents Darren from
being bound by the 7/1/92 judg-
ment.

B. Pam cannot invoke collateral
estoppel because no facts were
actually determined in the first
Pam v. Beers suit.

C. Pam cannot invoke collateral
estoppel because the 7/1/92 judg-
ment was not "on the merits."

D. The mutuality of estoppel rule
is inapplicable to resolve the is-
sue whether Pam can invoke the
benefits of collateral estoppel.

106 CIVIL PROCEDURE

Questions 92 - 96 are based on the
following facts:

Jacques and Jill are graduate students at a
private university in Pomona, California.
Jacques is a French citizen. Prior to her com-
ing to California to study, Jill lived with her
parents in Phoenix, Arizona. Jill, however,
left on very bad terms and vowed never to re-
turn to her parents' home in Arizona. Jacques
and Jill met while students at the university
in Pomona, fell in love, married and rented
a condo in Pomona. After one year of mar-
riage, they began arguing a lot and Jill sus-
pected Jacques of having many extra-marital
affairs. One evening, Jacques and Jill were
returning from a movie. Jacques was driving
and Jill was a passenger and the two began
arguing violently. Their car collided with a
car driven by Don, a Californian. Jacques
and Jill sued Don in federal district court
in Santa Ana, California. Jacques asserted a
claim for loss of Jill's consortium, demand-
ing $40,000 in damages, including $10,000
in punitive damages, and Jill asserted a
claim for her personal injuries, demanding
$100,000 in damages, including $60,000
in punitive damages. Their complaint de-
manded a jury trial on both claims.

92. Don moved to dismiss both Jacques and
Jill's claims for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction. On the issue of "complete
diversity," which of the following state-
ments is most nearly correct?

A. The court has alienage jurisdic-
tion over Jacques' claim but must
dismiss Jill's claim because she
is a citizen of California. 

B. The court has alienage jurisdic-
tion over both Jacques and Jill's
claims because Jill takes on the
domicile of her husband.

C. The court does not have diversity
jurisdiction over either Jacques
or Jill's claims because Jill's
California citizenship destroys
complete diversity.

D. The court has diversity juris-
diction over both Jacques and
Jill's claims because Jacques is
a French citizen and Jill is an
Arizona citizen.

93. In Don's motion to dismiss for lack of
subject matter jurisdiction, Don also
claims Jacques and Jill's claims do not
satisfy the jurisdictional "amount in
controversy" requirement. On the issue
of "amount in controversy," which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Jacques' claim does not meet the
amount in controversy require-
ment while Jill's claim does.

B. Because Jacques and Jill can
aggregate their claims, both
their claims meet the amount in
controversy requirement.

C. Neither Jacques' claim nor Jill's
claim meet the amount in contro-
versy requirement.

D. Jill's claim independently meets
the amount in controversy re-
quirement and Jacques' claim
will be saved by the exercise of
pendent party (i.e., supplemen-
tal) jurisdiction.

94. Assume, for purposes of the remainder
of this series of questions, that the court
denied Don's motion with respect to
both Jacques and Jill's claims. Don filed
and served his answer to the complaint,
which included an affirmative defense
to Jacques' claim that Jacques was con-
tributorily negligent. Assume that con-
tributory negligence is an absolute bar
to recovery. Don moved to have Jacques
and Jill's claims tried to a judge, in-
stead of a jury, citing a California state
statute that requires all personal injury
claims asserting punitive damages to
be tried by the court rather than a jury.
The statute was enacted in response to
skyrocketing punitive damages jury
verdicts. Plaintiffs opposed Don's mo-
tion, asserting their 7th Amendment
right to a jury trial of all issues relating
to their damage claims. On the "jury
trial" issue, which of the following
statements is most nearly correct?

A. The "Erie" doctrine requires the
court to apply the California stat-
ute because that statute embodies
important substantive interests.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 107

B. The Supreme Court's ruling in
Hanna v. Plumer does not require
the federal district court to apply
the 7th Amendment because it
is not a "Federal Rule of Civil
Procedure."

C. The Supremacy Clause of the
U.S. Constitution requires the
federal district court to apply the
7th Amendment to Jill's jury trial
issue.

D. The federal district court can ap-
ply the California statute because
there will be no outcome differ-
ence between a judge vs. a jury
trial.

95. For purposes of the remainder of this
series of questions, assume that the
court denied Don's motion in Ques-
tion 94. After a jury trial, during which
Jacques offered minimal evidence of
damages on his consortium claim and
Don offered substantial evidence that
plaintiffs' marriage was in trouble, the
jury rendered the following verdict:
(1) On Jacques' claim, in favor of Don.
(2) On Jill's claim, in favor of Jill for
$80,000. Judgment was entered upon
the verdict on April 1, 1993. Jacques
filed a California state court suit against
Don for his personal injuries caused
by the collision with Don's car. Don's
answer included an affirmative defense
that Jacques was contributorily negli-
gent. Don moved to dismiss Jacques'
claim based upon the April 1, 1993
judgment in Jacques and Jill v. Don. As-
sume the California law of res judicata
defines "cause of action" according to
the "primary rights" test. Which of the
following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court should deny Don's
motion because, applying the
primary rights test, Jacques did
not split his cause of action.

B. The court should grant Don's
motion because, applying the
"same transaction test," Jacques
split his cause of action. 

108 CIVIL PROCEDURE

C. The court should deny Don's
motion because Jacques' loss
of consortium claim in the prior
(federal) suit against Don de-
rives from Jill's injury whereas
Jacques' claim in the current
(state) suit asserts Jacques' own
injuries.

D. The court should grant Don's
motion because Jacques was in
privity with Jill in the prior fed-
eral court suit.

96. Assume, for this question, that the
court denied Don's motion in Ques-
tion 95. Don again moved to dismiss
Jacques' claim based upon the April 1,
1993 judgment, in the prior federal suit.
Don's contention, this time, was that
Jacques is collaterally estopped from
proving that he was not contributorily
negligent. Which of the following state-
ments is most nearly correct?

A. Jacques should be collaterally
estopped on the issue of con-
tributory negligence because
the federal court "actually and
necessarily determined" that
Jacques was contributorily neg-
ligent.

B. Jacques should not be collater-
ally estopped on the issue of
contributory negligence because
the state court cannot tell wheth-
er the federal court "actually
determined" that Jacques was
contributorily negligent.

C. Jacques should not be collater-
ally estopped on the issue of
contributory negligence because,
although the state court knows
that the federal court "actually
determined" that Jacques was
contributorily negligent, it can-
not know whether such deter-
mination was "necessary" to the
judgment.

D. Jacques should not be collater-
ally estopped on the issue of
contributory negligence because
he did not have a "full and fair
opportunity to litigate" this is-
sue.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

109

Q

97. DeWinter moved for summary judg-
ment, based upon the September 1,
1992 judgment of acquittal in the
California murder case that had been
brought against him. In this motion,
DeWinter asked to court to find that
the judgment of acquittal conclusively
establishes, for purposes of his civil suit
against Floyd's, that DeWinter did not
murder his wife. Which of the following
statements is not correct?

A. Mutuality of estoppel, assuming
that it was the applicable law,
would not permit DeWinter to
use collateral estoppel against
Floyd's, a stranger to the prior
criminal proceeding.

B. The Due Process clause prevents
DeWinter from using collat-
eral estoppel against Floyd's,
a stranger to the prior criminal
proceeding.

C. DeWinter cannot use collateral
estoppel because the burdens of
persuasion in the prior criminal
suit and in DeWinter's civil suit
are different.

D. In order to acquit DeWinter in
the criminal trial, the jury must
have actually and necessarily
determined that there was a rea-
sonable doubt as to whether he
murdered Rebecca. 

Questions 97 - 100 are based on the
following facts:

On January 1, 1992, DeWinter was charged
with the murder of his wife, Rebecca. On
April 1, 1992, DeWinter stood trial in Cali-
fornia on this charge. Evidence introduced
by the prosecution showed, inter alia, (1)
that during the year prior to Rebecca's
death, DeWinter had been carrying on a
passionate affair with Cecily, (2) that, dur-
ing that time, DeWinter had purchased an
"accidental death" life insurance policy
on Rebecca's life for $1,000,000 and (3)
that, three months after Rebecca's death,
DeWinter and Cecily were secretly mar-
ried. DeWinter offered, in his defense, the
testimony of Cecily who stated that she was
present when Rebecca died and she saw
Rebecca jump off a cliff into the rocks be-
low. The prosecution claimed that Rebecca
was pushed by DeWinter but could produce
no eyewitnesses of its own. DeWinter was
acquitted and a judgment of acquittal was
entered on September 1, 1992.

On October 1, 1992, DeWinter filed a death
benefits claim with Floyd's of London, the
insurance company from which DeWinter
had purchased the "accidental death" life
insurance policy on Rebecca's life. Floyd's
refused to pay, claiming that Rebecca's
death was not an accident but that she had
been murdered by DeWinter. On December
1, 1992, DeWinter brought suit in federal
court in Los Angeles to recover on Rebecca's
life insurance policy. DeWinter is a British
subject who has been domiciled in Santa
Monica, California since 1983. Floyd's is a
California corporation with its headquarters
in Los Angeles.

110 CIVIL PROCEDURE

0 0
0 -
m <
CI
r-
x3

99. Assume, for the remainder of this se-
ries of questions, that the court denied
DeWinter's motion in Question 98. The
jury rendered a verdict for DeWinter.
Two days later, Floyd's moved to dis-
miss the suit on grounds that the court
lacked subject matter jurisdiction to
enter judgment on the verdict. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. Floyd's motion should be denied
because, by waiting until after
the jury verdict to challenge sub-
ject matter jurisdiction, Floyd's
has waived this defense.

B. Floyd's motion should be denied
because the court has alienage
jurisdiction.

C. Floyd's motion should be granted
because complete diversity does
not exist since both DeWinter
and Floyd's are California do-
miciliaries.

D. Floyd's motion should be granted
because DeWinter's claim does
not "arise under" federal law.

98. Assume, for the remainder of this se-
ries of questions, that the court denied
DeWinter's motion in Question 97.
On the third day of trial, DeWinter
and Cecil)/ each testified that they saw
Rebecca accidentally fall off the cliff to
her death. In its case-in-chief, Floyd's
produced no eyewitnesses of its own
to Rebecca's death. At the close of
all the evidence, DeWinter moved for
judgment as a matter of law, which
was opposed by Floyd's. Which of the
following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. The court should grant the mo-
tion because Floyd's failed to
meet its burden of production
to offer testimonial evidence to
contradict directly DeWinter's
eyewitnesses.

B. The court should deny the mo-
tion because courts never grant
an offensive judgment as a mat-
ter of law where the movant's
case relies heavily on testimonial
evidence.

C. The court should grant the mo-
tion because DeWinter met its
burden of production.

D. The court should deny the mo-
tion because DeWinter has not
shown conclusively that Re-
becca's death was accidental.   

CIVIL PROCEDURE

1 1 1

D. Even if the court believes Juliet's
affidavit, the court should deny
Floyd's motion because it is un-
timely.

END OF QUESTIONS

100. Assume for this question, that the
court denied Floyd's motion in Ques-
tion 99. Three weeks after entry of
judgment, Floyd's moved for a new
trial on grounds of jury misconduct.
Floyd's offered in support of its mo-
tion the affidavit of Juliet, a juror, who
affirmed that Jack, another juror, had
told the jury, during its deliberations,
that he had done his own "snooping
around" and had been told by certain
employees at Floyd's (who spoke with
Jack, not knowing he was a juror) that
Floyd's knew that DeWinter didn't kill
Rebecca and that Rebecca was a noto-
rious "klutz" who probably slipped and
accidentally fell off the cliff. Which of
the following statements is most nearly
correct?

A. If the court believes Juliet's af-
fidavit, the court should grant
Floyd's motion because evidence
of extraneous prejudicial infor-
mation improperly brought to
the jury's attention is admissible
in federal court to impeach the
verdict.

B. Even if the court believes Juliet's
affidavit, the court should deny
Floyd's motion because there is
no showing that Juror Jack's mis-
conduct prejudiced the verdict.

C. If the court believes Juliet's af-
fidavit, the court should grant
Floyd's motion because evidence
of extrinsic misconduct is admis-
sible to impeach the verdict. 

112  CIVIL PROCEDURE       

CIVIL PROCEDURE
ANSWERS 

1. C is correct. Nothing in the facts indi-
cate that Dr. Feelgood is targeting a na-
tional market merely because his office
is located near an interstate off-ramp. A
is incorrect because Dr. Feelgood has
the option of challenging personal juris-
diction either in a pre-answer motion or
in his answer. B is incorrect because the
federal rules do not adopt the "special
appearance" procedure for challenging
personal jurisdiction (see F.R.C.P. 12).
D is incorrect because Dr. Feelgood did
nothing to lure motorists from other
states to his office in Phoenix. Rigg
just happened to exit the freeway near-
est Dr. Feelgood's office, and, further,
Rigg just happened to notice his sign,
not while traveling on the interstate,
but after exiting the interstate on Main
Street.

A

0 0<_ 

2. C is correct. California, like virtually
all other states, has a statute that au-
thorizes its courts to exercise personal
jurisdiction over persons served within
the state. Such exercise of personal
jurisdiction is probably valid under the
Territoriality Rule, which a plurality of
the Supreme Court affirmed in Justice
Scalia's opinion in Burnham v. Superior
Court (1990). A is incorrect because
the Territoriality Rule, rather than the
minimum contacts rule, probably gov-
erns the issue of personal jurisdiction
on these facts. Further, even under the
minimum contacts rule, one can argue
that it is "fair" to subject Dr. Feelgood
to personal jurisdiction (see Justice
Brennan's concurring opinion in Burn-
ham). B and D are incorrect because the
Territoriality Rule probably governs
this issue and, even if the "minimum
contacts" rule is applicable, B and D do
not address the threshold requirement
of purposeful availment.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 113

5. D is correct. At the time the third-party
complaint was filed, Dr. Feelgood and
Drugco were completely diverse par-
ties. Subsequent changes in citizenship
do not automatically divest the court
of diversity jurisdiction. A is incorrect
because supplemental jurisdiction is
not an issue. The court has diversity
jurisdiction over all three claims be-
tween Dr. Feelgood and Drugco. B is
incorrect because the defense that the
court lacks subject matter jurisdiction
can be raised anytime during the life of
the original lawsuit. C is incorrect, first,
because supplemental jurisdiction is not
an issue and, second, because even if
supplemental jurisdiction were an issue,
the court cannot exercise supplemental
jurisdiction over unrelated claims. 

A

3. C is correct. Dr. Feelgood's third-party
complaint does not assert a derivative
claim against Drugco. Dr. Feelgood's
third-party complaint denies all liability
to Mack and shifts all liability to Drug-
co. A proper third-party claim would
allege: "If Dr. Feelgood is held liable
to Mack, then Drugco is liable to Dr.
Feelgood." A is incorrect because diver-
sity of citizenship exists between Mac
(California) and Feelgood (Arizona)
and between Feelgood (Arizona) and
Drugco (California); thus, each claim
is supported by diversity jurisdiction. B
is incorrect for reasons stated in answer
C. D is incorrect because the impleader
rule (F.R.C.P. 14) says nothing about
"same transaction or occurrence."

4. D is correct. Claim 1 is a derivative
claim, and proper under F.R.C.P. 14(a);
claims 2 and 3 are proper because, once
Dr. Feelgood has properly asserted
a claim against Drugco, F.R.C.P. 18
permits Dr. Feelgood to assert as many
other claims against Drugco as he wants
whether or not those claims are related
to the derivative claim.

114 CIVIL PROCEDURE

6. B is correct. Dave just happened to
serve a New Yorker (Pat) who just hap-
pened to pull into Dave's restaurant.
Dave's decision to locate his Burger-
Quick restaurant just off the exit ramp
of an interstate does not translate into
purposeful availment of the national
market. Dave did nothing to draw cus-
tomers from other states. Furthermore,
the brand name recognition that Dave
gets from operating a BurgerQuick
franchise does not translate into pur-
poseful availment of the national mar-
ket because travelers from other states
are not coming to Santa Ana just to eat
at Dave's particular BurgerQuick. The
benefit to brand name recognition is
that hungry travelers (including those
from California) who want to stop for
fast food will be more likely to eat at
a BurgerQuick than a "mom and pop"
operation. A is incorrect because Dave
did not waive his personal jurisdiction
defense under F.R.C.P. 12(b), which,
under Hanna v. Plumer, governs the
issue of how to challenge diversity ju-
risdiction in federal court regardless of
the basis of subject matter jurisdiction.
C is incorrect for the same reason B is
correct. D is incorrect because, unlike
the cause of action in the Burger King
case, Pat's tort claim does not arise out
of Dave's contract with BurgerQuick.

7. A is correct. Choices I, II and III each
apply elements that are relevant under
New York's long arm statute and apply
them correctly to the facts.     

8. B is correct. It contains the only argu-
ment that is not plausible under Shaffer
v. Heitner. This is because the argument
in answer B is based upon the Ter-
ritoriality Rule and Shaffer v. Heitner
eliminated the "in rem" wing of the Ter-
ritoriality Rule. Arguments contained
in answers A, C and D are all plausible
because they each speak to the issue of
whether it is "fair" to sue Dave in New
York based upon his "contacts" with
that state.

9. D is correct. Choices II and III are the
only correct choices. Choice II is cor-
rect because a case is not removable
where original jurisdiction is based
solely on diversity and a defendant is a
citizen of the forum state. Choice III is
correct because a civil action can only
be removed to a federal district court
for the district and division embracing
the place where such action is pending
which, under these facts, is the Southern
District of California, not the Central
District. A is incorrect because Dave is
a citizen of the forum state of Califor-
nia.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 115

11. A is most nearly correct. CompuChip
should be prepared to defend in the
U.S. lawsuits arising out of motorcycle
computer chips. Although Paul's suit
does not directly arise out of the delib-
erate marketing of ordinary computer
chips, it significantly "relates" to those
purposeful contacts. B is incorrect be-
cause it is completely irrelevant to the
issue of whether CompuChip intended
to serve the California market in its
"special" chips. C is incorrect because
Paul's cause of action is completely
unrelated to CompuChip's real estate
holdings, and cannot constitute suffi-
cient contacts for personal jurisdiction.
D is incorrect because this contract is
unrelated to Paul's cause of action. This
contract would be a relevant contact
with California if, for example, Corn-
puChip failed to pay the California
company for its design services. 

A

10. B is correct. CompuChip did not pur-
posefully avail itself of the California
market. In Asahi Metal Industry v Su-
ity opinion stated that "a defendant's
awareness that the stream of commerce
may or will sweep the product into the
forum state does not convert the mere
act of placing the product into the
stream into an act purposefully directed
toward the forum State." Even apply-
ing Justice Brennan's "stream of com-
merce" theory, purposeful availment
is lacking because, in Asahi, the sales
of the component parts to the manu-
facturer of the finished product were
characterized as "regular and exten-
sive." This is clearly not the case with
CompuChip which, aside from the ten
"special" chips, had never sold any in
the U.S.. CompuChip just happened to
sell these 10 chips to Dirk's friend who
unilaterally brought them to the U.S.. A
is incorrect because, unlike Asahi, the
claim arose directly out of an injury to
a plaintiff in California and the plaintiff
is a Californian. C is incorrect because
the Supreme Court has not abandoned
the threshold requirement of purposeful
availment. D is incorrect for reasons
stated above.

116 CIVIL PROCEDURE

12. The best answer is D. Whether or not
venue is improper, CompuChip previ-
ously brought a pre-answer motion
under Rule 12(b) and omitted from
that motion an objection to venue. The
venue objection is, therefore, waived
under Rule 12(h)(1) even if venue
was improperly laid. Therefore, B is
incorrect. A might be correct  but only
if the court finds that CompuChip had
sufficient contacts with the Central
District of California to be subject to
personal jurisdiction in that district or
if the court determined that a substantial
part of the events giving rise to Paul's
claim occured in the Central District of
California. C is incorrect because it is
irrelevant, under the current venue law,
where the plaintiff resides.

13. C is correct. As a matter of joinder, once
Dirk properly cross-claimed against
CompuChip, Rule 18 allowed Dirk to
join as many other claims he may have
against CompuChip whether related or
not. There is no problem with subject
matter jurisdiction because alienage
jurisdiction supports a claim between
an American citizen and an alien (here,
Japanese) corporation. A is incorrect
because supplemental jurisdiction is
not required (see supra). B is incorrect
because it ignores Rule 18. D is incor-
rect because personal jurisdiction is no
longer an issue once the court denied
CompuChip's motion to dismiss for
lack of personal jurisdiction.

14. C is correct. The presence of a non-di-
verse defendant destroys the "diversity"
jurisdiction (i.e., 28 U.S.C. section
1332) that supports the claims against
both Dirk and CompuChip. A is incor-
rect for the reason stated in connection
with answer C. B is incorrect because
the only damage figure that is relevant
for amount in controversy purposes is
the "ad damnum" figure in the com-
plaint. D is incorrect because objection
to subject matter jurisdiction may be
raised at any time during the lifetime
of the original lawsuit.

15. D is correct. There is no judicial dis-
trict in which venue would otherwise
be proper [under section 1391(b)(1) or
(2)], and Dirk ("any defendant") may
be "found" in the Southern District. A
is incorrect because Diana has a choice
whether to assert her improper venue
defense in her answer or by pre-answer
motion. B is incorrect because it does
not take account of section 1391(b)(3)
which is meant to address the situation
where sections 1391(b)(1) and (2) do
not yield a judicial district in which
venue is proper. C is incorrect because
the underlying rule statement contained
in this answer is incorrect [see section
1391(b)].

16. A is the best answer. In order for Turkey
to be a non-viable alternative forum,
its law must not effectively offer any
remedy to Pam. Under the facts, Turk-
ish law is just not as favorable to Pam as
is U.S. antitrust law. Choices B, C and
D each present plausible arguments. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 117

A

17. C is correct. It is the only answer that
does not contain a plausible argument.
The argument contained in C is based
upon the old Territoriality Rule. After
Shaffer v. Heitner, the Territoriality
Rule can no longer be applied to deter-
mine the constitutionality of quasi-in-
rem jurisdiction under the Due Process
Clause. Each of the other answers is
plausible because each is framed in
terms of "fairness" to the defendant-
owner of the res that was seized for
jurisdictional purposes.

18. C is correct. The court has the constitu-
tional and statutory power to exercise
supplemental (formerly known as
"pendent") jurisdiction over the state
law claim between non-diverse parties
because Pam had originally filed a com-
plaint which contained a colorable (i.e.,
non-frivolous) Sherman Act claim over
which the court had federal question ju-
risdiction. That claim was dismissed for
want of sufficient proof (not because the
complaint's allegations failed to state
a colorable claim under the Sherman
Act). Pam's state tort claim is so related
to the antitrust claim so that they form
part of the same case or controversy
under Article III of the U.S. Constitu-
tion. Thus, the court has the power to
hear the state claim [28 U.S.C. section
1367(a)] even though the federal claim
has been dismissed. However, the court
also has the discretion under section
1367(c)(3) to decline to exercise this
power. A is incorrect because it fails
to consider the supplemental jurisdic-
tion statute. B is incorrect because
the supplemental jurisdiction statute
permits the court to decline to exercise
this power in circumstances outlined
in section 1367(c). D is incorrect. The
Sherman Act claim was not dismissed
because of a failure of the complaint to
state a colorable claim under the Sher-
man Act, but because of insufficient
evidence. 

118 CIVIL PROCEDURE

19. D is correct. The argument in choice II
is incorrect because complete diversity
is not determined at the time of the ac-
cident but at the time the complaint is
filed. The argument in choice IV is not
correct because subject matter jurisdic-
tion has nothing to do with where the
cause of action arose. It is, however,
relevant to the issue of personal juris-
diction. Choice I is correct because the
court can consider behavior by the party
subsequent to the filing of the complaint
if it is relevant to that party's intent at
time of filing the complaint. The facts
that Pauline moved to Nevada two
weeks after the collision and a month
before filing suit in federal district court
and that she returned to California three
months after filing suit is circumstantial
evidence that she really did not intend,
at the time of filing, to remain in Nevada
for the foreseeable future. Choice III
is correct because these facts provide
a basis for a reasonable inference that
Pauline was abandoning her California
domicile and acquiring a Nevada domi-
cile.

A

0
0 -m <
CP 

20. D is correct. First, the impleader was
proper because Dan's claim against
Dotty for contribution is a contingent
claim for reimbursement. Second, the
California court can exercise personal
jurisdiction over Dotty because she
was personally served with process in
California (see Burnham). A is incor-
rect because Dotty's attack on personal
jurisdiction was procedurally proper
under F.R.C.P. 12(b). Further, Hanna
v. Plumer requires the federal court to
apply all federal rules of civil procedure
that are on point over a conflicting state
rule. B is incorrect because it ignores
the Territoriality Rule as a valid basis
for exercising personal jurisdiction
under the Due Process Clause. C is
incorrect because Dan is not trying
to shift liability over to Dotty thereby
effectively making her the defendant.
Rather, he is asserting that, if he is held
liable to Pauline, Dotty has to pay her
proportional share of whatever Dan
pays to Pauline.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 119

A

21. C is correct. First, regarding the join-
der issue, once Dan properly asserted
(through impleader) a contribution
claim against Dotty, Rule 18 allows
him to assert as many other claims as
he may have against Dotty. Second,
regarding the subject matter jurisdiction
issue, Dan can aggregate his two claims
against Dotty to satisfy the $75,000
amount in controversy requirement.
A is incorrect because it ignores Rule
18. B is incorrect because it ignores
the aggregation rules. D is incorrect
because supplemental jurisdiction is
not required since Dan can aggregate.

22. C is correct. In determining whether
complete diversity exists between Pau-
line and Dotty, the court looks to the
date Pauline amended her third-party
complaint against Dotty. A is incorrect
because the court does not look to the
date Pauline filed her complaint against
Dan to determined whether diversity
existed between Dan and Dotty. B is
incorrect because the court has already
ruled that it can exercise personal ju-
risdiction over Dotty (see question 20,
supra). D is incorrect because supple-
mental jurisdiction is not required since
diversity jurisdiction supports (indepen-
dently) Pauline's claim against Dotty.

23. A is correct. The Supplemental Ju-
risdiction statute permits the federal
district court to exercise supplemental
jurisdiction over a claim that lacks an
independent basis of subject matter
jurisdiction but is sufficiently related
to a claim that is supported by an inde-
pendent basis of subject matter jurisdic-
tion. Dotty's personal injury claim is
sufficiently related because it arises out
of the same auto accident as Pauline's
main claim against Dan. B is incorrect
for two reasons. First, the Supplemental
Jurisdiction statute's language should
be cited rather than prior case-law and,
second, Dotty's claim against Pauline
is not a compulsory counterclaim since,
prior to Dotty's assertion of that claim,
Pauline and Dotty were not opposing
parties. C is incorrect because Kroger
involved a claim by the plaintiff against
the third-party defendant, not a claim
by the third-party defendant against
the plaintiff. D is incorrect because this
answer ignores the problem that Dotty's
claim falls below the $75,000 amount
in controversy. 

120 CIVIL PROCEDURE

24. C is correct. The U.S. Government is
not asking, in its third-party complaint,
for reimbursement from the captains for
whatever refund the Government has
to pay to Shrimpboats, Inc. Rather, the
Government is asserting an independent
claim against the captains based upon
their alleged employment tax liability
to the U.S. (if the court determines that
Shrimpboats, Inc. does not owe that
tax liability to the U.S.) A is incorrect
because the impleader rule [F.R.C.P.
14(a)] does not state anything about
"same operative facts." B is incor-
rect because it is possible that neither
Shrimpboats, Inc., nor the captains are
liable to the Government. The court
might deem the crewmen to be self-
employed. D is incorrect for the reasons
stated in C.

25. A is correct. Medco is, in effect, argu-
ing that the two other joint tortfeasors
should have been joined by Pete in
the federal court suit against Medco.
Joint tortfeasors are not necessary or
indispensable parties under Rule 19. It
is up to the plaintiff to determine which
defendants to sue in which actions. B
is incorrect because it fails to apply the
elements of F.R.C.P 19(a). C is incor-
rect because Medco, in the absence of
the Dr. Zorba and the hospital, will still
be able to assert its defense that they
were the cause of plaintiff's injuries.
D is incorrect because plaintiffs do not
have an absolute right to decide whom
to sue.

A

'V
X:3
0 0
—<

ci
C r=
X1
m

26. D is most nearly correct. The potential
conflict of interest between Pete, as
the class representative, and Pete, as
lawyer for the class, would be too great
for class representation to be adequate.
While the other answers contain poten-
tially viable arguments, the best answer
is D.

27. D is correct. The class members are
passengers on the flight who all claimed
to have been injured as a result of the
pilot's negligence. The only relief the
class is seeking is damages. A is incor-
rect because, even if some passengers
were to win against Global while oth-
ers were to lose, this does not impose
incompatible standards of conduct on
Global. B is incorrect because there is
no evidence that a host of individual
damage suits would bankrupt Global. C
is incorrect because the class is seeking
damage relief, not injunctive or declara-
tory judgment relief.

28. A is correct. F.R.C.P. 33(c) states: "An
interrogatory otherwise proper is not
necessarily objectionable merely be-
cause an answer to the interrogatory
involves an opinion or contention that
relates to fact or the application of
law to fact...." Therefore, all the other
choices are incorrect.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 121

A

29. C is correct because it misstates the
applicable legal standard for initial dis-
closure. As part of "Initial Disclosures,"
under F.R.C.P. 26(a)(1)(A), a party must
disclose the identity of "each individual
likely to have discoverable information
that the disclosing party may use to
support its claims or defenses, unless
solely for impeachment, identifying
the subjects of the information." A is
incorrect because this information is
required to be disclosed as part of initial
disclosure under F.R.C.P. 26(a)(1)(D).
B is incorrect because this informa-
tion is required to be disclosed under
F.R.C.P. 26(a)(2)(A) ("Disclosure of
Expert Testimony"). D is incorrect
because this information is required to
be disclosed under F.R.C.P. 26(a)(3)(A)
("Pretrial Disclosures").

30. C is correct. That portion of the cap-
tain's deposition transcript containing
his "yes" response would be admissible
as a "vicarious" party admission. It is
also admissible to impeach the captain's
trial testimony that he had nothing to
drink before take-off (as a "prior incon-
sistent statement"). Therefore, A and B
are incorrect. D is incorrect because the
captain's deposition testimony, while
admissible (under the party admission
rule) as evidence of the truth of his
statement that he had been drinking,
does not constitute a judicial admission,
which removes the fact admitted out of
the case altogether.

122 CIVIL PROCEDURE

31. D is correct. Global was obviously
using Prof's services to see whether
he would be able to testify favorably
for Global at trial. Two hours worth of
investigation, a five-page report and a
$200 "honorarium" does not indicate a
thorough investigation. Global appar-
ently found out all they needed to know.
They never contacted Prof again. A is
incorrect because it states the rule for
overcoming the work product immu-
nity. B is incorrect because the contents
of Prof's report are relevant to the sub-
ject matter (i.e., the cause of the crash)
and, also, the purpose of Prof's inves-
tigation was apparently motivated by
litigation. Global wanted to determine
Prof's suitability as a trial witness. C is
incorrect because it assumes that Prof
was "retained or specially employed"
by Global.

32. B is correct. Pete seeks to depose Mack
to discover facts that Mack learned as
an ordinary percipient witness (i.e.,
what Mack discovered as he checked
out the plane for take-off). Mack did not
learn these particular facts in prepara-
tion for trial but pursuant to his accident
prevention duties as an employee in
Global's Accident Prevention Depart-
ment. A is incorrect because it states
the standard for overcoming the work
product immunity. C is incorrect for the
reason that B is correct. D is incorrect
because the facts learned by Mack at
the crash site are clearly relevant to the
cause of the crash. 

33. A is correct. Whit's eyewitness obser-
vations of the crash are clearly relevant
and no rule protects his note to Global's
lawyers. B is incorrect because Whit
did not acquire his facts and opinions
in anticipation of litigation. While he
did write the note to Global's attorneys
with the likelihood of a lawsuit against
Global in mind, he was not retained
by Global to observe or investigate the
crash. C is incorrect because the note
is neither the work product of Global
nor its attorneys. It was a note volun-
tarily written and sent to Global by a
third party. No effort was expended
by Global or its counsel to secure this
note. D is incorrect because Whit was
not communicating with either his own
or his employer's attorneys.

34. B is correct. It is the only choice that
states an incorrect answer. It is the
old-fashioned, and fast-eroding, com-
mon law rule of "mutuality of estop-
pel," not the Due Process Clause, that
would prevent Opie, a stranger to the
federal class action suit, from invoking
collateral estoppel. The Due Process
Clause is inapplicable because Global
did, in fact, have its day in court on the
issue of pilot error as the cause of the
crash. A is incorrect because it states
a correct answer. The California state
court must give the same enforcement
scope to the federal class action judg-
ment that the federal courts give to that
judgment. C is incorrect because it,
too, contains a correct answer. Federal
law, under Parklane Hosiery, gives the
federal court discretion to refuse to
allow a stranger to invoke collateral
estoppel if the stranger stayed out of
the earlier suit because of a "wait and
see" attitude. D is incorrect because it
is a correct answer: California must
give the same enforcement scope to a
federal court judgment as the federal
courts give that judgment. Thus, if the
federal courts still applied a strict mu-
tuality rule (which, of course, they do
not), California courts could not allow
Opie to invoke collateral estoppel. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 123

A

35. A is correct. This version of the statute
violates the Seventh Amendment be-
cause it deprives a party of his right to
have all issues relating to the damage
claims tried to a jury. The other versions
of the statute — II, III and IV — are all
constitional; therefore, B, C and D are
incorrect. The terms of the statute in
version II provide for jury trials in both
damage and injunctive actions. Such a
statute would not violate the Seventh
Amendment because there is no right
to a judge (or bench) trial in a formerly
equitable claim. The terms of the statute
in version III do not address the jury
trial issue, but a court would apply the
Seventh Amendment to require a jury
trial of all issues pertaining to the dam-
age claim (if a jury trial were timely
demanded). The statute in version IV
provides for a judge, not a jury, to try
issues in suits brought by the federal
government for the imposition of fines
to vindicate public rights. Such suits,
tried before an administrative tribunal
before an administrative law judge,
have been held not to require juries
under the Seventh Amendment.

36. B is correct. Although Sporter was "in
default" for having failed to answer or
otherwise defend against the suit, his
act of engaging in settlement negotia-
tions throughout the six-week period
indicates that he did not intend to write-
off Hack's suit. Therefore, Sporter 's
settlement activities would be deemed
an "appearance" entitling him to notice
before default judgment is entered. A
is incorrect because Sporter did not
timely answer or otherwise defend. C
is incorrect because it does not address
the crucial "notice" issue. D is incorrect
because it misstates the facts.

37. B is correct. The plaintiff [under F.R.C.P.
41(a)] has a right to voluntarily dismiss
his own suit in federal court until the
defendant answers the complaint or
moves for summary judgment, which-
ever occurs first. Here, Hack filed his
notice of dismissal after Sporter served
his answer. Hence, the notice should
be quashed. A is incorrect because it
ignores the fact that Sporter served his
answer before Hack filed his notice
of dismissal. C is incorrect because it
does not apply the correct terms of Rule
41(a). D is incorrect because it contains
an incorrect statement. Plaintiffs do
have a limited right to voluntarily dis-
miss their actions under Rule 41(a). 

124 CIVIL PROCEDURE

38. B is correct. Sporter did not meet
his movant's burden because, from
Sporter's moving papers, there is still
a material issue of fact for the jury to
resolve, i.e., whether the plaintiff's
songs and the defendant's songs are
so similar the jury could infer copy-
ing by the defendant. How the judge
would find if he were the trier of fact
is irrelevant. A is incorrect for reasons
stated in connection with answer B. C
is incorrect because Hack did not have
a respondent's burden, since Sporter
failed to satisfy his movant's burden.
D is incorrect because whether or not
the two songs were similar enough to
warrant the inference of copying by
Sporter is a material issue of fact that
the jury must resolve at trial.

39. D is correct. It is the only choice which
correctly states the law under F.R.C.P.
16(e), i.e., "The order following a final
pretrial conference shall be modified
only to prevent manifest injustice."

A
0 0<

c

40. D is correct. There is a clear conflict
in the evidence that the jury must be
allowed to resolve. Despite the doubt-
ful credibility of Hack's story, the jury
- not the judge - is assigned the job of
determining credibility. If they believe
Hack's eyewitness account, they can
reasonably find that Sporter had access
to, and copied, Hack's songs. Therefore,
A and C are incorrect. B is incorrect
because F.R.C.P. 50 permits, but does
not require, the motion for judgment
as a matter of law to be made after the
opposing party has been fully heard
with respect to a material issue. Rule
50(b)(2) states that "motions for judg-
ment as a matter of law may be made at
any time before submission of the case
to the jury."

41. C is correct. The two observations of
Hack's behavior in the courtroom are
relevant to Hack's credibility which is a
crucial issue in the case. It is an issue for
the jury to resolve. The jury did noth-
ing improper in basing its credibility
determination on their observations of
Hack in the courtroom. Therefore, B is
incorrect. The jurors' observations of
Hack were not improper. A is incorrect
because the jurors' affidavits refer, in
part, to activity outside the heads of
the jurors, i.e., observations which they
made of Hack's behavior, and not just
the effect of such observations on the
thought processes of those jurors. D is
incorrect because Hack's credibility is
very crucial. He claims to have person-
ally witnessed Sporter copying Hack's
music. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 125

A

42. A is correct. To be reviewable by an ap-
pellate court, an error by the court must
be objected to at the trial court level.
Otherwise, that objection is waived.
Therefore, C is incorrect. B is incor-
rect because it is nonsense to speak of
"errors" as interlocutory. One speaks
of "decisions" as being interlocutory or
final for purposes of the final decision
rule. Hack's appeal was taken from a
final judgment. D is incorrect because
Hack's situation does not fit the strin-
gent requirements of the "exceptional
circumstances" doctrine summarized
by the 5th Circuit in Carson Products
v. Califano.

43. A is correct. Sporter is asking the Court
of Appeals for more than he received
from the trial court. Therefore, he
should have cross-appealed. As appel-
lee, this is not the kind of attack Sporter
can make on the trial court's rulings.
Therefore, B, C and D are incorrect.

44. D is correct. Under the traditional (and
still majority) common law view, there
are no compulsory counterclaims even
if the defendant's counterclaim arises
(as does Dan's) out of the same opera-
tive facts as an affirmative defense that
had been asserted by the defendant in
the prior suit. A is incorrect because
the applicable law would not be the
federal compulsory counterclaim rule,
but rather the traditional common law
rule of the state court that rendered
the judgment in Pat v. Dan and Dave.
Moreover, choice A incorrectly states
that traditional common law rule. B is
incorrect because it, too, incorrectly
states the traditional common law
view. C is incorrect because it applies
the emerging minority common law
view, not the traditional common law
approach. 

126 CIVIL PROCEDURE

45. B is correct. In order for the jury to find
for Dan on Dan's cross-claim against
Dave, it had to make an actual deter-
mination of fact that Dan was not con-
tributorily negligent and that Dave was
negligent. If Dan had been contributor-
ily negligent, the jury could not have
awarded a verdict to Dan on his cross-
claim. Therefore, A is incorrect. C is
incorrect because the verdicts for Dave
against Pat and for Dan against Dave
are not hopelessly irreconcilable. The
jury must have found that Pat was con-
tributorily negligent so that she cannot
recover against either Dan or Dave. But,
the jury must have found that Dan was
also not negligent, and that Dave was,
so that Dan can recover against Dave.
D is incorrect because there is nothing
in the facts to cast doubt on whether Pat
had a full and fair opportunity to litigate
the issue of Dan's negligence. After all,
she was the plaintiff and she sued Dan
for $55,000.

46. B is correct. Dan chose to assert his
cross-claim against Dave for property
damage ($500) to his car but "split his
cause of action" when he omitted his
claim ($60,000) for personal injury
arising out of the same auto accident
transaction as the property damage
cross-claim. A is incorrect because
cross-claims in federal court are only
permissive, never compulsory [see
F.R.C.P. 13(g)]. C is incorrect because
it ignores the fact that when Dan chose
to assert his cross-claim against Dan
for property damage, he should have
included his personal injury claim under
the federal common law of res judicata,
which adopts the "same transaction"
test for defining the scope of the cause
of action. D is incorrect because the
state court in Dan v. Dave will apply
the law of the jurisdiction (here, fed-
eral) that rendered the judgment as to
the enforcement effect to be given that
judgment. Here, the federal common
law of res judicata does not apply the
"primary rights" test. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 127

49. A is the correct answer because the test
for determining whether Pat split her
"cause of action" is the "same transac-
tion" test (since Pat brought her previ-
ous trespass suit against Don in a fed-
eral district court) and the cutting down
of the timber occurred at the same time
as the trespass and one would (for the
sake of judicial economy) expect to try
both the trespass and conversion claims
in the same suit. B is incorrect for the
reasons stated in answer A. C and D
are incorrect because they are based
upon the wrong tests for determining
the scope of the "cause of action" as-
serted by Pat in her trespass suit against
Don.

A

47. B is correct. Dan's original property
damage cross-claim was for only $500
in damages. His subsequent personal in-
jury claim was for $60,000 in damages.
Dave can hardly claim that he did not
have adequate incentive to fully litigate
the issue of his (and Dan's) negligence
since Dave was also defending himself
against Pat's $55,000 claim against Dan
and Dave. Given the realities of litiga-
tion, this gave Dan plenty of incentive
to show that Dan was negligent and
Dave was not. A is incorrect for rea-
sons given in the answer to question
45 supra. C would have been correct
if Dave had not also been defending
himself against Pat's $55,000 claim.
D is incorrect because Dave was not a
"stranger" to the earlier Pat v. Dan and
Dave lawsuit.

48. C is the correct answer because a dis-
missal on statute of limitations grounds
is not deemed to be "on the merits"
if the plaintiff can find a jurisdiction
where the action is not barred by the
local statute of limitations (as in Pat's
case). Therefore, answers A and D
are incorrect. Answer B is incorrect
because a judgment, under appropriate
circumstances, can be deemed to be "on
the merits" although not literally "on the
merits," in the sense of an adjudication
based upon the evidence presented at a
hearing. 

128 CIVIL PROCEDURE

50. C is most nearly correct because a per-
son who was neither a party to a suit nor
in privity with a party cannot be bound
by the judgment in that suit. B would
have been the correct answer were it
not for the fact that Paul was neither
a party, nor in privity with a party, to
Pat's suit against Don. A is incorrect be-
cause it cannot be determined from the
jury's general verdict for Don whether
the jury actually found that Pat did not
own Blackacre (and therefore cannot
recover against Don) or that Don did not
come upon Blackacre (and, therefore,
Pat cannot recover against Don even
if Pat owned Blackacre). D is incor-
rect because the mutuality of estoppel
doctrine does not prohibit collateral
estoppel from being invoked against a
stranger (the Due Process clause does
that), but prohibits a stranger from in-
voking collateral estoppel. (Further, the
mutuality rule is no longer an absolute
bar to a stranger using collateral estop-
pel in federal court).

A

7:3
0 0
-
<

0
c

51. B is the correct answer. Notice pleading
rules require only a short and plain state-
ment of the claim showing the pleader is
entitled to relief. Particularized facts are
not required. Paul should have the right
to conduct discovery into the particular
defects, if any, and Flexus will then be
able to discover (e.g., through conten-
tion interrogatories) the details of Paul's
conclusory contentions. A is incorrect
for the reasons that B is correct. C is
incorrect because Rule 12(b)(6) permits
Flexus to attack the sufficiency of the
complaint in its answer if it had not pre-
viously made a pre-answer motion. D is
incorrect because, unlike state "special
appearance" practice, Federal Rule 12
allows a defendant to assert the insuf-
ficiency of the complaint as a defense
in the answer (along with denials).

52. C is the correct answer. Flexus's refusal
to disclose was based upon its argument
that Paul's complaint did not allege with
particularity the parts of Paul's car that
were defective. Rule 26 (a)(1) no longer
requires that disputed facts be alleged
with particularity in order to trigger
disclosure obligations. Flexus has a
duty to disclose to Paul the identity of
each individual likely to have discover-
able information that Flexus may use to
support its defenses to Paul's action. A
and B are incorrect for the reason C is
correct. D is incorrect because the infor-
mation requested is plainly relevant.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 129

56. A is the correct answer. Under the
more liberal federal standard for grant-
ing summary judgment after Celotex,
most federal courts would probably
reject Larry's argument that, by trial,
he may be able to show that Joe signed
the lease. Joe has presented too much
corroborating evidence not to shift the
burden onto the respondent, Larry, to
show that he will be able to meet his
burden of production on the issue of
Joe's signature at trial. B is incorrect for
the reasons why A is correct. C is incor-
rect because a defendant can make a
summary judgment motion before filing
an answer (See Rule 56). D is incorrect
because, after Celotex, a movant does
not have to negate every possible way
the respondent might meet their burden
of production on the material issue.

57. C is the correct answer. This is a res
judicata question. When Larry filed
suit, on June 1, 1992, Larry's "cause
of action" did not include his claim for
the May rent which was then due and
owing. Since Larry only asserted his
claims for the March and April rents,
but not the May rent, Larry "split his
cause of action" and is, therefore, pre-
cluded from asserting his claim for the
May rent in a subsequent action. B is
incorrect for the reasons that A is cor-
rect. A and D are incorrect because these
answers are inappropriate given the fact
that the real issue is not summary judg-
ment per se, but res judicata.  

A

53. D is the correct answer. Rule 26(b)(4)(A)
provides that all experts who will be
testifying witnesses at trial may be de-
posed. There is no requirement that the
discovering party serve interrogatories
beforehand. These former prelimi-
nary requirements were eliminated by
amendments to Rule 26(b)(4) effective
in December 1993. A is incorrect be-
cause Rule 26(b)(4) recognizes Paul's
legitimate need to depose Egbert in
order to prepare for Egbert's cross-ex-
amination at trial. B is incorrect for the
reasons that D is correct. C is incorrect
because the question of the protection
of the facts and opinions of an expert
is a Rule 26(b)(4) issue, not a 26(b)(3)
work product issue. The work product
rule does not cover "facts."

54. A is the correct answer. Rule 26(a) gives
Flexus a choice either to identify the
documents in question or to provide
Paul with actual copies of those docu-
ments. Therefore, B and D are incorrect.
C is an incorrect statement of the law
under Rule 26(a).

55. D is the correct answer. Rule 26(a)(3)
requires Paul to disclose his trial wit-
nesses at least 30 days before trial
without the need for Flexus to serve a
discovery request. Therefore, B is in-
correct. A and C are incorrect because
the issue here is not one of discovery,
under Rule 26(b), but of automatic
disclosure under Rule 26(a).

130 CIVIL PROCEDURE

58. D is the correct answer. C is correct
because a summary judgment is a judg-
ment "on the merits" which precludes
Larry from re-litigating the issue of
whether Joe signed the lease. In grant-
ing summary judgment, the judge
actually and necessarily determined,
based upon documentary evidence and
as a matter of law, that Joe did not sign
the lease. B also supports dismissing
Larry's current suit against Joe (for
the May rent) for the same reason that
the court dismissed Larry's prior suit
against Pete (for the May rent), i.e.
Larry should have included his claim
for the May rent in his suit against Pete
and Joe commenced June 1, 1994. A is
incorrect because res judicata does not
require a plaintiff to join as defendants
all persons liable to that plaintiff.

59. D is the best answer because the condi-
tion of the water heater from month-to-
month may change (it may have worked
in March and April, but only failed
in May) so that the issue whether the
water heater was functioning in March
and April is not identical with whether
it was functioning in May. Because the
issue is not identical, choices A, B and
C are not the best answers.

A
0 0<C7

-o

60. B is the correct answer. Anon-party has
an unqualified right to get a copy of his
own witness statement and a party has
an unqualified right to get a copy of
his own witness statement. But, a party
does not have an unqualified right to get
a copy of a non-party's witness state-
ment. Pat will have to ask Joe to request
from Plucky's a copy of Joe's witness
statement and to give it to Pat. A and
C are incorrect for the reasons stated
supporting B. D is incorrect because it
assumes that the witness statement is
not even "work product" because Sam
is not a lawyer. As long as Sam obtained
the statement "for" Plucky's, a party de-
fendant, in anticipation of litigation, the
statement falls within the work product
rule.

61. B is most nearly correct because Lou
obtained the witness statement from
Wally presumably in anticipation of
litigation. A is incorrect because Wally
was not Lou's client. C is incorrect be-
cause Wally was an eyewitness to the
accident. D is incorrect because there is
no basis for a claim of confidentiality
(e.g., that Wally would somehow be
harmed by disclosure of his statement)
and, in any event, Wally should have
moved for a protective order for confi-
dentiality protection. 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 131

A

62. C is the correct answer. The subsequent
remedial measures exclusionary rule
operates only at trial to bar the admis-
sion of evidence, not at the discovery
phase. The issue here is "discover-
abilty," not "admissibility" (of evidence
at trial). The general scope of discovery
rule [26(b)(1)] states that information
is not necessarily beyond the scope
of discovery simply because it will
be inadmissible as evidence at trial
(as long as it is reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence). A is incorrect because Ed's
memo was not prepared in anticipation
of litigation. B is incorrect because the
work product rule protects documents
prepared to prosecute or defend a
lawsuit, not to prevent one. D is incor-
rect because the subsequent remedial
measures rule operates only at trial to
exclude evidence.

132 CIVIL PROCEDURE

63. D is the correct answer because (1)
the presence of refuse on the floor of
Plucky's Anaheim Hills supermarket is
relevant to the cause of Pat's accident,
(2) the dominant purpose behind the
report's preparation was to record the
results of a health investigation. While
it is true that there is a dual purpose
here, i.e., to promote sanitary conditions
(the mission of the Health Department)
and to prepare for a possible suit by the
Health Dept. against Plucky's for viola-
tions of the Health Code, the question
is: what was the dominant purpose? If
the former, then the report is not pro-
tected. In any event, the report is not
protected as work product, even if the
latter purpose was dominant, because
the report was not prepared by any of
the parties to the Pat v. Plucky lawsuit
for use in litigating that suit. Therefore,
A and C are incorrect. B is incorrect
because there is nothing in the facts to
suggest that the Health Dept. report is
confidential.

64. A is the correct answer. Although Sam's
report itself is protected by work prod-
uct immunity, the underlying facts that
Sam learned during his investigation
of the accident are not. The same is
true for the attorney-client privilege.
There, only the "communication" itself
(here, Sam's report) is protected from
disclosure, not the underlying informa-
tion. Thus, B and D are incorrect. C is
not the best answer mainly because, to
invoke the court's discretionary protec-
tion, Plucky's should have moved for a
protective order. 

67. D is the correct answer. The issue here
is whether the court can assert supple-
mental jurisdiction over General's
cross-claim, since the cross-claim is
not supported by either diversity or
federal question jurisdiction (state tort
claim for contribution between two
Californians). Under prior case law,
federal courts could assert ancillary
jurisdiction over proper cross-claims.
General's cross-claim for contribution
is "proper" under Rule 13(g). The court
can assert "supplemental jurisdiction"
over the cross-claim because the claim
for contribution is clearly "related" to
Owner's main claim. Therefore, A and
B are incorrect. C is incorrect because
it addresses only the joinder issue and
ignores the subject matter jurisdiction
issue.

A

0 0
m <
C7 

65. C is the correct answer. The jurisdic-
tional "amount in controversy" require-
ment is met since the claim against each
defendant was brought under the joint
and several liability theory thereby ex-
ceeding the required $75,000 amount .
The damages against each defendant are
not $40,000 but $80,000 each. A and B
are incorrect because they assume that
the damages against each defendant are
$40,000. A is also incorrect for the ad-
ditional reason that "same transaction
or occurrence" is an inapplicable rule
statement. D is incorrect for the reasons
why C is correct.

66. A is the correct answer. The City's coun-
terclaim is not supported by "diversity"
jurisdiction because the jurisdictional
amount in controversy is not satisfied.
Nor is the counterclaim supported by
"federal question" jurisdiction because,
under the "well-pleaded complaint
rule," the federal question must be
raised by an essential element of the
City's counterclaim, not by Owner's
response to that counterclaim. Further-
more, the court cannot assert supple-
mental jurisdiction over the counter-
claim because it is not related to the
subject matter of Owner's main claim
(in other words, it is not a compulsory
counterclaim). Therefore, B and C are
incorrect. D is incorrect because it has
no basis in law.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 133

69. A is the correct answer. Both Claims
#1 and #2 need supplemental jurisdic-
tion because they are each state claims
between two Californians. The court
can exercise supplemental jurisdiction
over Claim #1 because it is sufficiently
"related" to Owner's main claim (and,
under prior case law, federal courts have
exercised supplemental jurisdiction
over properly impleaded claims). How-
ever, even though Claim #2 is properly
joined under Rule 18, the court cannot
exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
this claim because it arises out of an-
other project and is, therefore, unrelated
to the subject matter of Owner's main
claim. Therefore, B, C and D are incor-
rect. 

A

68. A is the correct answer. Impleader is
improper because General's third-party
complaint asserts an "independent,"
instead of a "derivative" claim against
Archie. The claim is not derivative be-
cause General cannot be held liable, un-
der the law, for the misdeeds of Archie
- because General did not hire Archie;
Owner did! General's third-party claim
is independent of Owner's main claim
because General is not seeking indem-
nity from Archie in the event General
is found liable to Owner but, rather,
General is seeking to be compensated
for damage to its business (i.e., bank-
ruptcy). Thus, even if General is found
not liable to Owner, General can still
recover against Archie for destroying
General's business. Thus, C is incor-
rect. B is incorrect because General is a
Californian and Archie is a New Yorker
and the amount in controversy exceeds
$75,000. D is incorrect because there is
no supplemental jurisdiction issue since
the third-party claim is supported by
diversity jurisdiction.

134 CIVIL PROCEDURE

A
_oXI

0 0
-■•
<

CP
C r-
m

70. C is the correct answer. The supplemen-
tal jurisdiction statute codifies the U.S.
Supreme Court's holding in the Kroger
case by stating that federal courts can-
not exercise supplemental jurisdiction
over a claim (like Owner's against Fred,
both New Yorkers), which is dependent
solely on diversity jurisdiction, where
the exercise of supplemental jurisdic-
tion would undermine (or be inconsis-
tent with) the requirements of complete
diversity. Here, Owner could not have
initially sued both General and Fred in
its original complaint because diversity
would have been incomplete. A is in-
correct because there is no basis in law
for this answer. B is incorrect because
it only addresses the joinder issue, and
not the jurisdictional. Because Owner's
claim against Fred does, indeed, arise
out of the same transaction and occur-
rence as Owner's claim against General,
that fact merely permits Owner, as a
joinder issue, to assert a claim directly
against Fred as a third-party defendant
brought in by General. Despite proper
joinder under Rule 14(a), however,
the supplemental jurisdiction statute
(codifying Kroger), does not permit the
court to assert supplemental jurisdiction
over this claim. D is incorrect because
subject matter jurisdiction can be chal-
lenged anytime during the litigation and
even on appeal.

71. A is the correct answer. When General
cross-claimed against the City for con-
tribution in the previous suit, the City's
claim for contribution should have
been asserted and joined by means of a
compulsory counterclaim. B is incorrect
because the City's contribution claim
would have been asserted against Gen-
eral as an "opposing party" (not merely
a "co-party") and, therefore, should be
characterized as a "counterclaim," not
a "cross-claim." C is incorrect because
no rule requires General to object to the
City's failure to assert its compulsory
counterclaim. D is incorrect for the
same reason why B is incorrect and for
the additional reason that cross-claims
are never compulsory.

72. D is the correct answer. The court has
federal question jurisdiction over all the
security and exchange violation claims
which arise under federal law. The
general federal question statute does
not require a jurisdictional "amount in
controversy." Therefore, A is incorrect
because aggregation is not an issue
since "amount in controversy" is not
an issue. B is incorrect since federal
question jurisdiction alone provides
an independent basis of subject matter
jurisdiction; diversity is not required.
C is incorrect for the additional reason
that it misstates the diversity rules.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 135

A

73. C is the correct answer because the only
relief sought was damage relief and the
only thing the class members have in
common is that they claim to have been
damaged in a similar way. A is incorrect
because the interests of neither class
members nor I.B.N. will be prejudiced
in a way specified in Rule 23(b)(1). B is
incorrect because the class is not seek-
ing injunctive relief. D is incorrect for
the reason that A is incorrect.

74. C is the correct answer because it accu-
rately tracks the notice rule [Rule 23(c)]
specifically applicable to 23(b)(3)
damage class actions. A and B omit
some part of this notice rule. D is not
authorized by Rule 23(c).

75. A is the correct answer. Joe's dual status
as class representative and as attorney
for the class poses a potential conflict of
interest. As counsel for the class, Joe's
interest is in maximizing his attorney's
fees so that, for example, as class
representative, he would not oppose
a settlement agreement that provided
for big attorney fees at the expense of
respectable damages for the class. B, C
and D are, therefore, incorrect.

76. A is the correct answer. As set forth
in Oppenheimer Fund, Inc. v. Sanders
(1978) 437 U.S. 340, that the cost of
notice shall be borne by the representa-
tive plaintiff, not by the defendant and
judicial attempts to improvise beyond
the express letter of the rule have been
rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court
(See Eisen v. Carlisle & Jaquelin).
Therefore, B, C and D are incorrect.

77. A is the correct answer because Don's
wealth is not relevant to the subject
matter of Paula's lawsuit. It has no
bearing on the issues of liability or
recoverable damages; solely on the
defendant's ability to pay a judgment.
As such, the information in the report
is not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.
Since the information in the report is
irrelevant, A is the best answer and,
consequently, B, C and D are not. C is
incorrect for the additional reason that
the report was not prepared in anticipa-
tion of litigation but, rather, to help Don
prepare his will. D is incorrect for the
additional reason that the report was not
prepared by the accountant in anticipa-
tion of litigation.  

136 CIVIL PROCEDURE

78. A is the correct answer. Rule 26(a), re-
garding automatic "disclosure" obliga-
tions of parties, requires that an expert
who has been retained by a party to
provide expert testimony at trial prepare
a detailed report regarding that pro-
posed trial testimony. Rule 26(b)(4)(A)
unconditionally permits the deposition
of experts who are designated to pro-
vide trial testimony, but requires that
such deposition not take place before
the report [required by Rule 26(a)] is
received by the deposing party. B is
incorrect because Rule 26(b)(4)(A) no
longer requires the service of special
interrogatories as a pre-condition to a
motion to depose the expert witness.
C is incorrect because the rule it cites
applies only to retained or specially
employed non-testifying experts. D is
wrong for the reason why A is correct.

A
OC

79. D is the correct answer. While it is true
that determination of witness credibility
is the jury's job, even if the jury believes
Eggbert's testimony, the jury could only
"speculate" (i.e., flip a mental coin),
based solely upon that testimony, that
Don caused the accident by crossing
into Paul's lane. This is true since the
expert testified only that Don's truck
"could well have" veered into Paul's
lane, not that it is likely that he did so.
Also, on cross-examination, Eggbert
conceded that it was equally possible
that Paul's truck veered into Don's lane.
Therefore, B is incorrect. C is incorrect
because, as already explained, the jury
could not rationally find in favor of
Paula, who has the burden of produc-
tion on liability; therefore, there is no
conflict in the evidence. A is incorrect
because, under current Rule 50, a mo-
tion for a judgment as a matter of law
can be made as soon as the respondent
has been fully heard on the material
issue that is the subject of the motion.

80. B is the correct answer. Although the
affidavit of Willy's ex-wife indicates
that the condition of Willy's eyes are
"in controversy," Willy cannot be
compelled to submit to an eye exami-
nation because he is only a non-party
witness (neither a party nor a person in
the custody or under the legal control
of a party.) Therefore, A, C and D are
incorrect.

CIVIL PROCEDURE

137

A

81. B is the correct answer because Del's re-
cord of reckless driving could be the re-
sult of any number of reasons and does
not point specifically to poor reflexes or
some form of mental illness. Therefore,
Pam has not met the "in controversy"
requirement of Rule 35. A is incorrect
because an employee is not deemed to
be within the custody or legal control
of his employer. C is incorrect because
it only establishes the relevance of any
information relating to Del's ability to
drive a vehicle but does not address
the "in controversy" requirement. D is
incorrect because Pam's attorney's affi-
davit is based upon personal knowledge
of the contents of the court files.

82. A is the correct answer. Since Pam has
made an offensive summary judgment
motion, she has the heavy movant's
burden of showing conclusively that
Del ran the red light which Willy's
affidavit fails to do. While Willy's af-
fidavit shows that, had the light at the
intersection in question been red for
Del, he probably would have run it, the
odds are only 50-50 that the light was
red for Del . Had it been green, then
Del's contempt for red lights would not
have been the cause of this collision.
Therefore, Willy's affidavit does not
provide a basis for a reasonable infer-
ence that Del caused the accident, let
alone conclusively establish that fact.
B is incorrect because Acme does not
have a respondent's burden because
Pam failed to meet her movant's bur-
den. C is incorrect because there is not
a two-sided fact issue on causation
because Pam did not present enough
evidence to support a rational inference
that Del caused the collision. D contains
an incorrect statement of the law. 

138 CIVIL PROCEDURE

83. C is the correct answer. As a prerequisite
for a renewed motion for judgment as
a matter of law, the movant must have
previously made a motion for a judg-
ment as a matter of law by the close of
all the evidence. Pam did not do this.
While it is true that, even if she had so
moved, her renewed motion would still
have been denied because the jury has
the right to believe the twice convicted
perjurer over the two bishops, this was
not one of the choices given in the
question. A is an incorrect statement of
the law. B is incorrect because, in order
for Pam to win her motion, she must
show that she did more than merely
meet her burden of production, but that
she proved her case conclusively. Only
then would the burden of production
have shifted to Acme. D is incorrect
(1) because the term "overwhelmed"
is properly used only to describe the
situation where plaintiff has barely
met her burden of production and the
defendant's evidence is so strong that
it "overwhelms" plaintiff's case enti-
tling defendant to a defensive motion
for judgment as a matter of law; and
(2) because there was a conflict in the
evidence, thus, creating a two-sided
credibility issue for the jury.

A
0 0< 

84. D is the correct answer. Federal Rule of
Evidence 606(b) bars any inquiry into
the thought processes of jurors (which
would include "bias"). The same is true
for the Mansfield Rule and the Iowa
Rule (which would consider "bias"
intrinsic misconduct and, therefore, not
provable). A is incorrect because there
is a recent trend toward close appellate
scrutiny, and some reversals, of orders
granting new trials. B is incorrect be-
cause the trial judge's order granting the
motion for judgment as a matter of law
is a "final judgment" and Rule 50 ex-
pressly states that the conditional grant
of a new trial motion does not change
the situation. C is incorrect because it
fails to take account of D.

85. A is the correct answer. Complete di-
versity exists because Pam is a citizen
of Nevada (her home is in Las Vegas)
and Beers is a California citizen. The
amount in controversy is satisfied
because Pam claims $105,000 in dam-
ages and Beers cannot prove to a legal
certainty that she cannot recover that
amount. B is incorrect because solicit-
ing business in Nevada does not make
Beers a Nevada citizen. C is incorrect
because Pam does not have to prove to a
legal certainty that she will recover her
damages including pain and suffering.
It is the defendant who has to prove to a
legal certainty that Pam cannot recover
over $75,000 in order to convince the
court that it does not have diversity
jurisdiction. D is incorrect because Dar-
ren is not a party to the suit.

CIVIL PROCEDURE 139

A

86. D is the correct answer. When Beers
made its pre-answer motion to dismiss
on subject matter jurisdiction grounds, it
should have also included its objection
to personal jurisdiction. See F.R.C.P.
12(h). Since it did not, it has waived its
personal jurisdiction defense and it is,
therefore, too late to assert that defense
as an affirmative defense in its answer.
A is incorrect for two reasons: Although
Beers purposefully availed itself of the
Nevada market by soliciting Nevada
student business, which satisfies the
Due Process clause, (i) Nevada's long
arm statute does not authorize its courts
to exercise personal jurisdiction in this
case because the tortious act of serving
Darren occurred outside Nevada and (ii)
Beers waived its personal jurisdiction
defense, as shown above. B is incorrect
because Beers did solicit business from
Nevada students and Beers waived its
personal jurisdiction defense. C would
have been correct but for the fact that
Beers waived its personal jurisdiction
defense.

87. A is the correct answer. Res judicata
precludes Pam from asserting her claim
for property damage against Beers in a
second suit because the default judg-
ment against Beers is a valid (the court
found that it had personal jurisdiction
and there was no appeal on that issue)
final judgment "on the merits" (a de-
fault judgment is deemed to operate
as though it were "on the merits") and,
applying the "same transaction" defi-
nition of "cause of action" applicable
in federal court, Pam split her cause
of action. B is incorrect because a
default judgment is deemed to operate
as though it were "on the merits." C is
incorrect because the "rights" test is
inapplicable in federal court. D is in-
correct because the fact that a plaintiff
who, in good faith, claims over $75,000
in her complaint receives a verdict for
less than $75,000 does not divest the
court of subject matter jurisdiction to
enter judgment on the verdict. 

140 CIVIL PROCEDURE

88. D is the correct answer. Under the Ter-
ritoriality Rule, personal service upon
Darren in the forum state of California
is a valid basis under the Due Process
clause for the California court to exer-
cise personal jurisdiction over Darren.
A is incorrect because, under a mini-
mum contacts analysis, Pam's claim
against Darren arises out of his driving
inside Nevada, not California. B is in-
correct for the reason that D is correct
and, also, because Darren is a California
citizen. C is incorrect: (i) because it
focuses upon "fair play and substantial
justice" or "litigation fairness" rather
than purposeful availment and, (ii) in
any event, personal jurisdiction over
Darren is constitutional under the Ter-
ritoriality Rule and because Darren is
a California citizen.

89. A is the correct answer. Darren keeps
his California citizenship until he
changes it for a new one. Although
Darren is a college student in Nevada,
this does not necessarily constitute an
intent by Darren to change his domi-
cile to Nevada. Since Pam is a Nevada
citizen, complete diversity exists. B is
incorrect for the reason that A is cor-
rect. C is incorrect because it is based
upon an incorrect rule of law. Diversity
jurisdiction is not affected by whether
a defendant is a citizen of the forum
state. This answer confuses diversity
jurisdiction with removal jurisdiction.
D is incorrect because subject matter
jurisdiction is not waived during the
life of the original lawsuit.

A

7:3
0 0
<
C7 -
C r-
X3

90. A is the correct answer. The res judicata
issue presented here is whether Pam
should have asserted a claim for damage
to her car against Darren alongside her
claim for car damage against Beers. Res
judicata does not require a plaintiff to
join every tortfeasor against her in the
same lawsuit. B is incorrect because
the defense of res judicata does not
have to be included (indeed, it cannot
be included) in a pre-answer motion. C
is incorrect for the reason why A is cor-
rect. D is incorrect because the 9/1/92
judgment dismissing Pam's suit against
Beers was an involuntary dismissal that
is deemed to be "on the merits." See
F.R.C.P. 41(b).

91. C is the correct answer. C is the only
choice that is not correct. A is a correct
statement because Darren was not a
party nor in privity with a party in Pam
v. Beers. B is a correct statement be-
cause the 7/1/92 judgment was a default
judgment; no facts were determined. D
is a correct statement because mutuality
only applies to the assertion of collat-
eral estoppel by a stranger. Pam is no
stranger to her suit against Beers. C is
incorrect because, as stated previously,
a default judgment is deemed to operate
as though it were "on the merits."

CIVIL PROCEDURE 141

A
—>
0 0
ce

LU
ce

92. D is the correct answer. The federal
court has "alienage" jurisdiction over
the claim by Jacques, a citizen of a
foreign state (i.e., France), against Don,
a citizen of California, and "diversity"
jurisdiction over the claim of Jill, an
Arizona citizen, against Don, a Califor-
nian. Jill is still an Arizonan because her
student status in California does not in-
dicate her intention to live in California
for the foreseeable future. Therefore, A
is incorrect. (A is also incorrect because,
even if Jill were deemed to be a Cali-
fornia citizen, that would undermine
subject matter jurisdiction over Jacques'
claim as well and the court would,
therefore, have to dismiss both claims.)
B is incorrect because the principle that
a woman takes on the domicile of her
husband is not applicable to the ques-
tion of "state domicile" for purposes of
the diversity statute. C is incorrect for
the reason why D is correct.

93. D is the correct answer. In 2005, the U.S.
Supreme Court (Exxon Mobil Corp. v.
Allapatah Services) adopted a literal
interpretation of the Supplemental Ju-
risdiction statute allowing supplemental
jurisdiction over claims by plaintiffs
that do not exceed the $75,000 amount
in controversy requirement so long
as at least one co-plaintiff or named
class representative has a jurisdiction-
ally sufficient claim Therefore, A is
incorrect. B is incorrect because the
aggregation rule otherwise applicable
in this situation has been superseded
by the Supplemental Jurisdiction stat-
ute. C is incorrect because Jill's claim
does meet the jurisdictional amount in
controversy. 

142 CIVIL PROCEDURE

94. C is the correct answer. Hanna v.
Plumer states that, under the Supremacy
Clause, when there is federal law (U.S.
Constitution, federal statute or F.R.C.P.)
on point, that law governs over any
conflicting state law. Therefore, since
the 7th Amendment to the U.S. Con-
stitution guarantees Jacques and Jill's
right to trial by jury of their damage
claims, this right cannot be undercut
in federal court by the California state
law on punitive damages. Therefore,
A is incorrect because, under the Su-
premacy Clause, the 7th Amendment
prevails over the California state law
despite the important substantive state
interests behind the state law. B is incor-
rect for reasons stated in the discussion
of choice C. D is incorrect for three
reasons: (i) the outcome determinative
test is irrelevant to the application of
the Supremacy Clause; (ii) even if one
could apply the outcome determinative
test, there could well be a difference
between a judge and a jury trial of the
punitive damage issue (the California
legislature thought this was so); and (iii)
applying the outcome determinative
test, assuming there were no difference
in outcome, the result would be to ap-
ply the federal rule rather than the state
rule.

A

0 0
<

CP 

95. B is the correct answer. In determin-
ing the res judicata effect of the fed-
eral court judgment entered 4/1/93, the
California court must apply the federal
definition of "cause of action," which
is the "same transaction" test. Applying
that test, Jacques should have joined his
personal injury claim alongside his loss
of consortium claim since both claims
arose out of the auto collision. There-
fore, A is incorrect, since it applies the
"primary rights" test. C is incorrect
because it relies on the theory-oriented
primary rights test. D is incorrect be-
cause husband and wife are not per se
in privity with each other.

96. B is the correct answer. In the prior
federal court suit, the jury did not
state its findings upon which it based
its verdict for Don on Jacques' loss of
consortium claim. The jury could have
found that Jacques was contributorily
negligent. But it could well have found
that Jacques failed to prove damages,
since his damage evidence was "mini-
mal" and Don had offered substantial
evidence that Jacques' marriage was
"in trouble." Therefore, it cannot be
determined whether the jury actually
determined that Jacques was contribu-
torily negligent. Therefore, A and B are
incorrect. D is incorrect because there
is no indication in the facts that Jacques
did not have a "full and fair opportunity
to litigate."

CIVIL PROCEDURE 143

A

97. A is the correct answer. A is the only
choice that is "not correct." DeWinter
is seeking to use the prior criminal
judgment of acquittal bind Floyd's who
was a stranger to that criminal pro-
ceeding. This is prohibited by the Due
Process Clause, not by the mutuality
of estoppel rule. Mutuality of estoppel
prevents the use of collateral estoppel
by a stranger to the previous suit. B is
true for reasons just explained. C is true
because the only finding the jury made
in acquitting DeWinter is that there was
a "reasonable doubt" that he murdered
his wife. They could still have believed,
by a preponderance of the evidence,
that he killed her. In DeWinter's suit
against Floyd's, the applicable burden
of persuasion is "preponderance of the
evidence." D is true for reasons just
explained.

98. D is the correct answer. DeWinter has
the burden of production on the issue of
the cause of Rebecca's death; therefore,
DeWinter's motion for judgment as a
matter of law is being used offensively.
For DeWinter to win his motion, it is
not enough that he meet his burden of
production, but he must prove conclu-
sively that Rebecca fell off the cliff.
This he failed to do since the testimony
of DeWinter and his new wife, Cecily,
are potentially biased and interested
and, therefore, the jury may well choose
to disbelieve them. Even without con-
tradictory witnesses, credibility is an is-
sue for the jury to decide. Furthermore,
no inferences may be drawn against
Floyd's for failing to produce any con-
tradictory witnesses since there were no
other eyewitnesses to Rebecca's death.
The burden of production did not shift
to Floyd's on the issue of Rebecca's
death. For the above reasons, A and C
are incorrect. B is also incorrect because
sometimes courts have been known, in
rare cases, to grant offensive motions
for judgment as a matter of law based
upon testimonial evidence. 

144 CIVIL PROCEDURE

99. B is the correct answer. Since DeWinter,
the plaintiff, is a British subject and
Floyd's, the defendant, is a California
citizen, the federal court has alienage
jurisdiction to enter judgment upon the
jury's verdict. A is incorrect because
subject matter jurisdiction can be chal-
lenged even on appeal. C is incorrect
because DeWinter is not a California
domiciliary. In order to be a domiciliary
of a state of the U.S., one must also be a
U.S. citizen. D is incorrect because the
court, having alienage jurisdiction, does
not need federal question jurisdiction to
enter judgment.

100. D is the correct answer. A new trial mo-
tion must be made no later than 10 days
after entry of judgment. Here, Floyd's
waited three weeks. Had the motion
been timely, A would have been cor-
rect. Had the motion been timely, B
still would have been incorrect because
the judge could reasonably infer from
the content of Juliet's affidavit that it
could well have swayed the verdict. C
is incorrect because it states the wrong
rule of law, i.e., the Iowa Rule instead
of Federal Rule of Evidence 606(b).

ND OF ANSWERS 

CIVIL PROCEDURE 145

146 CIVIL PROCEDURE

 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW - QUESTION BREAKDOWN

1. Due Process

18. Freedom of Expression

2. Establishment Clause - Religion

19. Freedom of Speech - Public Forum

3. Establishment Clause - Religion

20. Freedom of Speech - Public Forum

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

Freedom of Religion

21. Public Forum

Freedom of Speech

Procedural Issues

Freedom of Speech - Standard
Review

Freedom of Speech - Standard
Review

22. Freedom of Expression

23. Freedom of Expression - Non-Public

Forum

24. Freedom of Speech - Standard of

Review

25. Violation of Civil Rights § 1983

Procedural Issues - Ripeness

26. Tenth Amendment - State Powers

10. Fourth Amendment - Exclusionary

27. Pre-Emption Doctrine

Rule

11. Commerce Clause

12. Freedom of Speech

13. Freedom of Speech - Prior Restraint

28. Procedural Issues - State Supreme

Court Review

29. Procedural Issue - U.S. Supreme

Court Review

30. Freedom of Association - Standard of

14. Freedom of Speech - TPM

Review

15. §1983 U.S. Code

16. Due Process

17. Commerce Clause

31. Substantive Due Process - Abortion

Rights

32. Substantive Due Process - Abortion

Rights

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW  149        

33. Substantive Due Process - Abortion

50. First Amendment - Right to an Open

- Informed Consent

Trial

34. Substantive Due Process - Abortion

51. First Amendment - Pretrial Hearing

- Notice to Husband

52. First Amendment - Open Trial for

35. Substantive Due Process - Minors

Minors

Right to an Abortion

36. Substantive Due Process - Abortion

Rights

37. Commerce Clause

38. Overbreadth Doctrine

39. Overbreadth Doctrine

40. Constitutionality of Statute

53. Freedom of Press

54. Freedom of Religion - Protected

Conduct

55. Freedom of Religion

56. Substantive Due Process

57. Freedom of Press

41. First Amendment - Free Speech and

Privacy

Press Clause

42. Freedom of Speech

Purpose

59. Establishment Clause - Secular

58. Substantive Due Process - Right to

43. Separation of Powers - Congressional

60. Establishment Clause - Secular

Branch

44. Equal Protection

45. Equal Protection

Purpose

61. Free Exercise of Religion

62. Free Exercise of Religion

46. Procedural Issues

63. Freedom of Religion

47. Procedural Issues - Ripeness

64. Free Exercise Clause

48.

Just Compensation Clause

65. Free Exercise - Teachings in Private

49. First Amendment - Right to a Open

Trial

66. Free Exercise Clause 

Schools

150 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

67. Symbolic Speech

85. Equal Protection

68. Unprotected Speech

86. 1st Amendment/4th Amendment/5th

69. Freedom of Speech - Conduct

70. Freedom of Speech - Obscenity

71. Freedom of Speech - Content

72. Symbolic Speech

73. Freedom of Association

Amendment

87. Commercial Speech

88.	 Treaties

89. Commercial Speech

90. Congressional Power

91. Procedural Issues

74. Separation of Powers - Congressional

Power

92. Procedural Due Process

75.

Judicial Appointment

93. Freedom of Speech

76. Speech and Debate Clause

94. State Action

77. Speech and Debate Clause

Extraordinary Acts

95. Equal Protection - Illegitimacy

96. Equal Protection - Standard of

78. Executive Powers - Pardons

Review

79. Executive Powers - Pardons

97. Due Process/Just Compensation

80. Judicial Jurisdiction - Foreign

98. Title of Nobility

Ambassadors

81. Sovereign Immunity/10th/11th

Amendment

99. Freedom of Association

100. Freedom of Association

82. Congressional Power

101. Freedom of Speech - Defamation

83. Substantive Due Process -

Homosexuality

84. Substantive Due Process 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 151

152 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
QUESTIONS

2. If Quail is able to file the case in federal
court rather than in state court, on which
constitutional clause will he rely?

Questions 1 — 4 are based on the
following facts:

Junior attends Riverdale Public High School.
Riverdale is an affluent community, and
the Riverdale High School is known for
its innovative course offerings. Among the
Riverdale courses are Eastern Philosophy,
Comparative Religion and Comparative
Philosophy. In order to facilitate understand-
ing between all people and to integrate the
Riverdale offerings into all aspects of the
school, each year an official of one of the
world's major religions or philosophies is
asked to lead a prayer/affirmation before the
season's first football game. Quail, a would-
be law student, enrolled in Riverdale's pre-
law program, files suit to enjoin an Islamic
monk from offering a benediction at the
opening football game this year.

1. If Quail files the suit against the state,
on what constitutional clause will he
rely?

A. First Amendment Freedom of

Religion.

B. First Amendment Freedom of

Speech.

C. Fourteenth Amendment Due

Process.

D. None of the above.

3. Will Quail's state suit prevail?

A. Yes, because the prayer exces-
sively entangles a religion with
public schooling.

B. Yes, because Quail's own reli-
gion is being interfered with.

C. No, because all religions are be-

ing treated equally.

D. No, because Quail's claim is not

in earnest.

A. First Amendment Non-Establish-

ment of Religion.

B. First Amendment Freedom of

Speech.

C. Fourteenth Amendment Due

Process.

D. None of the above.

4. Assume for this question only, that it
is not Riverdale high which offers the
benediction, but is instead the River-
dale School Board which offers such,
before their weekly meetings (where
no students are present). Which of the
following propositions are correct?

I. The First Amendment is

irrelevant. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 153

II. There may be fewer First
Amendment protections
than in Question 1.

III. The purpose of the prayer
needs to be discerned.

A. I only.

B. II and III only.

C. II only.

D. III only.

Questions 5 —10 are based on the
following facts:

The state of Columbia has made it a misde-
meanor for anyone to solicit voters within
75 feet of a polling place during election
day hours. Supporters of Libertarian Party
Presidential candidate, Andre Marrou, frus-
trated at the lack of media coverage given
their candidate and believing the public
would embrace their platform — but for the
governmental hassling — approach voters
within 50 feet of the polls on election day.
Their approach is moderate. Libertarian Don
Baggle approaches people entering the polls,
with the following soliloquy: "Hi. My name
is Don. Would you like to know what the
Libertarians stand for?" If the response is
positive, Don gives a five-minute descrip-
tion. If the response is negative, Don offers
a flyer.

Undercover officer, Wil Marsh, arrests Don
while he is in the process of offering a pam-
phlet. Subsequent to the arrest, one ounce of
marijuana is found on Don's person.

5. If Don challenges his misdemeanor ar-
rest, for soliciting voters within 75 feet,
on what constitutional clause or clauses
will he rely?

A. First Amendment Freedom of

Religion.

B. Fifth Amendment Due Process.

C. First Amendment Freedom of

Speech.

D. None of the above.  

154 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

6. If Don's claim is heard, it will be be-
cause which of the following threshold
requirements have been met?

I. Standing.

II. Ripeness.

III. Mootness.

IV. Don is a U.S. Citizen.

A. II only.

B. II and IV only.

C. I, II, III and IV.

D. I and II only.

7. Provided that Don's claim of a constitu-
tional violation is heard, which standard
of review will be utilized?

A. Strict scrutiny.

B. Reasonable basis.

C. The Intermediate Standard.

D. None of the above.

8. Will Don's claim prove to be success-

ful?

A. Yes, because the state had a ra-

tional basis.

C. No, because there was no rational

basis.

D. No, because there was a compel-

ling state interest.

9. Assume for this question only, that
although the state has had this law
on the books for 50 years, they have
never enforced it — although several
individuals have violated it. In order to
attempt to gain more political coverage
for the Libertarians, Don sues the state
to have the law overturned. If this suit
is dismissed, what will be the likely
reason?

A. Mootness.

B. Bad faith of Don.

C. Ripeness.

D. Independent state grounds.

10. Assume for this question only, that the
Columbia law is deemed unconstitu-
tional, can Don be prosecuted for the
drug possession?

A. Yes, because they are entirely

different laws.

B. Yes, because of the Drug Ex-
ception to the Warrant require-
ment.

C. Yes, because the arrest was le-

B. Yes, because there was no corn- 	

gal.

pelling state interest.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 155

D. No.	

11. With the state of present technology,
the manufacture of nuclear-based en-
ergy has an unfortunate side-effect
— the production of unusable and toxic
nuclear waste. Because of the world
and nation's dwindling supply of oil,
the state of X has encouraged in-state
business to embark on the production of
nuclear energy. In order to give this en-
couragement "teeth," a 20% discount is
given to in-state corporations regarding
the disposal of their nuclear waste.

State X, itself, owns all of the nuclear-
disposal plants. (With that policy, it
ensures competent disposal).

Y Corp, a corporation in State Y (a state
bordering State X) is in the business of
producing nuclear energy. Much of the
energy it produces is sold to the citizens
and businesses in State X.

If Y Corp challenges State X for not
giving it a 20% discount on disposal,
its challenge will:

A. Prevail, because of the Com-

merce Clause.

B. Prevail, because of the Due Pro-

cess Clause.

C. Prevail, because of the Equal

Protection Clause.

D. Fail, because of the sovereignty

of state regulation.

156 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 12 —14 are based on the
following facts:

The city of Simmee is predominantly Cauca-
sian, middle-class and blue-collar. Because
of a recent jury trial verdict which was un-
popular with minority communities, Simmee
became a very popular spot for non-violent
civil rights demonstrations. The Simmee
Board of Directors, acting at the direction of
Simmee's Mayor Ringer passed an ordinance
requiring all of those who wish to parade or
demonstrate to apply for a permit and pay
a fee based on the approximate cost to the
city (regarding extra police, clean-up, etc.).
The Simmee ordinance directed the Board to
make an accurate tabulation of such.

Free Freedom Lovers (FFL), a group with
socialist learnings, applied for a permit to the
Simmee Board. The permit was granted, but
a $500 fee "to cover costs" was levied. FFL
never had their demonstration, but instead
requested a state court to restrain and enjoin
the Simmee procedure.

12. On what basis is the FFL suit most likely

based?

A. Freedom of Association.

B. Freedom of Speech.

C. Equal Protection.

D. Due Process.

13. Which of the following propositions are

true?  

I. The Simmee licensing	
	procedure was a prior 	

Questions 15 — 16 are based on the
following facts:

restraint.

II. The Simmee licensing
	procedure was a reason-
able time, place and man-
ner restriction.

	III. The city's procedure was

not "state action."

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. III only.

D. II and III only.

14. If the Simmee procedure is declared
unconstitutional, it will be because of
which of the following reasons:

I.

It was not narrowly tai-
lored to meet the city's
interest.

II. It vested too much power

in the Board.

A. I and II only.

B.

I only.

C. II only.

The city of Dickens, because of its many,
naturally-occurring rivers, is always build-
ing bridges. Unfortunately, the city fails to
either train or warn its employees about the
dangers of this job. Bill Richards is on the
city payroll and dies in a bridge-related ac-
cident. Bill's widow, Sharon, sues the city
based on §1983 U.S. Code.

15. For a § 1983 claim to succeed, there

must be:

A. A tort on the part of the city.

B. A crime on the part of the city.

C. A violation of constitutional

rights by the city.

D. None of the above.

16. If Sharon claims that Bill's substantive
due process rights were abridged, her
suit will:

A. Prevail, because of the negli-

gence of the city.

B. Prevail, because there was a

§ 1983 tort.

C. Fail, because the city was not

negligent.

D. Neither I nor II.

D. None of the above. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 157

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
O

17. The fictional state of Perotia has pro-
hibited all waste-disposal businesses in
the state from accepting waste products
produced out of the state. There is no
evidence that the refused waste is toxic.
Bushco, a waste-disposal business in
Perotia, challenges the Perotia regula-
tion. Will Bushco prevail?

A. No, because a state can refuse to

allow pollution.

B. Yes, because of the Commerce

Clause.

C. No, because this does not appear
to be economically-based.

D. None of the above.

158 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 18 — 25 are based on the
following facts:

John Wayne Airport, of Orange County Cali-
fornia, has just adopted a law, by the power
of the Orange County Port Authority, ban-
ning the solicitation of funds, the distribution
of literature, or the sale of written material
within the common areas of its airport.

The National Rifle Association (NRA),
angered by the rising tide of gun regulation
has targeted the Wayne Airport as a forum to
make their case that the Second Amendment
is losing its all-important meaning.

NRA volunteer Duke Hinkins hands out a
free small cactus inside the common areas of
the Wayne Airport. Then he asks for a small
contribution to "defray the costs of growing
and potting the cacti." Duke also offers to
sell two small books. One is on the Old West
and the other is on President Jefferson's
views on the Second Amendment. If the air
traveler is either unresponsive or if, at the
outset, the air traveler seems hurried, Duke
simply and only offers a free colorful flyer
entitled, "GUNS ARE FREEDOM."

On July 4, Duke is arrested by Officer Bart;
after offering Bart the cactus and asking
for a donation. Undeterred and back at the
airport, On July 6, Duke is again arrested,
but this time by Officer Cary, for attempting
to sell her the two books. On July 8, Duke
is back at the airport, and is again arrested,
but this time by Officer Darby, for offer-
ing her the free pamphlet. A few days later
Duke, through his lawyers, seeks to enjoin
the prohibition. 

QC)

0
=
Cr)-I
57. =1
. -i
0
=
>

	18. On what grounds should Duke chal- 	

C. Yes, because the arrest was in a

lenge the Orange County ordinance? 	

privately-owned airport.

A. Second Amendment Right to	

D. No.

Bear Arms.

21. Will Duke's July 6 arrest be considered

B. First Amendment Freedom of	

valid?

Speech.

C. First Amendment Freedom of 	

funds.

Association.

D. The Commerce Clause.	

nuisance.

B. Yes, because he was a public

A. Yes, because he was soliciting

19. Will the public areas in the airport be	

C. Yes, because the arrest was in a

considered a "public forum"?	

privately-owned airport.

A. Yes, because the public is al-	

lowed.	

D. No, because it chilled the exer-
cise of a fundamental right.

B. Yes, because airports have, by
common custom, become a
forum for the marketplace of
ideas.

C. No, because many airports are

privately-owned.

D. No, because there is a difference
between an airport and a public
park, street or sidewalk.

20. Will Duke's July 4 arrest be considered

valid?

A. Yes, because he was soliciting

funds.

B. Yes, because cacti are potentially

hazardous in air flights.

22. Will Duke's July 8 arrest be considered

valid?

A. Yes, because he was soliciting

funds.

B. Yes, because he "assumed the
risk," having been arrested sev-
eral times prior.

C. Yes, because there were other
ways for Duke to have his ex-
pression heard.

D. No, because it was an unreason-
able restriction on his freedom
of expression.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

159

	
	
	
23. Should the trial court use the compelling
interest test in evaluating the Orange
County ordinance?

III. Officer Cary.

IV. Officer Darby.

A. Yes, because the First Amend-

A. I, II, III and IV.

ment was implicated.

B. Yes, because the Second Amend-

ment was implicated.

B. I and III only.

C. I and IV only.

C. Yes, because this was a "public

D. I only.

forum."

D. No, because the airport was truly

not a public forum.

24. Should the trial court use the "reason-
ableness" test regarding the July 8 ar-
rest?

A. Yes, because this was not a pub-

lic forum.

B. No, because the airport was a

public forum.

C. No, because there is no "reason-

ableness" test.

D. None of the above.

25. For this question only, assume that it is
held that Duke's constitutional rights
were, in part, violated. Duke will have
a successful § 1983 suit against:

I. The Orange County Port

Authority.

II. Officer Bart. 

160 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 26 — 27 are based on the 	
following facts: 	

26. On what grounds will they most likely

base this challenge?

The year is 1999 and the U.S. has turned to
the use of nuclear energy, due to the dwin-
dling supply of its own oil, the Arab Oil
Embargo of 1996, and the development of
nuclear fusion energy (which produces only
low level nuclear waste).

However, many of the states have set up
barriers to the disposal of low level nuclear
waste in their state.

The effect of this state action is to create
a crisis situation regarding disposal of this
waste.

After much debate Congress has reacted to
the problem by enacting the Comprehensive
Waste Disposal Act of 1999. There are three
clauses:

1) States will receive federal mon-
etary incentives for providing for
such disposal;

2) States providing for such dis-
posal can surcharge states which
do not; and

3) If there are no waste programs
developed, states must take title
to their own waste and must pay
all "damages" if they do not take
title to their own waste.

The state of North California has challenged
the constitutionality of the Act.

A. Commerce Clause.

B. Tenth Amendment.

C. Ninth Amendment.

D. Just Compensation.

27. Will the North California challenge

succeed?

A. Yes, as to all clauses of the Act.

B. Yes, as to clauses 1 and 2, only

of the Act.

C. Yes, as to clause 3, only, of the

Act.

D. No.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

161

Q

0

0

Questions 28 — 30 are based on the
following facts:

A. Yes, because the Au Natural
Party was treated unfairly.

The fictional state of Island requires, for
a new political party to be placed on the
electoral ballot, a showing of "significant"
public support. This has been interpreted
by the Island Supreme Court to require for
state-wide election either petitions signed
by no more than 1% of the voters, or a 5%
showing in a previous election.

The Island city of Corruptia, however, has
a more stringent requirement — 5% of the
eligible voters must sign a petition prior to
a party being placed on the ballot. The "Au
Natural" Party has met the state require-
ments and desires to run a candidate for
Mayor of Corruptia. However, the Corruptia
City Council has refused to allow Bob Nor-
ris ballot access — since he has not met their
requirements.

28. If Norris appeals to the Island State
Supreme Court, should he prevail?

B. Yes, because there is a "case or

controversy."

C. No, because the issue is moot.

D. None of the above.

30. Assume for this question only, that the
U.S. Supreme Court has accepted re-
view of Norris' case on the question of
the constitutionality of the Island ballot
access rules. Will he prevail?

A. Yes, if the state cannot prove that
the rules on new political parties
are necessary to serve a compel-
ling government interest.

B. Yes, if the state can show that the
rules on new political parties are
rationally related to a permissible
government interest.

A. Yes, because of the Freedom of

C. No, because of the Tenth Amend-

Association.

ment.

B. Yes, because of that court's prior

D. None of the above.

ruling.

C. No, if the court relies on inde-

pendent state grounds.

D. None of the above.

29. For this question only, assume Norris
has lost his appeal to the Island Su-
preme Court. Must the U.S. Supreme
Court accept review of his case? 

162 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

	
	
Questions 31 — 36 are based on the
following facts:

The fictional state of Northeast, based on a
conservative swing in their citizens' poli-
tics, has enacted a comprehensive Abortion
Control Act. The Act is comprised of the
following clauses:

1) An abortion is generally not to
be allowed when the fetus is vi-
able.

2) A woman must receive informa-
tion at least 24 hours prior to the
abortion regarding alternatives to
abortion, including adoption.

3) A woman must give informed
consent to the abortion 24 hours
prior to the abortion, unless her
health is imminently in danger.

4) A married woman must furnish
proof at least 24 hours prior to
the abortion that her husband has
been informed.

5) An unmarried minor must ei-
ther furnish proof of one of her
parent's consent to the abortion,
or judicial-approval of her abor-
tion.

6) Those medical personnel and
clinics performing abortions
must keep records indicating
that clauses 1-5, above, were
complied with.

Abortion Clinic XYZ and Mary Coe chal-
lenge the Act. The Act is upheld by the
Northeast State Supreme Court. The appeal
is now pending before the federal courts.

31. Will Clause 1 be upheld?

A. Yes, because of Roe v. Wade.

B. Yes, because it has now been
held that a fetus is a human be-
ing.

C. No, because of the Right to

Life.

D. Yes, but for none of the above

reasons.

32. Will Clause 2 be upheld?

A. No, because it is a pre-viability
regulation contrary to Roe v.
Wade.

B. No, because abortion is a funda-

mental privacy right.

C. Yes, because a state is permitted
to regulate abortion, provided
the state does not entirely outlaw
it.

D. Yes, because the regulation does
not place an undue burden on the
right to abortion.

33. Will Clause 3 be upheld? 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 163

A. Yes, but only as to the "medical-

D. This is an open issue under pres-

emergency" provision.

ent jurisprudence.

B. Yes, but only as to the "informed"

36. Will Clause 6 be upheld?

provision.

C. Yes, but only as to the "consent"

provision.

D. Yes.

34. Will Clause 4 be upheld?

A. Yes, except as to the record-keep-
ing required regarding Clauses 1
and 5.

B. Yes, except as to the record-keep-
ing required regarding Clauses 4
and 5.

A. Yes, because husband consent is

required.

C. Yes, except as to the record-
keeping required by Clause 5.

B. Yes, because such does not
place an undue burden on the
husband.

C. Yes, because such does not place
an undue burden on the woman
who seeks to terminate the fe-
tus.

D. No, because this is an undue

burden on the woman.

D. Yes, except as to the record-
keeping required by Clause 4.

37. SpecialtyX is a mail order business
located in State A. It has targeted a
mailing to all grocery stores in State
B. State B has decided to impose a use
tax on the property sold by SpecialtyX.
SpecialtyX's only contact with State  B
is via the mailings and subsequent sales.
Is the State B tax unconstitutional?

35. Will Clause 5 be upheld?

A. Yes, because the minor need not
be insulated from those who may
wish to counsel her against the
abortion.

B. Yes, but only if such occurs in the
second trimester of pregnancy.

A. Yes, because there are no mini-

mum contacts.

B. Yes, because there is a Com-

merce Clause violation.

C. No, because there is a substantial

nexus.

D. No, because there is not a sub-

C. No, if such occurs in the first

stantial nexus. 

trimester of pregnancy.

164 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 38 — 39 are based on the
following facts:

Late one evening Skin, a teenager, and two
of his friends trespassed onto the front yard
of Omar, a refugee from Iraq. Omar now
lives in the fictional state of Clintonia. Skin
built a Cross and burned it in Omar's yard.
Skin's two friends escaped, but Skin was
apprehended. As Skin was apprehended and
Omar watched, Skin yelled to Omar, "I'll kill
you, you bloody Arab, if you stay here!"

Skin is prosecuted in Clintonia, under their
new "Hate Crime Law." The law, in pertinent
part, reads as follows:

"It is a class 1 misdemeanor, to burn a cross,
display a swastika or state any racial epithet
for the purpose of expressing racial or ethnic
hatred in a public place or on private prop-
erty which is not in the lawful possession of
the suspect."

38. Will Skin's burning of the Cross on
Omar's lawn suffice to find him guilty
under the Clintonia Hate Crime Law?

A. Yes, because all of the elements
of the crime appear to have been
met.

B. Yes, because Skin's acts were
constitutionally unprotected.

C. No, because there was no mens

rea in the crime.

D. No, because the law was over-

broad.

39. Will Skin's post-arrest threat to Omar
suffice to find him guilty under the
Clintonia Hate Crime Law?

A. Yes, because all of the elements
of the crime appear to have been
met.

B. Yes, because these were fighting

words.

C. No, because there was no mens

rea in the crime.

D. No, because the law was facially

unconstitutional.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 165

Questions 40 — 42 are based on the
following law:

Sick and tired of the profiteering of criminal
convicts and their attorneys, the state of
Bronsonia has enacted the following law,
§208:

1) An individual is permitted to
write about his/her life. But if
the writing describes crimes
for which the individual has
been convicted; or crimes for
which the individual is formally
charged; or crimes which the in-
dividual admits to, but for which
he/she has not been formally
charged, all proceeds, profits and
royalties shall be turned over to
the Bronsonia Victim's Fund.

2) A publisher, co-author or lawyer
who participates in the publish-
ing of material delineated in
Clause 1, above, must furnish
all proceeds, profits and royalties
which would have been payable
to the author directly to the Bron-
sonia Victim's Fund.

3) Violation of either Clause 1 or
2 shall be punished as a Class 3
misdemeanor and violators shall
be fined $100,000 in addition to
the amount of profits, proceeds
or royalties not furnished to the
Bronsonia Victim's Fund.

166 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

40. Famed football star, Mike Toggle, was
convicted of rape in Bronsonia. In order
to set the record straight, he contracted
with Violence Press to write a book. In
the book, Toggle denied having raped
the victim, although he did admit to rap-
ing a female when he was 16-years-old.
Toggle brought up this point to indicate
how guilty he felt at that time and,
thus, why he would never commit this
crime. Violence Press paid Toggle an
advance of $5,000 and, to date, $2,333
in royalties. Which of the following
propositions are true?

I. Violence Press violated

§208.2.

II. Toggle violated §208.1.

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. I and II.

D. Neither I nor II.

41. Rotty has been convicted of several
"contract killings." Famed writer Jack
Junkins decides to write his story. He
interviews Rotty over a period of two
months. If Bronsonia prosecutes Junk-
ins under §208, they will:

A. Succeed, because he profited

from crime.

B. Succeed, because he wrote about

crime. 

C. Succeed, because he profited

from another's crime.

D. Fail, because Junkins was only

morally guilty.

42. Which of the following propositions are

true?

I. The Bronsonia statute is
unconstitutional since it
is not narrowly tailored
to further a compelling
state interest.

II. The Bronsonia statute is
unconstitutional since it
is overbroad.

III. The Bronsonia statute is
a kind of prior restraint
on the press and speech.

A. I, II and III only.

B. I and II only.

C. I and III only.

D. None of the above.

43. Due to migration to the Southern and
Western states, the fictional state of
Northwest has experienced a marked
decrease in population — particularly as
compared to the growth of population
in the Southern and Western states. In
order to facilitate proportional represen-
tation in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, Congress has increased the seats
available in these states, and decreased
the seats in Northwest, but not beyond
that accounted for by increased or de-
creased population. If Northwest chal-
lenges this reduction, it will:

A. Succeed, since states must be
given equal representation.

B. Fail, because states must be
given equal representation.

C. Fail, because the facts seem to
indicate an equal apportionment
method was used.

D. None of the above. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 167

C. I and IV only.

D. I, II, III and IV.

45. If Elizabethia's school administrators
are presently found to be in good faith,
are the U.S. Supreme Court and its
lower federal courts discharged from
supervising desegregation?

A. Yes, provided admission policies

are race-neutral.

B. Yes, because there is no more
that can be accomplished.

C. Yes, because of state's rights.

D. No.

Questions 44 — 45 are based on the
following facts: 

The year is 1993. As of 1954, in the land-
mark decision of Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation, 347 U.S. 483, the fictional state of
Elizabethia has had its primary, secondary
and post-secondary schools under the super-
vision of the local Federal District Court.
The supervision was based on Elizabethia's
former pattern of de jure segregation. In
that era, Elizabethia assigned students to
school solely depending on the race of the
student. As of 1993, all enrollments are open
at all schools. However, of the five state-run
universities, three remain overwhelmingly
Caucasian and two remain overwhelmingly
of African-descent.

44. Federal jurisdiction was established
in Brown v. Board of Education under
which of the following reasons and/or
theories:

I. Separate but equal
schools segregated by
race, are inherently un-
equal.

II. Privileges and Immuni-

ties violation.

III. Equal Protection viola-

tion.

IV. Due Process violation.

A. I and II only.

B. I and III only.

168 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

	
Questions 46 — 48 are based on the
following facts:

The city of Marblestone, in the fictional state
of Alfredia, has enacted a rent-control ordi-
nance. The ordinance is specifically aimed
at controlling the rent in mobile home parks.
The policy of the rent control ordinance
is to protect the lower-middle classes and
elderly — who are the most frequent tenants
of the parks. The ordinance at issue not only
"freezes" the rent for those now tenants, but
also sets a maximum rent per site.

46. Daniel files suit in federal district court,
to overturn the ordinance. Daniel files
this suit because he is against govern-
mental regulation of the private sector.
If Daniel's suit is not heard, it will be
because of which of the following rea-
sons:

I. He lacks standing.

II. The case is not ripe.

III.There is no case or con-

troversy.

IV. There is no federal ques-

tion.

A. I and II only.

B. I, II and III only.

C. I, II, III and IV.

D. I, II and IV only.

47. If Norris files a federal suit, because
he had intended to buy a mobile home
park, and now wonders about the wis-
dom of his potential investment, will
his case be heard?

A. No, because the case is not

ripe.

B. Yes, because there was a govern-

mental taking.

C. Yes, because there was a de-
nial of the Just Compensation
Clause.

D. None of the above.

48. If the owner of a Marblestone mobile
home park, who can substantiate that
she has been prevented from raising
rent in her park, files a federal suit to
overturn the ordinance based on an
abrogation of the Just Compensation
Clause, this suit will:

A. Fail, because there was no "tak-

ing."

B. Fail, because the Just Compensa-
tion Clause is not applicable to
the states.

C. Fail, because the case is not

ripe.

D. Succeed.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW  169         

Questions 49 — 53 are based on the
following facts:

Famous movie director Billy Eucalyptus and
his wife Marci Sparrow are about to enter
trial regarding their contested divorce.

51. Assume for this question only, that there
is a pre-trial admissibility hearing re-
garding the introduction of certain nude
photographs allegedly taken by Billy of
Marci's adult daughter (by another mar-
riage.) Can the judge close this pretrial
admissibility hearing?

judge so close the trial?

have a right to be there.

A. Yes, since both parties consent-

B. Yes, because it is pre-trial.

ed.

B. Yes, since trials never need be

public.

C. Yes, since divorce trials can be

closed.

D. None of the above.

50. If only Billy consents, can the judge
preclude the press and public from the
trial?

A. No, since both parties must con-

sent.

B. Yes, since trials never need be

public.

C. Yes, since divorce trials can be

closed.

C. If there is a compelling reason to
do so, and if the press and public
are allowed to see a transcript of
the hearing soon after its comple-
tion.

D. None of the above.

52. Assume for this question only, that after
the dissolution of marriage proceed-
ing, Billy is formally charged with the
sexual assault of Marci's 15-year-old
daughter. Billy moves to keep the press
out of the trial — based on his claim that
the minor daughter's life will be ruined.
Will Billy's request be granted?

A. Yes, if a transcript of the trial is
made public soon after the trial.

B. Yes, if the minor consents.

D. None of the above.

C. Yes, since it is a minor who is

involved.

D. No. 

170 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

53. Assume for this question only, that Billy
moves that the dissolution of marriage
trial be open to television transmission.
The court's denial of this motion:

A. Violates the First Amendment.

B. Violates the Sixth Amendment.

C. May be a permissible state rule.

D. None of the above.

Questions 54 — 58 are based on the
following facts:

Jessica Rabindra purports to follow an an-
cient Delphic Religion, which she, herself,
in psychic trance, has rediscovered. The
religion follows the so-called "goddess"
perception of cosmic reality. She has formed
a church called, "The Church of the Astral
Goddess." The Church is located on a one-
acre secluded ranch in the fictional state of
North Californ.

Membership in the Church is voluntary. But
each member, to be admitted, undergoes a
series of purification rites wherein the mem-
ber is purged of a chauvinistic view of the
world and is "put in touch with the power
of the earth's creative energy." Among the
aspects of the purification are an abstinence
from eating animal flesh, one day of fasting
per week and a voluntary sexual ritual with
Jessica.

The sexual ritual with Jessica, for males, in-
volves the performance of sexual intercourse
and cunnilingus with her. The sexual ritual
for females includes only the performance
of cunnilingus with her.

Jessica has written a book about her religion,
and this book has attracted many people to
join her church. Church dues are $400 per
month.

In the state of North Californ, the following
provisions are present in their penal code: 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 171

Q

§ 1111: It is a misdemeanor to offer
sexual intercourse or non-
intercourse sexual relations
for hire.

§ 1112: It is a felony to own and
operate a house of prostitu-
tion.

§1114: Cunnilingus and fellatio
are misdemeanors.

§2009: Solicitation occurs when
one person induces another
to participate in a crime,
intending that this person
so participate.

54. If Jessica is charged under § 1111, and
offers a First Amendment Freedom of
Religion defense, she will most likely:

A. Succeed, because she was exer-

cising a religion.

B. Fail, because the Freedom of
Religion does not protect against
prosecution for prostitution.

C. Succeed, because the adults con-

sented.

D. Fail, because her religion was

bogus.

55. Jessica's best argument against a pros-

ecution under § 1112 is:

172 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

A. There were other activities of the
church besides sex and the pay-
ment of money was not required
to have sex with Jessica.

B. She was the only priestess.

C. Other activities occurred in her

temple.

D. She was exercising the Freedom

of Religion.

56. If Jessica is prosecuted for a violation

of § 1114, her prosecution will likely:

A. Succeed, because there is no
right to extra-marital sexual pri-
vacy.

B. Fail, because the acts were pri-

vate and consensual.

C. Fail, because this crime does not

include sex-for-hire.

D. Fail, because there was no genital

penetration.

57. If Jessica is prosecuted for a violation
of §2009, based on the inducement to
join her church in her book, her best
defense will be:

A. Freedom of Religion.

B. Freedom of Speech.

C. The penumbra right to privacy.

D. Freedom of Association. 

58. If Jessica is prosecuted for initiating her	
own husband into the religion, under 	
§ 1114, which defense will be the most
likely to succeed?	

A. Right to Privacy.	

B. Right to Marry.

Questions 59 — 60 are based on the
following facts:

The fictional state of Waywaynortheast re-
quires all businesses to close on Sundays.
An exemption is given to health care pro-
viders.

59. If Rex Bookstore challenges this law,

C. Freedom of Religion.	

they will:

D. None of the above.	

A. Succeed, because of the Freedom

of the Press.

B. Succeed, because of the Com-

merce Clause.

C. Succeed, because of the Estab-

lishment Clause.

D. None of the above.

60. If Ralph's Kosher Minimarket chal-
lenges this law on First Amendment
Establishment Clause grounds, they
will:

A. Succeed, because the law is for
the purpose of enforcing the
Christian Sabbath.

B. Succeed, because it impedes
their Free Exercise of Religion.

C. Succeed, because it is a taking,
without Just Compensation.

D. None of the above. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 173

63. Grade school student, Jeremiah, refuses
to salute the flag in his second grade
class. He is disciplined by his teacher,
Ms. Thomas; and sent to the principal,
Dr. Rehnquist, to serve 2 hours of deten-
tion. He had refused to salute the flag
based on his upbringing as a Jehovah's
Witness, that one's allegiance is owed
only to God. His mother, who happens
to be a lawyer, sues the school board,
seeking an injunction of forced flag-
saluting and also seeking unspecified
damages. Will Jeremiah's suit pre-
vail?

A. No, because this was not truly
prejudicial to his religion.

B. No, because the Constitution
protects family values, such as
saluting the flag.

C. Yes, because the Constitution
protects family values such as
a person's right not to be forced
to appear to support state-spon-
sored orthodoxy.

D. Yes, because the teaching of the
Jehovah's Witnesses was essen-
tially correct.

Q

Questions 61— 62 are based on the
following facts:

The fictional state of Rightwing has changed
the motto on their license plates to "JUST
SAY NO." Ted Paine is offended by this
since he believes it is contrary to the prin-
ciples of his Asian religion to demand others
behave in a certain way. So, Ted alters his
plate to read "JUST SAY NOT." The Righ-
twing State Police arrested Ted for defacing
public property (since the plates technically
belong to the state). Ted is convicted.

61. What is the likely ground of Ted's ap-
peal suggested by the closest Supreme
Court precedent?

A. First Amendment Free Speech.

B. First Amendment Freedom of

Religion.

C. Fourth Amendment Search and

Seizure.

D. First Amendment Freedom of

Association.

62. Will Ted's appeal be successful?

A. No, because he did, in fact, de-

face public property.

B. No, because it was conduct.

C. No, because he could still as-
sociate with members of his
religion.

D. None of the above. 

174 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 64 — 65 are based on the
following facts:

The agrarian, back-to-nature sect called the
Followers of Landrew, believe that a child,
as of age 14, should not go to public school
and should begin to work the fields as part of
their farm life. Archon, the parent of Jedidiah
(who is 14) takes him out of the local public
junior high school. However, the school
district has a rule that children must attend
school until their sixteenth birthday.

64. Archon is ordered to re-enroll Jedidiah
in school, and is threatened with con-
tempt of court if he does not. If Archon
challenges this order, he will:

I. Prevail, because of the
parental right of priva-
cy.

II. Prevail, because, in ef-
fect, the district was
violating the Establish-
ment Clause of the First
Amendment.

III. Prevail, because the
school district was vio-
lating the Free Exer-
cise Clause of the First
Amendment.

A. I and II only.

A. Fail, because it is Jedidiah who

B. II and III only.

will lose out.

B. Succeed, based on the Free Ex-
ercise Clause and Privacy.

C. Fail, because there is a compel-
ling interest in the education of
minors.

D. Succeed, because the school

district lacks jurisdiction.

65. Assume for this question only, that in
response to the practice of the school
district, the Followers of Landrew form
their own private school, which teaches
the basics. If the school district enacts
a new rule to the effect that all students
must attend public school until the age
of 18 and the Followers of Landrew
challenge this, the Followers of Lan-
drew will:

C. I and III only.

D. I, II and III.

66. The religion of Funkamental, now
established for 50 years, has fallen on
hard times. In the eyes of Ron, Hub,
the present president, has allowed the
assets and membership of the religion to
drastically fall. But Hub will not give up
his presidency. So, Ron files suit in the
state court to order Hub to stand for a
democrat election. Will Ron prevail?

A. No, because of the Free Exercise

Clause.

B. No, because of the Establishment

Clause. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 175

C. No, because there is no case or	

controversy.	

Questions 67 — 71 are based on the
following facts:

D. Yes, if the facts establish Ron's

claim to be true.

The city of Puritania in the fictional state
of Hypocritia, troubled by the decay in the
moral fabric of its society, has enacted a
statute barring nudity in places open to the
public. The statute punishes such as a misde-
meanor. Nudity is defined as the "exposure
of female or male genitalia or the exposure
of female nipples or areola, when such is
done for the purpose of appealing to the
prurient interest."

67. On its face, is the Puritania statute un-

constitutional?

A. Yes, because there can be sym-
bolic speech aspects to both male
and female nudity.

B. Yes, because it is overbroad.

C. Yes, because it is vague.

D. None of the above.

68. The "Go For It" Bar, open only to those
over the age of 21, has a stage where
women dance topless. One evening the
owner, Paddy, and the offending fe-
males are arrested by the police. If they
appeal their conviction, they will:

A. Fail, because the Puritania law is

overbroad.

B. Succeed, because the Puritania

law is overbroad. 

176 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

C. Fail, because their conduct is
constitutionally unprotected.

C. Be convicted, because her acts

were in public.

D. Succeed, because the conduct

was symbolic speech.

D. Not be convicted, her conduct
was not lewd and lascivious.

69. One afternoon, Murphy Moe is arrested
for breast-feeding her infant child in a
frequented public park. Murphy hap-
pens to be a very beautiful woman. Her
act of breast-feeding included exposure
of her areola and one breast or the
other (while switching her baby from
breast-to-breast). Murphy was wearing
a button down shear blouse, and tightly-
fitting, high-cut shorts. A group of men
would frequently, in a clandestine way,
watch Murphy each afternoon during
their lunch break.

After her arrest, and after being given
proper Miranda warnings, Murphy ad-
mits that she knew several men were
watching her. She also admits that she
knew her actions were likely to sexually
arouse some of the men — that in fact,
she wanted, "to show men the beauties
of having babies and because I was
hoping to meet a new man." If Murphy
is prosecuted under the Puritania law,
she will likely:

A. Not be convicted, because the
elements of the crime have not
been met.

B. Be convicted, even though she
might claim her act was sym-
bolic speech.

70. Chipmunks, a club catering to adult fe-
males, offers erotic dancing by men. In
the dances, the men do a "strip tease", in
which they remove all of their clothing
but for a tight bikini-type bottom. The
brief is so tight that outlines of the male
genitalia are visible. In fact, many of the
men who work at Chipmunks arrange
"dates" with the customers after hours,
during which they perform sex for hire
contrary to another prostitution law of
Puritania.

The police are aware of the prostitu-
tion, but are unable to find any females
who are willing to testify against the
men. Thus, Chipmunks, and several
of the male dancers, are prosecuted
under the Puritania indecent exposure
statute, above. Will the prosecution be
successful?

A. Yes, because they were guilty of

prostitution.

B. Yes, because Chipmunks was
clearly contrary to Puritania's
community standards.

C. No, because the prostitution

could not be proven. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 177

72. The fictional state of South Kaliforn has
pictured on its flag a western gunslinger.
Because Duke finds not only guns, but
the whole gunslinger mentality patently
offensive, he calls a press conference
and publicly burns the South Kaliforn
flag. In South Kaliforn, it is a misde-
meanor to: "Purposely burn, destroy,
mutilate, defile, desecrate or dirty the
state or federal flag." Duke is pros-
ecuted and convicted in South Kaliforn.
Will his federal appeal succeed?

A. Yes, because the crime was strict
liability and, thus, overbroad.

B. Yes, because the state infringed
his First Amendment rights.

C. No, because the flag he burned

was a state flag.

D. None of the above.

73. The year is 2017, and you may assume
U.S. Constitutional law has remained
the same as it is at present — with one
notable exception. The U.S. Constitu-
tion has been amended to place an
outright and complete ban on the use of
alcohol, with the only exception being
for prescription drugs.

Father 0' Scalia, a Catholic Priest living
in Illinois, is prosecuted for using wine
during the Sacrament at his Church. If
he challenges the law based on First
Amendment grounds, he will: 

D. No, because there was no genital
"exposure" as under the relevant
Puritania statute.

71. Darby is a young woman out of work in
Puritania. She was an aerobics instruc-
tor at one of the city's health clubs;
but due to the recession the club has
closed down. So, Darby takes out a
vendor's license to sell hot dogs in one
of Puritania's open air malls. Unlike the
other vendors, however, Darby wears a
thong bikini. She is arrested for violat-
ing the Puritania statute. Will Darby's
First Amendment "symbolic speech"
argument succeed?

A. Yes, because she was doing noth-

ing unlawful.

B. Yes, because her sales approach
had artistic First Amendment
content.

C. No, because there was no speech
content to her acts or to the city's
prosecution of her.

D. No, because she was guilty of the

crime.

178 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

A. Succeed, because of the Free

Exercise Clause.

Questions 74 — 75 are based on the
following facts:

B. Succeed, because there is no

compelling state interest.

C. Succeed, because of the Freedom

of Association Clause.

D. Fail.

Sick and tired of the poor quality of ap-
pointees to the U.S. Supreme Court, both
houses of Congress pass a law whereby the
power to appoint U.S. Supreme Court judges
is stripped from the President and resides
solely in the houses. The so-called "Supreme
Judiciary Act" is vetoed by the President; but
the veto is overturned.

74. What majority of Congress is necessary
to overturn a presidential veto?

A. Two-thirds of either house.

B. Two-thirds of the Senate.

C. Two-thirds of the House of Rep-

resentatives.

D. Two-thirds of both houses.

75. Assume for this question only, that the
President challenges Congress' power
to enact this act. Which of the following
propositions are correct?

I. Federal judicial selection
is solely a presidential
decision.

II. The Act is unconstitu-

tional.

A. I and II.

B.

I only. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 179

C. II only.	

D. None of the above.  

180 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 76 — 77 are based on the
following facts:

During a senate debate, U.S. Senator Tom
Semand argues that the scientific work pro-
duced by XYZ University "is not up to the
standards of grammar school — let alone fit
for a $150,000 federal grant".

76. If XYZ University sues Semand for
defamation, his best defense will be:

A. First Amendment Freedom of

Speech.

B. Article I Speech and Debate

Clause.

C. XYZ was a public entity.

D. Sovereign immunity.

77. Assume for this question only, that it
can be proven that Semand received a
$20,000 bribe from ABC University, the
competitor of XYZ University, for the
$150,000 grant. May Semand be sued
for taking a bribe in connection with the
federal grant application?

A. No, since there was sovereign

immunity.

B. No, because this kind of thing is

difficult to prove.

C. No, because of the Speech and

Debate Clause.

D. None of the above.

  
Questions 78 — 79 are based on the
following facts:

Governor Pilson, governor of the fictional
state of Columbia, is indicted in Columbia
for the embezzlement of state funds. United
States President George, convinced that such
is a paltry political attempt to destroy one of
his closest allies, pardons Pilson for "any
and all crimes committed while in office,
up to and including those committed as of
this date."

78. If the Columbia Attorney General chal-

lenges this pardon, she will:

A. Fail, because such is one of the
enumerated presidential pow-
ers.

B. Fail, because the President's
power is limited to pardon for
political crimes.

C. Succeed, because the Presi-
dent's power is limited to federal
crimes.

D. None of the above.

79. Assume for this question only, that ex-
Governor Pilson is federally indicted
two years after President George's
pardon for theft of government funds.
Will the President's pardon bar federal
prosecution?

A. Yes, if the crimes were commit-
ted while Pilson was in office.

B. Yes, if the crimes were commit-
ted prior to the date of President
George's pardon.

=

0

0

C. Yes, if President George is still

in office.

D. Yes, unless the crime was infa-

mous.

80. The ambassador to the United States
from the fictional foreign republic of
Sheisterdam, while touring the United
States, gets drunk while driving in the
state of Oregon and is arrested by the
Oregon police. In fact, the ambassador
was not legally drunk and was unaware
of the Oregon prohibition of driving
while intoxicated. The local district
attorney decides to prosecute. What is
the ambassador's best defense?

A. Oregon does not have jurisdic-

tion.

B. He was not drunk.

C. He was ignorant of the law.

D. Oregon does not have jurisdic-
tion over foreigners in their
state.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 181

81. State Miseria Attorney General Ratlin
	has a pattern of convening grand juries
to investigate his political rivals and ex-
	tort "gifts" for his immediate relatives
in violation of a federal statute on abuse
of office. Moss is one such individual
so targeted for investigation. If Moss
sues the Attorney General of Miseria,
his suit will:

A. Be dismissed, because of the
doctrine of sovereign immu-
nity.	

Questions 83 — 85 are based on the
following facts:

Herbert and Jack are homosexual lovers.
They have been lovers for 10 years and
enjoy a monogamous relationship. Herbert
is of Asian descent and Jack is of African
descent. The fictional state of Madisonia
allows homosexual marriages, provided
that the would-be partners are of the same
race. Herbert and Jack apply for a marriage
license, but such is denied. They sue under
the U.S. Constitution.

B. Be dismissed, because of the

Eleventh Amendment.	

83. What is the state's best argument why
their prohibition should be upheld?

C. Be dismissed, because of the

Tenth Amendment.	

D. None of the above.

82. Independent Party presidential candi-
date Irwin Chummer is subpoenaed
by Congress regarding an investiga-
tion into political corruption, and is
requested to furnish lists of all "party
affiliates." Chummer refuses to furnish
the lists, and is held in contempt of
Congress. Chummer challenges this.
What will be his best argument?

A. Separation of powers.

B. Independent State Grounds.	

C. Irrelevance.

D. None of the above.

182 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

A. There is no constitutional right
to engage in consensual homo-
sexuality.

B. There is no constitutional right

to marry.

C. There is no constitutional right

in privacy.

D. Marriage regulations are within

a state's jurisdiction.

84. What is the defendants' best argu-

ment?

A. There is a constitutional right to

privacy.

B. There was a Due Process Clause

violation.

C. The state rule served no rational

basis. 

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
D. The state had no compelling

interest.

85. Under existing U.S. Supreme Court
precedent, who is likely to succeed on
federal appeal?

A. The state, because there is no
right to practice homosexuality.

B. The state, because there is no
right to homosexual privacy.

C. The defendants, because there
was a denial of Equal Protec-
tion.

D. None of the above, because this

is an open issue.

86. Monte purchases a newspaper entitled
"Swinging Singles." Later that eve-
ning, in the privacy of his home, he
reads an ad describing a video. The ad
promises "an array of 13-year-old girls,
performing all imaginable sexual acts."
Monte sends for the video. The video
is lawfully intercepted by the Post Of-
fice, then delivered to Monte. A proper
warrant to search Monte's apartment
for the video is obtained. Monte is then
prosecuted in his state for the "knowing
possession of obscene materials involv-
ing minors." Which of the following
propositions are correct?

I. The warrant was over-

broad.

II. The Post Office search
was in violation of the
Fourth Amendment.

III.The First Amendment
protects the right to pos-
sess obscenity involving
children in the home.

A. I and II only.

B. I only.

C. III only.

D. None of the above.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 183

O

O

Questions 87 — 89 are based on the
following facts:

A. No, because of the Supremacy

Clause.

B. No, because of the Privileges and

Immunities Clause.

C. No, because the President is the

Commander-in-Chief.

D. Yes, because of the Tenth Amend-

ment.

89. Assume for this question only, that
Lemon County has also banned all legal
and medical advertising — because they
are "unprofessional and have decreased
the quality of services." How should
these regulations be analyzed if chal-
lenged?

A. Vagueness Doctrine.

B. Ripeness Doctrine.

C. Commercial Speech Doctrine.

D. Just Compensation Clause.

The fictional County of Lemon, in the fic-
tional state of Reagonia, has been plagued
by a series of advertisements from certain
segments of the garment industry. The ads
purport to offer the lowest prices. The ads
indicate that the prices are so low because
the goods are imported and "Not Made in
America." Incensed by the ads, Lemon
County makes it a misdemeanor to advertise
clothing in the state.

87. Seeme Clothiers, of Lemon County,
challenges the outright ban. Will they
succeed?

A. No, because such is part of the

state's police powers.

B. No, because there was a legiti-
mate state interest shown.

C. Yes, because the ad was protected
under the First Amendment.

D. Yes, because of the Commerce

Clause.

88. Assume for this question only, that the
United States has made a treaty with
the foreign country which manufactures
Seeme's clothes, and the treaty allows
"free and unencumbered trade between
the two countries." Assume further that
the Lemon County law now prohibits
the sale of any clothing made outside
the United States. Is that revised Lemon
County ordinance lawful? 

184 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

	
	
90. The fictional state of Barrier requires
all of its attorneys to pass a moral fit-
ness exam in order to be licensed. The
burden is on the applicant to show good
moral character. Applicant Spendthrift,
10 years earlier, had declared bank-
ruptcy. In the last 8 years, however, he
has established a fine credit rating and
has held a steady job. Spendthrift, after
passing the bar, is denied a law license
by the Barrier Supreme Court, due
to his prior bankruptcy. What will be
Spendthrift's best argument on federal
appeal?

A. He is now morally fit.

B. Significant time has passed.

C. Barrier's ruling is contrary to
Congress's intent to allow bank-
rupt persons to start over.

D. None of the above.

91. Procedural due process differs from
substantive due process in that:

A. Procedural due process concerns
state regulation, while substan-
tive due process concerns federal
regulation.

B. There is no difference.

C. Procedural due process concerns
the right to notice and hearing,
while substantive due process
concerns the interpretation of
explicit and implicit liberties of
individuals.

D. None of the above.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 185

II. Yes, if he was punished
because it was burned in
an unreasonable time,
place and manner.

III. No, because there was no

hearing.

IV. No, because there is a
right to burn the U.S. flag
in political protest.

A. I and II only.

B. III and IV only.

C. II only.

D. IV only.

94. Assume for this question only, that
Junior's parents take him out of the
Jalonia Junior High School, and enroll
him in the Bush Academy, a private
school. Junior again burns a U.S. flag.
What is Junior's best argument in ap-
pealing this suspension?

A. Procedural due process.

B. Substantive due process.

C. First Amendment.

D. None of the above.

Questions 92 — 94 are based on the
following facts:

Junior attends Jalonia Junior High School
in the fictional city of Jalonia, a city in the
fictional state of Prisonia. Junior is a po-
litical activist. Having kept up on the latest
and most important United States Supreme
Court pronouncements, Junior realizes it is
his constitutional right to burn a U.S. flag in
political protest. Attempting to exercise this
right, Junior burns the Jalonia Junior High
School's U.S. flag, in the main auditorium
of the junior high school, in the middle of
the entering class's ceremony.

92. If Junior is summarily suspended for
one month from Jalonia Junior High
School, his constitutional rights have
been:

A. Denied, because he was not

given a prior hearing.

B. Denied, because flag-burning is

a right.

C. Not denied, because it was not a

specific political protest.

D. Not denied, because it was like
shouting "Fire!" in a crowded
theatre.

93. Can Junior be criminally punished for

this act of flag-burning?

I. Yes, if he was punished
because it was not his
flag. 

186 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

95. Intent on restoring family values, the
state of Alabama has just enacted a
statute whereby illegitimate children
cannot sue in tort for the wrongful death
of their parents. Is this a lawful state
regulation?

A. Yes, because of the Tenth Amend-

ment.

B. Yes, because Alabama has a
permissible interest in so legis-
lating.

C. Yes, because Alabama has a ra-
tional basis in so legislating.

D. None of the above.

96. The fictional state of Columbia, pre-
cludes all individuals who are color
blind and dyslexic from working as
technicians in the state's nuclear power
plant because of safety concerns. It
has been shown that many of these
individuals are capable of performing
the technical work required. Never-
theless, they are precluded. One such
individual, Hal Sims, sues based on a
denial of Fourteenth Amendment Equal
Protection. Will Hal's suit prevail?

A. Yes, if he could perform the re-

quired work.

B. Yes, because in this case there
was no compelling state inter-
est.

C. Yes, because there was no

rational basis.

D. No, because there was a rational

basis.

97. The state of Hawaii legislature, still
angered at the gross inequities placed
on the many by the few old landown-
ers before the state made that conduct
illegal, pronounces a list of the twenty
worst offenders. It also fines them
$25,000 each and declares them guilty
of a "misdemeanor against the People
of the State of Hawaii." They are not
sentenced, however, to any time in jail.
Under which of the following consti-
tutional clauses will these individuals
have a successful claim?

I.

Just Compensation.

II. Fifth Amendment Due

Process.

III. The Bills of Attainder

Clause.

IV. The Ex Post Facto

Clause.

A. I, II, III and IV.

B. III and IV only.

C. II only.

D. None of the above, since no jail

time was imposed. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 187

98. Fictional President George, after a
highly difficult, but successful, re-elec-
tion campaign, feeling duly grateful to
his Chief of Staff Snaker, bestows upon
him the title of "Royal Knight." The
title has no significance whatsoever,
but there is an official ceremony at the
White House. Ned Rader challenges
this gesture in federal court. Will Rader
succeed?

A. No, because the title has no sig-

nificance.

B. Yes, because it is a title of Nobil-

ity.

C. No, because it is analogous to a

Presidential Medal.

D. No, because Rader has no stand-

ing.

188 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Questions 99 — 100 are based on
the following facts:

Rawson is sentenced to death at the capital-
sentencing phase of his murder prosecution.
Over objection of the defense, the jury is
told that Rawson is a member of a white
supremacist group. Rawson is sentenced to
death and appeals the conviction based on
the prosecutor's allusion to his membership
in the white supremacist group.

99. What will Rawson's best constitutional

argument be?

A. That he is being subjected to
Cruel and Unusual Punishment.

B. That his Freedom of Association

Rights were abridged.

C. That his Free Speech rights were

abridged.

D. None of the above.

100. If Rawson's white supremacist group
did not advocate disobedience to the
law, and if both Rawson and the victim
are white, will Rawson prevail?

A. No, because Victim Impact state-

ments are admissible.

B. No, because the error was harm-

less.

C. No, because it was relevant.

D. Yes, because it was irrelevant. 

101. A story is written about movie star
Birdie Jones, in the tabloid, the Nation-
al Perspirer. In the story, it is revealed
that Birdie is infected with genital
herpes. If Jones sues the newspaper in
tort for defamation, she will:

A. Prevail, because such is damag-

ing.

B. Prevail, if the story was know-

ingly false.

C. Prevail, since she has a right to

privacy.

D. Fail, because she does not have

a right to privacy.

ND OF QUESTIONS 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 189

190 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
ANSWERS 

1. A is the correct answer. Junior's claim is
one of the Establishment of Religion in
violation of First Amendment. B is in-
correct because it is not a Speech claim.
It is true that First Amendment claims
against a state entity are made applica-
ble against the state by the incorporation
of some of the Bill of Rights under the
Fourteenth Amendment. However, the
true basis of his claim is the Religion
Clause of the First Amendment, so A is
better than C. D is not correct because
A is correct.

2. Question 2 differs from question one
in that Junior files his case in federal
court rather than state court. However,
this difference makes no difference to
the question. The correct answer is A
for the answer given in #1 above.

3. A is the correct answer. The test of Lem-
on v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1970)
is controlling. To not violate the Estab-
lishment Clause, a state practice must
have a secular purpose, a religiously
neutral effect and must not entangle a
religion with the government. Under a
similar fact pattern in Lee v. Weisman,
112 S.Ct. 2649 (1992), a benediction
by a rabbi before a school graduation
was held violative of the Clause. B
is incorrect because no facts indicate
Quail was forbidden to practice his own
religion. Choice C requires a more dif-
ficult analysis. Although it reasonably
appears that all recognized religions are
being treated equally, non-recognized
religions and atheism are not. More fun-
damentally, as Justice Kennedy, in Lee 
v. Weisman, supra, indicated, what be-
gins as a good faith practice in the area
of religion, too often historically ends in
persecution and forced indoctrination.
D is incorrect because the motives for
a person suing are not relevant, the is-
sue is whether he has a good cause of
action. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 191

6. D is the correct answer, since only
bring a constitutionally-based claim, the
individual must have standing. Stand-
ing requires that the individual's own
rights were denied. See, e.g., Simon v. 
Eastern Kentucky Welfare Rights Or-
ganization, 426 U.S. 26 (1976). Here,
since Don was, in fact, arrested under
this statute, he clearly has standing.
Thus, choice I is correct. Choice II
is correct because this controversy is
"ripe." Ripeness requires that the chal-
lenged statute is either being enforced,
has a real danger of imminently being
enforced, or is dissuading individuals
from pursuing their constitutionally
protected liberties via its existence. See
generally, Epperson v. Arkansas, 393
U.S. 97 (1968). Obviously, since Don
is actually being prosecuted under the
statute, the controversy is ripe. Choice
III is incorrect for the same reason that
choice II is correct. Had Don not been
arrested and had the statute been anti-
quated and never enforced, there would
be a problem of mootness. But that was
not at all the situation here. Choice IV
is incorrect because although aliens do
not enjoy all of the rights of citizens,
they do enjoy many, if not most of the
constitutional freedoms in this country.
See generally, Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U.S. 356 (1886).  

A

O

O

4. B is the correct answer because only
I is incorrect because whenever a state
sponsors religious activity, the Estab-
lishment Clause of the First Amend-
ment is implicated. (This Clause may
not require suspension of the activity,
but it is implicated.) Choice II is cor-
rect because significantly less First
Amendment protection is given when
it is adults, not school children, who
are subjected to the prayer/benediction.
See Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U.S. 783
(1983) (where Nebraska's practice of
allowing a prayer before legislative ses-
sion was allowed). Although a school
board meeting is not identical to a leg-
islative session, it is likely that  Marsh
controls. Choice III is correct because
were the purpose of the school board's
prayer to indoctrinate school commit-
tee members, then there would be an
Establishment Clause violation.

5. C is the correct answer. Don was at-
tempting to influence the marketplace
of ideas. Thus, the Free Speech Clause
is implicated. Since political parties are
generally not considered to be religions,
choice A, which cites to the Freedom of
Religion Clause, is incorrect. Choice
B is clearly incorrect because the Fifth
Amendment Due Process Clause is only
federally applicable-and this is a state
case. D is incorrect for the same reason
that C is correct.

192 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

9. C is the correct answer. Constitutional
claims must be ripe. As a general rule, a
statute which has been on the books for
some time, which is openly disobeyed
and which is not enforced indicates
there is no real controversy. Poe v. Ull-
man, 367 U.S. 497 (1961). A is incorrect
because, since the law is still on the
books, the point being challenged has
not been legally settled — therefore, it
is, by definition, not "moot." B is incor-
rect because the motive of the litigant
in bringing a law suit is, generally, of
de minimis importance. D is incorrect
because it misconstrues the meaning
of the Tenth Amendment (Independent
State Grounds Clause). Although a state
is permitted to expand the rights of its
citizens under its own constitution, it is
not permitted to remove rights which
are federally-guaranteed. Free speech
is federally mandated to the states by
way of the Fourteenth Amendment Due
Process Clause. 

7. A is the correct answer. Restrictions
on freedom of speech based on content
are subjected to the most heightened
degree of scrutiny. Because the law is
concerned with the message or content
of Don's speech, a high standard will be
used. Since choices B and C use lesser
standards, they are incorrect. Since A is
correct, obviously D is incorrect.

8. D is the correct answer. Although con-
stitutional claims based on the Freedom
of Speech are strictly scrutinized, and,
thus, the state is required to show a
compelling interest for the restriction
to be in harmony with the Constitu-
tion, because of the particular danger
of intimidation of voters at the polls,
this is one regulation which will satisfy
the difficult Strict Scrutiny test. Histori-
cally, intimidation and fraud at the polls
has been a real and recurrent evil. Thus,
Columbia's statute is constitutional.
In Burson v. Freeman, 112 S.Ct. 1846
(1992) a similar Tennessee statute (re-
quiring a 100 foot distance from the
polls) was upheld. Since the statute was
lawful, and the proper state burden was
a compelling interest, choices A, B and
C are incorrect.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 193

A

O

O

10. D is the correct answer. Although this
question is technically one of Criminal
Procedure, it serves to show the broad
overlap between these two subjects.
Under the Exclusionary Rule of the
Fourth Amendment, if there was unlaw-
ful governmental activity and illegal
evidence is discovered as a result of
that activity, that evidence is generally
to be suppressed. See Wong Sun v. 
United States, 371 U.S. 471 (1963). In
the case at hand, it is stipulated that the
law is unconstitutional. Since the arrest
and follow-up search were the fruit of
that, its result (the marijuana) is to be
suppressed. [Please note: although the
statute is, in law, constitutional, it is
"fair game" for a question to make a
stipulation which is ultimately incor-
rect. Therefore, students should avoid
reading questions on an exam and then
using them to go back and change the
answers on questions they have already
answered.] A is incorrect for the same
reasons that D is correct. B is incorrect
because there is no drug exception to
the warrant requirement. C is incorrect
because it disobeys the stipulation in
the call of the question.

11. A is the correct answer. The Com-
merce Clause mandates that a state is
not permitted to restrain the commerce
between itself and sister states. The
Clause essentially precludes economic
protectionism. Since State X's rule fa-
cially discriminated against State Y's
business, it is unconstitutional. The
language of the rule gave a "discount,"
as opposed to tacking on a surcharge,
is of no moment to the substance of
the regulation. See Chemical Waste
Management Inc. v. Hunt, 112 S.Ct.
2009 (1992). Since the Chemical Waste
case, supra, is directly on point, and
uses as its reason, the Commerce Clause
choices B, C and D are incorrect. D is
also incorrect because state sovereignty
falls to the requirements of the Com-
merce Clause.

12. B is the correct answer. The FFL ordi-
nance is a clear example of a facially
invalid ordinance in that it arbitrarily
restricts the freedom of speech. Since
the FFL, itself, was not outlawed, there
is no Freedom of Association claim.
Thus, A is incorrect. Since there are
no facts indicating the Simmee Board
treated other groups better, there is no
Equal Protection claim on these facts
and C is incorrect. Since it was speech
which was implicated, a more specific
claim would be phrased as "Speech,"
not "Due Process" so B is a better
choice than D.  

194 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

13. A is the correct answer because only
choice I is correct. Choice I is correct
because the Simmee Board and Mayor
were restraining the public speech in
advance of its occurrence. This, by defi-
nition, is a prior restraint. Choice II is
factually incorrect. Although a city may
place reasonable time, place and man-
ner restrictions on public speech; this
regulation is unlawful because it placed
too much power in the Board. See
Forsyth County v. Nationalist Move-
ment, 112 S.Ct. 2395 (1992). Choice
III is obviously incorrect because a city
government's regulation is considered
to be state/governmental action; it is the
official action of a government subdivi-
sion.

14. A is the correct answer because choices
I and II are correct. Choice I is correct
because although a city is allowed
to place time/place/manner limits on
public speech, such must be narrowly
tailored. The Simmee Board, in its
unchecked ability to set the cost, did
not utilize such a narrow restriction.
Choice II is correct because one of the
fears underlying the First Amendment
was governmental abuse of power used
to suppress speech. In Simmee, the
Board had too much power. It could
effectively drive out public speech by
setting an oppressively high licensing
fee. Choice III is incorrect because both
I and II are correct, B, C and D are not
correct answers.

15. C is the correct answer. In order for
there to be a § 1983 claim, there must
be a constitutional violation on the part
of the city. It is not enough that the city
committed a tort, choice A. Such tort
may give rise to a successful civil suit,
but not a § 1983 claim. See Collins v. 
Harker Heights, 112 S.Ct. 1061 (1992).
Choice B, although probably correct,
is not as good an answer as choice C.
Although most crimes committed under
the color of governmental authority
will also be violations of constitutional
rights, the true issue is whether there
was a constitutional violation — not
whether there was a crime. Since C is
correct, and since B is arguably correct,
D is incorrect.

16. D is the correct answer. A is incorrect
because mere negligence in the govern-
ing of a city does not in and of itself
create a successful constitutional due
process claim. Collins, supra answer
15, indicated such (on similar facts). B
is incorrect because it begs the ques-
tion. For there to be a successful § 1983
claim, there must be an underlying
constitutional violation. Such is not
indicated here. C is factually incorrect .
The city appears to have been negligent.
Sharon likely has a suit — but her suit
is not properly based on due process
grounds. Since A, B and C are all incor-
rect; D (none of the above) is the correct
answer. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 195

17. B is the correct answer. The effect of
the Perotia regulation was, in fact, eco-
nomic protectionism. Local waste-pro-
ducers are afforded an advantage over
out-of-state waste-producers. Thus, the
Commerce Clause prohibits such. See
Fort Gratiot Sanitary Landfill v. Michi-
gan Department of Natural Resources,
112 S.Ct. 2019 (1992). Although choice
A offers a correct statement that a state
can prevent pollution, it is incorrect if
the state violates the Constitution in so
doing. C is factually incorrect because
an economic advantage is given to in-
state waste-producers. D is incorrect for
the same reason that B is correct.

A

0

cn
0

18. B is the correct answer. Duke was
essentially expressing ideas. Thus,
the First Amendment (by way of the
Fourteenth Amendment Due Process
Clause) is most at issue — when it is
his expressions which are being cur-
tailed by the state. Although choice A
is superficially appealing in that Duke
was expressing ideas about the Second
Amendment, in no way were his gun
rights then curtailed. Alternately stated,
the ordinance regulated not only those
expressing ideas about gun rights, but
also those expressing any ideas in the
airport setting. Thus, choice A is incor-
rect. Since Duke was not prevented
from associating with other believers
in the Second Amendment and since
he was free to organize Second Amend-
ment activities elsewhere, his Freedom
of Association rights were not abridged.
C is therefore incorrect. D is obviously
incorrect because in no way did these
facts indicate any restraint on interstate
commerce. If the student chose this
answer, he/she should remember that
previous questions on a multiple choice
exam do not influence the answers to
later questions ! 

196 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

19. D is the correct answer. As set out
in International Society for Krishna
Consciousness v. Lee, 112 S.Ct. 2701
(1992) [hereinafter, ISKC-I], airports
are not considered to be "public forums"
for First Amendment Free Speech pur-
poses. Airports are a new phenomenon
and will not be given the status of, e.g.,
a public park. Since sidewalks outside
the airport are available for exercising
speech rights and due to the hurried
nature of air travel, the most protec-
tive level of expression was held to be
inappropriate. A is incorrect because
the mere fact that the public is allowed
in a place, does not make that place a
"public forum." For obvious example,
the public is allowed within a courtroom
to watch trials, but the courtroom is
not a public forum. B is incorrect for
the same reasons that D is correct. C
is incorrect because some areas which
are privately-owned may become state
actors because of their relationship with
the government. Once they are treated
as state actors and government property,
they may then become public forums.
Moreover, no facts indicated the Wayne
Airport to be privately-owned.

A

20. A is the correct answer. Commercial
solicitation of funds in an airport can
be prohibited. Duke was asking for
money when arrested on July 4. The test
to be used is whether the limitation is
merely reasonable. In ISKC-I, supra, it
was held similar regulation was reason-
able. A compelling interest need not be
shown by the state — since airports are
not public forums. B is incorrect not
only because it misses the key issue (the
solicitation of funds), but also because
we know of no evidence indicating
the danger of small cactus plants. C
is incorrect because no facts indicate
the airport was privately-owned. D is
incorrect for the same reasons that A is
correct.

21. A is the correct answer. On July 6 he
was again attempting to solicit funds
— this time by selling books. Since the
county regulation was reasonable due
to the nature of an airport (it is not a
public forum), such can be prohibited.
See ISKC-I. B is incorrect because
if an individual is in a public forum,
although many will consider him/her
to be a "nuisance," such activity is
nevertheless protected. C is incorrect
because no facts indicate the airport
was privately-owned. D is incorrect
because the First Amendment Free
Speech Clause is subject to reasonable
time, place and manner restrictions. It
is not an absolute. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 197

A

O

cn
O

22. D is the correct answer. On July 8,
Duke was not soliciting funds. He was
giving literature away for free. Thus,
since there was no commercial activ-
ity, there is a heightened First Amend-
ment protection. In short, although it
is reasonable to restrict solicitation of
funds, it is not reasonable to restrict
disseminating literature at airports at
no fee. See Lee v. International Society 
for Krishna Consciousness, 112 S.Ct.
2709 (1992) [hereinafter, ISKC-II]. A
is incorrect because on July 8 he was
not soliciting funds. He was merely
giving away literature. Thus, the facts
distinguish this case from ISKC-I. B is
incorrect because if the U.S. Constitu-
tion enshrines a fundamental right, a
state pattern of abrogating that right
in no way shifts the inquiry to the
defendant regarding his assuming the
risk by continuing in his constitution-
ally-protected activity. If such were the
law, there would be nothing left of the
Bill of Rights — provided a state had
a pattern of disallowing its clauses. C
is incorrect because although a citizen
may have other options in exercising
her constitutional liberties, the state is
not permitted to use such as a defense
in curtailing those liberties.

23. D is the correct answer. As held in
ISKC-I and ISKC-II, airports are not
public forums. Thus, a county can
restrict speech activity there if such
restriction is reasonable in light of the
purposes of the forum and not an at-
tempt to suppress the speaker's view-
point. The stringent compelling interest
test is to be used only in public forums.
A is therefore incorrect because the fact
that the First Amendment is implicated
does not require always utilizing the
compelling interest level of scrutiny. B
is incorrect because Duke was not ar-
rested for a gun violation and because
the Second Amendment has not been
made applicable to the states. C is in-
correct for the same reasons that D is
correct.

24. A is the correct answer. As indicated by
ISKC-I and ISKC-II, the airports are not
public forums but non-public forums,
the reasonableness test is appropriate
as long as the regulation is not an at-
tempt to suppress the viewpoint of the
speaker. B, C and D are incorrect for
the same reasons that A is correct. 

198 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

25. D is the correct answer because only
choice I is correct. It is stipulated that
Duke's rights were, in part, violated.
The right violated occurred in the July
8 arrest by Darby. Duke's distribution
of free literature on July 8 was First
Amendment protected. A § 1983 suit
can be brought when there is such a
violation of civil rights. Thus, the gov-
ernmental body responsible for the ordi-
nance can be liable. The Port Authority
was that body, so choice I is correct.
Choices II and III are incorrect because
the arrests by Bart and Cary were for
commercial solicitation and, thus, were
valid under ISKC-I. Although Darby's
arrest was invalid, her (likely) good
faith is a complete defense to a § 1983
claim, so choice IV is incorrect.

26. B is the correct answer. The Congres-
sional Act may infringe on the Tenth
Amendment, which mandates that the
federal government not take powers
which were not expressly given to it,
by the Constitution. It is arguable that
in ordering the states to take title to
their own waste and pay damages, the
federal government is usurping state
power. Although in choice A there may
be some restraint on commerce, the re-
straint is by the federal government, so
the Commerce Clause is not implicated.
Although the Ninth Amendment might
be relevant in that it protects against
federal encroachment of unenumerated
rights, the history of that Amendment
indicates an unwillingness of the U.S.
Supreme Court to use it. B is incor-
rect. Choice D is viable, but not the
best alternative. It is difficult to see
how this could constitute a taking of
private property. Therefore, D is incor-
rect. Moreover, in New York v. United
States, 112 S.Ct. 2408 (1992) an issue
much like this was discussed. The High
Court chose to frame its analysis around
the Tenth Amendment. Therefore, since
there is a case directly on point, such is
controlling. The student should there-
fore note that success in Constitutional
Law depends as much on knowing the
key case holdings as it does on skill in
analysis. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 199

A...„..,,...,,.

27. C is the correct answer. This is a difficult
question, which, again, may require
knowledge of the case cited in answer
26. Our constitutional system sets up a
balance between the state and federal
governments. The federal government
can pre-empt state regulation which
is clearly contrary to federal interests.
But such jurisprudence falls short of
allowing the federal government to re-
quire the states to administer a federal
regulatory scheme. That would violate
the Tenth Amendment. In providing
incentives to the states to dispose of
waste, the Tenth Amendment has not
been violated. Thus, clauses 1 and 2
of the Act pass constitutional muster.
Therefore, choices A and B are in-
correct (because clauses 1 and 2 do
not violate the Tenth Amendment).
However, in mandating the states to
follow a regulatory scheme (clause 3),
Congress stepped over the fine line and
usurped states' rights. Therefore, C is
correct and D is incorrect. With this
analysis, the legitimate federal interest
in promoting waste disposal is allowed,
while the state government method is
not usurped.

28. B is the correct answer. The Island
Supreme Court should strike down the
more burdensome law of the city. A is
incorrect because freedom of association
is not the reason Norris will prevail. C
is incorrect because independant state
grounds is a doctrine on federal court
power to review state decisions. Bob
Norris' action is being brought in state
court. The doctrine of independent state
grounds does not apply.

29. D is the correct answer. Review of state
court decisions by the U.S. Supreme
Court is generally discretionary. It is
by petition on writ of certiorari. The
writ is granted when 4 of the 9 justices
wish to hear the case. Cases may be
accepted when there is confusion in
constitutional law, when there is a split
among the federal circuits or when the
justices desire to make a change in
the law. But, the point is, the decision
whether or not to review is in the hands
of the judges of the High Court. Thus,
choices A, B and C, which all indicate
the U.S. Supreme Court either must or
must not accept review, are incorrect.  

200 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

30. A is the correct answer. Under Illinois
State Board of Education v. Socialist
Worker's Party, 440 US 173 (1979),
the U.S. Supreme Court indicated that
the association rights implicit in the
First and Fourteenth Amendments are
infringed by ballot access rules. The
state must meet strict scrutiny to justify
their ballot restrictions. B is incorrect
because it states the rational basis test.
C is incorrect because this is not a fed-
eralism question, but an infringement
on fundamental federal constitutional
rights. Thus, the Tenth Amendment is
inapplicable. D is incorrect for the same
reason that A is correct.

31. A is the correct answer. Although in
Planned Parenthood of Southeastern
Pennsylvania v. Casey, 112 S.Ct. 2791
(1992) [hereinafter Casey], the abor-
tion right was limited; such was not
over-ruled. Under Roe v. Wade, 410
U.S. 113 (1973), there was no right
to abortion when the fetus was viable,
i.e., in the third trimester because the
state's interest in protecting potential
life normally outweighed the mother's
right to terminate her pregnancy during
that time. Since this aspect of Roe has
remained intact, since Clause 1 did little
else than reiterate this and since the Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals must follow the
U.S. Supreme Court's pronouncements,
choice A is correct. Choices B and C are
incorrect because a first trimester fetus
has not been held to be a human. D is
incorrect for the same reasons that A is
correct.

32. D is the correct answer. Under Casey,
supra answer 31, the rigid trimester test
of Roe was abandoned. Under that test,
the woman had a right to abortion in
the First Trimester. Under Roe, there
could be no pre-viability regulation,
since the state's interests were not
compelling enough at that time. Under
Casey, however, a new "undue burden"
standard was created. Thus, pre-vi-
ability regulation is acceptable if such
does not place an undue burden on the
constitutionally-protected privacy right
of abortion. A one-day notice of alterna-
tives requirement, although a burden,
is not an undue burden — and, thus, is
constitutional under Casey. A is incor-
rect because the pre-viability regulation
aspect of Roe was abandoned. Although
B offers a correct statement of law,
abortion is not now... and even under
Roe, was not an absolute right. There
are and have been limitations. Choice C
is correct. However, D is a legally more
specific answer, and, thus, is the better
choice. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 201

35. A is the correct answer. When it is a
minor woman who wishes to have an
abortion, her decision may not be as
intelligently-made as that of an adult
female. Thus, under the Casey reason-
ing, supra answer 31, this limitation is
constitutional. Under the Casey analysis
as found by the Supreme Court, insu-
lation from others wishing to counsel
against the abortion is not required.
Thus, A is correct. Choices B, C and D
are incorrect under the law of Casey,
for the same reasons that A is correct.
B and C are incorrect because the rigid
trimester analysis of Roe has been aban-
doned. D is incorrect because the issue
is no longer open.

36. D is the correct answer. Requiring abor-
tion clinics and doctors to keep records
indicating that they have complied with
the constitutional aspects of a state's
law is legitimate. But, a clinic/doctor
cannot be compelled to keep a record
of something which they must not do.
The requirement of Clause 4 (husband
notification) places an undue burden
on the woman, Casey supra answer 31,
thus, choice D is correct. Since Clauses
1, 2, 3 and 5 are constitutional; choices
A, B and C, which each require excis-
ing one or more of these, are logically
incorrect.

A

0

...cc

cn
0 

33. D is the correct answer. All three aspects
of Clause 3 are constitutional under
Casey, supra answer 31, in that none
of them place an undue burden on the
woman seeking an abortion. The medi-
cal emergency aspect of Clause 3, in no
way limits the abortion right — thus, it
is certainly correct. The informed and
consent aspects of Clause 3, although
imposing a burden on the abortion right,
are little more than the requirement
that the woman be told of other options
prior. Thus, under the Casey test, they
are acceptable. Although choices A, B
and C all include approval of one aspect
of Clause 3, only choice D indicates all
three aspects of the clause are correct.
Thus, A, B and C are incorrect and D
is correct.

34. D is the correct answer. It may seem
that the requirement of notice to the
husband is no more burdensome than
the prior clauses, but the U.S. Supreme
Court held otherwise. The reasoning is
predicated on the fact that the women
so required are beyond the age of ma-
jority and that it is, thus, her decision
— not her husband's. Such clause would
prove to be an undue burden when,
for example, the husband and wife are
separated. Since it is the woman's inter-
est which is paramount, this clause is
unconstitutional. A is incorrect because
even notice to the husband is potentially
incendiary — and may be restrictive of
the abortion right. B is incorrect be-
cause the burden analysis focuses on the
woman — not her husband. C is incorrect
for the same reasons that D is correct.

202 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

37. B is the correct answer. The Commerce
Clause is violated when a state imposes
a use tax on a mail order business which
lacks a substantial nexus with the state.
Although selling goods in the state is
a sufficient minimum contact for Due
Process Clause analysis, it will not per
se satisfy the protections required by
the Commerce Clause. In fact, in  Quill 
Corp. v. North Dakota, 112 S.Ct. 1904
(1992), such a tax was held to violate
the Commerce Clause. Since choice A
utilized the inappropriate Due Process
test, it is incorrect. Since choices C and
D reached an incorrect conclusion (even
though the correct test was used), they
are incorrect.

A

38. D is the correct answer. The Clin-
tonia Hate Crime Law violates the
First Amendment Freedom of Speech
Clause (as applied to the states by the
Fourteenth Amendment Due Process
Clause). It is "overbroad" in that it goes
beyond the constitutional standard for
punishment in substantially all of its
applications. The law not only prohib-
its so-called fighting words, but also
prohibits the stating of views which,
though unpopular, are within the tra-
ditional domain of First Amendment
protection. For example, under the
Hate Crime Law as written, it would be
criminal to give a speech denouncing
one race. Of course such is offensive
— but traditional and present analysis
protects such — leaving it to the free
market of ideas to prove it wrong. See
R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul, Minnesota,
112 S.Ct. 2538 (1992). Choice A is in-
correct because the fact that all of the
written elements of a crime are pres-
ent does not insulate the crime from
constitutional attack (or defense). B is
incorrect because although Skin's acts
were undoubtedly not constitutionally
protected, nevertheless, he must be
convicted under a legitimate, i.e., con-
stitutional crime. Thus, B is incorrect
for the same reasons that D is correct.
C is incorrect because although there
was no mens rea (mental state) in the
crime, this is not relevant to the Free
Speech question at issue. D is the better
choice. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 203

A

O

0

39. D is the correct answer. Although Skin
committed a criminal assault, to be
convicted he must be charged under
a constitutional crime. This crime
was facially unconstitutional in that
it prohibited not only unprotected
speech and action, but it also prohib-
ited protected speech. For example, it
prohibited a public forum racist/sexist
speech. Though such is distasteful, the
U.S. Supreme Court has realized that
it is a greater danger to prohibit such
than it is to allow it. Alternately stated,
the Hate Crime Law was overbroad.
A is incorrect because a conviction
is unconstitutional if the crime is un-
constitutional — regardless of whether
the defendant was proven to commit it
and regardless of whether there is an-
other, different, crime under which the
defendant should have been charged.
B is incorrect. Although Skin's threat
was a criminal assault — was "fighting
words" — the crime under which he was
charged is clearly unconstitutional. See
R.A.V. v. St. Paul, supra answer 38.
Although C is arguably correct, some
crimes can be "strict liability" — often
the court will read in a mens rea — but
more importantly, D is a better choice.
Thus, C is incorrect.

204 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

40. C is the correct answer, since both
choices I and II are correct. This ques-
tion does not call for a judgment wheth-
er the statute is constitutional. Rather,
it simply calls for statutory analysis.
Since the facts indicate that Toggle
was paid $7333 by Violence Press and
inferentially, that Violence Press did
not pay the Bronsonia Victim's Fund,
it is reasonable to conclude they vio-
lated §208.2. Thus, choice I is correct.
These same facts reasonably indicate
that Toggle kept this money — did not
pay it to the Bronsonia Victim's Fund.
Therefore, choice II is correct. Since
C alone includes choices I and II, it is
correct.

41. D is the best answer. Bronsonia adopted
a so-called "Son of Sam" law. The U.S.
Supreme Court examined a similar law
in Simon & Schuster Inc. v. Members
of the New York State Crime Victim's 
Board, 112 S.Ct. 501 (1991). In broad
statement, it was there held that such
laws violate the First Amendment Free
Speech and Press Clauses. Moreover,
paying close attention to the facts of
Question #41, it appears that Junkins
was not even in violation of the statute!
Junkins was neither the co-author nor
the lawyer. Therefore, choices A, B and
C are all obviously incorrect. Although
the reason why the prosecution would
fail (which is given in choice D) is
incorrect — or at the least incomplete
nevertheless, D is the best of the an-
swers given. 

42. B is the correct answer, since choices
I and II are correct. Choice I is correct
because, in order to limit First Amend-
ment Free Speech and Press on the
basis of content, the regulation must be
narrowly tailored to further a compel-
ling state interest. Choice II is correct
because in placing a burden on those
who merely admitted to crimes (but
who were not prosecuted or convicted),
§208.1 was overbroad. If First Amend-
ment freedoms are to be limited by the
law, the limitation must be narrowly
tailored. Choice III is false because the
Bronsonia procedure is an after-the-fact
punishment of speech and therefore
does not set up a prior resraint.

43. C is the correct answer. Article I, §2 of
the U.S. Constitution provides certain
rudimentary requirements regarding
the allotment to the states of Repre-
sentatives (e.g., no fewer than one).
However, constitutional jurisprudence
has essentially left the matter in the
hands of Congress. Since the early part
of this century, Congress has utilized
an "equal apportionment" method. In
United States Department of Commerce
v. Montana, 112 S.Ct. 1415 (1992), this
method was challenged. The High court
upheld it. A is incorrect because the
method of apportionment is essentially
within the domain of Congress. There-
fore, choices A and B, which make it
mandatory, are incorrect. C is correct
because Congress is within its legiti-
mate jurisdiction by using this method.
D is incorrect for the same reasons that
C is correct.

A

44. B is the correct answer because only
choices I and III are correct. State-run
(public) schooling is considered to be
state-action; and, thus, as in Brown v. 
Board, there are constitutional ramifica-
tions of such. In Brown, it was reasoned
that separate public schools, based on
race, are inherently unequal. Thus,
choice I is correct. In discerning which
aspect of the Fourteenth Amendment
was violated, that court logically chose
the Equal Protection Clause (since
similarly situated individuals were not
being treated in a like manner). Thus,
choice III is correct. Since the court did
not rely on other aspects of the Four-
teenth Amendment, choices II and IV
are incorrect.

45. D is the correct answer. As recently
held in United States v. Fordice, 112
S.Ct. 2727 (1992), the repercussions
of de jure segregation are in no way al-
leviated by an open admissions policy
(race-neutrality) that perpetuates past
discrimination. Thus, A is incorrect.
Similarly, if the effects of segregation
still exist, then, as a matter of law, there
is more that can be accomplished — so
B is incorrect. C is incorrect because
the state-applicable Fourteenth Amend-
ment specifically limits states' rights. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 205

46. B is the correct answer because choices
I, II and III are correct. Choice I is
correct because an individual cannot
utilize court process unless he or she
has a claim in which she is a party.
Here, Daniel lacks sufficient nexus to
the issue. There are no facts that he is
a mobile home park landlord, or that
he is trying to raise rents, or even that
he lives in Marblestone. Choice II is
correct because there is no justifiable
argument at present (see previous an-
swer on standing). More fundamentally,
choice III is correct because there is
no present controversy, nor is Daniel a
party to anything. Choice IV is incor-
rect because although Yee v. City of
Escondido, 112 S.Ct. 1522 (1992) held
there is no constitutional taking in this
situation, there is still a federal question
to be decided.

47. A is the correct answer. An individual
needs more than a mere possibility of
economic interest to have his case be
heard. Norris' "case" is not ripe. For
it to be ripe, he would have to buy the
park and attempt to raise the rent. As
Yee, supra answer 46 indicates, such
an ordinance is not a taking and, thus,
does not implicate the Just Compensa-
tion Clause. Therefore, choices B and
C are incorrect. D is incorrect for the
same reasons that A is correct.

48. A is the correct answer. For those stu-
dents choosing an incorrect answer, it
should be remembered that prior ques-
tions do not teach the law [i.e., Question
47 may have indicated incorrect law.]
As Yee, supra answer 46 indicated,
for there to be a governmental taking,
thus, implicating the Just Compensa-
tion Clause of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments (via Due Process), there
must be a physical occupation/trespass/
invasion of the property or a regulatory
taking that goes too far. This kind of
rent control law does not implicate the
Clause. B is incorrect because the Just
Compensation Clause was selectively
incorporated into the state-applicable
Fourteenth Amendment Due Process
Clause. C is incorrect because the case
is ready for adjudication. D is incorrect
for the same reasons that A is correct.

49. D is the correct answer. As indicated in
Richmond Newspapers. Inc. v. Virginia,
448 U.S. 555 (1980), the public and
press have a First Amendment right
to have trial be open. Thus, open tri-
als are not only for the benefit of the
parties — but are also for the benefit of
society's perception of justice. Thus,
party consent is essentially irrelevant
and A is incorrect. Choices B and C are
incorrect for the same reason that D is
correct. 

206 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

50. D is the correct answer. Richmond
Newspapers, supra answer 49, indicates
that all trials must usually be open to the
press and public — regardless of party
consent. Thus, D is correct and A, B and
C are incorrect.

51. C is the correct answer. In Gannett
Co.. Inc. v. DePasquale, 443 U.S. 368
(1979), it was held that in certain ex-
tenuating/prejudicial circumstances
the press and public could be barred
from pre-trial admissibility hearings
— provided that a transcript of the hear-
ing was made available to the press and
public soon thereafter. Thus, since there
is a diminished First Amendment right
in the fact-pattern of pre-trial, the press
and public do not have an absolute right
to be there. Therefore, A is incorrect. B
is incorrect because, as a general rule,
the press and public can be present at
pretrial hearings. D is incorrect for the
same reasons that C is correct.

52. D is the correct answer. It matters not
that the trial concerns an alleged victim
who is a minor. Richmond Newspapers,
supra answer 49, draws no distinction.
Thus, post-trial availability of a tran-
script does not cure the First Amend-
ment flaw. Therefore, choices A and C
are incorrect. Similarly, since the free
press right is not only for the parties, but
for the public at large, minor consent
is essentially irrelevant and B is incor-
rect.

53. C is the correct answer. Waller v. Geor-
gia, 467 U.S. 39 (1984), indicates that
cameras in the courtroom is a matter of
state decision. There is no constitutional
First Amendment Free Press right to
televise court proceedings. Some states
do and some do not. Interestingly, the
U.S. Supreme Court does not allow its
own proceedings to be televised. Noth-
ing in the Constitution mandates it, and
nothing prohibits it. Therefore, under
the Tenth Amendment (Independent
State Grounds Clause), such is within
the discretion of the states. For the same
(above) reasons that C is correct, A, B
and D are incorrect.

54. B is the correct answer. Under Em-
ployment Division v. Smith, the Court
stated that criminal statutes applied
evenhandedly towards religion may
regulate conduct arguably the subject of
a Free Exercise claim. Thus, if Jessica's
requiring $400 dues per month is con-
strued to be a fee for her sexual encoun-
ters, then she may well be found guilty
of prostitution. A is incorrect because
the Freedom of Religion Clause does
not protect all "conduct." C is incor-
rect because consent is irrelevant to the
crime of prostitution. D is incorrect for
two reasons. First, the U.S. Supreme
Court is loathe to adjudge the merits
or lack thereof of a religion. Cf. United
States v. Ballard, 322 U.S. 78 (1944).
Second, even if a religion is legitimate
and traditional, nevertheless conduct of
its adherents can be regulated. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 207

A

0

cn
0

55. A is the correct answer. Prostitution
is sex-for-hire. Obviously, if Jessica's
church had other functions and activi-
ties and if the payment of money was
not for sex with Jessica, she can argue
that the gravamen of her religion was
not sex-for-hire. These arguments may
not be accepted, but they are the best of
the offered answers. B is a weak answer
— there can be a house of prostitution
even if there is only one prostitute. C
might be correct, except that it is less
specific than A. Taken literally, C is a
poor answer — because even in a brothel
there are other activities besides sex
(e.g., presumably talking and sleep-
ing). D is incorrect because religious
conduct is not always First Amendment
protected, Smith supra answer 54.

56. Answer B is correct. The Court in Law-
rence v. Texas (2003) stopped just short
of holding that there is a fundamental
right of privacy to engage in non-mari-
tal sexual activity for all persons. That
case and Eisenstadt v. Baird, contained
much that casts great doubt on a state's
authority to criminalize consentual ex-
tra-marital sexual activity between two
persons. Thus, answer A is not correct
and answer B is closer to the sense of
Lawrence. Answers C and D are irrel-
evant.

208 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

57. B is the correct answer. Although the
First Amendment Freedom of the Press
will not allow the incitement of another
to imminent lawless activity, most any-
thing short of that is protected. Bran-
denburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444 (1969).
Writing a book on an unusual religion
and/or on unusual sex is certainly First
Amendment protected. A is arguably
correct, but it is not the best answer,
simply because the book appears to be
available to the general public. It does
not appear to be the dogma of Jessica's
church. C is incorrect because the pen-
umbra privacy right flowing from the
whole Bill of Rights is not the basis for
her claim. She is not engaging in this
behavior under this question, but writ-
ing about it. D is incorrect because the
book has little to do with association
and more to do with speech.

58. A is the correct answer. In Griswold
v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479 (1965),
it was held that making criminal the
use of contraceptives between a hus-
band and wife was unconstitutional in
that the marital right to privacy was
fundamental. Thus, what Jessica does
with her husband, in the bedroom, is
constitutionally protected. B is incorrect
because it misreads the facts, Jessica's
right to marry was not being questioned.
C is incorrect because religious conduct
is not always protected by the Free Ex-
ercise clause. Smith supra answer 54.
D is incorrect for the same reasons that
A is correct. 

59. D is the correct answer. In a long line
of cases, the U.S. Supreme Court has
upheld the validity of the so-called
Sunday closing laws. Were the Court
to have construed these laws as Estab-
lishing the Christian Sabbath, then, of
course, they would have been suspect.
However, they have been upheld on
secular grounds. That is, they promote
a uniform day of rest and repose in the
community. Such has been held to be a
valid state interest. McGowan v. Mary-
land, 366 U.S. 420 (1961); Two Guys 
v. McGinley, 366 U.S. 582 (1961).
A is incorrect because the law in no
way limits Rex Bookstore's offering
of specific books or their availability
to be open on other days of the week.
B is incorrect because the Commerce
Clause is irrelevant to intrastate regu-
lation. It forbids states interfering with
commerce between their sister states.
C is incorrect because the Blue Laws
have been construed as non-religious in
content. Since A, B and C are incorrect;
D is the best choice.

A

0

=11
0

r- 

60. D is the correct answer. Although this
question poses a more difficult query
than in Question 59, supra, the analysis
is the same. The Sunday closing laws
have been held not to be an establish-
ment of religion for the purpose of es-
tablishing the Christian Sabbath. Rather
they are for creating a uniform day of
rest. The purpose is secular — not reli-
gious. Thus, A is incorrect. Braunfeld v. 
Braun, 366 U.S. 599 (1961); Gallagher
v. Crown Kosher Market, 366 U.S. 67
(1960). B is incorrect because the exer-
cise of Judaism, itself, was not impeded
by the law. Some conduct motivated
by religion may have been made more
economically burdensome — but the law
was neutral on its face. C is incorrect
because the state, in fact, performed
no taking. It may have made business
more difficult — but such does not rank
as a taking. Therefore, since choices
A, B and C are incorrect, D is the best
answer.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 209

62. D is the correct answer. As indicated by
Wooley, supra answer 61, Ted's appeal
will be successful on First Amendment
grounds. A is incorrect because, even
though he did deface public property,
the First Amendment may still bar con-
viction for some crimes. B is incorrect
because, although there is a constitu-
tional distinction between belief and
conduct, not all conduct is automatical-
ly able to be regulated consistent with
the Free Exercise Clause. C is incorrect
because Freedom of Association is not
implicated by the problem. D is correct
for the same reasons that A, B and C are
incorrect. 

61. A is the correct answer. This question is
important in showing two points. First,
in constitutional analysis, it is always
important to discern which clause is at
issue. Second, the law is not always per-
fectly logical. Rather, the law is driven
by case decisions which are directly on
point. Thus, mastery of Constitutional
law requires knowing the holdings of
the basic cases. A correct answer to
this question requires knowledge of the
important case of Wooley v. Maynard,
430 U.S. 705 (1977). There, it was held
that a Jehovah's Witness had the right
to cover what he believed to be the
sacrilegious motto of New Hampshire's
license plate: "Live Free or Die".
Since the case precedent is couched
in terms of Free Speech and not Free
Exercise, A is the correct answer. Cur-
rently, Employment Division v. Smith
would make a free exercise claim much
weaker against a neutral state law of
general applicability, like the license
plate regulation. Since Wooley is con-
trolling, B is correct and A is incorrect.
Since no facts whatsoever indicate an
unlawful search or seizure, choice C
is obviously incorrect. Since no facts
indicate Ted's association rights were
in any way infringed, D is obviously
incorrect.

210 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

63. C is the correct answer. Although none
of these answers state the correct rule
of law with precision, C is the so-called
"best of the worst." In West Virginia
Board of Education v. Barnette, 319
U.S. 624 (1943), it was held that requir-
ing a grade school student to salute the
flag, when such impinged on his ability
not to be forced into supporting or ap-
pearing to support the viewpoint of the
government violated his Free Speech
rights. A is factually incorrect because
this act did infringe on his freedom
of religion and the Court should not
be in the position of judging what is
truly contrary to a person's religious
beliefs. B is incorrect because, in the
case at hand, Jeremiah's beliefs are be-
ing interfered with by the state. Thus,
family values are being infringed. D is
incorrect because adjudging the merits
(or alleged lack thereof) of a religion is
antithetical to the Free Exercise Clause.
Cf. United States v. Ballard, 322 U.S.
78 (1944). Although nothing in the
Constitution explicitly protects "family
values," C is, nevertheless, the "best"
answer, since it reaches the correct
conclusion without badly misstating the
law of the Free Speech Clause.

A

O

O

64. B is the correct answer. Although there
are certainly some limits as to when a
parent can take a child out of a public
school for due process Privacy reasons,
when this is based on religious reasons
the U.S. Supreme Court has been more
tolerant. Thus, in Wisconsin v. Yoder,
406 U.S. 205 (1972), a parent was al-
lowed to cease a child's education at 14
even though the state required educa-
tion until the age of 16. Since this case
is directly on point and corresponds to
the facts in this question, B is the correct
answer. Note, Yoder was reconfirmed
by the Court's opinion and  Employment
Division v. Smith, even after Smith
changed Free Exercise jurisprudence.
Although the child may "lose out," a
principle of our constitutional juris-
prudence is to not adjudge different
views on how religions conduct their
family affairs. Thus, A is incorrect. C
is partially correct and partially incor-
rect. The state does have a compelling
interest in the education of minors and
this interest will allow interference of a
parent in a minor's education but only
up to a point. In Yoder, supra, that point
was not met. So, essentially, C is legally
correct and factually incorrect. D is
clearly incorrect because public schools
have jurisdiction over their students.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 211

65. C is the correct answer. This issue was
directly addressed in Pierce v. Society
of Sisters, 268 U.S. 510 (1925). Pro-
vided that the private religious school
teaches the basics (reading, writing,
science), the state cannot forbid such
under Fourteen Amendment Due Pro-
cess. The Supreme Court used Privacy
to decide Pierce (choice I). Choice II,
Free Exercise, would also be correct
here under Yoder. However, there is
no claim that this is an establishment
clause violation, unless the state is try-
ing to make students attend school in
order to advance or inhibit religious
belief. There are no facts on that point
here. Thus, II is incorrect. Therefore,
C is correct and A, B and D are incor-
rect.

66. A is the correct answer. The Free Exer-
cise Clause of the First Amendment has
been interpreted to prohibit "meddling"
by the state or federal governments in
intra-church disputes (except those, of
course, which regard crimes). Serbian
Orthodox Diocese v. Milijevich, 426
U.S. 696 (1975). State interference
would compromise the Free Exercise
of that religion. Therefore, A is the
correct answer. Many religions are not
democratically run. Were the state to
impose its own notions of election on
the religion, there is a very unrealistic
argument that the state is choosing
one form of religion over another and,
therefore, an Establishment Clause
violation. But B is not a better answer
than A. Although there is a possible
case or controversy here, the Court has
refused due to Free Exercise questions
to have the federal courts hear these
types of cases. C is incorrect. D is also
incorrect. 

212 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

67. D is the correct answer. Although cer-
tain sexually explicit behavior is con-
sidered to be protected by the First and
Fourteenth Amendments, as "symbolic
speech"; nevertheless, the states are
permitted great latitude in regulating
public sexually explicit activity based
on their own community standards
— even if the activity is arguably artistic.
Recently, in Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
501 U.S. 540 (1991), the High Court
upheld the requirement that women not
completely bare themselves in an adult
club (breast "pasties" were a legitimate
requirement). Thus, since the Puritania
statute did little more than the regula-
tion in Barnes, it is not unconstitutional
on its face. A is incorrect because it
misunderstands the point that symbolic
speech is given some First Amendment
protection. B is incorrect because sexu-
ally explicit conduct can be regulated
— just as Puritania has done. C is incor-
rect because the statute is not vague (a
person of ordinary intelligence would
know what was prohibited and the stat-
ute does not give too much discretion
to the police). Since A, B and C are
incorrect, D is the correct choice.

68. C is the correct answer. As indicated by
Barnes, supra answer 67, a community
is permitted to prohibit topless dancing
at public places by females. A is obvi-
ously incorrect because were the law is
overbroad, then the defendants would
succeed. B is incorrect because com-
munities are permitted to regulate pub-
lic nudity without offending the First
Amendment. D is incorrect because
although there was arguably an artistic
and, thus, "symbolic speech" aspect to
the dancing, it has been held that requir-
ing some clothing is inoffensive to the
First Amendment Free Speech Clause.
Barnes, supra answer 67.

69. B is the correct answer. Although she
might claim that her actions were sym-
bolic speech, the question is not what
she intends as much as it is why the
government is prosecuting her. If they
were to prosecute her because of the
message of her conduct, she might have
a symbolic speech claim. That is not the
case here. A is incorrect. The elements
of the crime have been committed. C
is incorrect. The fact that her acts were
in public is relevant, but not the only
issue under the statute. D is incorrect
because her conduct was arguably lewd
and lascivious. 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 213

A

O

O

70. D is the correct answer. A correct an-
swer here requires interpreting the plain
meaning of the Puritania statute. Since
nudity means a lack of clothing, and
since exposure is used in the context
of the statute, it is apparent that the
statute does not regulate the wearing
of tight and shear clothing. Such is not
"exposure" under the Puritania statute.
Therefore, D is correct. A is incorrect
because being guilty of a related crime
most obviously does not make one
guilty of another crime! B is incorrect
because although Chipmunks was prob-
ably quite contrary to Puritania's com-
munity standards, that, in itself, cannot
be and was not made a crime without a
law on the books. C is incorrect because
it is irrelevant. Prostitution was not the
crime which was charged.

71. C is the correct answer. This is a tricky
question. Clearly, Darby is not guilty of
Puritania's sexual nudity law, because
she was not nude under the language
of the statute. Thus, she has no need to
avail herself of the First Amendment
defense. However, the call of the ques-
tion was whether a First Amendment
defense would prevail. The interroga-
tory was not whether she was factually
guilty of the crime. Therefore, C is cor-
rect because there was no First Amend-
ment protection to her non-artistic sales
approach. A is incorrect only because
it is irrelevant. The query went not to
guilt — but rather to the applicability
of the First Amendment. B is incorrect
because no facts suggested Darby was
doing anything artistic while selling
the hot dogs. D is incorrect not only
because it fails to address the call of
the question (the First Amendment), but
also because she is likely not factually
guilty (since she was not nude).

72. B is the correct answer. Flag-burning, as
political protest, be it of a state or a fed-
eral flag, is considered to be symbolic
speech, and is, thus, First Amendment
protected. United States v. Eichman,
496 U.S. 310 (1990). Therefore, B is
correct. A is incorrect for the same
reason that B is correct; and is also
incorrect because the crime was not
strict liability (it included the mens rea
of "purposely"). C and D are incorrect
for the same reason that B is correct. 

214 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

73. D is the correct answer. In  Employment
Division of Oregon v. Smith, 494 U.S.
872 (1990), the U.S. Supreme Court
indicated that it was permissible to
withhold employment benefits from
a Native American who used the con-
trolled substance of peyote as sacra-
ment in his Native American religion.
His claim was, of course, that his First
Amendment Free Exercise of Religion
rights were abrogated. However, the
Court held that even if a law works to
the detriment of one religion, it does
not violate the First Amendment unless
that religion is singled out by the state
as an object of persecution. In dictum,
the Court also indicated that no compel-
ling interest need be shown — even if
the law works to the detriment of one
religion-provided the law is neutral on
its face. Since the facts of question 73
are directly on point to the Smith case,
Smith controls and the prosecution of
Father O'Scalia will succeed. A and B
are incorrect for the same reason that
D is correct. C is incorrect because Fa-
ther 0' Scalia was in no way impeded
from associating with members of his
church.

74. D is the correct answer. This is a simple
"black letter" question. Pursuant to
Article I, §7, both houses of Congress
can overturn a presidential veto by two-
thirds vote. Because no U.S. Supreme
Court has in any way modified the in-
terpretation of this clause, D is correct
and A, B and C are incorrect.

A

0
cn

0 

75. C is the correct answer because only
choice II is correct. Pursuant to Article
II, §2, the President — not Congress
— has the power of judicial appoint-
ment. Therefore, the act in question is
clearly contrary to the language of the
Constitution and is, thus, unconstitu-
tional. Cf. Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S.
1 (1976). For this reason, choice II is
correct. Choice I, however, is incorrect
because the language of the Constitu-
tion (Article II, §7) indicates that such
appointment must be with the advice
and consent of the Senate. The power
of appointment is, therefore, not solely
a presidential decision.

76. B is the correct answer. Article I, §6,
clause 1 affords all U.S. Senators and
representatives immunity for their leg-
islative functions. Since on the facts
given Semand was simply debating
whether or not to give a grant, he has
complete immunity. Gravel v. United
States, 408 U.S. 606 (1972). A is not,
per se, incorrect. Rather, it is simply not
the best answer. The above-cited clause
gives far better protection. C is incor-
rect for the same reason that B is cor-
rect; and also because no facts indicate
XYZ University to be a public entity.
D is incorrect for the same reason that
B is correct, and also because the facts
indicate it was not the government, but
rather Semand who was being sued.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 215

O

O

77. D is the correct answer. The Speech and
Debate Clause (Article I, §6, clause 1)
does not protect a legislator from ex-
traordinary acts, such as taking a bribe.
United States v. Brewster, 408 U.S. 501
(1972). A is incorrect since it was not
the government which was being sued.
B is inane because suits can be brought
even when the allegations are difficult
to prove. C is incorrect since bribe
taking is beyond the protections of the
Speech and Debate Clause. Since A, B
and C are all incorrect; D (none of the
above) is the best answer.

78. C is the correct answer. The presidential
power to pardon is broad. However, it
does not include the right to pardon for
state crimes. The language of Article
II, §2 is limited to crimes against the
federal government. Since C states the
limitation correctly, it is the correct
answer. A is constitutionally incorrect.
The pardon power does not attach to
state crimes. B is incorrect because
the power to pardon extends beyond
political crimes (which, in fact, may be
a meaningless term). D is incorrect for
the same reason that C is correct.

79. B is the correct answer. The President's
power to pardon is limited to pardon of
federal crimes. However, the pardon is
not prospective. Thus, the pardon does
not cover crimes committed after the
effective date of the pardon. Therefore,
B is correct. Article II, §2. A is incorrect
because Pilson may have committed
crimes while in office, but after the date
of the pardon. C is incorrect because it
is irrelevant whether the pardon-giving
president is still in office. D is incorrect
because the pardon power is not limited
to non-infamous crimes.

80. A is the correct answer. The U.S. Su-
preme Court has original and exclusive
jurisdiction over foreign ambassadors.
Article III, §2. Therefore, Oregon does
not have jurisdiction. Since it is a far
better defense to prove that the pros-
ecuting court lacks jurisdiction than that
an element of the crime was not met
(choice B) or that there is an available
affirmative defense (choice C), choice
A is superior to choices B and C. Since
a state, as a general rule, does have
jurisdiction over foreigners, choice D
is incorrect. 

216 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

81. D is the correct answer. This is another
question — so typical of the multistate
format where the answer which one
looks for is simply not there. Thus, one
has to choose among a series of answers
— none of which are perfect. There
is no constitutionally-conferred state
sovereign immunity. Cf. Fitzpatrick v. 
Bitzer, 427 U.S. 445 (1979). Thus, A
is incorrect. B is incorrect because the
Eleventh Amendment grants immunity
to states for suits against a state in fed-
eral court initiated by a citizen of the
state when the citizen seeks damages.
But it does not grant immunity against
suits for injunctive relief or against state
officials in their individual capacity.
Fitzpatrick. C is completely incorrect in
that the powers not given to the federal
government are reserved to the states
under the Tenth Amendment. Since the
Constitution is silent on this point, this
choice is inapplicable. Since A, B and C
are all incorrect, D is the best of a series
of poor choices, since depending on the
facts of Moss's suit, it may or may not
be dismissed. But it can not be due to
the reasons stated in A, B or C. There-
fore, D is the most correct answer.

O

O

82. C is the correct answer. Although the
Congressional power to subpoena
is broad, it is not absolute. Thus, of
course, a subpoena cannot compel a
person to incriminate herself (as per
the Fifth Amendment self-incrimina-
tion clause). But, and more to point
here, the subpoena must be relevant. If
the subpoena is not reasonably-related
to the investigation, it is beyond the
legitimate power of Congress. Gibson
v. Florida Legislative Committee,  372
U.S. 539 (1963). A subpoena which had
required lists of "donors" or perhaps
lists of "other candidates" might have
been specific enough. However, this
subpoena was too broad, and, thus,
among other things (such as potentially
chilling First Amendment Freedom of
Association rights), it was irrelevant. A
is incorrect because there was neither
Executive nor Judicial function im-
paired by this subpoena. B is incorrect
because there was no state action. D is
incorrect for the same reasons that C is
correct.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

217

83. D is the correct answer. Although the
state is likely to lose this case and none
of the answers are particularly good, D
is the only one that is really possible
here. A is incorrect because of Law-
rence v. Texas (2003) which overruled
Bowers v. Hardwick (1986). Thus,
state laws on homosexual sodomy are
unconstitutional. B is incorrect because
whether or not there is a constitutional
right to marry, that is not the issue
— the racial classification is. Once the
state permits gay people to marry, they
cannot deny it on racial grounds. C is
incorrect because the statement as it
stands is false. The Court has found in
a number of cases that there is a right to
privacy. Although marriage regulations
are not totally within the state's power,
they are traditionally there. Thus, D is
the most correct of these choices.

84. D is the correct answer. A state may not
be required to permit marriage between
persons of the same sex, however once it
has done so, it cannot prohibit marriage
based on the race of the participants.
Race-based regulations are accept-
able only when there is a "compelling
state interest." Race-based regulations
are inherently "suspect." On the facts
given, it is unconstitutional for the state,
on the one hand, to allow homosexual
marriage, but on the other, to require
such occur only between members of
the same race. A is incorrect because
the Supreme Court has not held that the
constitutional right to privacy includes
homosexual marriage. B is incorrect
because the constitutional clause at
issue is not Due Process, but rather
Equal Protection (unequal treatment of
those who are similarly situated). C is
incorrect because the correct analysis,
when race is at issue, is not whether the
state regulation has a rational basis, but,
rather, whether it is necessary to achieve
a compelling state interest. 

218 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

85. C is the correct answer. McLaughlin
v. Florida, 379 U.S. 184 (1964) and
Loving v. Virginia, 388 U.S. 1 (1967),
together stand for the proposition that
a state cannot make crimes or marriage
depend on the race of the participants
absent a compelling government in-
terest. Otherwise there is a denial of
Equal Protection. Certainly a state is
not required to allow homosexual mar-
riage. However, once they allow it, they
cannot limit it to those of the same race
— without violating the Equal Protection
Clause. Therefore, the law is settled.
Just as in McLaughlin, supra, the state
was not required to allow sexual co-
habitation — but once the state allowed
it, the state cannot punish it differently
because of race. A and B are incorrect
because they miss the mark. There may
be a right to engage in private consen-
sual homosexual activity under the
Due Process clause, Lawrence v. Texas
(2003), but that is not relevant to this
question.

86. D is the correct answer because choices
I, II and III are all incorrect. Choice
I is incorrect because it misreads the
facts. The warrant was stipulated to be
"proper." Choice II is incorrect because
it also misreads the facts — the video
was "lawfully intercepted." Choice III
is incorrect because there is no right to
possess child pornography or obscenity
in the home. Osborne v. Ohio, 495 U.S.
103 (1990).

87. C is the correct answer. Although
speech with a profit motive is not
given the same degree of protection as
political speech, it is nevertheless First
Amendment protected. Provided the
ad is truthful and not misleading, the
state can limit the ad only if there is a
substantial interest which is narrowly
tailored to meet that interest. Virginia
State Board of Pharmacy v. Virginia
Citizens Consumer Council,  425 U.S.
748 (1976). The outright clothing ad
ban of Lemon County is certainly not
narrowly-tailored; no facts indicate the
ad to be deceptive; and the state-inter-
est is not shown. Therefore, the First
Amendment offers protection. A is
incorrect because a state's police pow-
ers do not include the infringement of
First Amendment rights. B is incorrect
because no legitimate state interest was
shown, and because the other prongs of
the commercial speech doctrine were
not met. D is incorrect because no facts
indicate a restriction of interstate com-
merce.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 219

A

0

O

88. A is the correct answer. The Supremacy
Clause of Article IV, §2 indicates that
a ratified treaty is the supreme law of
the land and that a state cannot interfere
with such. Nielson v. Johnson, 279 U.S.
47 (1929). On the facts given, it appears
that Lemon County is directly impeding
the free trade between the foreign coun-
try and the U.S. Therefore, A is correct.
B is incorrect because no facts indicate
that privileges or immunities of U.S.
citizens are being denied. C is incorrect
because it is so general an answer as to
be meaningless. Even the treaty power,
just alluded to, requires Senate ratifica-
tion. D is incorrect because the Tenth
Amendment only allows the states to
regulate in the areas of non-enumerated
federal powers. Treaties, however, are
a federal power, supra.

89. C is the correct answer. As Virginia
State Board of Pharmacy, supra answer
87, and Bates v. State Bar Of Arizona,
433 U.S. 350 (1977) indicate; ads by
professionals (be they by pharmacists,
lawyers, or, inferentially, doctors) are
given significant First Amendment pro-
tection, as under the so-called "Com-
mercial Speech Doctrine." The statute
may have some ambiguities in it, but it
is not so vague that a person of aver-
age intelligence would not know how
to conform his conduct to the law. If
you are a doctor or lawyer, you can not
advertise. Therefore, C is correct and
A is incorrect. B is incorrect because,
on the facts, it does appear that certain
individuals in Lemon County are pres-
ently affected. Since the controversy is
"ripe." B is incorrect. Since there was
no governmental taking, Just Compen-
sation Clause analysis is irrelevant and
D is therefore incorrect.

220 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

0
cn

0 

92. A is the correct answer. The procedural
aspect of due process requires that there
be notice and a hearing prior to the de-
privation of property rights. Attendance
at public school has been held to be a
property right. Goss v. Lopez, 419 U.S.
565 (1975). Therefore, there was a de-
nial of due process in the case at hand
— because of the lack of a hearing. B is
incorrect because although flag burning,
in political protest, is a right — there are
certain limitations placed on that right.
Obviously, it must be your own flag (or
there is malicious mischief) and the flag
must be burned pursuant to reasonable
time, place and manner restrictions. C
is incorrect because the specificity of
a political protest is not relevant to the
issue. D is incorrect because it is non-
sense. The reference to shouting "Fire!"
in a crowded theatre is from Justice
Holmes and he said that the government
may punish sommeone for a FALSE
shout of "Fire!" in a crowded theatre,
meaning that there were restrictions on
speech permitted to the government for
the greater public good.

90. C is the correct answer. Pursuant to
Article I, §8, clause 4, Congress has
jurisdiction over the states regarding
the law of bankruptcy. Thus, since
Congress has established bankruptcy
laws (which allow individuals a new
beginning), a state cannot contravene
those laws by forever penalizing an
individual for a bankruptcy. Therefore,
C is correct. Choices A and B are also
correct answers, but they are not as pre-
cise as C. Moreover, state fact-findings
are given great deference on federal ap-
peal. Thus, attacking Barrier's factual
conclusions of a lack of moral fitness
and insufficient "rehabilitation" are far
more difficult hurdles than attacking the
law which they utilized to reach those
conclusions. D is incorrect for all of the
above reasons.

91. C is the correct answer. Although there
is some variance in the use of these
admittedly facially ambiguous terms,
the two aspects of due process are: 1)
fair procedures before life, liberty or
property is denied (procedural); and 2)
substantive rights without which society
would not be free (substantive). Since
choice C best approximates the above
definition, it is correct. The distinction
made in choice A has not been utilized
by the High Court; thus, it is incorrect.
Choices B and D are incorrect for the
same reason that choice C is correct.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 221

A

O

cn
O

93. A is correct because only choices I and
II are true. If he was punished because
the flag he burnt was not his own, that
is not punishment for speech purposes
and tested at a lower level. Similarly, if
the issue is time, place and manner re-
strictions, they too are for non-speech-
related purposes and teested at a lower
standard. Statements III and IV are ac-
curate as far as they go, but they do not
help resolve this problem, since those
issues are not involved here. Choice  III
is incorrect because it is irrelevant. The
issue here is not suspension from school
— it is criminal prosecution. Choice IV
is incorrect for the same reasons that
choice II is correct. Since only letter A
includes choices I and II, it is the correct
answer.

94. D is the correct answer. Since the facts
stipulated Junior's new school to be a
private school, there is no state action;
and, thus, the Fourteenth Amendment
Due Process Clause is inapplicable.
Therefore choices A, B and C are incor-
rect; and choice D is correct.

95. D is the correct answer. Although not
offered as a choice, the applicable
constitutional clause is Fourteenth
Amendment Equal Protection. Ille-
gitimacy has been deemed to require
intermediate scrutiny when a state
regulation adversely affects such status.
Moreover, Levy v. Louisiana, 391 U.S.
68 (1968), held a highly similar state
statute to be unconstitutional on these
grounds. Choices A, B and C reach the
wrong conclusion; so each is obviously
incorrect. Moreover, A is incorrect be-
cause there are no Tenth Amendment
independent state grounds. The state-
applicable Fourteenth Amendment
Equal Protection Clause is controlling.
Choices B and C are incorrect, not only
in reaching the wrong conclusion, but
also because they utilize the incorrect
level of scrutiny as required by the
Equal Protection Clause (which in this
case requires mid-level scrutiny). 

222 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

A

97. B is the correct answer since choices III
and IV are correct. Choice I is incorrect
because there was no governmental tak-
ing without compensation; the $25,000
is a fine, albeit an unconstitutional
one. If declared unconstitutional, the
money need not be paid. Choice III is
correct because there was a legislative
pronouncement meting out punish-
ment in the absence of a judicial trial,
contrary to Article I, § 10, clause 1 (the
Bill of Attainder Clause). Choice IV is
correct because this was punishment
for a crime which did not exist at the
time of its alleged commission. Such is
prohibited by the Ex Post Facto Clause
(Article I, §10, clause 1). Choice II is
incorrect because the Fifth Amendment
Due Process Clause is not applicable to
state citizens.

96. D is the correct answer. Mental and
physical impairment is not a suspect
classification under Equal Protection
Clause analysis, and, thus, the state
regulation need only meet the rational
basis test to be constitutional. City of
Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center,
473 U.S. 432 (1985). Although there
is certainly a good argument that
the non-hiring of Hal was wrong; it
is, nevertheless, unprotected by the
Equal Protection Clause. Since it was
definitely implied that some individu-
als like Hal could not perform the work
and since it is common knowledge that
nuclear plants are ultra-hazardous; it is
quite clear that the state would meet
the minimal requirements of proving
a rational basis for their legislation.
Therefore, D is the correct answer. A
is incorrect because it ignores the ap-
plicable legal standard of analysis. B is
incorrect because it uses an incorrect
level of scrutiny (compelling interest).
C is incorrect because it misconstrues
the facts.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 223

98. D is the correct answer. Although,
before Article I, §9, clause 8 is quite
explicit: "No Title of Nobility shall be
granted by the United States", since this
is just what President George did, it is
clearly unconstitutional. However, B is
incorrect. The question asked whether
Rader suit will succeed. Even if a law
is unconstitutional, it can not be chal-
lenged by someone without standing
to sue. Rader 's claim is only that the
President has acted unconstitutionally.
The Court has stated in  Allen v. Wright
that such a claim is non-justiciable.
Thus, answer D is correct. Moreover,
that it has no significance is arguable.
It could foreshadow the beginning of a
monarchy — and even given that such
is insignificant, it is nevertheless un-
constitutional, but still irrelevant to the
question. Therefore A is incorrect. C is
incorrect because although it probably
is analogous to a Presidential Medal, it
is nonetheless expressly prohibited.

99. B is the correct answer. Dawson v. 
Delaware, 112 S.Ct. 1093 (1992), set
out a similar fact pattern. It was there
held that such a reference violated the
defendant's First Amendment Freedom
of Association rights. Association was
at issue because the defendant was be-
ing punished not for his criminal act, but
rather for the company he kept. There-
fore B is correct. A is incorrect because
it is a now long-standing principle of
constitutional criminal procedure that
capital punishment is not per se Cruel
and Unusual. C is not the best answer
because no facts indicate statements
or symbolic speech of the defendant
was used against him. It is also not the
best answer, because such is not how
the Court reasoned in Dawson, supra.
That is, there is High Court precedent
directly on point. D is incorrect for the
same reasons that B is correct. 

224 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

100. D is the correct answer. Since it was
stipulated that both Rawson and the
victim were white and that Rawson's
group advocated no related (or unre-
lated) crime, the statement of his mem-
bership is irrelevant. It infringed on
iiiiitng LI uin-iinuing. IL vJ aS
highly prejudicial, without being at all
probative. Dawson, supra answer 99.
Therefore, D is correct. A is incorrect
because it is totally irrelevant to the
given facts of this question. No facts
whatsoever indicated any prosecuto-
rial statements regarding impact to
the victim or his family. B is incorrect
because no facts were given which
would enable the student to discern
whether there was overwhelming other
evidence of guilt. Thus, although the
error could have been harmless, such
an analysis is extraneous to this ques-
tion's fact pattern. C is incorrect for
the same reasons that D is correct.

101. B is the correct answer. Under the
case of New York Times v. Sullivan,
376 U.S. 254 (1964), defamation suits
are limited by the First Amendment
— particularly when the allegedly
defamatory remarks concern a public

also be made knowingly or in reckless
disregard of their falsity. Since Jones
is a public figure, for there to be defa-
mation there must be knowledge or
recklessness (i.e., actual malice). Since
only choice B goes to this requirement,
though incompletely stated, it is the
best answer. A is incorrect because the
press often damages a person — but that
is the side effect of having free speech.
C is incorrect because the right to pri-
vacy essentially is only a limitation on
governmental conduct. D is incorrect
because it does not address any of the
elements of the New York Times v. 
Sullivan test.

END OF ANSWERS 

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 225

226 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

 
CRIMINAL PROCEDURE - QUESTION BREAKDOWN

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

4th Amendment - Expectation of
Privacy

17. 5th Amendment - Coercive

Interrogation

Procedural Due Process

18. 8th Amendment - Harmless Error

4th Amendment - Civil Action

19. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

4th Amendment - Exception of
Consent

4th Amendment - Traffic Stop

Search - Exception of Consent

4th Amendment - Exception
Automobile

5th Amendment Rights

20. 6th Amendment - Right to Appeal

21. 4th Amendment - Plain View

22. 4th Amendment - Search

23. 4th Amendment - Warrant

Requirements

24. 4th Amendment - Warrant

Requirements

6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

25. 4th Amendment - Exclusionary Rule

10. Victim Impact Statements

26. Fruit of the Poisonous Tree

11. Cruel and Unusual Punishment

27. Exigent Circumstances

12. Cruel and Unusual Punishment

28. 4th Amendment - Search

13. 4th Amendment - Rights to Privacy

29. 4th Amendment - Search

14. 4th Amendment - Illegally Seized

30. 4th Amendment - Standing

Property

15. Cruel and Unusual Punishment

31. 4th Amendment - Standing

32. 4th Amendment - Administrative

16. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

Exception 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 229

33. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

52. 4th Amendment - Expectation of

34. 6th Amendment - Right to Jury Trial

35. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

36. 5th Amendment - Double Jeopardy

37. 4th Amendment - Search

Privacy

53. 4th Amendment - Search Warrant

54. 4th Amendment - Search

55. 4th Amendment - Right to Privacy

56. 4th Amendment Search - Reasonable

38. Exclusionary Rule - Inevitable

Suspicion

Discovery

39. 4th Amendment - Detention of Others

Suspicion

57. 4th Amendment Search - Reasonable

40. Warrant - Probable Cause

58. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

41. Administrative Searches

42. Harmless Error

43. Miranda Rights

44. Out-of-Court Identification

45. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

46. 6th Amendment - Right to Counsel

47. Competency of Defendants

of Privacy

59. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

of Privacy

60. 4th Amendment - Warrant

Requirements

61. Warrant Requirements

62. Warrant Requirements

63. Warrant Exceptions - Plain View

64. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

48. 6th Amendment - Confrontation

of Privacy

Clause

49. Cruel and Unusual Punishment

of Privacy

65. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

50. Habeaus Corpus

66. 4th Amendment - Invasion of Privacy

51. 4th Amendment - Expectation of

67. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

Privacy

of Privacy 

230 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

68. 4th Amendment Search -Expectation

84. Warrant Execution

of Privacy

85. Warrant Execution

69. 4th Amendment Search -Expectation

of Privacy

86. 4th Amendment Search - Incident to

70. 4th Amendment Search and Seizure

Arrest

87. Search Incident to Arrest

71. 4th Amendment Search - Expectation

of Privacy

88. Plain View

72. 4th Amendment - Government Action

89. 4th Amendment Search

73. Warrant Exception - Consent

90. Public Safety

74. Expectation of Privacy - Hotel

91. 4th Amendment Search

Rooms

75. Warrant Expectation - Consent

76. 4th Amendment Search -

Probationers

92. Reasonable Suspicion

93. Seizure

94. 5th Amendment - Confession

77. 4th Amendment Regulatory Search

95. 5th Amendment - Interrogation

78. 4th Amendment Search - Illegal

96. Custodial Interrogation

Entry

97. Custodial Interrogation

98. Due Process

99. Habeas Corpus

100. Pleas

79. 4th Amendment Search - Consent

80. Concealment

81. 4th Amendment Search - Voluntary

Consent

82. Validity of Warrant

83. 4th Amendment Search - Mistaken

Identity

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 231

232 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
QUESTIONS 

1. Mick is on a rough corner waiting for a
bus. Officer Stone sees Mick and since
he has nothing else to do, decides to
investigate Mick. Stone walks up to
Mick and says: "Hold it right there,
mister." Mick takes flight and throws
away a marijuana joint which was
on his person. Mick is prosecuted for
illegal marijuana possession. Mick's
attorney files a motion to suppress the
marijuana. This motion will:

I. Fail, because Mick has

no standing.

II. Fail, because Mick aban-
doned the property.

III. Fail, because Mick was

not "seized."

A. I only.

B. II and III only.

C. I, II and III.

D. None of the above.

Q

Questions 2 — 3 are based on the
following facts:

Marie is arrested on a charge of solicita-
tion to commit prostitution. Her arrest is
performed by an undercover officer. She is
brought to jail. Three days later, still in jail,
she appears before a judge who refuses to let
her free on bail. Marie files a writ to the state
supreme court, demanding release.

2. Her worst argument is:

A. Her Eighth Amendment right to

bail was denied.

B. She was denied due process.

C. There was impermissible delay
in appearing before a judge.

D. She was entrapped.

3. Assuming that the state supreme court
orders Marie be set free, she may have
a civil claim against the arresting of-
ficer.

A. True, provided he was in bad

faith.

B. True, regardless of his bad

faith.

C. False.

D. None of the above. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 233

Q

4. Since illegal drugs are often transported
by transients taking Blackhound buses,
Officer Grey decides to investigate the
Blackhound station in his precinct. He
obtains consent of the local bus station
manager to enter buses and request if
luggage can be searched. Grey enters a
bus at 11:00 p.m., before it is to leave,
then announces the following to the
seven people in the bus: "Hi, my name
is Jack Grey. May I search each of
your bags?" One by one, Grey walks to
each passenger seat and asks for their
bag. Passenger Dawn hands over her
purse, which has cocaine in it. At trial
for Dawn's cocaine possession, is the
cocaine admissible against Dawn?

A. No, because there was no warrant

to search.

Questions 5 — 7 are based on the
following facts:

Acid is driving his car at 70 m.p.h. in a 55
m.p.h. zone. He is pulled over by Officer
Quist. Quist asks Acid if he can search the
passenger compartment of Acid's car. Acid
says, "Yes." Quist finds a closed bag in the
back seat and in it is LSD (contraband). Acid
says, "I didn't mean to allow you to get into
that!" Quist then opens Acid's trunk and
finds a closed suitcase. Quist opens it and
finds $10,000 worth of LSD.

5. When Quist pulled Acid over, there

was a:

A. Detention.

B. De facto arrest.

B. No, because there was no exi-

C. Illegal detention.

gency.

C. Yes, because of the automobile

exception.

D. Yes, because of the consent ex-

ception.

D. Legal traffic stop.

6. Quist's opening of the closed bag in the

passenger compartment was:

A. Beyond the scope of the consent

given.

B. Within the scope of the consent

given.

C. A lawful search incident to ar-

rest.

D. A lawful search under the drug
exception to the warrant require-
ment. 

234 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

7. Quist's search of the suitcase was:

A. Lawful under the auto excep-

tion.

B. Lawful under the search incident

to arrest exception.

C. Lawful under the exigency ex-

ception.

D. Lawful under the drug excep-

tion.

8. Nikki is charged with forgery and
requests a lawyer to represent her at
trial. After the formal charging, she
is released on bail. Officer Bix calls
Nikki on the phone and asks her about
an unrelated theft. Nikki admits to the
theft. The admission is:

A. Admissible, because it was given

over the phone.

B. Admissible, because it was vol-

untary.

C. Admissible, because her right to

counsel did not apply.

D. None of the above.

Q

- 0`173
Om
PIE
ozc >

73
mi-

9. Yolanda is represented by a retained
lawyer on a charge of manslaughter.
She is found guilty. She tells her at-
torney Rex, to appeal. Rex misses the
deadline. There is overwhelming evi-
dence, however, that Yolanda is guilty.
Yolanda seeks collateral relief. She
will:

A. Prevail, because Rex was inef-

fective.

B. Fail, because there was no preju-

dice.

C. Fail, because Rex was privately

retained.

D. Fail, because collateral appeal is

not allowed.

10. Prosecutor Chill, during the capital sen-
tencing phase of Pip's trial, introduces
evidence of the effect of Pip's killing
of Victim Vinny on Vinny's children.
Such statement:

A. Violates due process.

B. Violates the cruel and unusual

punishment clause.

C. Violates the hearsay rule.

D. Is permissible. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 235

Q        

Questions 11 —13 are based on the
following facts: 

B. Her reasonable expectation of

privacy was abrogated. 

C. Her legitimate expectation of

privacy was invaded.

D. She was subjected to cruel and

unusual punishment.

13. Assume for this question only, that dur-
ing a strip and body-cavity search by a
male guard, illegal contraband cocaine
is discovered. Dixona is prosecuted for
such. Her worst argument is:

A. Her Fourth Amendment rights

were violated.

B. Her Due Process rights were

violated.

C. Her Equal Protection rights were

violated.

D. Her Eighth Amendment rights

were violated.

Dixona is in jail serving three years for
grand theft. The jail is over-crowded and
as a result, Dixona is occasionally sexually
molested by other female prisoners. Dixona
files a writ of habeas corpus arguing cruel
and unusual punishment.

11. In order for the writ to succeed, the fol-

lowing must be proven:

I. The sexual molestation
and over-crowding was
"cruel."

II. The sexual molestation
and overcrowding was
"unusual."

III. The warden was "delib-
erately indifferent" to
Dixona's conditions.

A. I and II only.

B. III only.

C. I, II and III.

D. None of the above.

12. Assume for this question only, that
Dixona is routinely stripped and body-
cavity searched by a male guard. Her
best argument via writ of habeas corpus
is:

A. Her Fourth Amendment rights

were denied. 

236 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Q

-73o
°RI

cy73m

Questions 14 — 16 are based on the	
following facts:

A. The trial was a farce and mock-

ery.

Wilber Mercer is out of work and decides
to make a "few bucks, quick." In order to
do such, he arranges to sell cocaine. He is
caught by the police with cocaine valued
at $300,000. Wilber has never before been
convicted of a crime. At trial, Wilber takes	
the stand in his own defense and the co-
caine, which was illegally seized, is used
to impeach him. Wilber is convicted and
sentenced to life pursuant to the legislature's
guidelines. This was Wilber's first criminal
conviction.

14. The use of the cocaine to impeach is:

A. Harmless error.

B. Proper.

C. Improper.

D. Harmful error.

15. Wilbur's life-sentence was:

A. Cruel and Unusual Punishment.

B. Violative of the principle of len-

ity.

C. Proper.

D. Violative of Due Process.

16. On the facts given, Wilbur's best appel-

late argument is:

B. The judge was biased.

C. Counsel was ineffective.

D. The sentence was unconstitu-

tional.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 237

	
	
	
	
Questions 17 — 20 are based on the	
following facts: 	

A. Per se violates the right to coun-

sel.

Minko works for the police. He believes
Russ to have raped Leigh. Minko has little
evidence. Frustrated, he finds Russ in a bar
and says, "If you don't admit you assaulted
Leigh, you may find yourself bleeding in a
dark alley very soon." Russ admits to the
rape. At trial, evidence of Russ' confes-
sion is admitted without objection. Russ is
convicted. Russ loses on direct appeal and
appeals collaterally.

17. Minko's interrogation of Russ can best

be characterized as:

A. Necessary under the public

safety exception.

B. Per se violates the Equal Protec-

tion Clause.

C. May violate the Equal Protection

Clause.

D. May violate the right to coun-

sel.

20. In order to argue on collateral appeal
that admission of the confession was
erroneous, Russ must show:

I. Cause and Prejudice.

II. He did not rape Leigh.

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. I and II.

D. I or II. 

B. Coercive.

C. Voluntary.

D. None of the above.

18. Introduction of Russ' confession at

trial:

A. Can be harmless error.

B. Is per se not harmless error.

C. Violates Equal Protection.

D. Is necessary under the confronta-

tion clause.

19. Counsel's failure to object to the admis-

sion of the confession:

238 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Q

Questions 21 — 25 are based on the
following facts:

A. Defective because it lacked a

signature.

Officer J.G. West, while on routine patrol,
takes a walk onto the property of Belinda.
J.G. looks into Belinda's barn with his flash-
light and sees several machine guns. J.G.
then checks Belinda's dumpster. In it are
expended hand grenades. Based on these two
pieces of evidence, J.G. obtains a warrant to
search Belinda's barn, home, and office for
illegal ammunition. The warrant fails to in-
clude the magistrate's signature. Magistrate
Louis had meant to sign it, but because of
having three martinis at lunch, he forgot.

B. Defective because it was based
on illegally obtained evidence.

C. Not defective because warrants
do not need judicial approval.

D. Not defective because of the

good faith exception.

24. If J.G. executes the warrant and finds
indicia of the illegal ammunition, such
is:

21. J.G.'s initial discovery of the machine

guns was lawful because:

A. Admissible, if the warrant is

deemed valid.

A. Of the exigency exception.

B. Admissible, if J.G. was in good

B. Of the good faith exception.

faith.

C. Admissible, if a statute so al-

C. Of the administrative excep-

lows.

tion.

D. This was not a search.

22. The discovery of the expended hand

grenades was lawful because:

A. Of the exigency exception.

B. Of the good faith exception.

C. Of the administrative excep-

tion.

D. This was not a search.

23. The warrant was:     

D. Inadmissible.

25. Assume for this question only, that, be-
fore executing the warrant, J.G. notices
there was no signature on the warrant
and his training indicates such to invali-
date the warrant. In this instance, J.G. 's
discovery of the ammunition is:

A. Admissible, because of the good

faith exception.

B. Admissible, because it inevitably
would have been discovered.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 239

	
	
Q

	an independent source. 	

C. Admissible, because there was

Questions 27 — 31 are based on the
following facts:

D. Inadmissible.	

26. Officer Browson tows Jill's car to the
local impoundment lot because of a
good faith belief that she was illegally
parked. A routine inventory reveals
marijuana in the car. In fact, Jill was
legally parked. Jill is prosecuted for the
misdemeanor of marijuana possession.	
Jill's motion to suppress will:

Officer Slobog enters Sarah's house after
hearing screams. When he enters, Sarah says
"I was just fooling around with my boyfriend
Charles. Everything's okay." Sarah is flushed
and wearing a "kinky" outfit, so Slobog be-
lieves her. On the way out, Slobog notices
a brass case. His expertise indicates such
cases can be used to hold cocaine. Slobog
opens the case without consent and finds
cocaine in it.

A. Succeed, because of the fruit of
the poisonous tree doctrine.

27. Slobog's initial entry was:

A. Lawful, because of his good

B. Fail, because this was a misde-

faith.

meanor.

B. Lawful, because of the exigency

C. Fail, because of the inventory

exception.

exception.

	D. Fail, because of the good faith

exception.

240 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

C. Lawful, under a doctrine of as-

sumption of the risk

D. Not lawful.

28. Slobog's initial observation of the brass

case was:

A. Lawful, because of the exigency

exception.

B. Lawful, because of the doctrine
of assumption of the risk.

C. Lawful, because of the plain

view exception.

D. Lawful, because it was not a

search. 

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Q

29. If Sarah is prosecuted for cocaine pos-

A. Succeed, because he lacks stand-

session, she will likely be:

ing.

A. Acquitted, because the cocaine

B. Succeed, because he has "un-

was in her house.

clean hands."

B. Acquitted, because the cocaine

C. Fail, because he has standing.

was illegally discovered.

D. Fail, because of the LaFave doc-

C. Convicted, because of Slobog's

trine.

good faith.

D. Convicted, because the cocaine
would inevitably have been dis-
covered.

30. Assume for this question only, that
the cocaine belongs to Wayne, Sarah's
live-in boyfriend. Wayne will be:

A. Convicted, because he lacks

standing.

B. Convicted, because of Slobog's

good faith.

C. Acquitted, because he has stand-

ing.

D. Acquitted, because of the LaFave

doctrine.

31. Assume for this question only, that the
cocaine was Wayne's and that Wayne
was invited by Sarah to her apartment to
have sex for hire. Assume as well, that
this was Wayne's first visit to Sarah's
apartment. Wayne's prosecution for
cocaine possession will:

32. The City of Harzardville has enacted
a policy whereby all field officers are
subjected to random drug testing. The
City has made this policy because of the
widespread drug problem. If an officer
is found to be using drugs, rehabilitation
is offered unless other factors indicate
significant involvement with organized
crime. The policy is likely:

A. Lawful, under the drug exception
to the warrant requirement.

B . Lawful, under the administrative

exception.

C. Lawful, under the exigency ex-

ception.

D. Lawful, because examination of
breath, blood and urine are not
searches. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 241

Q      

Questions 33 — 35 are based on the
following facts:

A. Violates the Double Jeopardy

Clause.

B. Violates the Cruel and Unusual

Punishment Clause.

C. Violates the Right to Counsel

Clause.

D. Is proper.

36. Mary and Joe agree to commit a bank
robbery. Upon entering the First City
Bank, they draw their guns and flee
with $7,000 of cash. Two days later,
they are captured. They are prosecuted
in the state for Conspiracy and Robbery.
Assuming that the prosecutor proves
each element of each crime beyond a
reasonable doubt, will their convictions
of both crimes stand?

A. Yes, because of the separate
sovereign limitation on Double
Jeopardy protection.

B. Yes, because Conspiracy and
Robbery are distinct offenses un-
der Double Jeopardy analysis.

C. No, because each offense does
not require proof of an additional
fact.

D. No, because Robbery is a lesser
included offense of Conspiracy
to commit Robbery. 

Kim is tried on a charge of prostitution. The
potential jail term is 6 months. She requests
both counsel because she is indigent, and a
jury trial. Both requests are denied. She is
tried and sentenced to one month in jail.

33. The judge's denial of counsel was:

A. Not erroneous, because this was

a petty offense.

B. Not erroneous, because the of-
fense was punishable by under
6 months jail.

C. Not erroneous, because Kim was

not indigent.

D. Erroneous.

34. The judge's denial of a jury trial was:

A. Plain error.

B. Harmless error.

C. Correct.

D. More facts are needed.

35. Assume for this question only, that two
years later Kim is picked up, prosecuted
on another charge of prostitution, given
counsel, and sentenced to one year in
jail as a recidivist. Such sentencing:

242 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

37. Officer Breeze shoots shoplifting
suspect Wing, after Wing allegedly
stole a set of Star Trek videos from the
Videobliss Store. Breeze shot low and
accurately. Thus, Wing's bullet injury to
his left leg healed completely. However,
the shot completely immobilized Wing
who, prior to the shooting, was 15 yards
away from Breeze. All the evidence in-
dicates that Wing would have escaped,
but for Breeze's shooting. Wing is
convicted of Petty Theft and Resisting
a Police Officer in Performance of his
Lawful Duties. Wing appeals. Which
of the following propositions are cor-
rect?

I. The conviction of Petty
Theft will be affirmed.

II. The conviction of Resist-
ing a Police Officer will
be affirmed.

III. The conviction of Pet-
ty Theft will be over-
turned.

IV. The conviction of resist-
ing a Police Officer will
be overturned.

A. I and II only.

B. I only.

C. III and IV only.

D. I and IV only.

Q

38. Officer Knuckles takes out his brass
knuckles and beats Lou to a pulp. Final-
ly, Lou admits to having a half-pound
of marijuana. Unknown to Knuckles,
Officer Smart was on the verge of link-
ing Lou to the drug trade in Smalltown.
Lou is prosecuted for Possession of a
Controlled Substance. Knuckles' testi-
mony and the half-pound of marijuana
found by Knuckles are introduced into
evidence. Lou's attorney makes all ap-
propriate motions to suppress. These are
denied. Lou is convicted, and appeals
within the statutory time limit. The
prosecution's best argument, regarding
sustaining the conviction, is:

A. The Good Faith Exception.

B. There was an independent

source.

C. This was a state case.

D. Inevitable discovery.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 243

Q

39. A search warrant is issued to search the
home of Ebar. The warrant was based
on probable cause, properly sworn out
before a neutral judge and was specific
as to the address of Ebar. The warrant
was executed at 1:00 PM on a Thursday
afternoon, the day after it was issued.
Ebar is detained for 45 minutes, while
his house is searched for illegal am-
munition and guns. At the time, Ebar's
two friends were also detained. After
the discovery of the illegal weaponry,
Ebar is arrested. The officers also arrest
Ebar's two friends. After the arrest, the
two friends are found to be conceal-
ing, on their persons, small amounts of
crack cocaine. Which of the following
propositions is correct?

A. Ebar's detention was unlawful,
thus the evidence will be sup-
pressed.

B. The detention of Ebar's two
friends was unlawful, thus the
evidence against Ebar will be
suppressed.

C. The detention of Ebar's two
friends was unlawful, thus all
evidence against them will be
suppressed.

D. None of the above.

40. Officer Frome swears out an affidavit
before a neutral judge. His information
is based on the confidential tip of a
personally-known informant, that Rick
is illegally storing toxic waste in his
barn at 123 Main Street. The warrant is
issued. In executing the warrant, Frome
looks through all large containers in the
barn. He finds not only toxic waste, but
also several bales of marijuana. Which
of the following propositions are cor-
rect?

I. The search warrant must
be based on probable
cause.

II. The test for probable
cause is whether the in-
formant was reliable and
had a basis for his knowl-
edge.

III. The seizure of the mari-
juana, though outside the
scope of the warrant, was
probably lawful.

A. I only.

B. I and II only.

C. I and III only.

D. II only. 

244 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

41. Pawnshops, in the city of Tomato, are
closely regulated. The reason for the
regulations are that, such are often used
to "fence" stolen property, that illegal
guns are often sold through pawnshops
and that the city has received hundreds
of complaints regarding the shops.
Among the city ordinances is the re-
quirement that, in order to do business,
the pawnshop must keep complete
records of all chattels received, from
whom and also keep records of all chat-
tels sold, and to whom such were sold.
Moreover, in applying for a business
license, they also consent to inspection
of the above by the police.

The Dirtball, a Tomato City pawn-
shop, is inspected by Officer Lemon.
He finds several violations, including
a weapon violation that subjects the
owner of Dirtball to criminal liability.
Will a motion to suppress this evidence
succeed?

A. No, because of the good faith
exception to the warrant require-
ment.

B. No, because of the administrative

exception.

42. Over defense objection, an admission
of the defendant is introduced. The
admission was taken after police inter-
rogation, in violation of Miranda .The
defendant is convicted. An appeal is
taken. What must the prosecution show,
in order to preserve the conviction?

A. That there was no error.

B. That the error was harmless, by

a preponderance.

C. That the error was harmless,
beyond a reasonable doubt.

D. That the error was harmless, by
clear and convincing evidence.

43. Joe is placed under arrest. He is not
told what crime he is arrested for. (The
crime is extortion.) After being given
the Miranda warnings, he says "I don't
want to talk." Two hours later, after the
routine booking, another officer interro-
gates Joe. Joe is first given Miranda. He
waives the warnings, then starts talking.
Ultimately, after 45 minutes, Joe makes
a highly incriminating statement. Is the
statement admissible, in a subsequent
criminal trial, for extortion?

C. Yes, because a warrant was re-

A. No, because extortion is not a

quired.

drug offense.

D. Yes, because of Lemon's bad

faith.

B. No, because the police initiated
the subsequent interrogation.

C. No, because it was, per se, invol-

untary. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 245

In order to help bolster their case, the
prosecution sends out a special inves-
tigator, to infiltrate Frank's circle of
friends, and thereby to hopefully learn
inculpatory facts regarding the rack-
eteering charge. The investigator learns
several pieces of information, some
from the active questioning of Frank,
that are relevant to the racketeering
charge; and some of which are relevant
to other crimes of Frank (for which he
has not been charged). Which of the
following propositions is the most ac-
curate?

A. The use of the investigator was

unconstitutional.

B. No information found by the
investigator via dialogue with
Frank is admissible.

C. Only that information discovered
by the investigator, regarding
crimes unrelated to the racketeer-
ing, is admissible.

D. All information discovered by
the investigator is admissible. 

D. None of the above.

44. Suzanne is arrested, based on probable
cause, that she committed Assault. It
is stipulated that there was probable
cause. The arrest is made in public.
Assault is graded as a misdemeanor in
this jurisdiction. The alleged victim of
the assault, within 5 minutes of same, is
asked whether Suzanne is the perpetra-
tor. She responds: "She is definitely the
one!" Is this out-of-court identification
admissible?

A. Yes, because the Sixth Amend-
ment Right to Counsel had not
attached.

B. No, because the Sixth Amend-
ment Right to Counsel had at-
tached.

C. No, because this was misleading

and overly suggestive.

D. No, because Due Process was

denied.

45. Frank is brought before a federal grand
jury. He is formally charged with a rack-
eteering offense. He invokes his right to
counsel, by hiring a top-notch criminal
defense attorney. Frank is required to
post bail, and then is released.

246 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Q

46. Jennifer is charged with Petty Theft.
Petty Theft, for first-time offenders,
cannot exceed 6 months in jail. Jennifer
is a first-time offender. She is 19 years
old and cannot afford counsel. Her re-
quest to have counsel is denied, on the
grounds that she will likely not serve
any jail time even if convicted. In fact,
she is convicted. No jail time is given.
Have Jennifer's constitutional rights
been denied?

47. Hilton has gone on a wild killing spree,
evidently initiated by the romantic
rejection of a woman he loved. Hilton
has committed 5 gruesome and bloody
Murders. He openly admits to the kill-
ing and claims that it was "the devil's
hand that led" him. Hilton's attorney,
pre-trial, moves that Hilton not be tried
and be furnished with a psychiatric
examination. Under prevailing consti-
tutional rules, must the trial judge make
such an inquiry?

A. No, because the potential for jail
must be over 6 months, in order
for the Right to Counsel to at-
tach.

B. Yes, because the conviction
might potentially be used if she
is charged with another crime.

C. No, because no actual jail time

was imposed.

D. Yes, because indigents have an
absolute right to the appointment
of counsel at "critical stages",
such as this.

A. No, this claim should be heard

on appeal.

B. Yes, because insane defendants

cannot be tried.

C. No, because no facts indicate
disorientation or inability to
participate in his own defense.

D. Yes, because incompetent defen-

dants cannot be tried.

48. Jill and Joyce are tried on a charge of
Conspiracy to Distribute Controlled
Substances. They are tried together.
Joyce takes the stand and argues that
Jill used duress in order to obtain her
participation. Jill and Joyce are repre-
sented by different defense attorneys.
Jill's attorney begins her cross-exami-
nation of Joyce. Joyce's attorney at once
objects, arguing that, if such proceeds,
Joyce's Self-incrimination rights will be
abrogated. How should the trial judge
rule? 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 247

A. For Joyce, because she cannot
be compelled to incriminate
herself.

B. For Jill, because she has the right
to confront adverse witnesses.

C. A mistrial should be declared
because two constitutional rights
are in direct opposition.

D. None of the above.

49. The state of Columbia has, by legis-
lative enactment, deemed all those
convicted of capital crimes and duly
sentenced to death, to be executed by
dismemberment. Defendant Horace
is so sentenced. Which of the follow-
ing are relevant inquiries regarding
Horace's challenge to the method of
execution?

I. Whether other states
have similar statutes.

II. Whether such is more
painful than other meth-
ods of execution.

A. I only.

B. II only.

C. I and II.

D. Neither I nor II.

248 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

50. Karen is arrested on a charge of Murder.
The arresting officer interrogates her,
without giving the Miranda warnings.
Karen's attorney does not move to
suppress the admissions. Karen is ul-
timately convicted. She files no appeal
to the state appellate and state supreme
courts. Two years later, in jail, she files a
Habeas Corpus petition, to the state su-
preme court. It is summarily dismissed.
Karen then files a Habeas petition to the
federal district court, arguing that her
Fifth Amendment, Fourteenth Amend-
ment and Miranda rights were denied.
Will this petition be successful?

A. Yes, because there was plain er-

ror.

B . Yes, because there was a stipu-
lated violation of Miranda.

C. Yes, because her counsel was

ineffective.

D. No, because there was inad-
equate cause for not moving to
suppress the admissions at the
pre-trial, trial phase, or direct
appeal phase.

51. Ms. Apple, a teacher at Loon Bin Public
High School, discovered a female stu-
dent, Aire Head, smoking in the girl's
bathroom. Since she was in violation of
school rules, Ms. Apple took Aire Head
to the Principal's office, where she met
with Mr. Locke, the vice-Principal, and
denied that she had been smoking. 

Locke led Aire Head into his private
office and demanded to see her purse.
He opened the purse, found cigarettes
inside and accused Aire Head of lying.
While reaching into the purse, Locke
noticed a small glass vile, containing a
white powdery substance. Thinking it
was likely cocaine, he further searched
the purse and found three more vials
full of the same white substance, a glass
straw and a mirror. Aire Head admitted
to having a drug problem.

Locke notified Aire Head's mother and
turned the purse over to the police. The
white powdery substance proves to be
cocaine. Aire Head was prosecuted for
illegal possession of cocaine with the
intent to sell. Aire Head's attorney files
a motion to suppress the cocaine and
cocaine paraphernalia. This motion will
fail because:

52. Mr. Lifer, a prisoner in State Peniten-
tiary, was sound asleep in his prison
cell, dreaming of life on the outside,
before he killed his fiancé. His dream
was interrupted by Mr. Guard, a prison
guard at "State Penn." Guard snuck
into Lifer's prison cell and proceeded
to search through Lifer's belongings.
Guard woke Lifer up when he found
three small balloons of heroin stuck un-
derneath Lifer's bed. Lifer denied any
knowledge of the heroin. Guard notified
the prison's warden. Lifer was sent to
solitary confinement for three weeks. At
trial, Lifer, representing himself, files a
motion to suppress the heroin. Are the
balloons of heroin admissible against
Lifer?

A. No, because Guard had no war-
rant to conduct such a search.

B. No, because there was no exigent

A. Aire Head has no standing.

circumstances.

B. Locke's search did not violate the

Fourth Amendment.	

C. Yes, if Guard was acting on a tip
from a reliable informant.

C. The search was conducted by a

school official.	

D. Yes, because Lifer is a prisoner

in the State Penitentiary.

D. Locke's search, resulting in the
discovery of the evidence of
cocaine, was "reasonable."     

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 249

	
	
B. No, because the circumstances
did not dictate that the U.S.
Marshal needed to secure a war-
rant.

C. Yes, because the U.S. Marshal
acted without sanction of law.

D. Yes, because Mac made a sea-
sonal application for the return
of his property.

54. Assuming the same facts in question 53,
should the government be permitted to
use Mac's property at trial?

A. Yes, because the U.S. Marshal
was merely trying to bring fur-
ther proof to the aid of the gov-
ernment and was acting under
the color of his office.

B. Yes, because the circumstances
did not dictate that the U.S.
Marshal needed to secure a war-
rant.

C. No, because to permit the use of
Mac's property upon trial would
result in prejudicial error.

D. No, because the U.S. Marshal
acted without sanction of law.

Q

W

Z

0E 

Questions 53 — 54 are based on the
following facts:

Mac, a driver for Fed-Excess, was arrested,
without warrant, at his place of employment,
while waiting for his delivery truck to be
filled with packages. Other police officers
were simultaneously searching Mac's home,
having been let in by a neighbor who knew
where the key was kept. Inside, the officers
found and confiscated various incriminating
papers and articles, which they afterwards
turned over to the United States Marshal.

Later that evening, officers returned to
Mac's home with the Marshal, who thought
additional evidence could be seized. They
were let in by Mac's roommate, searched
the premises once more and carried away
incriminating letters and envelopes found in
a drawer. Mac was charged with use of the
mails for the purpose of transporting certain
coupons or tickets representing chances or
shares in a lottery or gift enterprise. Mac
urged the court for the return of his property
on the grounds that the papers had been
obtained without a search warrant and by
breaking into his home, in violation of the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments.

53. Should the court grant Mac's request

for the return of his property?

A. No, because the U.S. Marshal
was merely trying to bring fur-
ther proof to the aid of the Gov-
ernment and was acting under
the color of his office.

250 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

55. Ms. Riskay was disturbed from her
nightly TV watching by two Los An-
geles police officers who knocked on
her door and announced that they had
information "a large amount of child
pornography" was in Riskay's home.
The officers knocked on the front door
of the home and demanded entrance.
Riskay telephoned her attorney, was
advised not to let the officers inside
without a search warrant, and refused
to admit the officers.

Four hours later, five additional of-
ficers arrived on the scene, to join the
original officers who had subsequently
undertook a surveillance of Riskay's
house. The officers again sought en-
trance and, when Riskay did not come
immediately to the door, the door was
forcibly opened so the officers could
gain entrance.

Q

When the officers were inside, Riskay's
attorney arrived, but the officers did not
allow him to enter the house, nor speak
to Riskay. Riskay demanded to see a
search warrant, none was produced
and the officers continued to search
Riskay's residence. Irritated with Ris-
kay's repeated pleading to see a search
warrant, one of the officers forcibly
handcuffed Riskay. The officers ended
up searching Riskay's entire residence,
from bedrooms to bathrooms. Child
pornography was discovered during the
search. At trial, the prosecution did not
produce a search warrant, nor was their
failure to do so accounted for. Can the
child pornography found at Riskay's
residence be used at trial?

A. Yes, because in a prosecution in
a State court for a State crime the
Fourteenth Amendment does not
forbid the admission of evidence
obtained by an unreasonable
search and seizure.

B. Yes, because even if the officers'
search was unreasonable, they
were legitimately on the prem-
ises.

C. Yes, because child pornography

is inherently evil.

D. No, because the right to pri-
vacy is enforceable against the
States. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 251

Q

57. Assume for the purpose of this question
only, that Dinah Gloss' breath was not
excessively minty, nor was she stopped
by officer Crumpky for speeding, but
was instead stopped because the rear
of her car was very low to the ground.
Suspecting that something illegal might
be in the trunk, Crumpky searched the
car and found 12 cases of cigarettes not
bearing California tax seals. The car and
cigarettes were seized and Gloss was
arrested and charged with violation of
California law. Crumpky had neither a
search nor an arrest warrant. Pursuant to
a California statute, a petition for forfei-
ture of the automobile was filed. Gloss,
by timely objection, seeks dismissal
of the forfeiture petition, claiming the
evidence was illegally obtained. Will
the forfeiture petition be dismissed?

A. Yes, because the seizure was
founded upon evidence illegally
obtained, since under the par-
ticular circumstances Crumpky
acted without probable cause.

B. No, because the inventory search
exception allows Crumpky to act
as he did.

C. No, because the exclusionary
rule does not apply to civil for-
feitures.

D. No, because contraband, once
seized, cannot be returned to its
owner.

Questions 56 — 57 are based upon
the following facts:

Dinah Gloss, a high-fashion model, late
for a photo session, was speeding, travel-
ing 50 mph, in a residential district. Officer
Crumpky, noticing the excessive speed,
pulled Gloss over. When Gloss rolled down
her window, Crumpky was overwhelmed
by the smell of breath mints. Gloss was
asked to step out of the car and perform a
field sobriety test. Gloss passed the test, but
Crumpky felt Gloss was probably an alco-
holic who was able to perform most daily
functions while intoxicated. In fact, he was
positive that's why the smell of breath mints
was so strong.

Believing there was probably a bottle of al-
cohol somewhere, Crumpky searched Gloss'
entire car. Under the driver's seat, he found
a baggy containing an 1/8 ounce of cocaine.
Gloss was arrested and taken immediately
to the station. Gloss' attorney files a motion
to suppress the evidence.

56. This motion will likely:

A. Fail, because the overwhelm-
ing smell of breath mints gave
Crumpky all the reason he need-
ed to search Gloss' car.

B. Fail, because cocaine was

found.

C. Fail, because of the inventory

exception.

D. Succeed. 

252 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Q

Questions 58 — 62 are based on the
following facts:

John Palmer, an off-duty police officer, was
playing golf one Sunday afternoon. His tee
shot on the fourth hole was a bad slice and
ended up out-of-bounds, in the backyard
of Mrs. Middo. Palmer climbed the hill to
Middo's backyard and began looking for
his golf ball, which was easy to do since
there was no fence to climb. While looking,
Palmer glanced into Middo's greenhouse
and saw several beautifully-manicured
marijuana plants inside. He also noticed, on
a workbench inside the greenhouse, three
ouzies. Suspicious, Palmer then proceeded
to go through two trash cans in the backyard.
In them, he found hundreds of baggies full
of marijuana. Based on what he found in the
backyard, Palmer ended his golf game early,
went to the nearby police station where he
worked and obtained a search warrant to
search Middo's greenhouse and home for
marijuana and drug-dealing paraphernalia.
The warrant Palmer procured lacked the
magistrate's signature because the magis-
trate inadvertently left his signature off the
form.

58. Was Palmer's discovery of the green-
house marijuana and the three ouzies
lawful?

A. No, because Palmer was off-duty

at the time.

B. No, because he had no probable
cause to enter Middo's back-
yard.

C. No, because he only had license
to look for his golfball and noth-
ing else.

D. Yes, because no significant pri-

vacy expectation was invaded.

59. The discovery of the hundreds of bag-
gies full of marijuana was unlawful
because:

A. No significant privacy expecta-

tion was invaded.

B. Palmer was presented with an

exigent circumstance.

C. Palmer acted in good faith.

D. None of the above.

60. Since the warrant had no signature, it

will be deemed:

A. Valid, because the magistrate
inadvertently left his signature
off.

B. Valid, even if the signature was
purposefully left off, as long as
the magistrate had all of the facts
before him when preparing the
warrant.

C. Valid.

D. Defective. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 253

63. T.J. Booker ran a bookmaking operation
out of his print shop, located on the third
floor of an office building in downtown
Pennsylvania. An F.B.I. agent stood on
a tall ladder and used binoculars to see
inside the print shop's windows. From
this vantage point, the agent observed
gambling records. Did the F.B.I. agent
engage in a search by climbing on top
of a ladder and using binoculars?

A. Yes, because he had to climb a
ladder and use binoculars.

B. Yes, because the window wasn't

at street level.

C. No, because the third floor win-
dow to the print shop was open
to view.

D. Both A and B.

Q

61. If the warrant is deemed invalid after
Officer Palmer executes it, anything
found pursuant to that warrant will be:

A. Inadmissible, if Palmer acted on
the warrant with the knowledge
that it was invalid.

B. Inadmissible.

C. Admissible.

D. None of the above.

62. If Officer Palmer realizes the warrant
is defective because it lacks a signature
and executes it despite this knowledge,
anything found pursuant to the warrant
will be:

A. Admissible.

B. Admissible, only if the evidence
could have been found without
the issuance of a warrant.

C. Admissible, because Palmer's
findings while looking for his
golfball in Middo's backyard
were incriminating enough to
indicate that other contraband
would likely be discovered.

D. None of the above. 

254 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

64. Since he built the huge barn with four
30 foot walls, will the court find that
Johnny Potseed entertained a legitimate
expectation of privacy in the premises
or area searched?

A. Yes.

B. Yes, because an individual
doesn't have to contemplate the
possibility of an aircraft hovering
over their structure at an altitude
low enough to be able to see
inside the structure's rooftop.

C. Yes, because the construction
of the roof successfully denied
anyone adjacent to it, or paral-
lel to it, a view of the goings on
inside of it.

D. No, because the structure of the
roof made it like an open or un-
covered window.

Questions 64 — 66 are based on the
following facts:

Johnny Potseed built himself a huge barn
so he could grow pot without any of his
neighbors realizing what he was doing. The
barn had four walls, all of which were 30 feet
high. There were no windows in the walls
because Johnny didn't want anyone to be
able to see inside. Johnny didn't put a roof
on the barn so the sun could shine down on
his wonderful marijuana buds, making them
all the more potent.

Acting on a telephone tip from an anony-
mous pilot reporting the presence of mari-
juana growing within the four huge walls
of the barn, two police officers flew over
the premises in a state police helicopter. At
an altitude of approximately 500 feet above
the barn, the officers were unable to deci-
pher the exact kind of vegetation growing
in the barn. To get a better look, the officers
lowered their altitude to approximately 40
feet over the barn. From this distance, the
officers, trained and experienced in the aerial
detection of marijuana, were able to tell that
Johnny was growing marijuana. The officers
hovered over the barn for approximately 5
minutes before leaving the area.

On the basis of the officers' observations, a
search warrant was issued. With warrant in
hand, the police forcibly entered the barn
and observed close to 100 large marijuana
plants, 18-20 feet tall.  

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 255

66. Assume that Johnny Potseed had both
domestic and farm animals on his
property. When the police helicopters
hovered 40 feet above the property,
the loud noises and vibrations caused
by the helicopter's proximity, caused
Johnny's animals to go into a frenzy,
whereby they stampeded wildly around
the property. During this frenzy, half of
the animals died from shock. In fact, the
vibrations were so strong that a glass
cabinet full of china crashed to the floor
in the kitchen of Johnny's nearby home.
Johnny brings a cause of action against
the government for invasion of privacy.
Will he prevail?

A. Yes.

B. Yes, but only if the court decides
the conduct of the officers in fly-
ing at 40 feet above the barn was
hazardous to persons or property
on the surface.

C. No, because even though damage
to persons or property occurred,
the officers had a right to fly
above Johnny's property.

D. No, because Johnny's marijuana
crop was clear and visible.

65. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Johnny Potseed had a
roof on his huge barn, which he still
used for his marijuana growing. During
a rainstorm, the roof leaked. Johnny
contracted X-Cell Roofing to install
a new roof. X-Cell roofing acciden-
tally left a 20-square-foot portion of
the roof uncovered, though they told
Johnny, and believed so, that the roof
was completely installed. Believing the
roof was installed, Johnny left town
for a few days of rest and relaxation.
Upon arriving home, Johnny found his
marijuana crop being confiscated by
the police. Johnny was placed under
arrest and told that the marijuana had
been discovered in the same fashion it
had been discovered in question 64. At
trial, Johnny's lawyer made a motion to
suppress the marijuana on the grounds
that his client's privacy interests had
been violated. This motion will:

A. Succeed, because Johnny did not
deprive himself of his privacy.

B. Succeed, because Johnny con-
structed a roof on the barn so that
no one could see inside.

C. Fail, because the opening in the
roof negated any expectation
of privacy from the eyes of the
world or of the police.

D. None of the above. 

256 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Questions 67 — 68 are based on the
following facts:

Bob Dealin put his garbage at the curb in
front of his house on Sunday night because
the garbage men pick up the neighborhood's
garbage on Monday morning. Bob put his
trash in black trash bags and tied them se-
curely shut. He used black trash bags and
tied them securely shut because he didn't
want anybody to see what was inside the
bags nor be able to open them with ease. Bob
didn't want anybody messing with his trash
bags because Bob made his living dealing
hash to the neighboring colleges and much
of Bob's trash consisted of items indicative
of narcotic use and dealing.

One of Bob's neighbors notified the police
that she observed on many occasions several
vehicles make brief stops at the house during
the late-night and early-morning hours. The
police, based on the neighbor's information,
conducted a surveillance of Bob's home.
They, too, observed activity that indicated
potential drug dealing was taking place at
Bob's house.

One of the police officers asked the neigh-
borhood's regular trash collector to set aside
the bags from Bob's house without mixing
them with trash from any of the other resi-
dences. The trash collector did so and turned
the bags over to the officer, who promptly
looked through them. Items indicative of
narcotics use and drug dealing were found.
The officer was able to secure a search war-
rant to search Bob's home.

During the search of Bob's house, large
quantities of hash were discovered along
with drug-dealing paraphernalia. Bob was
arrested on felony narcotics charges. Bob's
attorney made a motion to suppress the evi-
dence, claiming the warrantless trash search
violated the Fourth Amendment.

67. The motion to suppress will:

A. Succeed, because the warrantless
search of Bob's trash violated the
Fourth Amendment.

B. Succeed, because Bob had placed
his trash in black trash bags,
which no one could see through,
and tied the bags securely shut,
indicating his expectation of
privacy.

C. Fail, because society would not
accept as reasonable Bob's claim
to an expectation of privacy.

D. Both A and B.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

257

68. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Bob, because he was
getting ready to go out of town for a
couple days, had placed two opaque
trash bags, securely tied, just outside
his front door, containing two eight-
ounce bricks of hash and other legal
personal belongings. Bob was going
to take the bags with him on his trip.
A police officer, acting on a neighbor's
tip that drug dealing was likely tak-
ing place at Bob's house, walked up
to Bob's front porch and confiscated
the two black trash bags. Based on the
contents discovered therein, the officer
secured a search warrant for Bob's
home and found quantities of hash and
drug-dealing paraphernalia inside. Bob
files a motion to suppress the evidence
at trial. The motion would:

A. Succeed, because the warrant-
less search of Bob's black trash
bags violated the Fourth Amend-
ment.

B. Succeed, because the black trash
bags were being used to store or
transport personal possessions.

C. Fail.

D. Both A and B.

258 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

69. Sigmund Frodd, experiencing grave fi-
nancial difficulties, decided it was time
to cheat on his taxes. During 1994, he
did many fraudulent things in an effort
to get a refund from the government.
Frodd shredded all of the documents
he used to mastermind his fraudulent
activities because he didn't want any-
one to be able to figure out what he
had done. Frodd contemplated burning
the documents, but decided instead to
merely put the shreddings in the trash
because the documents had been virtu-
ally shredded beyond comprehension.

Frodd's tax return had been red-flagged
by the I.R.S. computer and two I.R.S.
agents had been sent to Frodd's house
to investigate. The agents searched
through garbage bags outside Frodd's
house and found them full of shredded
documents. The agents took the garbage
bags with them back to their headquar-
ters and proceeded to painstakingly
piece together the shredded documents.
Based upon the pieced-together docu-
ments, the I.R.S. was able to make a
case of tax fraud against Frodd. A mo-
tion to suppress the evidence would:

A. Succeed, because John shredded
the documents so no one could
read them.

B. Succeed, because the documents
in their shredded state were in no
way incriminating.

C. Fail. 

Q

D. Both A and B.

70. During their examination of a damaged
package, employees of Federal Excess
observed a white powdery substance,
originally concealed within eight lay-
ers of brown paper and tape. A federal
agent was summoned, who removed a
trace amount of the white substance,
subjected it to a test and determined that
it was cocaine. Did the federal agent's
field test constitute an unlawful search
or seizure within the meaning of the
Fourth Amendment?

A. No.

B. Yes, because a protected posses-
sory interest was infringed.

C. Yes, because the field test like-
ly destroyed some of the evi-
dence.

D. Both B and C.

71. Ms. Prude mistakenly received a pack-
age containing apparently pornographic
videos. Since there were people en-
gaged in sexual acts on the video boxes,
Prude turned the videos over to F.B.I.
agents. The agents watched the videos
and were able to ascertain that they
were, in fact, pornographic. The agents
brought prosecution against the sender.
Did the F.B.I. agents need a warrant to
view the pornographic videos sent to
Prude by mistake?

A. No, because Prude, a private
party, opened the videos herself,
revealing the pornographic video
boxes.

B. No, because the video boxes
were obviously pornographic,
given the pictures of sexual acts
on the outside of them.

C. Yes, because the screening of
the films by the agents was a
governmental search.

D. Yes, because Prude did not watch

the videos. 

72. John Dough, a postal worker, opened
a suspicious-looking package with a
return address from Haight-Asbury
Street, in San Francisco. John was hop-
ing the package would contain some
black-tar hash, given the return address
and the fact it was to be delivered to a
nearby fraternity house. John took the
package home with him and discovered
12 grams of blonde hash instead of
black-tar. A little disappointed, John
smoked some to get in a better mood.
Unfortunately, John became extremely
paranoid, realized what he had done
was wrong and turned the hash over to
the F.B.I. the next morning. The agents
brought a prosecution action against
the sender. Are John Dough's actions
governed by the Fourth Amendment?

A. No, because John procured the

hash for his personal use.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 259

  
74. Molly Made works for Weekend Inn, a
chain of motels, where she is a part of
the room-cleaning staff. While cleaning
room 237, Molly discovered a sizeable
amount of cocaine on the night stand.
Molly quickly walked to the motel's
donut shop where she told Officer
Winchell about the cocaine. Officer
Winchell followed Molly to room 237
and Molly let Winchell inside the room.
Winchell further searched the room and
found more cocaine and cocaine para-
phernalia. Winchell waited in the room
until the guest returned and arrested
him for possession of cocaine. Was the
consent to search given by Molly Made
valid?

A. Yes, if it was after check-out time

for room 237.

B. Yes, because a hotel clerk or
maid has apparent authority to
consent to the search of a guest's
room.

C. No, because a third party cannot

give consent.

D. None of the above. 

B. Yes, because John is a postal

worker.

C. Yes, because John discovered
the hash during the course and
scope of his government employ-
ment.

D. Yes, because John's search and
seizure was done to further a
governmental objective.

73. The police were looking for Tom Hoss,
a bookmaking kingpin. Two officers
drove to Tom's house, thinking he
might be home, to ask him some ques-
tions concerning the recent murder of a
jockey. They knocked on the door and
Tom's butler answered the door, obvi-
ously intoxicated, reeking of martinis.
"May we come in?" one of the officers
asked. "Yes, you may," the Butler said,
with obviously-slurred speech. Did the
officers obtain voluntary consent?

A. No, if the officers knew that the

butler was drunk.

B. No, if the officers did not know

the butler was drunk.

C. Yes.

D. Both A and B.

260 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Q

75. Mary Jane was a college student who
dealt drugs to make ends meet. One
night, while weighing her latest ship-
ment, there was a knock on Mary
Jane's door. "Who is it?" she asked.
"The police! Open up!" Mary peered
through the peep-hole: it was the police.
"Sorry, but I can't let you in." "You'd
better! We have a search warrant!"
Flustered, Mary let the police inside.
Three of them bolted through the door
and thoroughly searched Mary's apart-
ment, finding two pounds of marijuana,
scales and other items indicating drug
use and drug dealing.

During the search, Mary asked, "May
I see the search warrant, please?" The
officers all started laughing. One of
them said, "We have no search war-
rant, you dumb broad!" Shocked, Mary
screamed, "But that's the only reason I
let you in!" "Oh well," one of the of-
ficers shrugged. Did the officers obtain
valid consent to enter and search Mary's
apartment?

A. Yes, because the search incrimi-

nated Mary.

B. Yes, because securing a search
warrant is a mere formality
when the officers have probable
cause.

C. Yes, if all three officers thought
one of the other officers had a
search warrant.

D. No.     

Questions 76 — 77 are based on the
following facts:

David Malcolm served a three-year sentence
for burglary and upon his release from an
Idaho prison was placed on a five-year
probation period. A condition of his proba-
tion was that he agree in advance to waive
certain Fourth Amendment rights. Malcolm
attached his signature to the following:

"That probationer does hereby agree and
consent to the search of his person, automo-
bile, real property, and any other property
at any time and at any place by any law
enforcement officer, peace officer, probation
officers, and does waive his constitutional
right to be free from such searches."

Later, when officers obtained information
that Malcolm was fencing stolen goods, they
went to his home and searched it without a
warrant while he was out of town, and found
large amounts of stolen goods.

76. The probation condition will be

found:

A. Invalid, because an individual
cannot sign away his constitu-
tional rights.

B. Invalid, because there is implied
coercion involved when making
a probationer consent in advance
to surrender his constitutional
rights.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 261

C. Invalid, because such a broadly
worded probation condition
could lead to invasions of pri-
vacy of innocent third parties.

D. Valid.

77. Assume the same facts as question 76,
except the above clause is not a condi-
tion of Malcolm's probation. Will the
police officer's search of Malcolm's
home be upheld?

A. No, because the police en-
tered Malcolm's home without
a search warrant.

B. No, because Malcolm was out of
town and could not consent to the
search.

C. Yes, because, under the cir-
cumstances, it can be deemed a
"regulatory search."

D. Both A and B.

262 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Questions 78 — 81 are based on the
following facts:

Officer Bust posed as a drug purchaser and
gained entry into the home of Tommy Dealer,
who ran a crack house in south Central L.A.
When inside, Bust witnessed several drug
sales take place. Tommy was arrested and
charged with possession and sale of crack
cocaine. Tommy's lawyer made a motion
to suppress the evidence because Bust had
gained entry by tricking Tommy.

78. This motion will:

A. Succeed, because Bust misrep-

resented his identity.

B. Succeed, because Bust's entry
was not consensual, since he
tricked Tommy.

C. Fail, because Bust posed as a

drug purchaser.

D. Fail, because Tommy allowed

Bust to enter his home.

79. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Bust gained entry into
Tommy's home in the manner he did
in question 78. Rather than witness
drug transactions taking place, Bust
took the opportunity while Tommy
was in the bathroom to look into closed
drawers and envelopes, finding cocaine
and cocaine paraphernalia. Tommy's
lawyer made a motion to suppress this
evidence. The motion will: 

A. Fail, because Bust posed as a

drug purchaser.

B. Succeed, because Bust looked
into closed drawers and enve-
lopes while Tommy was in the
bathroom.

C. Succeed, because Bust concealed
his status as a law enforcement
officer.

D. Fail, because Tommy left the
room, thus giving Bust implied
consent to search the closed
drawers and envelopes.

80. Assume for the purpose of this question
only, that Officer Bust gained entry into
Tommy's home by pretending to be
a telephone technician. Once inside,
Bust witnessed drug transactions taking
place. Tommy's lawyer made a motion
to suppress the evidence. The motion
will:

A. Succeed, because Bust did not
represent himself as having an
illegal purpose.

B. Fail, because Bust posed as a

telephone technician.

C. Fail, because Bust did not make
any additional intrusions into the
premises of Tommy.

D. Fail.

Q

81. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Bust gained entry into
Tommy's home by telling Tommy he
was looking for an escaped convict,
who broke out of the nearby State peni-
tentiary. Actually, Bust was looking to
bust Tommy. Once inside, Bust saw a
sizeable lump of cocaine, on a mirror,
on Tommy's coffee table. Tommy's
lawyer made a motion to suppress the
evidence because Bust used deceptive
practices to gain entry into Tommy's
home. The motion will:

A. Succeed, because Bust misrep-

resented his purpose. 

B. Succeed, because Bust did not
represent himself as having an
illegal purpose.

C. Fail, because Tommy's consent

was voluntary.

D. Fail.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 263

  
83. Officer Jones was driving his patrol car
down Sunset Blvd., looking for Tim
Johnson, a suspect wearing blue jeans
and a lime-green t-shirt, who just robbed
a coin store. Jones spotted a man wear-
ing blue jeans and a lime-green t-shirt,
walking briskly down the boulevard.
Jones sped up, got out of his patrol car
and accosted the man who he thought
was Johnson. With gun drawn, Jones
instructed the suspect to put his hands
over his head. "What's this all about?"
Johnson asked. "You know what it's
all about," Jones replied. "Don't tell
me you don't know anything about the
coin shop you just robbed, Mr. John-
son." "I'm not Johnson." "Yeah, right,"
replied Jones. Jones searched through
the pockets of the suspect and found a
vile of cocaine and a metal straw, but
didn't find any coins or any items sold
in a coin shop.

"Where'd you stash the coins, John-
son?" "I'm not Johnson. My name is
Howard Limbo. I'm on my way to catch
the bus." Jones allowed the suspect
to produce his driver's license. The
suspect was not lying, his name was
Howard Limbo. Nonetheless, Officer
Jones handcuffed Limbo and drove him
to the coin shop, hopefully to be identi-
fied by the coin shop's owner.

Q

82. Officers Starsky and Hooch had secured
a warrant to search the person of For-
rest Dump and his place of residence
known as "8709 Portapotty Place, fifth
floor apartment." Starsky and Hooch
reasonably believed that there was
only one fifth floor apartment at 8709
Portapotty Place. In fact, there were two
apartments located on the fifth floor, one
belonging to Dump and the other to a
man named Peter Walk. Before the of-
ficers realized there were two fifth floor
apartments, they had entered Walk's
apartment, thinking it was Dump's, and
found two kilos of hash on the dining
room table, next to a drug scale.

Walk was subsequently arrested for
possession of narcotics with intent to
sell. Walk's attorney filed a motion to
suppress the evidence because the of-
ficers had entered the premises without
a search warrant. The motion will:

A. Succeed, because the warrant

will be found defective.

B. Succeed, because the officers
searched the wrong residence.

C. Succeed, because the officers
should have investigated further
to determine if there was only
one fifth floor apartment.

D. Fail. 

264 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

"No, that's not the guy," says the owner
of the coin shop. "Wearing similar
clothes, but that's not him." Officer
Jones arrested Limbo for possession
of cocaine. Limbo's attorney made a
motion to suppress the evidence. The
motion will:

A. Fail.	

B. Succeed, because Officer Jones

detained the wrong man.

C. Succeed, because Officer Jones
had no reason to search the pock-
ets of Howard Limbo.

D. Succeed, because the owner of
the coin shop proved Howard
Limbo's innocence.

84. Officer Thomas and Officer Hill secured
a warrant on June 1,1994, to search the
premises of Robert Biden. Innundated
with paper work and other law enforce-
ment matters, Thomas and Hill were
unable to act on the warrant until July
7,1994. Once they did execute the war-
rant, however, they were able to seize
the anticipated cocaine from Biden's
apartment. Biden was arrested for pos-
session of cocaine. Biden's lawyer filed
a motion to suppress the evidence. The
motion will:

A. Succeed, because the officers
acted on the warrant on July 7,
1994.

Q

B. Fail, unless the warrant was ex-

ecuted in daytime hours.

C. Fail, because the facts do not
indicate the warrant lacked the
necessary judicial/magistrate
signature or seal. 

D. Succeed only if the warrant had

not expired.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

265

  
Q

Questions 85 — 88 are based upon
the following facts:

D. Fail, provided this was deemed

a legitimate exigency.

86. Assume for the purpose of this question
only, that Stonelli was home when the
officers arrived and they were able to
handcuff him without incident, in his
living room. Knowing that Stonelli was
"armed and dangerous," the officers
feared there could be armed and danger-
ous associates of Stonelli elsewhere in
the house. The officers looked through
large mahogany cabinets in the living
room as well as closets in an imme-
diately adjoining hallway, fearing at-
tackers could likely be present. During
their search, they found large amounts
of cocaine. Stonelli's lawyer makes a
motion to suppress the cocaine. The
motion will:

A. Succeed, because the officers did

not have probable cause.

B. Succeed, because the officers did
not have reasonable suspicion.

C. Both A and B.

D. Fail.

Officers Kent, Camel and Kool had a warrant
for the arrest of J.J. Stonelli, a Mafia hitman,
with a known propensity for extreme vio-
lence. It was known that Stonelli stockpiled
automatic weapons in his home, to protect
his large cache of heroin, cocaine and hash.
In fact, Stonelli was listed in police files as
"armed and dangerous."

Officers Kent, Camel and Kool quietly ap-
proached Stonelli's home and busted down
the front door, giving no notice or warning
to Stonelli or anyone else inside the house.
They bolted through the house, found large
amounts of drugs and illegal assault rifles,
while Stonelli was in the shower with his pet
poodle. Stonelli was arrested for possession
of narcotic and illegal assault rifles. At trial,
Stonelli's lawyer made a motion to suppress
the evidence.

85. The motion will:

A. Succeed, because the officers
did not give notice of their au-
thority and purpose for entering
Stonelli's home.

B. Succeed, because the police un-
necessarily broke down the front
door to gain entry.

C. Succeed, because the actions of
the officers could have lead to
unnecessary violence and en-
dangered the lives of innocent
people. 

266 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

	
	
87. Assume the same facts as question 86,
except the officers searched Stonelli's
entire home, looking under every bed
and opening all cabinets, cupboards and
closets. During their extensive search,
the officers found large amounts of
cocaine under the bed in the master
bedroom. Stonelli's lawyer makes a
motion to suppress the evidence. The
motion will:

A. Succeed, because the officers
did not have probable cause to
search the entire premises.

B. Succeed, because the officers did
not have reasonable suspicion to
search the entire premises.

C. Fail, if a reasonably prudent of-
ficer would believe that a danger-
ous individual was harbored in
the house.

D. Fail, because the actions of the
officers exceeded what was law-
ful.

88. Assume for the purpose of this question
only, that the officers applied for a war-
rant to search Stonelli's house for weap-
ons and stolen property, but the warrant
as signed by the magistrate authorized
only to search for stolen property. The
officers executing the warrant did not
find any stolen property but found the
weapons in plain view. Stonelli's lawyer
made a motion to suppress the weapons.
The motion will:

Q

1-1n
0

E
0 2
cy
xi

A. Succeed, because the officers
knew about the weapons, given
the fact they applied for a war-
rant indicating weapons.

B. Succeed, because the officers
hoped to find the weapons, given
the fact they applied for a war-
rant indicating weapons.

C. Succeed, because the weapons
were not discovered "inadver-
tently" for the plain view doc-
trine to apply, given the fact the
officers applied for a warrant
indicating weapons.

D. Fail, because it was a valid

search.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

267

  
III. Reasonable.

A. I and II only.

B. III only.

C. I, II, and III.

D. II and III only.

91. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that the officers temporar-
ily detained the customers of the bar
while they conducted their search of
the premises. Such an action would be
deemed:

I. Coercive.

II. A violation of the Due

Process Clause.

III. Unconstitutional.

A. I only.

B. II and III only.

C. I, II and III.

D. None of the above.

Questions 89 — 91 are based on the
following facts: 

Three officers executed a valid warrant
to search for drugs in a neighborhood bar
known for drug use. Once lawfully inside the
bar, the officers began searching customers
of the bar for drugs. The officers searched
pockets, purses and wallets for any indicia
of drugs.

89. The search of the customers was:

A. Lawful, because people who
frequent a bar known for drug
use are likely to have drugs on
their person.

B. Lawful, because the officers
searched pockets, purses and
wallets.

C. Unlawful, because the officers
had no probable cause to arrest
the customers.

D. Unlawful because the search
warrant only allowed the officers
to search the bar, not the personal
effects of the customers.

90. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that the officers frisked the
customers for weapons. Such an action
would be deemed:

I. A Fourth Amendment

right violation.

II. An invasion of privacy. 

268 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

    
Q

Questions 92 — 93 are based on the
following facts:

Police officers were sent to a downstairs
apartment where a man lay wounded from
a gunshot wound. The officers determined
that the bullet was shot from the upstairs
apartment as there was a hole in the ceiling
of the downstairs apartment consistent with
a bullet hole. The officers lawfully entered
the upstairs apartment to search for the
shooter, weapons and other victims. When
inside the apartment, the officers found a
rifle, a case of bullets as well as a discarded
shell. One of the officers also noticed an
expensive CD player which didn't fit in with
the ill-furnished apartment or the poverty-
stricken neighborhood. Thinking it might be
stolen, he moved it away from the wall so
he could read the serial number. He wrote
the serial numbers down and realized they
matched a CD player that had been stolen in
a recent armed robbery. The officer seized
the CD player and the apartment's owner
was charged with discharging a firearm in
city limits and possession of stolen goods.
In fact, discovery of the CD player led to
the apartment owner's arrest for the recent
armed robbery.

92. Was the officer's conduct concerning

the CD player lawful?

A. Yes, because the officers lawfully

entered the apartment.

B. Yes, because recording the se-
rial numbers did not constitute a
seizure.

C. Yes, because the presence of
an expensive CD player in an
ill-furnished apartment in a
poverty-stricken neighborhood
was a proper basis for reasonable
suspicion.

D. None of the above.

93. Assume for the purpose of this question
only, that one of the officers found and
seized a box of pen guns in plain view.
Later, at the station, it was determined
that these pen guns, which look exactly
like ballpoint pens to the naked eye,
were in fact contraband (weapons). Was
the seizure of the pen guns lawful?

I. Yes, because they were
discovered in plain
view.

II. Yes, because they were
later determined to be
contraband.

III. No, because they were
later determined to be
contraband.

A. I

B. I and II

C. III

D. None of the above. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 269

Q

_,Lu
Qs
Z_ p
..'"' LIJ
2 (.)
Fe0
Oa

Questions 94 — 98 are based upon
the following facts:

Assume the following facts for the purpose
of this question only: Johnny Boy ran a red
light late one night and was pulled over
by Officer 0' Hair. Johnny was asked to
step out of the car because his pupils were
dilated and he was talking extremely fast.
O'Hair suspected cocaine use. Johnny failed
a field sobriety test and was taken back to
the police station. There, Johnny agreed to
waive his Miranda rights and talk to Officer
O'Hair and another officer. Johnny, however,
insisted that nothing be put in writing and
requested that all tape recorders be turned
off. Johnny also indicated that he would not
make a written statement outside the pres-
ence of counsel. Johnny proceeded to make
incriminating statements.

94. Should Johnny's incriminating state-

ments be suppressed?

A. No, because the questioning was
consistent with the Fifth Amend-
ment.

B. Yes, because when Johnny
requested that none of his state-
ments be put in writing or tape-
recorded, the officers should
have realized that Johnny didn't
understand that his statements
could be used as evidence even if
not written down or recorded.

C. Yes, because Johnny's waiver
of his Miranda rights was con-
ditioned.

270 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

D. Yes, because Johnny indicated
he would not make a written
statement outside the presence
of counsel.

95. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that nine police officers had
lawfully entered Johnny Boy's house
at 3:00 a.m. and questioned him in his
own bedroom, without reading him the
Miranda warnings. During this ques-
tioning session, Johnny made several
incriminating statements. Should the
officers have read Johnny Boy his Mi-
randa rights?

A. No, because he was not being
questioned at the police station.

B. No, because a suspect cannot be
in custody in his own home.

C. Yes, because there were nine
officers in Johnny Boy's bed-
room.

D. Yes, because a reasonable person
would have believed this was an
interrogation.

96. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Johnny Boy accepted an
invitation from a police officer to come
down to the police station for question-
ing, but was not under arrest. Would
Johnny be deemed to be in custody?

A. Yes, because the questioning
took place at the police station. 

B. Yes, because Johnny was invited

by a police officer.

C. No, unless the invitation ap-
peared to be a kind of offer
that could not be reasonably
refused.

D. No, because Johnny was not

under arrest.

97. Assume for the purpose of this ques-
tion only, that Johnny Boy was pulled
over by Officer 0' Hair under suspicion
of drunk driving. Officer O'Hair pro-
ceeded to ask Johnny Boy a series of
questions, trying to ascertain whether
he had been drinking, how much he had
been drinking and when he had his last
drink. Would Officer O'Hair's ques-
tioning of Johnny Boy be considered
custodial interrogation?

A. Yes, because Officer O'Hair is a

police officer.

B. Yes, because Officer O'Hair

detained Johnny Boy.

C. No, because Johnny Boy was not

arrested.

D. No, but only if O'Hair knew
Johnny had been drinking.

98. Bob Youbanks, on a hot night in the
summer of 1994, engaged by himself
in a series of armed robberies in the
state of Columbia. Youbanks, a home-
less entrepreneur, sold wedding dresses
at the local swap meet every weekend
and, low on inventory, he decided to rob
five bridal supply shops. The victims,
in each case, were the business owners
who were forced to hand over three
designer wedding gowns at gun point.
At two of the stores, Youbanks fired his
handgun, severely injuring four custom-
ers. In fact, one customer was purpose-
fully shot and killed by Youbanks.

Columbia state law provides that when
a defendant pleads guilty, "the court
must cause the punishment to be de-
termined by a jury" and may "cause
witnesses to be examined, to ascertain
the character of the offense."

Before the matter came to trial, the
court determined that Youbanks was
indigent. He was provided with a public
defender. A week later, at his arraign-
ment, Youbanks pleaded guilty to all six
offenses. Youbanks was found guilty of
all counts, based on credible eye-wit-
ness testimony, and sentenced to death
by electrocution.

On automatic appeal, it was discovered,
as indicated in the record, that the judge
did not ask Youbanks any questions
concerning his plea, and Youbanks did
not in any way address the court. Can
Youbank's conviction be reversed? 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 271

Later, at the plea hearing, Astro af-
firmed that he fully understood the
plea statement and the consequences
of signing his name on the document.
The judge accepted Astro 's guilty plea
and sentenced him according to the
state's recommendation: 20 years for
the murder and 5 years for the theft.
Astro was credited with the time he
had already served in prison. The judge
advised Astro that he would be required
to serve at least one-third of the murder
sentence before he would be eligible
for parole.

Almost three years later, Astro filed a
federal habeas corpus petition alleging
that his guilty plea was involuntary
because his court-appointed attorney
informed him, just as the judge did, that
he would be eligible for parole after
serving one-third of the murder sen-
tence. In fact, because Astro had been
convicted of a separate felony more
than five years ago, he was classified
as a "second offender," under Colum-
bia state law, he would be required to
serve one-half of the murder sentence
before being eligible for parole. Astro
has asked the Columbia Court of Ap-
peals to reduce his sentence to a term of
years that would result in his becoming
eligible for parole in conformance with
his original plea-bargain expectations.
Will Astro be granted relief? 

A. Yes, because he was denied due

process of law.

B. No, because he was found guilty
based on credible eye-witness
testimony.

C. No, because he pleaded guilty.

D. No, because there cannot be
reversible error when the defen-
dant admits guilt.

99. Billy Astro pleaded guilty to charges
of first-degree murder and theft of
property. Under Columbia state law,
the murder charge carried a potential
sentence of 15 to 50 years or life in
prison. Astro 's court-appointed attorney
successfully negotiated a plea bargain
with the state, where Astro would plead
guilty to both charges, if the State would
impose concurrent prison sentences of
20 years for the murder and 5 years for
the theft. Astro signed a plea agreement
indicating that he understood the charg-
es against him and the consequences of
pleading guilty, and that his pleas had
not been induced by "force, fear, threat,
promise or intimidation." He affixed
his signature below the last two lines
of the plea agreement, which read: "I
fully understand this document. I fully
understand what my rights are, and I
voluntarily plead guilty and realize the
consequences of so doing."

272 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

A. No, if Astro did not allege in his
habeas petition that he would
have pleaded not guilty and
insisted on going to trial, had he
been correctly informed about
his parole eligibility date.

B. Yes, because the court-appointed
attorney's constitutionally inef-
fective performance affected the
outcome of the plea bargaining
process.

C. Yes, because Astro's guilty plea
was not voluntary and intelli-
gent.

D. Yes, because Astro had a mis-
taken belief as to when he would
become eligible for parole.

Q

100. Robert Rotten was indicted on two
felony counts of bookmaking. After
negotiations, Rotten's attorney was
able to persuade the district attorney to
allow his client to plead to a lesser-in-
cluded offense, which carried a maxi-
mum sentence of one year in prison,
upon conviction. The district attorney
also agreed to make no recommenda-
tions as to length of sentence. Rotten
subsequently entered his plea of guilty
to the lesser offense. Rotten explained
to the sentencing judge that his plea
was voluntary and he understood
all implications of pleading guilty.
Rotten's plea was accepted and a date
for sentencing was set. Later, Rotten's
attorney had discovered that evidence
to be used against his client had been
illegally seized, and immediately
moved to withdraw the guilty plea.
The motion was denied.

The court then turned to consideration
of the sentence. At this proceeding,
a new and different prosecutor rec-
ommended that Rotten be given the
maximum one-year sentence. Rotten's
attorney immediately objected to this
because Rotten had been promised
that no sentencing recommendations
would be made. The sentencing judge
proceeded to impose the maximum
one-year sentence, claiming that the
prosecutor's recommendation had no
influence whatsoever on his decision.
Should Rotten be allowed to withdraw
his guilty plea? 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 273

Q    

A. Yes, because the earlier plea did
not irrevocably waive Rotten's
federal constitutional right to a
trial.

B. No, because the judge was not
influenced by the prosecutor's
recommendation.

C. No, because a plea cannot rest
on a promise or agreement of the
prosecutor.  

D. Both B and C.   

END OF QUESTIONS 

274 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
ANSWERS 

1. C is the correct answer. Choices I and II
are correct because Mick has no reason-
able expectation of privacy in the area
searched, here a public place, since he
abandoned the property. Had Mick been
seized, the answer would have been dif-
ferent. That is, his abandonment of the
marijuana was the "fruit" of the illegal
seizure. But, in California v. Hodari
D. (1991), it was held that there is no
seizure unless there is actual restraint
or a submission to police authority.
There was none here. Thus, C, which
includes choice I, II and III is the correct
answer.

2. A is the best answer. Note: The call of
this question is phrased in the negative.
A is clearly worse because the Bail
Clause was never made state-appli-
cable; thus, it is a very bad answer. B,
though amorphous, may be correct. Due
Process might offer Marie some protec-
tion. Since there was impermissible
delay in appearing before a judge after
the warrantless arrest (48 hours is the
maximum delay allowed — See  County
of Riverside v. McLaughlin (1991)), C
is a correct statement, which makes it
incorrect under this call. Since Marie
may have been entrapped, choice D is
not as bad as choice A (which is clearly
wrong).

A

3 . A is the correct answer. A civil suit
requires a violation of rights and bad
faith on the part of the officer. There
was a Fourth Amendment violation here
because Marie was held over 48 hours
before seeing a judge. See McLaughlin,
supra. However, since the officer may
have had nothing to do with the delay,
and since good faith is a defense, there
may not be damages. B, C and D are
incorrect for the same reasons that A is
correct.

4. D is the correct answer. An individual
need not be told of her right to refuse
a search, provided there was no police
coercion. The test for consent is simply
voluntariness under the totality of the
circumstances. A similar fact-pattern
occurred in Florida v. Bostick (1991),
and the consent theregiven was deemed
valid. A is incorrect because often war-
rants are not needed in order to search.
B is incorrect because exigency is not
the only exception to the warrant re-
quirement. C is incorrect because the
auto exception requires probable cause
of contraband in the auto, and there was
none here.

5. D is the best answer. It is lawful to stop a
car when the driver is speeding. Choice
A is correct because a traffic stop is a
detention — but D is more specific and
is, thus, a better answer. A traffic stop
is not considered to be an arrest, so B
is incorrect. See Berkemer v. McCarty 
(1980). C is incorrect for the same rea-
sons that D is correct. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 275

8. C is the correct answer. Unlike the Fifth
Amendment Miranda prophylactic
right to counsel, the Sixth Amendment
counsel right (which attaches at formal
charging) is offense specific. McNeil v. 
Wisconsin (1991). Since the theft was
stipulated to be unrelated to the forg-
ery, the interrogation was permissible.
A and B are incorrect because the fact
that the interrogation was not in-person
and voluntary are not entirely relevant.
D is incorrect for the same reason that
C is correct.

9. A is the correct answer. When an at-
torney misses the filing deadline of an
appeal of right, ineffective counsel is
presumed. Lozada v. Deeds (1991).
Although Strickland ordinarily requires
prejudice to the verdict, such is not
necessary in this one instance. Thus,
B is incorrect. Since all attorneys are
state-licensed, it is irrelevant that Rex
was privately retained. Thus, C is incor-
rect. D is incorrect because collateral
appeal is allowed on this issue. See
Strickland v. Washington (1984).

10. D is the correct answer. The U.S. Su-
preme Court has ruled that "victim
impact" statements are permissible.
Payne v. Tennessee (1991). Thus, A,  B
and C are incorrect. 

6. B is the correct answer. Although it may
be argued that Acid's consent was not
voluntary since he was stopped, consent
has been broadly construed by the U.S.
Supreme Court. See United States v. 
Mendenhall (1984). Moreover, an argu-
ment that the consent was invalid was
not an option provided in the answers.
Thus, given that the consent was vol-
untary, the issue then becomes was the
officer permitted to search into a closed
container. Florida v. Jimeno (1991) is
directly on point and indicates such to
be permissible. A is incorrect for the
same reasons that B is correct. C is in-
correct because a traffic stop is not an
arrest. D is incorrect because, although
it may appear otherwise, there is no
drug exception to the warrant require-
ment.

7. A is the correct answer. Once there is
probable cause of contraband in a car,
the whole car can be searched — includ-
ing the search of closed containers. See
California v. Acevedo (1991). Here,
there was probable cause based on the
drugs in the passenger compartment.
B is incorrect because the search inci-
dent to arrest exception does not allow
search into the trunk of a car. See New
York v. Belton (1981). Since there was
no immediate danger or hot pursuit, C
is incorrect. D is incorrect because there
is no recognized drug exception to the
warrant requirement.

276 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

11. C is the correct answer because it
includes choices I, II and III, which
are all necessary to satisfy an Eighth
Amendment claim by a prisoner. See
Wilson v. Seiter (1991). Choices I and
II require the treatment of a prisoner to
be both cruel and unusual, following
the language of the Eighth Amend-
ment. (Thus, incidentally, mere over-
crowding, although cruel, may not be
unusual.) Choice III requires intent on
the part of the warden or the claim will
fail.

12. D is the best answer. Choice A, B and
C all describe aspects of the Fourth
Amendment. However, habeas claims
cannot include Fourth Amendment ar-
guments; so these choices are clearly
wrong. Stone v. Powell (1976). Al-
though the Eighth Amendment claim
will also be difficult, it has a chance of
success — so D is the best answer.

13. A is the correct answer. Prisoners enjoy
no Fourth Amendment rights, because
of the vastly reduced expectation of pri-
vacy in prison and the need for safety.
Bell v. Wolfish (1979). Although argu-
ments of Due Process (choice B), Equal
Protection (choice C), and Cruel and
Unusual Punishment (choice D) may
not succeed, they at least have such a
possibility.

A

14. B is the correct answer. Although il-
legally seized evidence cannot be used
in the case-in-chief, such can be used
to impeach. United States v. Havens,
(1980). Since the impeachment was
proper, it necessarily follows that an-
swers A, C and D are incorrect.

15. C is the correct answer. Provided that the
legislature so intended, a life-sentence
for a first-time drug offense does not
violate the Cruel and Unusual Punish-
ment Clause. See Harmelin v. Michigan
(1991). In this case, the Supreme Court
severely limited the traditional notion of
proportionality. Thus, choice A is incor-
rect. B is incorrect because lenity is a
term demanding ambiguous statutes to
be construed favorably to the defense.
Such is irrelevant to these facts. Choice
D is incorrect per the pronouncement of
Harmelin, above.

16. C is the best answer. On the facts given,
one might ask why was Wilbur allowed
to take the stand? Shouldn't he have
been told of the danger of impeach-
ment? Although the facts do not indi-
cate that he was not told, nevertheless
counsel's representation is suspect.
Since the standard of ineffectiveness
of counsel is not "farce and mockery,"
A is incorrect. See Strickland v. Wash-
ington (1984). Since no facts indicate
the judge to be biased, B is incorrect.
Since, as indicated in the previous an-
swer, sentences can be quite long and
constitutional, D is incorrect.         

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 277            

a.

17. B is the correct answer. This question
requires a fair reading of the facts.
Obviously Minko's threat of violence,
"find yourself bleeding," makes the
interrogation coercive. Thus, C and D
are incorrect. Since there was no public
safety then at issue, the exception of-
fered in choice A is irrelevant. Cf. New
York v. Quarles (1984).

18. A is the correct answer. Under Arizona
v. Fulminante (1991), the Supreme
Court has held that even confessions
that are coerced can be subject to harm-
less error analysis. B is incorrect for the
same reasons that A is correct. Since
Russ is not a member of a suspect class,
and no facts indicated any other Equal
Protection issue, C is clearly wrong. D
is incorrect because Russ' confession
has absolutely nothing to do with his
own rights of confrontation.

19. D is the best answer. In order for there
to be a violation of the right to effective
counsel, there must be attorney error
and prejudice. Strickland v. Washing-
ton, (1984). On these facts, there was
almost certainly attorney error (not
making an objection to the admission),
but no facts indicate prejudice. Thus, D
is phrased correctly, and A is incorrect.
Since no facts whatsoever indicate an
issue of suspect class, choices B and C
are incorrect.

278 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

20. C is the correct answer. If a contempora-
neous objection is not made (i.e., an ob-
jection contemporaneous to the alleged
error), a successful collateral petition
must show that there was good cause
for the failure (for example, conceal-
ment of evidence by the prosecution)
and prejudice to the verdict; and that
the defendant is, in fact, innocent of the
crime based on a Constitutional error.
Only choice C offers this alternative
phrasing.

21. D is the correct answer. There is no
Fourth Amendment protection if there
was no "search." Viewing a barn is not
a search, since no significant privacy
expectation was invaded. United States
v. Dunn (1987). Since there was no
emergency, A is incorrect. Since no
warrant was obtained initially, the good
faith exception (choice B) is incorrect.
Since J.G.'s "search" was not related to
public safety, choice C is incorrect.

22. D is the best answer. Although the facts
do not indicate whether the dumpster
was outside the home, a fair reading
of the facts so indicates. Thus, under
California v. Greenwood (1988), there
was no "search" for Fourth Amendment
purposes. Although this answer may not
necessarily be "correct," it is the best
answer because choices A, B and C
are clearly wrong. A is wrong because
there was no emergency. B is wrong
because the good faith exception is
not applicable to warrantless searches.
Choice C is wrong because this was not
a public safety search.  

23. A is the correct answer. Warrants require
judicial/magistrate approval and such is
either by signature or seal. B is incor-
rect because J.G's discoveries were not
protected by the Fourth Amendment,
since they were not "searches." C is
incorrect because warrants definitely
need judicial approval. D is incorrect
because, although the fruits of a search
performed in good faith reliance on a
warrant later deemed defective does not
require suppression of that evidence,
the warrant, itself, is nevertheless still
defective.

24. B is the correct answer. Good faith reli-
ance on a warrant later deemed defec-
tive does not mandate suppression of
the evidence obtained. Massachusetts 
v. Sheppard (1984). Although A is
legally correct, it misreads the facts.
This signatureless warrant was invalid.
Although C is legally correct, it is es-
sentially irrelevant since no statute was
stated in the facts. D is incorrect for the
same reasons that B is correct.

25. D is the correct answer. In order to
utilize the good faith exception to the
exclusionary rule, the officer must be
in objective good faith. Since both his
actual knowledge and his training in-
dicate "bad faith," this exception is not
available. Massachusetts v. Sheppard
(1984). Thus, A is incorrect. B is incor-
rect because no evidence whatsoever
indicates that the evidence would have
been discovered. C is incorrect because
there is no evidence whatsoever of any
independent source or sources.

A

26. A is the correct answer. Under the Wong
Sun rule, since the seizure of the car was
unlawful, the evidence so discovered is
to be suppressed. B is incorrect because
the exclusionary rule is applicable to
misdemeanors. C is incorrect because
the inventory exception requires lawful
police possession of the property. D is
incorrect because the good faith excep-
tion requires there to be a warrant.

27. B is correct. An officer can enter a
dwelling, if he has probable cause
that there is an emergency. A scream
furnishes such a reasonable belief. A
is incorrect because good faith alone,
without a warrant, is not a recognized
exception. C is incorrect because in no
way did Sarah or her guest consent. D
is incorrect for the same reason that B
is correct. Cf. Welsh v. Wisconsin

28. D is the best answer. Naked eye sur-
veillance, when the officer is lawfully
positioned is not a search for Fourth
Amendment purposes. Cf. California
v. Ciraolo (1986). A is incorrect be-
cause the observation was not related
to the apparent exigency. B is incorrect
because neither Sarah nor her guest
consented/assumed the risk. C is in-
correct because the brass case was not
"obviously incriminating." Cf. Arizona
v. Hicks (1987).

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 279

32. B is the correct answer. The Skinner
and Von Raab cases (1989) indicate be-
cause of the widespread drug problem
and public safety, testing of railroad
employees associated with an accident
and customs agents seeking promotion
to be lawful, under the administrative
exception. By logical analogy, police
officer testing is most probably accept-
able. A is incorrect because there is no
drug exception to the warrant require-
ment. C is incorrect because there was
no emergency. D is incorrect because
examination of bodily fluids is both a
search and a seizure. Skinner v. Railway 
Labor Executives Association (1989).

33. D is the correct answer. If any jail time is
to be served, counsel must be provided
to the indigent. Scott v. Illinois (1979).
Thus, A and B are legally incorrect. C
is incorrect because no facts indicated
Kim not to be indigent.

34. C is the correct answer. The jury trial
right attaches only when the sentence
is potentially over 6 months. Blanton v. 
North Las Vegas (1989). Thus, choices
A, B and C are incorrect.

29. B is the correct answer. Although Slo-
bog was lawfully positioned, there was
not probable cause that the brass case
contained cocaine. Thus, the plain view
exception is unavailable. Arizona v. 
Hicks (1987). The evidence was illegal-
ly discovered. A is incorrect because the
mere fact that this was Sarah's "castle"
does not invalidate the search and sei-
zure provided there was a recognized
exception. C is incorrect because there
is no general good faith exception if
there is no warrant obtained prior. D is
incorrect because no facts indicate the
evidence would have inevitably been
discovered.

30. C is the best answer. An invited over-
night guest has standing to object to the
search of his property in the premises.
Minnesota v. Olson (1990). This answer
would have been better had it men-
tioned the illegality of the search, but
it is nevertheless the best of the listed
alternatives. A is incorrect for the same
reason that C is correct. B is incorrect
because there is no general warrantless
good-faith exception. D is incorrect
because there is no LaFave doctrine.

31. C is the best answer. An overnight guest
has standing to object to search of the
premises. Minnesota v. Olson (1990).
Had the answer included that the search
was illegal, it would have been better,
but this is the best alternative offered. A
is incorrect for the same reasons that C
is correct. B and D are incorrect because
there are no such doctrines. 

280 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

35. D is the correct answer. Although coun-
sel need not be given to the indigent if
no jail is imposed, such a conviction can
be used to enhance a later conviction.
Nichols v. U.S. (1994). Since retrial for
the same crime is not at issue, double
jeopardy (choice A) is irrelevant. Since
prosecution and conviction for prosti-
tution has never been considered to be
cruel and unusual punishment, choice
B is obviously incorrect. Choice C is
incorrect for the same reason that choice
D is correct.

A

36. B is the correct answer. As a matter of
law, Conspiracy and its target offense
(on these facts, Robbery) are distinct of-
fenses, under Double Jeopardy analysis.
United States v. Felix (1992). A is ob-
viously incorrect because the multiple
crimes were not prosecuted in separate
jurisdictions. Thus, the separate sov-
ereign limitation on Double Jeopardy
protection is inapplicable. C is incor-
rect because Conspiracy requires proof
of the additional fact that there was an
agreement; and Robbery requires proof
of an additional fact that the crime was
completed (not just agreed to). Thus,
utilizing the traditional Blockburger
analysis, these are separate offenses.
However, there is more to Double
Jeopardy protection than just this test.
Answer D correctly sets out the addi-
tional legal principle regarding Double
Jeopardy protection. A "lesser included
offense" is an offense in which all of the
written elements of one crime appear in
the other. Thus, on these facts, Robbery
is a lesser included offense of Conspir-
acy to commit Robbery. (Conspiracy
is defined here as the meeting of the
minds of two or more people with the
intent to commit Robbery.) D correctly
states this general rule of law, that lesser
included and greater inclusive offenses
are the same offense, in Double Jeop-
ardy analysis. But, the exception to this
rule is regarding Conspiracy — which
is the fact-pattern of this case. D is
therefore incorrect because it ignores
the Felix exception, supra. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 281

37. C is the correct answer, because only
Choices III and IV are correct. Tennes-
see v. Garner (1985) held that a police
officer can use deadly force on a fleeing
felon only when there is a present public
danger. If deadly force is used when
there is not such a danger, the Fourth
Amendment (as applicable to the states
by the Fourteenth Amendment Due
Process Clause) mandates exclusion
of all evidence discovered (absent an
exception to the Exclusionary Rule).
On the facts given, Wing posed no
public danger. No facts indicated him
to be armed or in any way dangerous
to Officer Breeze or the public. Thus,
there was a clear Fourth Amendment
violation, via this illegal seizure of
the person. Since Wing obviously has
standing (it was his own body which
was seized) and since, on these facts,
no exception to the Exclusionary Rule
(such as inevitable discovery) appears
relevant, all evidence derived from
the illegal seizure must be suppressed.
Choice III is therefore correct because
evidence of the Petty Theft was the
product of the illegal seizure. Choice IV
is correct because evidence of Resist-
ing a Police Officer is also the direct
product of the illegal seizure. Choices I
and II are incorrect for the same reasons
that Choices III and IV are correct.

38. D is the correct answer. The call of the
question queried as to what was the
prosecutor's best argument for allow-
ing in the evidence of Lou's marijuana
possession. Since it was stipulated
that another officer, Smart, was on the
verge of independently discovering the
marijuana, the best argument is "inevi-
table discovery". This exception to the
Exclusionary Rule allows introduction
of illegally seized evidence (here by
Knuckles' coercion), if the prosecution
shows, by a preponderance, that the
evidence would inevitably have been
discovered. Nix v. Whiteside (1984).
Although the facts do not utilize the
precise legal standard above, never-
theless, the stipulation indicates the
likely applicability of this exception.
A is incorrect because the good faith
exception to the Exclusionary Rule
requires there to be a warrant. No facts
indicated there to be a warrant in this
situation. B is incorrect because, in
fact, there was no independent source.
Officer Smart had not yet discovered
the drugs. There was only a hypotheti-
cal independent source. The name for
such is "inevitable discovery." Thus, B
is incorrect for the same reasons that
D is correct. C is obviously incorrect
because the Fourth Amendment and
its jurisprudence is fully applicable to
the states, by way of the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 

282 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

39. C is the correct answer. Although a
search warrant allows the detention of
the lawful possessor of the premises to
be searched, it does not allow the deten-
tion of those merely present at the situs
of the search. Ybarra v. Illinois (1979).
Therefore, the detention of Ebar's two
friends was in violation of the Fourth
Amendment, and evidence discovered
as a result, is to be suppressed. A is
incorrect because the lawful possessor
of premises to be searched can be de-
tained. Such is an inherent power of a
search warrant. Michigan v. Summers 
(1981). B is incorrect because, although
the detention of Ebar's friends was
unlawful, such does not aid Ebar in
any way. "Mere" police illegality, not
directly related to evidence discovered
against the defendant (here Ebar), in no
way mandates suppression of evidence
against the defendant. Fourth Amend-
ment rights are personal. D is incorrect
for the same reasons that C is correct.

40. C is the correct answer because only
choices I and III are correct. Choice I
is obviously correct because the lan-
guage of the Fourth Amendment, itself,
requires probable cause, in order that a
warrant be issued. Choice III is correct
because items observed in "plain view",
while lawfully executing a warrant, can
be seized. This is a traditional exception
to the warrant requirement, and the facts
meet the requirements of this excep-
tion (probable cause and object was
obviously incriminating). See generally
Horton v. California (1990). Choice II
is incorrect because the test for whether
there was probable cause, via a confi-
dential informant's tip, is no longer the
two-pronged Aguilar-Spinelli  test, but
is rather, simply, whether the totality of
the circumstances indicate there to be
probable cause of crime, contraband
or evidence of crime. Illinois v. Gates 
(1983).  

A

.t1 0
O73
0
m
zcy

rrl

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 283

A

41. B is the correct answer. Administrative
searches are acceptable even without an
administrative ("area") warrant, when
such are based on a valid public policy,
there is a regulation allowing such and
the area to be searched is considered to
be a "closely regulated" business. The
facts of New York v. Burger (1987)
are directly analogous to the facts of
this case. In Burger, junkyards were
considered closely regulated, there was
a regulation allowing such, the search
was by a police officer and criminal
prosecution resulted. It was held to be
no Fourth Amendment violation. Such
was a valid administrative search. A is
incorrect because no warrant was is-
sued, under the given facts, and such
is a requirement in order to utilize the
good faith exception. Moreover, A is
also incorrect because the good-faith
exception is to the Exclusionary Rule,
it is not an exception to the warrant re-
quirement. C is incorrect for the same
reasons that B is correct. D is incorrect
for two reasons: First, no facts indicate
Lemon to have acted in bad faith. Sec-
ondly, the bad faith of the involved offi-
cer is not relevant to the acceptability of
an administrative search. The elements
required of a proper administrative
search were set out above... and do not
include good faith.

42. C is the correct answer. Although it was
stipulated in the facts that there was a
Miranda violation, the U.S. Supreme
Court has indicated that most trial
errors, provided that the prosecution
proves them to be harmless beyond a
reasonable doubt, will not require the
setting aside of the finding of guilt.
Chapman v. California (1967). A is
incorrect because it misreads the facts
an error was stipulated. Choices B and
D are incorrect because they use the
wrong evidentiary standard.

43. D is the correct answer because choices
A, B and C are all incorrect. If an
arrestee merely invokes his right to
silence, after being given the Miranda
warnings, then he can be reinterrogated.
[There is the contrary answer, when the
attorney right is invoked. Edwards v. 
Arizona  (1981)] Michigan v. Mosley
(1975). Answer A is obviously incorrect
because, although the U.S. Supreme
Court may appear to limit the protec-
tions in the Bill of Rights, particularly
in drug cases, this is certainly not the
stated law. B is incorrect for the same
reason that D is correct. C is incorrect
for two reasons: First, there is no law
indicating factually voluntary admis-
sions to be per se involuntary; secondly,
a suspect not being told of the crimes for
which he is being interrogated, is of no
legal significance. Colorado v. Spring
(1987). 

284 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

44. A is the correct answer. Only when a
suspect has been formally charged with
a crime (not just arrested), does the
Sixth Amendment Right to Counsel at-
tach. If such attaches, an attorney must
be present during the post-charging, live
identification procedure. If the attorney
has not been invited, the out-of-court
identification will be suppressed.
United States v. Wade (1967). Since
there was no formal charging here, the
identification is likely admissible. B is
incorrect, for the same reasons that A is
correct. Choices C and D are incorrect
because only extraordinarily unfair or
"suggestive" visual identification pro-
cedures violate Due Process. Although
a one-on-one identification (known as
a "showup") is somewhat suggestive,
it is the extraordinarily rare case where
such is deemed to be a constitutional
violation. On the facts of this case, the
proximity of the identification with the
alleged crime, and the sureness of the
alleged victim, undoubtedly indicate the
identification to be admissible. Neil v. 
Biggers (1972).

A

45. C is the correct answer. Once an in-
dividual is formally charged, here by
a grand jury, he possesses the Sixth
Amendment Right to Counsel. Not
only must he be so informed (Patterson
v. Illinois (1988)), but if he invokes
such, the police can neither directly
nor indirectly (via use of an infor-
mant) interrogate him on the charged
crime. Massiah v. United States (1964).
However, unlike the Fifth Amend-
ment Miranda protection, the Sixth
Amendment protection extends only to
interrogation regarding the indicted/ar-
raigned crime. It is "offense-specific".
McNeil v. Wisconsin (1991). Choice
C incorporates the above principles,
i.e., only the information, regarding
the unindicted crimes, is admissible.
A and B are partially incorrect in that
the information garnered regarding the
unindicted offenses is admissible. Hoffa
v. United States (1966). D is incorrect
for the same reasons that C is correct.

46. C is the correct answer. The Sixth
Amendment Right to Counsel attaches
to indigents only when actual jail time
is imposed, or if the prosecution is for
a felony. Gideon v. Wainwright (1963).
Thus, if, as here, no jail is imposed,
there has been no constitutional viola-
tion. A is incorrect in that it confuses
the Jury Trial right, with the Counsel
right [which does attach when the jail
potential is over 6 months]. B is an
incorrect statement of law. Nichols v. 
U.S. (1994). D is incorrect for the same
reason that C is correct.  

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 285

48. B is the correct answer. With few excep-
tions, the Sixth Amendment Confronta-
tion Clause, as applied to the states by
the Fourteenth Amendment Due Pro-
cess Clause, mandates that defendants
be allowed to confront (cross-examine)
adverse witnesses. Pointer v. Texas
(1965). Had Joyce not taken the stand,
on her own volition, the answer would
have been different. A defendant waives
her Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment
Self-Incrimination protection by vol-
untarily taking the stand at the trial.
She cannot take the stand, testify on her
own behalf and then refuse to answer
questions on cross-examination which
are reasonably related, as here, to her
testimony on direct. Brown v. United
States (1958). For these reasons and
case-holding, choice A is incorrect. C is
incorrect for similar reasons. Although
two constitutional rights do conflict here
(Confrontation and Self-Incrimination),
the Supreme Court has struck a reason-
able balance, via the above rulings. D
is incorrect for the same reasons that B
is correct. 

47. D is the correct answer. Pate v. Robin-
son (1966) indicated that trial judges,
on their own motion, must insure that
unless the defendant is mentally com-
petent, he cannot be criminally tried.
On the facts given, such an inquiry is
clearly warranted. Delusions indicate a
substantial possibility of incompetence,
i.e., the inability to aid in the defense,
and disorientation as to the facts of the
crime and reality (see Dusky v. United
States (1960)).

On the facts given, it was an unconsti-
tutional violation of Fourteenth Amend-
ment Due Process to not require psychi-
atric evaluation regarding competency
prior to the trial. A is incorrect for the
identical reasons that D is correct. B
is incorrect because the issue at hand
is not whether the defendant is Insane
[because of mental disease he did not
know the wrongfulness of his actions].
Insanity is an affirmative defense. It
has a different test than competency.
That is, a defendant may be sufficiently
oriented and possess sufficient ability
to aid in his own defense and still not
know what he was doing was wrong.
Furthermore, Insanity queries: what
was the defendant's state of mind at the
time of the crime, itself. Competency
queries: what was the defendant's state
of mind at the time of trial. C is factually
incorrect because there are sufficient
facts indicating extreme mental disor-
der, and, thus, a real possibility of in-
competence. The inquiry must be made,
via pre-trial psychiatric examination.

286 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

49. C is the correct answer because both
choices I and II are relevant inquiries.
The Eighth Amendment Cruel and
Unusual Punishment Clause, as applied
to the states by the Fourteenth Amend-
ment Due Process Clause, mandates
that methods of execution not be both
"cruel" and "unusual". See Robinson
v. California (1962) (which indicated
this aspect of the Eighth Amendment
to be state-applicable); and Weems v. 
United States (1910) (which indicated
that a violation of the Clause requires
that the punishment be both "cruel"
and "unusual"). Choice I is therefore
correct because it addresses the issue
of whether death by dismemberment is
an "unusual" practice. Choice  II is cor-
rect because it addresses the question
whether death by dismemberment is
unduly "cruel". A is not the best answer
because it only includes Choice  I. B is
not the best answer because it only in-
cludes Choice II. D is incorrect for the
same reasons that C is correct.

A

50. D is the correct answer. When a Habeas
Corpus petitioner does not object to the
admissibility of certain evidence at the
appropriate time (usually this is pre-tri-
al, but it could be at trial depending on
the state's rules), then she is deemed
to have "procedurally defaulted" (by
failing to contemporaneously object). In
such instance, in order for this defaulted
claim to be heard on Habeas (collateral
appeal), she must show good cause
why such was not brought up at the
appropriate time, and also must show
prejudice to her case. Wainwright v. 
Sykes (1977). Since Miranda is and has
been settled law, Karen will be unable
to show "cause" why she did not bring
up this claim at the appropriate time. A
is incorrect because, in not granting the
petition, the court is correctly following
the above law. Such is not error at all. B
is incorrect because, even though there
was a Miranda violation, such must be
claimed at the appropriate time or is
generally forfeited. C is a correct state-
ment of fact. Karen's counsel was likely
ineffective. However, ineffectiveness of
counsel is its own Habeas claim. In fact,
it is the better claim here. Nevertheless,
the facts stipulated that such was not
the argument of her Habeas petition.
Therefore, choice C is irrelevant to the
actual claim which Karen made. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 287

53. C is the correct answer. Under the cir-
cumstances, the U.S. Marshal should
have secured a search warrant upon
sworn information, describing with
reasonable particularity the thing for
which the search was to be made. By
not doing so, the Marshal acted "with-
out sanction of law" in direct violation
of the constitutional prohibition action
of action. (See Weeks v. United States,
232 U.S. 383, 34 S.Ct. 341 (1914)). As
such, B is clearly wrong. A is wrong
because law enforcement officials can-
not further the government's case in
direct violation of the constitution. D
is incorrect because a defendant is not
necessarily entitled to the return of his
property merely because his application
for its return was seasonal.

54. D is the best answer. A and B are wrong
for the reasons set forth in 53 above.
Though C could be correct, D is more
specific as to the reason why the gov-
ernment should not be permitted to use
Mac's property at trial.

55. D is the best answer. In Mapp v. Ohio,
367 U.S. 643, 81 S.Ct. 1684 (1961),
it was held that "the right to privacy
embodied in the Fourth Amendment
is enforceable against the States, and
that the right to be secure against rule
invasions of privacy by state officers
is, therefore, constitutional in origin."
A, B and C are wrong because they are
incorrect statements of law. 

51. D is the best answer. A is incorrect
because Aire Head, a student, has no
reasonable expectation of privacy, since
Mr. Locke, a school official, is merely
investigating whether a violation of a
school infraction has occurred. D is
correct because it is a better answer
than B and C, since it specifically deals
with the concept of "reasonableness."
In New Jersey v. T.L.O., 469 U.S. 325,
105 S.Ct. 733 (1985), it was held that
a school official's intrusion into the
privacy of a student was "reasonable"
since it was necessary to achieve the
legitimate end of preserving order in
the schools. Here, since Mr. Locke was
merely investigating whether a school
rule had been violated, his searching
of the purse for cigarettes would be
deemed "reasonable."

52. D is correct because A, B and C are
irrelevant. In Hudson v. Palmer, 468
U.S. 517 (1984), the Supreme Court
concluded that the requirements of
prison security make it unreasonable
for prisoners to expect protection for
their privacy.

288 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

56. D is the correct answer. Absent other
facts, the mere smell of breath mints
does not mean the driver is intoxicated.
For that reason, A is incorrect. B is
incorrect because it is irrelevant what
was found in the face of an unlawful
search. C is incorrect because there are
no facts which give rise to this excep-
tion. Moreover, the inventory exception
requires lawful police possession of the
property.

57. A is the correct answer. Crumpky had
no probable cause to search Gloss' car.
The rear of the car could have been low
because she was transporting bags of
fertilizer home to do gardening work.
A low rear-end does not necessarily
speak of illegal activity. B is wrong for
the same reasons C in question 56 is
wrong. C is an incorrect statement of
law. (See One 1958 Plymouth Sedan
v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
380 U.S. 693, 85 S.Ct 1246 (1965)).
D is irrelevant because the car is not
contraband.

58. D is the correct answer. Viewing a
greenhouse is likely not a search as con-
templated by the Fourth Amendment.
No privacy expectation was invaded.
(See United States v. Dunn (1987)). A is
incorrect; off-duty police officers may
engage in law enforcement activity if
the situation so warrants. B and C are
nonsense.

A

59. D is the best answer. A is incorrect
because the trash cans were not on the
curb, but on Middo's home property,
therefore he does have a privacy ex-
pectation. Cf. California v. Greenwood
(1988). B is wrong because the facts do
not indicate an emergency. C is wrong
because the good faith exception does
not apply to warrantless seearches (and
is also wrong because relying on a
clearly defective warrant is not reason-
able good faith). D is therefore the best
choice.

60. D is the correct answer because all
warrants require judicial/magistrate ap-
proval indicated by either signature or
seal. As such, A, B and C are wrong.

61. A is the best answer because a warrant
secured in bad faith which is subse-
quently deemed invalid will keep the
evidence found pursuant to the warrant
from coming in. (See Massachusetts v. 
Sheppard (1984)). B is also correct but
is not as fact specific as A. C and D are
wrong because A is correct.

62. D is the correct answer because A, B
and C are wrong. A is wrong because
the facts indicate that Palmer was act-
ing in bad faith. B is wrong because
there are no facts to indicate that other
evidence would have been discovered.
C is wrong because a warrant, under the
circumstances articulated in the answer,
is required despite the incriminating
nature of the evidence already discov-
ered. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 289

63. C is the correct answer because "it [is]
incumbent on the suspect to preserve
his privacy from visual observation."
(See Commonwealth v. Hernley, 216
Pa.Superior Ct. 177, 263 A.2d 904
(1970), cert. denied, 401 U.S. 914
(1971)). As such, A, B and D are incor-
rect.

64. D is the correct answer because there
"can be no expectation of privacy when
one leaves his windows open or uncov-
ered so that any passerby might peer
into one's dwelling with impunity, and
the same result should apply regard-
less of where the window or opening
is placed in the dwelling." (See Com-
monwealth v. Pennsylvania, 525 Pa.
250, 579 A.2d 1288 (1990), where the
expectation of privacy did not attach
to a translucent rooftop). As such, A, B
and C are wrong.

65. C is the correct answer because failure
of a defendant, or those with him, or
those employed by him, to close his
premises to the world negates defen-
dant's argument that he was deprived
of his privacy. (See Commonwealth v. 
Johnson, 247 Pa.Superior Ct. 208, 372
A.2d 11 (1977)). As such, A, B and D
are wrong.

66. B is the correct answer and is a better
answer than A because it is more fact
specific than A. C is wrong because
helicopters are permitted to fly at any al-
titude only if the operation is conducted
without hazard to persons or property
on the surface. (See Commonwealth v. 
Johnson, supra). D is wrong because it
is irrelevant that the marijuana was clear
and visible when the search was unrea-
sonable and violative of constitutional
requirements prohibiting unreasonable
searches and seizures, since hazard to
persons or property on the surface oc-
curred.

67. C is the correct answer because Bob
exposed his garbage to the public suf-
ficiently to defeat his claim to Fourth
Amendment protection. (See California
v. Greenwood, 486 U.S. 35, 108 S.Ct.
1625 (1988)). A is wrong because the
Fourth Amendment does not prohibit
the warrantless search and seizure of
garbage left for collection outside the
curtilage of a home. B is wrong for the
same reason as A, even though Bob's
trash bags were opaque and securely
tied. D is wrong because A and B are
wrong.

290 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

68. D is the correct answer. As articulated
in California v. Greenwood, supra, the
(black) plastic bags involved here are
protected from warrantless searches
when used to store or transport personal
possessions. Since there are no facts
indicating that the officer had reason to
believe that the specific bags on Bob's
porch contained anything illegal inside
them, the officer, thus, had no right
to search through them. As such, this
warrantless search and seizure would
be prohibited by the Fourth Amend-
ment. For the foregoing reasons, C is
wrong.

69. C is the correct answer. Frodd "is in
no better position than the citizen who
merely tears up a document by hand and
discards the pieces on the sidewalk."
(See United States v. Scott, 975 F.2d
927 (1st Cir.1992)). Thus, A, B and D
are wrong because the Fourth Amend-
ment does not prohibit the warrantless
search and seizure of garbage left for
collection outside one's home.

A

70. A is the correct answer. "A chemical
test that merely discloses whether or
not a particular substance is cocaine
does not compromise any legitimate
interest in privacy." (See United States 
v. Jacobsen, 466 U.S. 109, 104 S.Ct.
1652 (1984)). B is wrong because the
federal agent did not infringe any con-
stitutionally protected privacy interest
that had not already been frustrated as
the result of private conduct (Federal
Excess employees). C is wrong because
a field test can destroy some of the
evidence, not all of it, and still render
the search and seizure valid. The facts
do not indicate all of the evidence was
destroyed. As such, the seizure was not
unreasonable. D is wrong because both
B and C are wrong.

71. D is the best answer and is better than
C because it characterizes the actions of
the agents as having gone beyond the
scope of the private search, e.g., Ms.
Prude's mere opening of the package
versus the viewing of the videos inside
the package. (See Walter v. United
States, 447 U.S. 649 (1980)). As such,
A and B are wrong.

72. A is the correct answer. By procuring
the hash for his personal use, John was
not furthering a governmental objective
and, thus, his actions were not governed
by the Fourth Amendment. (See United
States v. Smith, 810 F.2d 996 (10th Cir.
1987)). As such, D is wrong and B and
C are irrelevant. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 291

75. D is the correct answer. Mary only
gave consent to the officers because
she believed they had the authority
to enter her home. Moreover, even if
she hadn't given consent, she most
likely believed the officers would have
entered her home anyway under the
power of the warrant. (See Bumper v. 
North Carolina, 391 U.S. 543 (1968)).
As such, A, B and C are wrong. While
it might appear C could be correct under
the good- faith exception, that excep-
tion only applies when an officer(s) has
physical possession of a warrant later
deemed defective. There are no facts
here to indicate, either in the fact pat-
tern or answer choice C, that an actual
warrant existed.

76. D is the best answer as such probation
conditions are held to be valid in some
jurisdictions. (See State v. Gawron, 736
P.2d 1295 (Idaho 1987). C is a poten-
tially true statement; however, there
is no case law taking this view. A and
B are wrong because the fact pattern
involves a probationer.

77. C is the correct answer. Without invok-
ing any concept of consent, the search
of a probationer by an officer can be
upheld as a "regulatory search" justi-
fied by the special needs of effective
probation supervision. (See Griffin v. 
Wisconsin, 483 U.S. 868, 107 S.Ct.
3164 (1987)). A and B are wrong be-
cause Malcolm is a probationer. D is
wrong because A and B are wrong.

73. Though inexplicit, C is the best answer.
The central queries with the Fourth
Amendment ... and its consent excep-
tion to the warrant requirement, is who
has standing to consent and whether
the police acted in an objectively rea-
sonable manner. Certainly a butler has
apparent authority to consent. Illiinois 
v. Rodriguez (1990). Thus choice B
is incorrect—the butler has apparent
authority to allow entry. Additionally,
the focus is on whether the police over-
reached, i.e., used intimidation. See
Florida v. Bostick (1991). Since the
facts indicate they did not, the consent
is voluntary and valid. Thus, although
arguable, choice A, which emphasizes
the subjective mental state of the butler,
is not supported by case law. D is incor-
rect for the same reasons that A and B
are incorrect.

74. A is the best answer. Hotel management
or staff is entitled to retake possession
of a room after check out time because,
at this time, the hotel guest no longer
has standing. (See Stoner v. California,
376 U.S. 483 (1964)). While B is a true
statement of law, A is the better answer
for the reasons discussed above. C is
not necessarily true because there are
times when a third party can give con-
sent. D is wrong because A is the better
answer.

292 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

A

730
OE

cy

mr— 

78. C is the correct answer. Many cases
have held that there is no illegal entry
when a police officer poses as a drug
purchaser to gain consensual entry to
the premises of a drug dealer. (See
Lewis v. United States, 385 U.S. 206
(1966)). As such, answers A and B are
wrong. D is wrong because C is more
fact specific as to why Tommy allowed
Bust to enter his home.

79. B is the correct answer. Officer Bust's
additional intrusions into the drawers
and envelopes while Tommy was in
the bathroom could not be justified on
the basis of consent, since Tommy only
consented to let Officer Bust inside his
home, not his drawers and envelopes.
A is wrong because of the additional
intrusions made by Officer Bust. C is
wrong for the reasons articulated in
answer 78. D is nonsense.

80. A is the correct answer. Under Lewis
v. United States, supra, concealment
of one's status as a law enforcement
officer does not invalidate the consent,
at least in the case of a transaction oc-
curring between the "officer" and the
defendant that is understood by both
parties to be illegal. The result would
likely be different if, as here, the police
officer gained entry by pretending to
be a telephone technician or gas-meter
reader. In such a scenario, there is no
understanding that an illegal transac-
tion is about to take place since the
defendant believes the officer to be a
telephone technician and not a person
there to buy drugs. As such, B, C and
D are wrong.

81. C is the correct answer. The court in
Bumper v. North Carolina, 391 U.S.
543 (1968), "upheld the voluntariness
of consent despite the deceptive prac-
tices by government agents." In short,
officers can disclose their identity but
misrepresent their purpose. (See also
State v. Johnson, 253 Kan. 356, 856
P.2d 134 (1993)). Here, because Bust's
behavior was not threatening or coer-
cive, and Tommy was willing to let Bust
enter, and Bust did not exceed the scope
of the consent, the evidence would be
admissible. As such, A and B are wrong.
D is a correct answer, but C is better
because it sets forth the reasons why
the motion will fail.

82. D is the correct answer. The warrant will
be found valid because it was based on
the reasonable belief that there was only
one apartment on the fifth floor, and
the search pursuant to that warrant was
lawful because the officers reasonably
believed they were searching Dump's
apartment when they discovered the
two kilos of hash and the drug scale.
(See Maryland v. Garrison, 480 U.S.
79 (1987)). As such, A, B and C are
wrong.

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 293

85. D is the correct answer. If an officer
knows that a suspect(s) is armed and
dangerous, the officer may enter with-
out giving advance notice of her author-
ity and purpose. Since Stonelli was a
known Mafia hitman listed as "armed
and dangerous," the actions of Kent,
Camel and Kool were proper. As such,
A, B and C are wrong.

86. D is the correct answer. Officers are
allowed to "look in closets and other
spaces immediately adjoining the place
of arrest from which an attack could im-
mediately be launched." (See Maryland
v. Buie, 494 U.S. 325 (1990)). Since
Stonelli was known to the officers
to be "armed and dangerous," it was
reasonable for the officers to believe
that one of Stonelli's associates could
indeed be armed and dangerous. As
such, the officer's search, limited to the
living room and an adjoining hallway,
was valid. A and B are wrong because,
under such circumstances, the arresting
officers need neither probable cause nor
reasonable suspicion. (See  Maryland v. 
Buie, supra). Thus, C is wrong. 

83. A is the correct answer. Hill v. Califor-
nia, 401 U.S. 797 (1971), upheld the
lawfulness of an arrest that turned out
to be a case of mistaken identity. Since
Officer Jones' had a reasonable belief
that Howard Limbo was the suspect
at the time the search was made,  his
actions will be deemed lawful, even
though his reasonable belief turned out
to be mistaken. As such, B is wrong.
C is wrong because Officer Jones had
sufficient reason to search the pockets
of Howard Limbo, since Limbo was
wearing almost exactly what the suspect
was wearing. D is wrong because it is
irrelevant.

84. D is the best answer. In some jurisdic-
tions, unreasonable delay in acting
upon a warrant may make the arrest
unlawful. Since approximately 5 weeks
had passed before Thomas and Hill ex-
ecuted the warrant, it could be possible
that the information the warrant was
based on had become stale. Typically,
warrants have to be acted upon within
10 days, thus A is incorrect. B is incor-
rect because we are not told if the facts
are taking place in a state that requires
that a search warrant be executed in
daytime hours. C is wrong because un-
der the explanation for answer choice
A, a warrant can still be deemed invalid,
even if technically sound.

294 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

87. C is the correct answer. A search
could occur if "a reasonably prudent
officer believe[d] that the area to be
swept harbors an individual posing a
danger to those on the arrest scene."
(See Maryland v. Buie, supra). Such a
search would be supported and found
reasonable because Stonelli is deemed
by police files to be "armed and danger-
ous." As such, A and B are wrong. D
is wrong because such a search, under
the circumstances, would be deemed
lawful.

88. D is the correct answer. The motion will
fail because the search would not be
invalidated merely because the officers
knew about the weapons and hoped to
find them during the search. (See Hor-
ton v. California, 496 U.S. 128 (1990)).
As such, A and B are wrong. C is wrong
because evidence does not need to be
discovered "inadvertently" for the plain
view doctrine to apply. (See  Horton v. 
California, supra).

89. C is the correct answer. The facts do
not indicate the officers had probable
cause to arrest any of the customers.
(See Ybarra v. Illinois, 444 U.S. 85
(1979)). As such, A and B are wrong.
D is nonsense.

90. A is the correct answer. Such an action
would likely be deemed unreasonable
to protect the safety of the officers. (See
Ybarra v. Illinois, supra). The mere pro-
pinquity to crime does not allow search
of all of those near. As such, B, C and
D are wrong.

A

91. D is the correct answer. Such a deten-
tion would likely prevent flight in case
grounds for arrest are found in the
search, minimize the risk of harm to
the officers, and facilitate the orderly
completion of the search. (See Michi-
gan v. Summers, 452 U.S. 692 (1981)).
A is wrong because there are no facts
indicating coercive behavior by the of-
ficers, especially since the detainment
was temporary. B and C are wrong
because D is correct.

92. D is the best answer. The officer likely
had a basis for reasonable suspicion
but not probable cause. In the absence
of probable cause, the officer was not
entitled to inspect the CD player. Rea-
sonable suspicion is not enough. (See
Arizona v. Hicks, 480 U.S. 321 (1987)).
A is wrong because, even though the
officers lawfully entered the apartment,
they were not entitled to inspect the CD
player. B, though a true statement, is
not as good an answer as D because the
issue is whether an unlawful search of
the CD player occurred. C is wrong as
discussed in the explanation of answer
D.

93. C is the correct answer, under  United
States v. Beal, 810 F.2d 574 (6th Cir.
1987), which held that the seizure of
pen guns in plain view was unlawful be-
cause it was not immediately apparent
that these items were contraband. A is
wrong because it contradicts the correct
answer. B is wrong because answer B
is part of answer A. D is wrong because
C is correct. 

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 295

A

94. A is the correct answer. "The fact that
[the officers] took the opportunity pro-
vided by [Johnny Boy] to obtain an oral
confession is quite consistent with the
Fifth Amendment." See Connecticut v. 
Barrett, 479 U.S. 523 (1987)). As such,
B, C and D are wrong and only serve as
distracters.

95. C is the correct answer. Nine officers
in a suspect's bedroom would likely be
found to create a potential for compul-
sion equivalent to interrogation at the
police station. (See Orozco v. Texas,
394 U.S. 324 (1969)). A is wrong be-
cause individuals can be in custody
outside the police station. B is wrong
because a suspect can be in custody in
his own home. D is wrong because C
is more fact specific in that it explains
why a reasonable person would believe
this was an interrogation.

96. C is the correct answer. If the invitation
was the kind that could not be refused,
coercion would likely be found present.
If so, then a finding of custody is likely.
A is wrong because an individual isn't
necessarily in custody just because they
are at the police station. B is wrong
because it would depend on what kind
of invitation was extended to Johnny
Boy. D is wrong because an individual
doesn't have to be under arrest to be in
custody.

97. C is the correct answer. An officer can
investigate suspicious circumstances
without triggering the need to give
Miranda warnings. Such roadside ques-
tioning would likely be deemed a Terry
stop. (See Berkemer v. Mc Carty, 468
U.S. 420 (1984)). A is wrong because
questioning by a police officer is not
always custodial interrogation. B is
wrong because, as discussed in the ex-
planation for answer C, Johnny can be
detained for suspicion of drunk driving.
D is wrong because O'Hair only needs
a good-faith belief Johnny was drunk.

98. A is the correct answer. The record
indicates that Youbanks was not asked
any questions by the judge concerning
his guilty plea, nor did Youbanks ad-
dress the court. As such, "the record
does not disclose that the defendant
voluntarily and understandingly entered
his pleas of guilty." In other words, the
record indicates that the judge accepted
Youbanks' guilty plea without any af-
firmative showing that it was intelligent
and voluntary, since the judge did not
question Youbanks in regard to his plea.
Thus, his conviction can be reversed.
(See Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U.S.
238, 89 S.Ct. 1709 (1969)). B is wrong
because reversible error can occur even
if a defendant's conviction is based on
credible eye-witness testimony. C and
D are wrong for the reasons discussed
in the explanation of answer A. 

296 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

100. A is the correct answer because "when
a plea rests in any significant degree on
a promise or agreement of the prosecu-
tor, so that it can be said to be part of
the inducement or consideration, such
promise must be fulfilled." Thus, even
though a new and different prosecutor
broke the government's promise, the
prosecutor's office has the burden of
"letting the left hand know what the
right hand is doing." (See Santobello
v. New York, 404 U.S. 257, 92 S.Ct.
495 (1971)). As such, B, C and D are
wrong.

END OF ANSWERS 

A

99. A is the correct answer. Astro, the
defendant, must demonstrate in his
habeas petition that there was a rea-
sonable probability that, but for the
court-appointed attorney's errors, he
would not have pleaded guilty and
would have insisted on going to trial.
Thus, if this was not alleged, no relief
will be granted. (See Hill v. Lockhart,
474 U.S. 52, 106 S.Ct. 366 (1985)). B
is wrong for the reasons articulated in
the explanation of answer choice A.
C is wrong because the United States
Supreme Court has never held that the
United States Constitution requires the
State to furnish a defendant with infor-
mation about parole eligibility in order
for the defendant's plea of guilty to be
voluntary. (See Fed. Rule Crim. Proc.
11(c); Advisory Committee's Notes on
1974 Amendment to Fed. Rule Crim.
Proc. 11, 18 U.S.C.App., p. 22). D is
wrong because Astro's mistaken belief
will have no bearing on whether he is
granted relief absent a showing that he
would have acted otherwise had he had
the correct information at his disposal.
(See explanation to answer A).

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE 297

298 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

 
EVIDENCE - QUESTION BREAKDOWN

1.

Foundation - Admissibility of
Photographs

2. Character Evidence

3.

Present State of Mind

4. Bias

5. Legal Relevancy

16. Character Evidence

17. Lay Opinion Testimony

18. Character Evidence - Civil Cases

19. Relevancy - Impeachment

20. Impeachment - Collateral Issue

21. Hearsay Exception - Excited

6. Character Evidence

Utterance

7. Hearsay/Exception - Present Sense

22. Admission

Impression

8.

Impeachment - Prior Inconsistent
Statements

9.

Subsequent Remedial Measures

10. Payment of - Medical and Similar

23. Hearsay Exception - Physical

Condition

24. Admissibility - Settlement Offers

25. Present Recollection Refreshed

Expenses

26. Character Evidence - Defamation

11. Privileges - Physician/Patient

27. Marital Communication Privilege

12. Authentication

28. Impeachment - Extrinsic Evidence

13. Privileges - Attorney/Client

29. Admission

14. Privileges - Attorney/Client

30. Character Evidence

15. Hearsay Exception - Present Sense

31. Privilege - Attorney/Client

Impression 

EVIDENCE 301

32. Expert Testimony

50. Impeachment - Prior Inconsistent

33. Privileges

34. Subsequent Remedial Measures

35. Competency to Testify

51. Impeachment - Prior Inconsistent

Statement

52. Admissibility of Medical Expenses

53. Hearsay Exception - Physical

36. Settlement or Compromise Offers

Condition

37. Subsequent Remedial Measures

54. Observations

38. Vicarious Admission

55. Privilege - Attorney/Client

39. Party Admission

40. Judicial Notice

56. Impeachment

57. Character Evidence

41. Specific Instance of Conduct -

58. Character Evidence

Extrinsic

42. Self-Incrimination

43. Impeachment

44. Hearsay

45. Admission

59. Hearsay Rule

60. Authentication

61. Personal Knowledge

62. Expert Testimony

63. Opinion Testimony

46. Hearsay Exception - Business

Records

47. Hearsay

64. Subsequent Remedial Measures

65. Impeachment

48. Adopted Admissions	

66. Impeachment - Specific Instances of

49. Hearsay Exception - Present Sense

Impression	

Conduct

67. Lay Opinion    

302 EVIDENCE

68. Privileges - Attorney/Client

85. Hearsay Exception - Present Sense

69. Privileges - Attorney/Client

Impression

86. Hearsay Exception - Present Sense

70. Best Evidence Rule - Collateral

Impression

Matter

71.

Impeachment - Extrinsic Evidence

72. Character Evidence - Specific Acts

73.

Impeachment - Conviction of a
Crime

74. Settlement Offers

75. Privileges - Attorney/Client

76. Subsequent Remedial Measures

87. Logical Relevancy

88. Impeachment - Collateral Matters

89. Non-Hearsay

90. Not-Hearsay - Command and

Questions

91. Not-Hearsay - Machine or Animals

92. Hearsay

93. Impeachment - Extrinsic Evidence

77. Payment of Medical and Similar

Expenses

94. Hearsay

78. Character Evidence - Prior Bad Acts

95. Character - Wrongful Death Action

79. Character Evidence

96. Character - Specific Instances of

80. Expert Testimony

81. Character Evidence

82. Privilege - Attorney/Client

83. Character Evidence

84. Character Evidence - Civil Cases

Conduct

97. Best Evidence

98. Impeachment

99. Hearsay

100. Authentication - Opinion Testimony

101. Non-Hearsay 

EVIDENCE 303

102. Hearsay Exception Physical

106. Privilege — Marital Communication

Condition

103. Character Evidence

107. Privilege — Attorney/Client

104. Payment of Medical and Similar

Expenses

108. Hearsay

109. Hearsay

105. Privilege — Husband/Wife

110. Habit Evidence 

304 EVIDENCE

EVIDENCE QUESTIONS

Questions 2 - 5 are based on the
following facts.

m

am

1. Petunia sued Daisy for injuries that she
suffered when Daisy's bicycle collided
with hers. The issue is whether Daisy
was riding her bicycle on the correct
side of the roadway. Petunia wants to
introduce a photograph that shows that
Daisy was riding her bicycle on the
wrong side of the road. Daisy objects
to the introduction of the photograph.
The Court will rule that the photograph
is:

A. Admissible, if there is testimony
offered showing the photograph
to be an accurate representation
of the scene of the accident.

B. Admissible, because Daisy can
cross-examine Petunia as to the
accuracy of the photograph.

C. Inadmissible, unless the photog-
rapher testifies to the accuracy of
the photograph.

D. Inadmissible, unless the photo-
graph was taken by an investiga-
tive agent at the accident scene.

Mistress was tried for the October 31st
murder of Wife.

2. Mistress calls Frieda as her first witness
to testify to Mistress' reputation in the
community as a "peaceful woman." The
Court will rule the testimony:

A. Admissible, as it tends to prove
that Mistress is believable.

B. Admissible, as it tends to prove

Mistress is innocent.

C. Inadmissible, because Mistress

has not yet testified.

D. Inadmissible, because reputa-
tion evidence is inadmissible to
prove one's character.

3. Mistress calls Westley to testify that
on October 30, Mistress said she was
leaving that day to visit relatives in
another state. The Court will rule the
testimony:

A. Inadmissible, as hearsay not fall-

ing within any exception.

B. Inadmissible, because it is irrel-

evant.

C. Admissible, as non-hearsay.

D. Admissible, because it is a decla-
ration of Mistress' present state
of mind.

EVIDENCE 305

6. Joe was robbed by a man carrying an
unusual psychedelic-painted gun. Sam
was arrested and charged with armed
robbery. At trial, the prosecution seeks
to offer evidence that Sam robbed Pete
with the same gun. The Court will rule
the evidence:

A. Inadmissible, because Sam's

good character is at issue.

B. Inadmissible, because this evi-
dence will unduly prejudice
Sam.

C. Admissible, because it shows
that Sam is capable of commit-
ting armed robbery.

D. Admissible, as it tends to iden-
tify Sam as the man who robbed
Joe.

4. Mistress calls Wanda to testify to
her alibi. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor asks, "Aren't you Mistress'
Aunt?" The Court will rule the ques-
tion:

A. Improper, because the question
goes beyond the scope of direct
examination.

B. Improper, because the question

is irrelevant.

C. Proper, as it tends to prove

bias.

D. Proper, because a relative cannot
testify as to another relative's
reputation.

5. Mistress called Willy to testify as to her
alibi. On cross-examination the pros-
ecutor asks Willy, "Isn't it true that you
were on a jury that acquitted Mistress of
a criminal charge?" The Court sustains
Mistress' objection to the question. The
best reason is:

A. The question goes beyond the
scope of direct examination.

B. The probative value is out-
weighed by the prejudicial ef-
fect.

C. It is a leading question.

D. Prior jury service renders Willy
incompetent as a witness. 

306 EVIDENCE

Q

m

5
m
z
C)
m

Questions 7 - 10 are based on the
following facts.

Paul sues Joe's Bar and Grille for personal
injuries he received in an automobile acci-
dent caused by Pete. Pete had been a patron
of Joe's Bar and Grille. Paul claims that Pete
was permitted to drink too much liquor at the
bar before the accident.

7. Wilma, a patron of the bar, testified that
Pete was drunk on the night of the acci-
dent. Wilma testified that she remarked
to another patron, "Pete is so drunk, he
can hardly sit on his barstool." Wilma's
testimony is:

8. Joe's Bar and Grill calls Pete as a wit-
ness, expecting him to testify that he
was sober when he left. To their sur-
prise, Pete testified that he may have
had a little too much to drink that night.
Joe's Bar now wants to confront Pete
with a statement he made at his depo-
sition that he was sober when leaving
that night. Paul objects. Which of the
following is the most likely ruling by
the court regarding Pete's statement in
his deposition?

A. It is inadmissible, because one
cannot impeach his own wit-
ness.

A. Admissible, as an excited utter-

B. It is inadmissible, because it is

ance.

hearsay.

B. Admissible, as a present sense

C. It may be used to refresh Pete's

impression.

memory.

C. Admissible, as a prior consistent

statement.

D. Inadmissible, because Wanda
had no expertise in determining
whether one is drunk.

D. It is admissible to impeach Pete
and as evidence that Pete was
sober.

9. Paul then offers evidence that, after the
accident, the owner of Joe's Bar and
Grille put into effect a rule limiting all
patrons to 2 drinks per hour. The Court
will rule that this evidence is:

A. Admissible, to show that Joe's
Bar was negligent on previous
occasions.

B. Admissible, to show that Joe's
Bar knew precautionary mea-
sures were needed. 

EVIDENCE 307

iu

C. Admissible, because subsequent
measures are binding on Joe's
Bar and Grille.

D. Inadmissible, because subse-
quent remedial measures are
not admissible to prove culpable
conduct.

10. Paul offers evidence that the owner of
Joe's Bar and Grille came to see him in
the hospital after the accident, and of-
fered to pay all of his medical expenses.
Owner then stated, "That's the least I
can do after letting Pete leave the bar so
drunk." The statement made by owner,
in regard to Pete's drunkenness, is:

A. Admissible, as an admission
in connection with an offer to
compromise.

B. Admissible, as a party admission
by the owner that Pete was drunk
when he left the bar.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, as an admission
made in connection with an offer
to pay medical expenses.

308 EVIDENCE

Questions 11 -12 are based on the
following facts.

Mario and Angelo, young hoodlums, agreed
to "wack" a local competitor who was
muscling in on their boss' turf. If they were
successful, they would be inducted as "blood
members" into the mafia family. Mario and
Angelo successfully completed the "hit" on
Monday, then Mario was to pick up their fee
from the boss himself. Mario was to meet
Angelo at a nearby purveyor of fine Italian
food, Pizza Madre, to split-up the money
on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Angelo was
injured when he fell from the scaffolding
at his job as a painter. When he went to St.
Peters Hospital for examination, he was told
that he would have to stay at the hospital
for a week because his arm and both legs
were broken. Angelo refused and said, "I
have to leave because I have to meet Mario
on Wednesday." Mario and Angelo were
charged with conspiracy.

11. The prosecution offers the doctor's tes-
timony of Angelo's statement into evi-
dence. Angelo objects. What result?

A. Inadmissible, because of the
physician-patient privilege.

B Admissible, only if the admitting
nurse heard the statement.

C. Admissible, because it is not pro-
tected by the physician-patient
privilege.

D. Admissible, because the state-
ment Angelo made was not made
in confidence. 

12. The prosecuting attorney wants to
introduce a letter that Angelo wrote to
Mario before the "hit." Angelo wrote:
"Mario, we should have done it sooner,
I've always wanted to be part of a fam-
ily." It was signed, "Angelo."

B. Inadmissible, because of the at-

torney-client privilege.

C. Admissible, because others were
present at the conference other
than Duce and Attorney.

In order for the letter to be admissible
the prosecution must:

D. Admissible, because Ace is an

adverse party.

Q

m

a
I'
om

A. Provide the Court with the origi-

nal letter.

B. Show evidence of the authentic-

ity of the letter.

C. Show why the letter is relevant.

D. Have an expert witness testify
that Angelo wrote the letter.

13. Ace, an employee of Duce Trucking
("Duce"), gets into an auto collision
with Card. Card brings suit against
Duce and Ace, as joint defendants.
Duce and Ace consult an attorney about
the suit. Attorney for Duce and Ace
calls his investigator, Sneak, into the
conference. Sneak makes notes as to
the discussion of what happened.

Card calls Ace to testify to admissions
made by Duce in the conference. Duce
objects. The Court should rule that
Ace's testimony is:

A. Inadmissible, because the best
evidence is Sneak's notes.

14. Poultry sues Duck Co. for injuries sus-
tained when Poultry's truck collided
with Duck's truck. Duck's manager
prepared a report of the accident, at the
request of the company's attorney. Dur-
ing discovery, Poultry demanded that
the report be produced. Will the Court
rule for the production of the report?

A. No, because it is a privileged

communication.

B. No, because the report contains

hearsay.

C. No, because the report is self-

serving.

D. Yes, because business reports are

not privileged.

EVIDENCE

309

  
Q
("3
zW
n
5

W

15. Pat sued David for damage to his
home. The damage resulted from a
chemical explosion from an experiment
David was conducting in the garage.
A relevant fact in Pat's lawsuit is the
magnitude of the explosion. On direct
examination, Pat was asked if he re-
membered the explosion. He stated, "I
recall my daughter, Ella, running out
from her bedroom and screaming that
the bedroom windows had just shat-
tered." Ella is 14-years-old.

David's attorney objects. The Court will
rule Pat's testimony:

A. Admissible, even if Ella is avail-

able to testify.

B. Inadmissible, because Ella is

available to testify.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because Ella is a

child.

16. Deft is on trial for fraud. He is charged
with selling "phony" leases to a condo-
minium timeshare. In his opening state-
ment, Deft's attorney states that Deft
didn't know the leases were phony. At
trial, the prosecution seeks to introduce
evidence that Deft had, on five other
occasions, set up phony condo deals.
Deft's attorney objects. The Court will
rule that the evidence is:

310 EVIDENCE

A. Inadmissible, because it is not

relevant.

B. Inadmissible, because character
cannot be proved by instances of
misconduct.

C. Admissible, to show his intent to

defraud.

D. Admissible, to show Deft's char-

acter for honesty.

17. Farmer John sues Jolly Rancher for
damages done to Farmer's crops by
Rancher's cow. Farmer offers testimony
that he looked up Rancher's telephone
number in the telephone book. Farmer
proceeded to call that number and a
voice answered saying, "This is Jolly
Rancher." Farmer then asked, "Was
it your cow that trampled my sweet
peas?" The voice replied, "Yes." The
Court should rule the testimony:

A. Admissible, because Rancher
identified himself as the speaker,
coupled with the accuracy of the
telephone book, and the phone
transmission system, furnishes
sufficient authentication.

B. Admissible, because judicial
notice may be taken of telephone
books.

C. Inadmissible, unless Farmer
can prove he is familiar with
Rancher's voice. 

Q

1-1

5
mz
o
m

D. Inadmissible, unless Rancher
has been given the opportunity
to admit or deny whether the
conversation took place or not.

18. Prissy sues Evil for injuries received in
a motorcycle accident. Prissy alleges
that Evil was speeding and driving reck-
lessly, and performing dangerous stunts
on the public highway. Prissy calls Ed
to testify that Evil has the reputation in
the community of being a "dare devil"
rider and frequently performs danger-
ous stunts on the public highways. The
Court will rule Ed's testimony:

Questions 19 - 20 are based on the
following facts.

Porter sues David for personal injuries re-
sulting from a car accident. Porter alleges
the collision was caused by David's running
a red light. Porter calls Witt to testify that
David's car, in which he was riding, ran
the red light. Witt, however, testified that
David's car did not run the red light.

19. Porter then calls Valor to testify that
David's car did run the red light. The
Court should rule that Valor's testimony
is:

A. Admissible, because it shows
Evil is a negligent motorcycle
rider.

B. Admissible, because it is habit

evidence.

C. Inadmissible to show negli-

gence.

D. Inadmissible, because Evil has
not offered testimony of his good
character.

A. Admissible, because Valor's
testimony is relevant to material
issues.

B. Admissible, because Porter was
surprised by Witt's testimony.

C. Inadmissible, because Porter is
bound by Witt's testimony.

D. Inadmissible, because Porter
cannot impeach his own wit-
ness.

20. On cross-examination Valor is asked
by David's attorney if he was "high"
at the time he witnessed the collision.
Valor replied, "No, I have never touched
alcohol or drugs in my life." David's
attorney now seeks to introduce testi-
mony of Tattle that Valor had been high
from a joint he smoked at a party 18
months previous. The Court will rule
Tattle's testimony:

EVIDENCE

311

Q
bjzW
ci
5W

A. Inadmissible, because a witness
cannot be impeached by specific
acts.

B. Inadmissible, because the ques-
tion of whether Valor was high
or not is a collateral matter.

C. Admissible, to show Valor is not

truthful.

D. Admissible, to impeach Valor as

to his lack of memory.

312 EVIDENCE

Questions 21 - 25 are based on the
following fact pattern.

Driver hit and injured Jogger while Jogger
was jogging across a marked crosswalk.
There were several witnesses at the scene of
the accident. Jogger alleges that Driver was
under the influence when he struck him.

21. Jogger's counsel calls Polly who was
a passenger in Driver's car along with
her sister Dolly. Polly testifies that
just before the accident Dolly yelled
out, "Be careful, there is a man in the
crosswalk." The Court will rule this
testimony:

A. Inadmissible, because the state-
ment preceded the accident.

B. Inadmissible, because Dolly is

available as a witness.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

D. Admissible, as an excited utter-

ance.

22. Jogger's counsel next calls Policeman
who testifies, "Polly, the passenger,
said, 'We hit Jogger while he was in
the crosswalk'. Driver was present but
remained silent." The Court will rule
this testimony:

A. Admissible, because Polly's
statement is imputed to Driver.

B. Admissible, as a party admis-

sion.  

C. Inadmissible, because Driver
probably was just experiencing
shock.

D. Inadmissible, unless Driver has

already testified.

23. Jogger's counsel desires to introduce
Jogger's testimony that the day after the
accident Jogger said, "My hip must be
fractured, it is killing me." The Court
will rule the testimony:

A. Inadmissible, because it is self-

serving.

B. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

C. Admissible, as a statement de-
scribing the declarant's physical
condition.

D. Admissible, to prove Jogger's

hip was fractured.

24. Counsel for Jogger seeks to introduce
evidence that after the accident, Driver
offered $3,000 to Jogger to settle the
claim. The Court will rule this evi-
dence:

A. Inadmissible, because of public

policy.

B. Inadmissible, because it is not
relevant to the question of dam-
ages.

C. Admissible, as a party admis-

sion.

D. Admissible, but only if the judge
gives an instruction that the
statement only goes to liability,
not damages.

m

5
m

C)

25. On the day after the accident, Polly
passenger wrote a letter to Uncle Solly
describing the details of the accident.
At trial, Polly cannot remember some
details of the accident. Jogger's coun-
sel wants to show Polly her letter over
the objection of Driver's attorney. The
Court should:

A. Allow the letter under past recol-

lection recorded.

B. Allow the letter under present

recollection refreshed.

C. Disallow the letter because it
was written one day after the
accident.

D. Disallow the letter because the

letter is self-serving.

26. Candy sues Bill for defamation. Candy
alleges that Bill has told all her friends
and employer that she once was a "call
girl." At trial, Bill calls Officer Smith
to testify that 8 years ago Candy was
arrested for prostitution. The Court will
rule that Smith's testimony is:

A. Admissible, because truth is a

defense. 

EVIDENCE 313

Q   

L(. I. 51
Z
L L Io
5
W   

B. Admissible, because character

itself is at issue.

Questions 28 - 29 are based on the
following facts.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay.

D. Inadmissible, because the preju-
dicial effect outweighs any pro-
bative value. 

27. Felicia, a divorcee who despises her
ex-husband, Stan, reads in the paper
that he is being tried for fraudulent
stock transactions. Felicia remembers
that while she was married to Stan, he
had explained the scheme to her. Felicia
wants to testify for the prosecution. Stan
objects. Will the Court allow Felicia to
testify?

A. Yes, because once the marriage is
dissolved the privilege no longer
exists.

B. Yes, because Stan committed a

crime.

C. No, because it was a confidential
communication made during
marriage.

D. No, because Felicia is only doing

it out of spite for Stan.

314 EVIDENCE

Push sues Shove for injuries Push received
in an auto accident. Push alleges that Shove
was exceeding the speed limit and was weav-
ing over the center line.

28. Walt is called as an eyewitness by Push.
Walt testifies, on direct examination,
that Shove was wearing a red jacket at
the time of the accident. Shove's coun-
sel calls Wally to testify that Shove's
jacket was green. Wally's testimony
is:

A. Admissible, as tending to prove

a material fact.

B. Admissible, as bearing on Walt's

truthfulness.

C. Inadmissible, because Walt's ca-
pacity to observe is not at issue.

D. None of the above.

29. Shove testifies that he was only driv-
ing 30 m.p.h. Counsel for Push does
not cross-examine Shove as to speed.
Instead, he calls Officer to testify that
Shove stated to Officer that he was
driving 40 m.p.h.. The Court will find
Officer's testimony:

A. Inadmissible, because it is hear-
say not within any exception.

B. Inadmissible, because no foun-

dation was laid.

C. Admissible, as a prior inconsis-

tent statement.

D. Admissible, as an admission.

30. Hilda is on trial for the murder of Betty.
Hilda does not plan on taking the stand.
However, Hilda calls Lionel to testify
that Hilda has a reputation for non-
violence. Will the Court allow Lionel's
testimony?

A. Yes, as an offer of evidence to
show Hilda's good character.

B. No, because character evidence
is not admissible to support a
defendant's claim she is innocent
of the crime.

C. No, because Hilda has not yet

taken the stand.

D. None of the above.

31. Don Perry, a physician, called as a
witness by the defendant in the case of
Jones v. Smith, was asked to testify to
statements made by Carmen Lolly, his
patient, for the purpose of obtaining
treatment from Dr. Perry. Which of the
following is the best basis for excluding
evidence of Lolly's statement?

A. An objection by Dr. Perry as-
serting Lolly's privilege against
disclosure of confidential com-
munications made by Lolly to
Dr. Perry, for purposes of treat-
ment.

B. An objection by Lolly's attorney,
on the ground of doctor-patient
privilege.

C. A finding by the trial judge that
the patient did not actually re-
ceive treatment.

D. The assertion of a privilege by
Lolly's attorney, present at trial
as a spectator at Lolly's request,
and allowed by the trial judge.

EVIDENCE 315

Q

Questions 32 - 33 are based on the
following facts:

Lawyers Abel and Baker are the members
of the law partnership of Abel & Baker, in a
small town that only has one other lawyer.
Abel and Baker do primarily personal injury
work. Client was severely and permanently
injured in an automobile collision when
struck by an automobile driven by Driver.
Client employed the Law Offices of Abel &
Baker to represent her. At the time Client em-
ployed the firm, the statute of limitations had
six weeks to run on her claim. The complaint
was never prepared, nor filed. Abel and
Baker each thought that the other had filed
the complaint. The statute of limitations on
Claimant's claim has run against Driver.

Client has filed suit against Abel and Baker
for negligence. This case is on trial with a
jury.

32. In order to establish a breach of standard
of care owed to her by Abel and Baker,
Client:

A. Must have a legal expert from
the same locality testify that de-
fendant's conduct was a breach.

B. Must have a legal expert from
the same state testify that defen-
dants' conduct was a breach.

C. Can rely on the application of the
jurors' common knowledge as to
whether there was a breach.

316 EVIDENCE

D. Can rely on the judge, as an
expert in law, to advise the jury
whether there was a breach.

33. In addition to proving that Abel and
Baker were negligent, Client must pres-
ent evidence that she:

A. Would have, but for her lawyers'
negligence, recovered against
Driver.

B. Had a good faith claim against

Driver.

C. Was severely and permanently
injured, when struck by Drivers'
automobile.

D. Did not contribute to her own

injuries.

34. Paul sued Hotel 6 for injuries he sus-
tained in a fall in the hotel lobby. The
lobby floor was covered with tile. The
evidence was that the lobby floor had
been waxed approximately an hour
before Paul slipped on it and, although
the wax had dried, there appeared to be
excessive dried wax caked on several
tiles. Hotel 6 denied Paul's claim that
it was negligent. Hotel 6 offered proof
that the week before Paul's fall, at least
11,000 people had walked across the
lobby floor without incident. The trial
judge should rule the evidence:

A. Admissible, because it tends to
prove that Paul did not use rea-
sonable care. 

B. Admissible, because it tends to
prove that Hotel 6 was careful
in maintaining the floors.

C. Admissible, because it proves
that no dangerous condition ex-
isted.

D. Inadmissible, because it does
not bear on the issue of Hotel
6's exercise of due care on this
occasion.

35. Defendant was on trial for murder. The
only eyewitness to the crime was Zack,
whose testimony was largely uncor-
roborated by other evidence. Zack was
called by the prosecution to testify to
what he saw on the night in question.
Defendant's counsel objects to Zack
testifying on the ground that Zack
was incompetent to testify by reason
of a long history of mental illness.
Defendant's counsel offered documen-
tary evidence to the court that Zack had
recently been in a mental institution,
and moved to have the court order Zack
to submit to a psychiatric examination.
The court denied the motion. Did the
court make an error in permitting Zack
to testify?

A. No, because a person who has
a mental illness or defect is not
competent to testify .

B. No, because Zack was the only
witness to the crime.     

C. Yes, because a mentally-ill per-
son is disqualified from testify-
ing.

D. Yes, unless Zack was insane.

m

m

0

36. Cam sued Dan for injuries suffered by
Cam when their automobiles collided.
At trial, Cam offers into evidence a
properly authenticated letter from Dan
that says, "Your claim seems too high,
but because I might be found at fault,
I'm prepared to offer you half of what
you ask." The letter is:

A. Admissible, as an admission.

B. Admissible, as a statement
against Dan's pecuniary inter-
est.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay.

D. Inadmissible, because Dan's
statement was made in an effort
to settle a claim.

EVIDENCE 317

A. Jamie first proves that Sarah was
an employee of Powell Corpo-
ration at the time she wrote her
statement, and that the statement
concerned a matter within the
scope of her employment.

B. Jamie produces independent
evidence that Adam was not
wearing his glasses.

C. Sarah is shown to be beyond the

court's subpoena power.

D. The statement was made under

oath in an affidavit form.

39. Powell's counsel seeks to have Officer
testify that while he was investigating
the accident Jamie told him , "This was
my fault." The evidence is:

A. Admissible, since it is exempted

from the hearsay rule.

B. Admissible, as an exception to

the hearsay rule.

C. Admissible, as a declaration

against interest.

D. Inadmissible, since it is hearsay
not within any exception.  

Questions 37 - 39 are based on the
following facts:

Jamie and two passengers, Buddy and
Charles, were injured when their car was
struck by a truck owned by Powell Corpo-
ration. The truck was driven by Powell's
employee, Adam. Sarah, also a Powell em-
ployee, was riding in the truck. The issues in
Jamie v. Powell Corp. include the negligence
of Adam in driving too fast, and in failing to
yield the right-of-way.

37. Jamie's counsel offers evidence that,
shortly after the accident, Powell Cor-
poration put a speed governor on the
truck involved in the accident. The
evidence is:

A. Admissible, as an admission.

B. Admissible, as a declaration

against interest.

C. Inadmissible, as a subsequent

remedial repair.

D. Inadmissible, because it would
lead to the inference that Powell
Corporation was at fault.

38. Jamie's counsel seeks to introduce Sar-
ah's written statement that Adam had
left his glasses (which he is required to
wear while operating a motor vehicle)
at the restaurant where they had lunch
just before the accident. The statement
is admissible against Powell Corpora-
tion, if:

318 EVIDENCE

   
40. Birdie was arrested and charged with
illegally driving a stolen vehicle across
the state line. Evidence was presented
that he drove the car from New York to
Chicago. The judge took judicial notice
of the fact that it was impossible to drive
from New York to Chicago without
crossing the state line. The judge's tak-
ing of judicial notice:

A. Satisfied the prosecutor's burden
of production on that point.

B. Shifted the burden to Birdie, to
present evidence in rebuttal.

C. Shifted the burden on Birdie, to
prove that he did not drive from
New York to Chicago.

D. Conclusively proved the point,
that to drive from New York
to Chicago, state lines were
crossed.

41. In a negligence action, Abel testified
against Dave. Dave then called Willy
to testify that Abel once perpetrated a
hoax on the Church of Saint Francis.
Willy's testimony is:

A. Admissible, because a hoax in-

volves untruthfulness.

B. Admissible, provided that the
hoax resulted in conviction of
Abel.

m

F7
m

C. Inadmissible, because it is im-
peachment of a collateral mat-
ter.

D. Inadmissible, because it is ex-
trinsic evidence of a specific
instance of misconduct.

42. At the trial of Bill for a murder that
occurred in Newport, the prosecution
called Wally, who testified that he saw
Bill kill the victim. Bill believed that
Wally was 200 miles away in San Di-
ego, engaged in a narcotics deal with
George, a mutual acquaintance, on the
day in question. On cross-examination
by Bill, Wally was asked whether he
had, in fact, been in San Diego purchas-
ing narcotics on that date. Wally refused
to answer the question on self-incrimi-
nation grounds.

The judge ordered Wally to answer the
question, or his testimony would be
stricken from the record. The order to
testify or have the testimony stricken
can best be supported on the basis
that:

A. Wally had not been charged with
any crime and, thus, could claim
no privilege.

B. Wally's proper invocation of the
privilege prevented adequate
cross-examination.

EVIDENCE 319

	
	
	
	
Q

W
.)
zW
a
5W

44. In a suit attacking the validity of a trust
executed ten years ago, Plaintiff alleges
mental incompetency of Jack, the set-
tlor, and offers into evidence a properly
authenticated affidavit of Henry, Jack's
brother. The affidavit stated that Henry
had observed Jack closely over a period
of a month, that Jack had engaged in
instances of unusual behavior (which
were described), and that Jack's appear-
ance had changed from being neat, alert
and aware, to disordered and absent-
minded. The judge should rule Henry's
affidavit:

A. Inadmissible, as opinion.

B. Inadmissible, as hearsay, not

within any exception.

C. Admissible, since the declaration
was the best evidence that the
statement was made.

D. Admissible, as an official state-

ment.

45. Allen and Neal were arrested for armed
robbery. They were taken to the police
station and placed in an interrogation
room. After the police officer gave
them their Miranda warning, Allen
said, "Look, Neal planned the whole
thing, we robbed the place, and I was
dumb enough to follow along." Neal
said nothing. Neal was then taken to
another room, and a full confession was
obtained from Allen. 

C. The public interest in allowing
an accused to defend himself
outweighs the interest of a non-
party witness in the privilege.

D. The trial record does not estab-
lish that Wally's answer could be
incriminating.

43. Dick is being prosecuted for burglary.
At trial, Dick testifies on his own be-
half, denying that he had committed
the burglary. On cross-examination,
the prosecution asks Dick whether he
had been convicted ten years ago for
burglary. The question of the earlier
burglary conviction is:

A. Proper, if the court determined
that its probative value out-
weighed its prejudicial effect.

B. Proper, because the prosecutor
is entitled to make such an in-
quiry.

C. Improper, because it is character

evidence.

D. Improper, because the conviction
is ten years old, and the defense
must have been given notice of
its use prior to trial.

320 EVIDENCE

If Neal is brought to trial for armed
robbery, the fact that Neal failed to ob-
ject to Allen's statement and remained
silent, is:

A. Admissible, as an admission.

B. Admissible, because a state-
ment of a participant in a crime
is admissible against another
participant.

m

m

0

A. Admit the invoice, only because
it is a record of regularly con-
ducted business activity.

B. Admit the invoice, only because
it is recorded recollection. 

C. Admit the invoice, because it
would qualify as a business
record and as a record of recol-
lection.

C. Inadmissible, because it is hear-

say.

D. Exclude the invoice, as hearsay

not within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because, under the
circumstances, there was no duty
for Neal to respond.

47. James, while crossing the street at the
intersection of Nutwood and State Col-
lege, was hit by a car driven by Ginger.
James sued Ginger for his injuries.

46. A case of whiskey was stolen from
a Johnny Walker truck when it was
parked outside the Western Saloon. At
trial, to prove that the whiskey was on
the truck, Loaden, the Johnny Walker
shipping manager, was called by the
prosecution to testify. Loaden testified
that he did not have first-hand knowl-
edge that the whiskey was aboard the
truck. Thereupon, the prosecution asked
Loaden, "Did you receive a shipping
invoice listing the contents on that
truck for that particular day?" Loaden
replied, "Yes, I did receive from the
shipping clerk an invoice listing the
merchandise, as customary." Loaden
then produced the invoice. If the pros-
ecuting attorney offers the invoice into
evidence, the trial judge should:

At trial, James called Officer Sparky
to testify that, ten minutes after the
accident, a bus driver stopped and said
to him, "Officer, a few minutes ago I
saw a hit and run accident at Nutwood
and State College involving a red truck
and a pedestrian. I followed the truck
to McPlace for Ribs, on Third Avenue."
Sparky's testimony should be:

A. Admissible, as a present sense

impression.

B. Admissible, as a statement of

perception.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception. 

EVIDENCE 321

  
z
a

D. Inadmissible, because it is irrel-	

evant.	

Questions 48-50 are based on the
following facts:

Raymond, a Hallmark salesman, was a guest
at the Holiday Hotel in Arizona. After check-
ing into the hotel, he went to the elevator on
the lobby level floor to proceed to his room.
When the elevator doors opened, he stepped
into the elevator shaft, unaware that the
elevator car itself had not descended to the
lobby. Raymond fell 10 feet to the elevator
shaft floor. The elevator actually was out of
service because it was being repaired that
day. Raymond sues the hotel, claiming he
suffers from permanent injuries as a result
of the incident.

At trial, Raymond proposed to testify that
he called out after the incident, "I have just
fallen while getting into the lobby elevator
and my knee really hurts." The only response
was from Jean Paul, the concierge, who said,
"Hold on, I'll get some help." Jean Paul ob-
served Raymond later that day swimming in
the hotel pool.

48. Raymond's proposed testimony re-
garding his statement to the concierge
should be:

A. Admitted, as a statement of pres-

ent physical condition.

B. Admitted, as evidence of liability

against the hotel.

C. Excluded, because the statement
was not made to a treating doc-
tor.  

322 EVIDENCE

D. Excluded, because Raymond
is not qualified as an expert to
determine his own medical con-
dition.

49. Assume for this question, that Raymond
intends to offer testimony that he never
complained of knee pain prior to his
fall. Raymond's proposed testimony re-
garding the absence of prior complaints
of knee pain is:

A. Admissible, because the state-

ment is reliable.

B. Admissible, because the state-
ment relates to a condition per-
ceivable by a lay person.

C. Admissible, because Raymond
may give an opinion as to his
own diagnosis and required treat-
ment.

D. None of the above.

50. Assume for this question, that Raymond
seeks to exclude certain statements
he made to his general physician, Dr.
Cure, 3 years before the incident. On
that occasion, Raymond told Dr. Cure,
"I awoke this morning with severe knee
pain, after I helped a college buddy with
moving yesterday." The hotel seeks to
admit Raymond's prior statement to Dr.
Cure over Raymond's objection. The
statement is:

Q

1

., "
5
m
z
0
m

A. Admissible, because the state-
ment contradicts Raymond's
claim that he had no prior in-
jury.

B. Admissible, because the state-
ment relates to Raymond's medi-
cal condition which is in issue.

C. Inadmissible, because the state-
ment is protected from disclosure
by the physician-patient privi-
lege.

D. None of the above.

EVIDENCE 323

Q      

Questions 51-52 are based on the
following facts:

Paul sues Don for personal injuries that
he suffered when he was struck by Don's
bicycle. Don's bicycle hit Paul as he was
walking across South Crest Plaza's parking
lot. Immediately after the accident, Don ran
over to Paul and said, "I know I was doing
a wheelie, but you were looking in your
shopping bag instead of where you were
walking. But, if you're hurt, I'll pay your
medical bills."

51. At trial, Paul calls as his first witness,
Stan, who was an eyewitness to the ac-
cident. Stan proposes to testify that he
heard Don tell Paul, "I know I was do-
ing a wheelie." Don's attorney objects.
If Stan's testimony is admitted, it will
most likely be admitted because the
proffered evidence is:

A. Admissible, as an opinion.

B. Admissible, as a party admis-

sion.

C. Admissible, as a present sense

impression.

D. Admissible, as a declaration

against interest.

52. Suppose that on cross-examination
Don's attorney asks Stan if he heard
Don's entire statement. Stan responds
affirmatively. Don's attorney now seeks
to have Stan testify to Don's complete
statement. Paul's attorney objects. The
trial judge should:

324 EVIDENCE

A. Sustain the objection, because
the police report is the best evi-
dence of Don's statement.

B. Sustain the objection, in the
interest of humanitarian consid-
erations.

C. Overrule the objection, because
Paul's attorney opened to the
door to the admission of the
remainder of Don's statement to
Paul pertaining to the cause of
the accident.

D. Overrule the objection, because
statements should be offered in
their entirety.

53. Larry was charged with vehicular bat-
tery after driving through a red light
and crashing his Cadillac into Marie's
Lotus. Marie suffered massive internal
injuries and lapsed into a coma until
several hours after she reached the
hospital. Sharon, Marie's best friend,
was a passenger in her car. Sharon mi-
raculously received only a few minor
bruises. After the collision, Sharon
stayed with Marie, trying to comfort
her until the ambulance arrived.

At trial, Sharon is called to the stand by
the district attorney, who asks Sharon if
Marie said anything to her before being
taken to the hospital. Sharon answers
affirmatively, and testifies that Marie
was conscious for a few brief moments
after the accident when she had stated,
"He never stopped for that red light."  

Upon objection by Larry's attorney, the
court should rule the testimony con-
cerning Marie's statement to Sharon:

A. Inadmissible, because Marie's

statement is hearsay.

B. Inadmissible, because Marie's
statement lacks trustworthiness.

C. Admissible, as a present sense

impression by Marie.

D. None of the above.

54. A tall man with red hair robbed Bob's
liquor store. Later, Pete was arrested
and charged with the armed robbery.
At Pete's trial, several eyewitnesses
testified they had seen a tall red-haired
man pull out a gun and rob Mr. Bob,
the store's owner. Pete appeared at trial
with a shaved head. The prosecution
calls Deputy Fife to testify that Pete
had red hair when he was first brought
to jail. Pete's attorney objects. The trial
judge should rule Fife's testimony is:

A. Admissible, as a prior identifica-

tion.

B. Admissible, for the limited pur-
pose of clarifying the discrep-
ancy in the witness' testimony.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because it is opin-

ion.     

m

157
m

55. Fred and Wilma Strong had been mar-
ried for thirty years. Late one Sunday
afternoon, while on his way home from
the pub, Fred hit a young child with his
car and drove off. The young child died
and, after months of police investiga-
tion, Fred was charged with vehicular
manslaughter. Thereafter, Fred called
Attorney to set up a meeting, in order
to retain him for the pending trial.

At the consultation with Attorney, Fred
was accompanied by Wilma. During the
conference, Secretary took notes of the
meeting. A month later, Secretary quit
her job. Fred decided not to hire Attor-
ney, but to act in pro per instead. Dur-
ing Fred's trial, the prosecution called
Secretary to testify to what was said at
the initial conference. The proposed
testimony is:

A. Admissible, because Fred did not

hire Attorney.

B. Admissible, because Secretary's
presence at the conference de-
stroyed the privilege.

C. Inadmissible, because of the at-

torney-client privilege.

D. Inadmissible, as hearsay, not

within any exception.

EVIDENCE 325

56. In a battery action against Katz by
Doug, Doug's attorney called Mel to
testify that the incident occurred on
December 23. Although Mel was not
questioned about a deposition he made
before trial, Mel had previously testi-
fied at his deposition that the incident
occurred on December 14. After Mel's
trial testimony, Katz's attorney offers
Mel's deposition into evidence. The
trial judge should rule the deposition:

A. Admissible, as substantive evi-
dence the incident occurred on
December 14.

B. Inadmissible, because Mel was
available to testify at the trial.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because there were
no facts showing that Mel was
intentionally untruthful.

326 EVIDENCE

Questions 57-58 are based on the
following facts:

One morning, Don telephoned his best
friend, Troy, and asked him if he could
borrow his car. Don explained to Troy that
he had an audit scheduled with the Internal
Revenue Service, which he had to attend and
he needed his car to get there. Don promised
Troy that he would return the car late that
afternoon. Troy agreed to allow Don to bor-
row his car. While driving Troy's car, Don
was involved in an automobile accident
with Bud. Bud has filed suit against Troy
for negligence.

57. In his case in chief, Bud calls Vic to
testify to three incidents of careless
driving on Don's part. The trial judge
should rule the testimony:

A. Admissible, as circumstantial
evidence that Don was negligent
on that occasion.

B. Admissible, since Vic had per-
sonal knowledge of Don's poor
driving.

C. Admissible against Troy, as evi-
dence of Don's lack of fitness.

D. Inadmissible, as hearsay not

within any exception.

58. In his defense, Troy offered testimony
of his wife, Winnie, that Don had a
reputation as a careful driver. Winnie's
testimony is:

Q

1. "
5
m
z
C)
m

A. Admissible, as evidence of

habit.

B. Admissible, as present sense

impression.

C. Admissible, because it is proper

character evidence.

D. Inadmissible, because of bias.

59. Sally is charged with murder for shoot-
ing Brian with her gun. Sally testified
at trial that she honestly believed that
Brian had already died from a heart
attack before he was shot. In rebuttal,
the district attorney called Virginia to
testify that, just before she saw Sally
shoot Brian, she heard Brian shout, "I'm
going to die."

Sally's attorney objects to Virginia's
proposed testimony on grounds that
it is inadmissible hearsay. If the trial
court judge overrules the objection, the
reason will most likely be that:

A. Although hearsay, Brian's state-
ment was made in the belief of
impending death.

B. Although hearsay, Brian's state-
ment related to his present physi-
cal condition.

C. It was not hearsay, because Bri-
an's statement is admissible to
show "notice or knowledge" by
Sally that Brian was still alive.

D. It was not hearsay, because Vir-
ginia had firsthand knowledge of
the events as they transpired.

60. Polly sues Marie, an artist, and Ben,
an art gallery owner, for libel. Polly's
complaint alleges that Marie painted a
picture portraying a figure recognized
as Polly engaging in sexual conduct,
and the painting was published by
allowing the painting to be publicly
displayed. Further, Ben also published
the libelous painting by hanging the
painting for public viewing in his art
gallery and where it was viewed by
the people visiting his gallery. At trial,
Polly offers testimony of Witness that
he was present in Ben's gallery and ob-
served Ben hanging the picture. Witness
further offers to testify as to the scene
portrayed in the picture and that the
picture was signed with Marie's name
in the lower right-hand corner. Upon
proper objection the court should rule
Witness' testimony:

A. Inadmissible, because Witness'
testimony is not the best evi-
dence.

B. Inadmissible, because Witness'
description of the picture, as
against Ben, is insufficiently
authenticated.

C. Admissible, because Witness
properly authenticated the paint-
ing by identifying the artist who
signed the painting as Marie. 

EVIDENCE 327

	D. Admissible, because Witness has 	
	personal knowledge of the facts 	

Questions 61 - 62 are based on the
following facts:

5

U.1

in which he is testifying to.

Winona sues Bob for the wrongful death of
her husband, Henry. At trial, Winona offers
the testimony of Henry's business partner,
Paul, who states that the average net profit
from the business of each partner over the
preceding five years was $100,000. Fur-
ther, evidence is presented showing that the
partnership books are in Paul's possession
and that Paul is willing to allow for their
inspection.

61. The testimony of Paul is:

A. Admissible, since the informa-
tion is relevant and the books are
available for inspection.

B. Admissible, since the facts
sought prove the earnings of the
partnership and Paul had per-
sonal knowledge of those facts.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not fall-

ing within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because Paul's tes-
timony is not the best evidence. 

328 EVIDENCE

62. Assume that Paul's testimony is inad-
missible. Winona now offers the testi-
mony of a properly-qualified expert,
Alvin, a certified public accountant,
who states that he had reviewed the
books of the partnership covering the
preceding five years and, that in his
opinion, the books reflect an average
annual profit for that period allocable to
Henry of $100,000. Upon objection, the
court should rule Alvin's testimony:

A. Admissible, because Alvin has
personal knowledge of the earn-
ings, and is a qualified expert.

B. Inadmissible, because of the best

evidence rule.

C.

Inadmissible, because Alvin does
not have personal knowledge of
the facts to which he is testify-
ing.

D. Inadmissible, as hearsay not fall-
ing within any exception.

Q
''
am
om

63. Greg dies, leaving a will by which
he bequeaths his entire estate to his
friend, Bobby. Peter, Greg's only heir
at law, brings a suit to contest the will
on grounds of incapacity. At the trial,
Bobby calls Dr. Jan and Mrs. Alice as
witnesses, both of whom offer to testify
affirmatively when asked whether Greg
knew enough about "the nature and
extent of his property, and the natural
objects of his bounty" at the time of
Greg's execution of the will. Other
evidence has shown: (1) that Mrs. Alice
is Greg's former housekeeper, who had
seen him daily for over 25 years, until
the date of Greg's death; and (2) that Dr.
Jan is a psychiatrist, stipulated by the
parties to be qualified, who had occa-
sion to examine Greg the week before
Greg executed his will. Upon objection,
the court should:

A. Exclude the testimony of both
witnesses, because both are at-
tempting to testify to their opin-
ions on an ultimate issue in the
case.

B. Admit Dr. Jan's testimony, and
exclude Mrs. Alice's testimony.

C. Admit Mrs. Alice's testimony,
and exclude Dr. Jan's testimo-
ny.

D. Admit the testimony of both wit-

nesses.

EVIDENCE 329

Q

61
ZW
a
11'

B. Proper impeachment on cross-
examination, even though ex-
trinsic proof will not be allowed
if the question is answered in the
negative.

C. Improper impeachment.

D. Improper, because specific in-
stances of misconduct may not
be used to impeach.

66. Terry and Larry were indicted for con-
spiracy to sell an illegal substance. Dan,
an undercover agent, was the key wit-
ness. Terry and Larry claim entrapment
as their defense.

At trial, Dan testifies for the prosecution
that he was present at a meeting with
the defendants at the Grand Hotel on
July 7, at which Terry and Larry agreed
to sell two kilos of cocaine to Dan for
$150,000.

Thereafter, the defense calls as a wit-
ness Tom, an old college roommate
of Dan's, to testify that Dan once
purchased marijuana. Tom's proposed
testimony is:

A. Admissible, because the pur-
chase of marijuana is probative
of Dan's untruthfulness.

B. Admissible, provided that the
purchase of the marijuana re-
sulted in a criminal conviction. 

64. Baby sued Dan for damages, for injuries
that Baby incurred when a badly rotted
limb fell from a tree in front of Dan's
home and hit Baby. Dan claimed that
the tree was on city property; thus, was
not liable to Baby for his injuries. At
trial, Baby offers testimony that a week
after the accident, Dan had the tree cut
down. The evidence is:

A. Inadmissible, since such is
against public policy so as to
further safety precautions.

B. Inadmissible, since it is irrel-

evant.

C. Admissible, to show that the tree

was on Dan's property.

D. Admissible to show that the tree

was in rotten condition.

65. Nancy was prosecuted for the murder
of Merry. At trial, Anna testified against
Nancy. On cross-examination, Nancy's
attorney asked Anna the following
question, "Isn't it true that charges
against you as an accomplice in Merry's
murder are being dropped in exchange
for your testimony against Nancy?" The
question is:

A. Proper impeachment, because it
shows Anna has a self-interest in
testifying against Nancy.

330 EVIDENCE

C.

Inadmissible, because it is extrin-
sic evidence.

D. Inadmissible, as improper lay
opinion in regard to whether or
not the substance previously pur-
chased by Dan was marijuana.

67. Victim was injured in an automobile
accident and rushed to the emergency
room at Hospital. Victim subsequently
brought an action against Hospital for
malpractice, claiming that Hospital
delayed in giving her prompt medical
attention, which resulted in a delay in
her recovery period.

At trial, Nurse proposes to testify that
when Victim was brought into the
emergency room she was unconscious.
Victim's attorney objects. The trial
judge should:

A. Sustain the objection, because
Nurse is not a qualified expert.

B. Sustain the objection, because
it goes to an ultimate issue of
fact.

C. Overrule the objection, because
Jogger can corroborate her testi-
mony.

D. Overrule the objection, because
Nurse had observed Victim when
she was brought into the hospi-
tal.

68. Denny was driving his Toyota truck
when he struck Stan, a 6-year-old boy,
who was crossing the street on the way
to school. Stan was seriously injured.

m

m
C)

Stan visited attorney, Jacoby, accom-
panied by his father, Tom, in regard to
bringing a case against Denny for the
injuries Stan sustained. Tom did not
retain Jacoby to represent his son in
the lawsuit. Instead, he hired another
lawyer, Parker, to handle the case.

At trial, Denny's attorney calls Jacoby
to testify what Stan had said to him in
regard to his physical condition dur-
ing the consultation that he (Jacoby)
had with Stan and his father. Jacoby's
testimony is:

A. Admissible, because no attorney-
client relationship existed.

B. Admissible, because the element
of confidentiality is not satisfied
when a third person is present
with the attorney and client.

C. Inadmissible, because it was
a statement of physical condi-
tion.

D. Inadmissible, because of the at-

torney-client privilege. 

EVIDENCE 331

Q

("3
z
5w

LI

I

69. Cam is being sued for breach of em-
ployment contract by Paul. Paul hired
Cam to obtain a patent on all his inven-
tions within 30 days of their finalization
stage. The day of the finalization of the
Zit Zap Gun is in question. Paul claims
that the finalization date was May 1
1992. Cam claims that it was June 1
1992.

At trial, Cam is called to testify. His
counsel asks him if he is certain about
the date, June 1, 1992, on which the Zit
Zap Gun was finalized. Cam replies,
"Yes, it was June 1, because I remember
reading a story in that day's newspa-
per about the 8.0 earthquake in L.A.,
which destroyed most of downtown."
Paul's counsel objects to the reference
of the newspaper and makes a motion
to strike. The judge should:

A. Grant the motion, on the grounds
that the best evidence rule re-
quires production of the news-
paper.

B. Grant the motion, because the
reference to the newspaper story
does not fit within any exception
to the hearsay rule.

C. Deny the motion, on the grounds
that the court can take judicial
notice of the local newspaper.

D. Deny the motion, because a
witness may refer to a collateral
document without providing the
document.

332 EVIDENCE

70. In a suit between Pamela and Darren,
arising out of an automobile accident,
Benny, a bystander, was called to the
stand by Pamela's counsel, to testify
that Darren had driven through a red
light, which caused the collision. On
cross-examination, Benny is asked if
he has ever been convicted for false
pretenses, which Benny denies. The
prosecutor offers a certified copy of
the criminal conviction into evidence,
upon Benny's denial. Pamela's counsel
objects. The court should:

A. Overrule the objection, because
it bears on the witness' credibil-
ity.

B. Overrule the objection, because
it is evidence that Benny is not
telling the truth.

C. Sustain the objection, because it

is irrelevant.

D. Sustain the objection, because
the witness' character is not in
issue.

71. Myron was arrested and charged with
the rape of Patty. He claims he did not
rape Patty because she had consented to
his advances. At trial, Myron is prepared
to testify that he had engaged in sexual
intercourse with the victim on many
occasions during the previous month
before the rape allegedly occurred with
the victim's consent. Myron's testimony
is: 

Q

A. Admissible, as evidence of spe-
cific acts to show consent.

B. Admissible, as evidence of

habit.

C. Inadmissible character evi-

dence.

D. Inadmissible, because reputa-
tion or opinion evidence of past
sexual behavior of the victim is
not permitted.

72. On January 3 1993, Dick was prosecuted
for burglary. At trial, Dick testified on
his own behalf, denying that he commit-
ted the burglary. On cross-examination,
the prosecution asked Dick if in 1980 he
had been convicted of robbery. Dick's
attorney objects. The court should:

A. Overrule the objection, because
the prosecutor may test the cred-
ibility of the witness.

B. Overrule the objection, because
the testimony is immaterial.

C. Sustain the objection, because
the crime is more than 10 years
old.

D. Sustain the objection, because
the adverse party was not given
written notice.

73. Lovejoy sued Eric for injuries suffered
by him when Eric collided his motor-
cycle into Lovejoy. At trial, Lovejoy
offers into evidence a properly authen-
ticated letter from Eric which states,
"Your claim of damage seems too high,
but because I have no insurance, and I
was at fault, I'm prepared to pay the
amount in which you have asked." The
letter is:

A. Admissible, under public policy

reasons. 

B. Admissible, because it is a party

admission.

C. Inadmissible, because Eric's

statement is opinion.

D. Inadmissible, because the state-
ment was made during an effort
to settle a claim.

74. Bonnie was sued by Brent for the sale
of her shares in the Acme Corporation.
Bonnie consulted her friend Steve, an
attorney, regarding the sale of her 80%
interest of the stock of a closely held
corporation. She explained the reason
for the sale to Steve, and disclosed the
financial condition of the corporation.
Steve determined that the transaction
was too complex and in violation of a
shareholder agreement. Steve decided
to decline the case. Bonnie then hired
Carrie to represent her.

EVIDENCE 333

  
z

5

At trial, Brent calls Steve to testify to
the contents of the conversation be-
tween Steve and Bonnie. Bonnie's
counsel objects. The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, because of
the attorney-client relationship.

B. Sustain the objection, because
the conversation is not relevant
to the sale of the stock.

C. Overrule the objection, because
Steve was not retained by Bon-
nie.

D. Overrule the objection, because
the attorney-client privilege did
not attach.

75. Mr. Roper owns a house at 24211
Lemon Street. He rents the house to
Jack. The lease states that Jack will
maintain the house and yard in its pres-
ent condition. While walking home
one day, Chrissie was hit on the head
when a tree limb fell from Mr. Roper's
property, seriously injuring her. It is
agreed between the parties that the tree
fell because of dry rot. Mr. Roper hired
Larry the next day to have the whole
tree removed from the property. Chris-
sie now brings suit against Mr. Roper
in Superior Court. At trial, Mr. Roper
testifies that he rented out the house to
Jack, who he claims was responsible for
the maintenance of the yard, under the
terms of the lease. Chrissie introduces
into evidence that Mr. Roper had Larry
remove the tree from the property the
next day. The evidence is:

A. Admissible, because the evi-
dence is not being used to prove
negligence or culpable conduct.

B. Admissible, because Mr. Roper

was at fault.

C. Inadmissible, because Mr. Rop-
er's acts were subsequent reme-
dial measures.

D. Inadmissible, because the pro-
bative value substantially out-
weighed its prejudicial effect. 

334 EVIDENCE

76. Norm was employed at BeerCo as a
quality control tester of the "flip-top"
openers on 12-ounce beverage cans
produced by his employer for their
number one product, Cheers beer. One
day while at work, Norm was injured
when one of the "flip-tops" fell unno-
ticed into the can he was testing, only
to be swallowed by Norm on his next
sip of beer. Norm dies as a result.

Vera, Norm's wife, brings a wrong-
ful death action against BeerCo. At
trial, Vera's counsel seeks to introduce
BeerCo's offer to pay funeral expenses.
BeerCo objects. The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, since of-
fering to pay funeral expenses
is not admissible to prove liabil-
ity.

B. Sustain the objection, since the

offer is hearsay.

C. Overrule the objection, since
Beer Co's statement is a party
admission.

D. Overrule the objection, since
Beer Co's statement is a declara-
tion against their interest.

Q

77. Botch was named as a criminal defen-
dant for allegedly killing the cashier at
a local convenience store. One of his
defenses is that he is innocent by reason
of a mental disease or defect such that
he could not appreciate the wrongful-
ness of his acts. The defense presented
expert testimony through Dr. Wright
who was properly qualified as an expert.
Dr. Wright testified that Botch suffered
a mental disease or defect at the time
of his acts, as to the characteristics of
that mental disease or defect, and his
diagnosis of Botch. The defense then
offered Dr. Wright's opinion that Botch
did not know his acts were wrong when
committed, over objection of the district
attorney. How will the court rule on the
prosecution's objection?

A. Overruled, because Dr. Wright
was properly qualified as an
expert before testifying.

B. Overruled, if Dr. Wright's expert
opinion that Botch suffered from
a mental disease or defect was
uncontroverted.

C. Sustained, because an expert
cannot testify on whether the
defendant had the mental condi-
tion constituting an element of a
defense to the crime charged.

D. Sustained, because Dr. Wright's
testimony was biased in favor of
Botch. 

EVIDENCE 335

79. Yvette's attorney called to the stand
Lou, a cashier at Sparkle Jewelry Store,
to testify as follows: two hours before
she was charged with shoplifting at
Nordstrom's, Yvette had shopped at
Sparkle Jewelry Store and, after paying
for a $2,000 diamond ring she had pur-
chased, walked out of the store leaving
the diamond ring on a store counter. The
prosecution objects to the testimony of
Stephanie. The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, because
the testimony pertains to an im-
permissible character trait.

B. Sustain the objection, because it
is improper opinion testimony.

C. Overrule the objection, because
Lou has first hand knowledge of
Yvette's conduct in the store on
the occasion in question.

D. Overrule the objection, because
Lou's testimony tends to dis-
prove Yvette's intent to com-
mit the crime of shoplifting at
Nordstrom's.

80. Yvette also calls Burt, a psychologist, to
testify that he had treated Yvette and, in
his opinion, Yvette was suffering from
a psychological condition which im-
paired her memory and caused her to be
forgetful. The prosecution objects to the
testimony of Burt. The court should: 

Questions 78 - 80 are based on the
following facts:

Yvette leaves Nordstrom without paying for
a blouse. She is stopped after exiting and is
charged with shoplifting. At trial, the pros-
ecution introduces into evidence that Yvette
exited from the department store without
paying for the blouse, which was found on
her baby stroller. Yvette testifies that she
walked out of the store with the blouse hang-
ing on the outside of her stroller and that she
forgot that she had placed it there while she
looked for a matching skirt.

78. Yvette's attorney calls Stephanie to
testify that Yvette forgot her baby son at
Nordstrom the last time she went shop-
ping, six months ago. The prosecution
objects to the testimony of Stephanie.
The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, because
the testimony pertains to an im-
permissible character trait.

B. Sustain the objection, because it

is improper opinion testimony.

C. Overrule the objection, because
Stephanie has personal knowl-
edge of Yvette's character.

D. Overrule the objection, because
it tends to disprove Yvette's in-
tent to commit the crime.

336 EVIDENCE

A. Sustain the objection, because
the testimony pertains to an im-
permissible character trait.

B. Sustain the objection, because it
is improper opinion testimony.

C. Overrule the objection, if Burt is

a qualified expert.

D. Overrule the objection, because
Burt's testimony is consistent
with a finding of innocence.

81. Deft is charged with the sale of heroin.
He denies making the alleged sale. Deft
calls Fred, his friend, who testifies that
for six years he has known Deft socially
and has lived in the same neighborhood.
Deft then asks Fred whether Deft has
a character trait for non-violence. The
prosecution objects. The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, because
the testimony is impermissible
character evidence.

B. Sustain the objection, because
the evidence of the character trait
of non-violence is irrelevant to
the issue of selling narcotics.

C. Overrule the objection, because
the testimony is permissible
character evidence.

D. Overrule the objection, because
once character evidence is ad-
mitted into evidence, the door
is opened for further character
evidence. 

m

m

82. Mark is charged with murder. He pleads
not guilty. At the request of Mark's
lawyer, the trial judge appoints Doctors
Art and Cathy, psychiatrists, to examine
Mark and advise Mark's lawyer as to
whether Mark should rely upon the de-
fense of mental defect. At trial, Mark's
defense is diminished capacity. Mark's
lawyer calls Dr. Art, who gives an
opinion in support of Mark's defense.
Mark's lawyer rests her case. In rebut-
tal, the prosecution calls Dr. Cathy, to
give an opinion contrary to that of Dr.
Art. Mark's lawyer objects. The court
should:

A. Sustain the objection, because of
the attorney-client privilege.

B. Sustain the objection, because
of the psychiatrist-patient privi-
lege.

C. Overrule the objection, because
as Mark's expert medical provid-
er, she is not permitted to testify
adverse to Mark's interest.

D. Overrule the objection, because
Dr. Cathy was never listed as
the prosecution's expert prior to
trial. 

EVIDENCE 337

  
Q  

6"
zW
ci
5W

83. Deft is charged with the murder of Rob-
ert. As part of the prosecutions's case
in chief, the prosecutor offers a certi-
fied copy of Deft's prior conviction for
murdering the President. Deft objects.
The evidence is:

C. Not allow the testimony, be-
cause it is improper character
evidence.

D. Not allow the testimony, because

Dave has not testified.

85. Lucy sued Fred for injuries suffered by
her when Fred collided his blue truck
into her MG. At trial, Lucy calls Ricky
to the stand. Ricky testifies that he was
driving the MG when the accident hap-
pened. He further testified that when he
pulled onto the tollway, Lucy said to
him, "Watch out for that blue truck - it
looks like the driver has been drinking,
and he can't seem to keep control over
his car." Fred's counsel objects. The
testimony is:

A. Admissible, for public policy

reasons.

B. Admissible, as a present sense

impression.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay.

D. Inadmissible, as improper lay

opinion.

A. Admissible, because it tends to

prove Deft's plan.

B. Admissible, because it is a mate-

rial fact.

C. Inadmissible, because it is im-
proper character evidence.

D. Inadmissible, because its pro-
bative value is substantially
outweighed by its prejudicial
effect.

84. Polly sues Dave for damages arising
out of an automobile accident. Polly
claims that Dave was negligent. At trial,
Polly calls Tim to the stand. Tim testi-
fies that he is a member of the church
which Dave attends, and that Dave
has a reputation for being a "careless"
driver. Dave's attorney objects to the
testimony. The trial court should:

A. Allow the testimony, because it

is trustworthy.

B. Allow the testimony, because it
is relevant to the issue of whether
Dave was negligent. 

338 EVIDENCE

86. While driving within the scope of
employment for Petro Corp., Axelrod
r„ noC 1,17 Aar 71-t,a 1 rn	
NA- a uhrd nhcF•ruPri
while standing on her front lawn. After
quickly dialing for an ambulance from
her mobile phone, Maybel walked
over to the injured Thelma, and stated,
"It's too bad that truck never slowed
down.”

In an action by Thelma against Petro
Corp., evidence of Maybel's statement
is:

A. Inadmissible, because it was
not authorized by Axelrod's
employer.

B. Inadmissible, because Maybel
was not under a state of excite-
ment when the statement was
made.

C. Admissible, because Petro Corp.
ratified Axelrod's conduct when
it hired Axelrod as an employ-
ee.

D. Admissible, as a present sense

impression.

87. While riding her bike home from
school, Susan was struck by a car driven
by Tina. Tina was driving home from
a Wazoo mixer. Tina was arrested at
the scene for driving while under the
influence. When Tina was booked at
the police station, she was videotaped
in her intoxicated state.

m

At trial, the prosecution offers the tape
into evidence. The tape shows Tina

ancwerina nnectinnc hv nnlire nfficerc
an unsteady manner. Defense counsel
objects to the introduction of the tape.
The court should:

A. Admit the tape, because its pro-
bative value is not substantially
outweighed by the danger of
unfair prejudice.

B. Admit the tape, because it is a

party admission. 

C. Not admit the tape, because it is
hearsay not within any excep-
tion.

D. Not admit the tape, because it is
extrinsic evidence of a specific
instance of misconduct.

EVIDENCE

339

  
Q

Questions 88 - 89 are based on the
following facts:

While driving home from work, Betty Grav-
el ran her rock-mobile into Fred Stone. Fred
was seriously injured. Fred sued Betty for the
injuries he received in the auto accident. Fred
claims that Betty was negligent because she
was driving over the speed limit.

At trial, Fred calls Wilma Granite to testify.
Wilma saw the accident from the street cor-
ner and testifies that Betty was wearing a
pink polka dot jumpsuit at the time of the ac-
cident. Betty calls Barney Pumice to testify
that Betty was wearing a green dress.

88. Barney's testimony is:

A. Admissible, because it is relevant
to the issue of who was negli-
gent.

B. Admissible, because it tends to
test the credibility of the wit-
ness.

C. Inadmissible, because it is ex-
trinsic evidence on a collateral
matter.

D. Inadmissible, because it is irrel-

evant.

89. Betty testified in her own behalf that she
was going 25 m.p.h. On cross-exami-
nation, Dino Sawyer (Fred's attorney),
did not question Betty in regard to her
speed. Dino called Officer BamBam to
testify that in his investigation of the
accident, Betty told him that she was
traveling 40 m.p.h. Officer BamBam's
testimony is:

A. Admissible, as a declaration

against interest.

B. Admissible, because it is not

hearsay.

C. Inadmissible, because it is hear-
say not within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because it lacks

foundation.

90. While driving home from work, George
stopped at Harry's Bar for a drink. After
having a few drinks, George asked Joe,
the bartender, for another. Joe, worried
about George's intoxicated state, told
George that he had already had enough
to drink. George then became very an-
gry, and said to Joe, "Get me a drink or
else." Joe again refused. 

340 EVIDENCE

Angered by Joe's response, George
jumped off his bar stool and hit Joe.
Joe now brings suit against George to
recover for his injuries. At trial, Joe's
attorney put Joe on the stand. Joe's pro-
posed testimony is that George stated to
him, "Get me a drink or else." George's
attorney objects to the testimony. The
court should:

A. Overrule the objection, because

it is not hearsay.

B. Overrule the objection, because
it is probative of the declarant's
state of mind.

C. Sustain the objection, because it
is hearsay not within any excep-
tion.

D. Sustain the objection, because
George could not form the intent
to commit a battery while intoxi-
cated.

91. While out on patrol, Officer Speedtrapp
pulled over Burt in his new black Trans
Am for speeding. He issued Burt a
speeding ticket. After laying a founda-
tion for admitting the radar reading,
Speedtrapp testifies that he was stopped
at the corner of 5th and Golden and
pointed his radar gun at Burt. The
gun rated Burt's speed to be 45 m.p.h.
Burt's attorney objects to the testimony.
The trial court should:

A. Not allow the testimony, because
the evidentiary foundation was
insufficient to establish all ele-
ments of a speeding violation.

B. Not allow the testimony, because

it is hearsay.

C. Allow the testimony, because
radar readings are an exception
to the hearsay rule.

D. Allow the testimony, because it

is not hearsay.

92. Tami sues Jim for fraud, alleging that
a Rolls Royce that Jim sold to her was
really a Bentley. In order to prove the
Rolls Royce was genuine, Jim intro-
duces the bill of sale he received at a
car auction when he purchased the car.
Tami's counsel objects. The bill of sale
is:

A. Admissible, because documents
of title are conclusive of rightful
ownership.

B. Admissible, because it is a party

admission.

C. Inadmissible, because it is hear-
say not within any exception.

D. Inadmissible, because it is not

the best evidence.

EVIDENCE

341

Q

z

93. Mo Tivv is arrested for burglary. At
trial, Ali By testifies that Mo Tivv was
watching television at Ali's home at the
time of the burglary. On cross-exami-
nation of Ali, the prosecutor asks him,
"Don't you certify art reproductions
ac antirme ari °inn] c in order to sell
store?" The prosecutor was informed of
this by Vinny, who is Ali's employee.
Certifying art reproductions as originals
is punishable as a misdemeanor. If Mo
Tivv's attorney objects, the objection
will be:

A. Sustained, because it relates to a

94. John is charged with battery on Ponch,
a police officer, growing out of his
arrest by Ponch. John's defense is self-
defense, against excessive force used by
Ponch. Through discovery proceedings,
John secures the police department's
disciplinary records relating to Ponch,
citizens Tom, Dick, and Harry, stating
that Ponch used excessive force on
each of them within six months prior to
John's incident with Ponch. John offers
the records in evidence. The prosecu-
tion objects. The court should rule the
disciplinary reports are:

collateral matter.

A. Not allowed, because they are

B. Sustained, unless Ali has been
convicted for certifying repro-
duction art works as originals.

C. Overruled within the discretion
of the court, because certifying
reproductions as originals bears
on Ali's truthfulness.

D. Overruled within the discretion
of the court, because certifying
reproductions of art works as
originals is punishable as a mis-
demeanor.

hearsay.

B. Allowed, because it is proper
character evidence under the
"victim's exception."

C. Allowed, because of the business

record exception.

D. Allowed, because the report is
permissible to prove this char-
acter trait of Ponch. 

342 EVIDENCE

m

m

0

The prosecution then calls Peggy to
testify. Peggy testifies that six weeks
earlier, when she was with a girl friend,
Al and another male picked them up
and offered to take them to a party,
but instead drove them to a secluded
area, where Al and his friend forced the
women to submit to sexual intercourse.
The women escaped when the men were
momentarily distracted. Al objects to
Peggy's testimony. The Judge should:

A. Overrule the objection, because
it is permissible character evi-
dence.

B. Overrule the objection, because
the testimony is relevant to Al's
state of mind.

C. Sustain the objection, because it
is impermissible character evi-
dence.

D. Sustain the objection, because it

is too prejudicial. 

95. Laverne, the widow of Squiggy, sues
Shirley in a wrongful death action, aris-
ing out of Squiggy's death in 1990. On
the issue of damages, Laverne testifies
that she and Squiggy had a happy and
affectionate marital relationship during
their entire marriage. In defense, Shir-
ley seeks to introduce evidence of the
fact that from 1981 to 1983, Squiggy
separated from Laverne and lived with
another woman. Laverne objects. The
court should:

A. Sustain the objection, since the

evidence is self-serving. 	

B. Sustain the objection, because of

the dead man's statute.

C. Overrule the objection, because

it is proper character evidence.

D. Overrule the objection, because

the evidence is relevant.

96. Al is charged with the rape of Kelly, a
17-year-old girl. At trial, the prosecu-
tion seeks to establish that Al and an-
other man picked up Kelly and offered
her a ride to a party. A few hours later,
after allegedly being picked up by Al,
Kelly's body was found in a ditch.

EVIDENCE 343

	
Q

97. Alex was fired from his job for drunken-
ness and incompetency. His supervisor
had warned Alex about his conduct, but
was fed up when Alex failed to show up
for work for three straight days. Alex
retaliates by suing for back wages,
claiming that his employment contract
provided wages at below the mini-
mum wage and set forth a "waiver" of
overtime wages at any rate higher than
the regular hourly rate. His employer,
Andre Ristorante, disputes Alex's al-
legations as to the contractual terms.
Alex intends to testify as to the alleged
wage rates set forth in his employment
contract with his employer. Andre's at-
torney objects. The court should:

A. Admit the testimony, because
Alex has personal knowledge of
the contents of the contract.

B. Admit the testimony, because it
is a material issue in the action.

C. Not admit the testimony, because
it is hearsay not within any ex-
ception.

D. Not admit the testimony, be-
cause the contract is the best
evidence.

344 EVIDENCE

98. X is prosecuted for assault with a deadly
weapon upon A. A testifies that X struck
him with an iron pipe without cause.
The prosecution then calls B to the
stand, who testifies that he has known
and lived next door to A for ten years.
The prosecution then asks B: "What
is the reputation as to whether A is an
honest and a truthful man?" X objects.
The court should:

A. Sustain the objection, because
opinion evidence of a witness'
character is never allowed to at-
tack or support the credibility of
the witness.

B. Sustain the objection, because
A's character for truthfulness has
not yet been attacked.

C. Overrule the objection, because

it is relevant.

D. Overrule the objection, because

it is a collateral matter.

99. Doug and Jon are arrested for robbing a
jewelry store. Jon makes a plea with the
district attorney to turn state's evidence
against Patty for an unrelated crime.

Doug is now on trial for the robbery.
William, Doug's roommate, is the sole
defense witness. Doug's counsel calls
William to the stand, to testify that
Doug told him (William) that Jon alone
robbed the jewelry store. The prosecu-
tion objects to William's testimony. The
testimony is: 

m

m

C)

A. Admissible, as a co-conspirator

party admission.

Questions 100 - 101 are based on
the following facts:

B. Admissible, because it is direct
proof that Doug did not commit
the robbery.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not
within any recognized excep-
tion.

D. Inadmissible, because William's

testimony is biased.

Abel sues Cain for damages for personal
injuries arising out of a rear-end automobile
accident. While testifying, Abel produces
a typewritten letter that states, "My foot
slipped off the brake. Don't worry, I will see
that all your damages are paid." The letter
is signed "Cain", but contains no return ad-
dress. Abel is asked by his counsel if he is
familiar with Cain's signature. Abel answers,
"No, but I received the letter in the mail two
weeks after the accident." Abel offers the
letter into evidence.

100. Cain objects on the grounds of authen-

tication. The letter is:

A. Admissible, because the contents
of the letter lay the foundation
for authentication.

B. Admissible, because it is direct
proof that Cain was at fault.

C. Inadmissible, because Abel is not
familiar with Cain's signature.

D. Inadmissible, because the letter

is self-serving.

101. Suppose that Abel overcomes the au-
thenticity objection. Cain then objects
on the grounds of hearsay: The letter
is:

A. Admissible, because it is not-

hearsay.

EVIDENCE

345

Q  

B. Admissible, because it is direct
proof that Cain did cause the ac-
cident.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay not
within any recognized excep-

D. Admissible, as hearsay that falls
within a recognized exception.

103. Mark was charged with armed robbery
of a 7-11 convenience store. At trial,
Mark took the stand and denied that he
was the person who robbed the 7-11.
The prosecution seeks to enter into
evidence that Mark had robbed two gas
objects to this evidence. The evidence
is:

A. Admissible, to prove Mark did

rob the 7-11 store.

B. Admissible, to prove a pertinent

trait of Mark's character.

C. Inadmissible, because character
evidence may not be used to
prove Mark acted in conformity
therewith.

D. Inadmissible, because character
evidence must be proven by
reputation or opinion evidence.

104. While driving home from school,
Punkey hit Brandon as he was crossing
the intersection. Brandon sued Punkey
for the personal injuries he sustained.
At trial, Brandon testifies that imme-
diately after the accident, Punkey got
out of her car, raced over to Brandon,
and said, "Don't worry, I'll pay all
your medical bills." Punkey objects to
Brandon's testimony. The testimony
is:

A. Admissible, because it is an ad-

mission of liability.  

102. After being admitted to the Cinema
movie theater, Paul slipped on a loose
piece of carpeting in the theater lobby.
Paul sustained injuries to his back. At
trial, Cinema calls Wendy to testify
that a week before the accident Paul
told her, "I cannot finish our golf game
because of pains in my back." Paul
objects to the testimony. The court
should rule the testimony:

A. Admissible.

B. Admissible, as a present sense

impression.

C. Inadmissible, as hearsay.

D. Inadmissible, as an improper lay

opinion.

346 EVIDENCE

Q

1-1
5
m
z
0
m

B. Admissible, because it is an ex-

cited utterance.

Questions 105 - 106 are based on
the following facts:

C. Inadmissible, because it is hear-
say not within any recognized
exception.

D. Inadmissible, because it is an

rsff.v to bau mr.rlioal bilk

Mike was a famous musician. While play-
ing in a night club one night, he met Teena.
The couple fell in love, were married, and
started a musical career together. However,
Mike has a serious drug problem, and as a
result, he frequently becomes enraged when
when he was unable to come up with lyrics
to a new song, he "blind-sided" Thomas with
his fist. Thomas was seriously injured, but
never knew what hit him. Teena was the only
witness to the incident. The prosecutor files
battery charges against Mike and wants to
have Teena testify at trial as the only witness
to the incident. Teena objects because of her
fears it will ruin their careers.

105. Must Teena testify at trial?

A. Yes, because Teena is qualified
to testify as to her perceptions.

B. Yes, because she had personal
knowledge of the incident.

C. No, because she would be testify-

ing against Mike.

D. Yes, because Mike's conduct is
not considered a marital com-
munication.

EVIDENCE

347

106. Assume for this question, that Mike
has been arrested for cocaine traffick-
ing. After Mike's arrest, he privately
spoke to Teena, saying that he was
guilty, but that he would "beat the rap"
and they would make many years of
music together. Teena was fed up with
Mike's ways and obtained a marital
dissolution. She has now been called
to testify at Mike's trial concerning
Mike's statement to her. Upon ob-
jection by Mike's attorney, the court
should:

107. Holmes has been a private detective
for the past 30 years and is well known
for his ability to solve difficult crimes.
Holmes has been unable to capture one
suspected criminal during his career.
The criminal, Moriarty, is a master of
disguise, who began wearing disguises
to engage in criminal activity as the
result of a large disfiguring scar on
his left cheek that was caused when
he once narrowly escaped capture by
Holmes.

A. Exclude the evidence, because
the statement was a confidential
communication.

B. Admit the evidence, because the
testimonial privilege terminates
upon dissolution of marriage.

C. Admit the evidence, because the
marital privilege is inapplicable
to admissions.

D. Admit the evidence, because
Teena will testify voluntarily.

348 EVIDENCE

Intent on turning the tables and put-
ting Holmes in jail, Moriarty poses
as a criminal defense attorney, after
he finds out that Holmes is in trouble
with the law. Holmes is stopped for a
traffic violation and is found to have
cocaine in his possession. When he
visits Moriarty's "law" office, Holmes
admits to Moriarty that he possessed the
cocaine for his personal use on the date
in question. It is unknown to Holmes
that Moriarty is not an attorney.

After the visit, Holmes does not hire
Moriarty to represent him. Armed with
Holmes' confession, Moriarty calls the
district attorney and "cuts a deal" in
exchange for evidence of Holmes' guilt.
The prosecutor seeks to have Moriarty
testify at Holmes' drug possession trial.
Holmes' attorney objects. The testi-
mony of Holmes' confession is:

A. Inadmissible, because Moriarty
obtained the evidence through
clandestine means. 

Q

I""
5
m
z
0
m

B. Inadmissible, because of the at-

torney-client privilege.

C. Admissible, as a statement

against interest.

D. Admissible, because Moriarty
was merely acting as an attor-
ney.

109. Bob was charged with the murder of
his wife, Valerie. At trial, the prosecu-
tion calls Terry to the stand. Terry was
the maid for the couple. Terry's pro-
posed testimony is that Valerie came
to her late one night and said, "Bob
has poisoned me." Valerie died shortly
thereafter. Bob's counsel objects to the
introduction of Valerie's statement to
Terry. The trial court should:

108. Railroad's train was involved in a se-
rious collision with Peter. As a result
of that collision, Eddie, the train's en-
gineer, was slightly injured and Peter
died. Peter's heirs bring a wrongful
death suit against Railroad.

At trial, Railroad seeks to introduce
Railroad's accident report filed by Ed-
die at the time of the accident. Eddie
is no longer an employee of Railroad,
and has moved to an unknown loca-
tion in Mexico. Peter's heirs object to
introduction of the accident report. The
report is:

A. Admissible, because it is a busi-

ness record.

B. Admissible, because Eddie is

unavailable to testify.

C. Inadmissible, because it is hear-

say.

D. Inadmissible, because it is not

the best evidence.

A. Permit the testimony, because it

was a dying declaration.

B. Permit the testimony, because it
is relevant to Valerie's state of
mind.

C. Exclude the testimony, because

it is hearsay.

D. Exclude the testimony, because
of the dead man's statute.

110. While shopping at Vons, Bert slipped
and fell on a piece of candy on the floor
of an aisle. Bert sustained serious back
injuries and now brings suit against
Vons for his injuries.

EVIDENCE

349

Q 

At trial, Vons' counsel, Billy Davilla,
calls Mr. Clean, the store janitor, to the
stand. Mr. Clean testifies that he regu-
larly sweeps the floor every half hour
and that he never leaves anything on the
floor. He further testifies that if there
had been anything on the floor when
he swept, including a piece of candy,
he would have seen it. Bert's attorney
objects to Mr. Clean's testimony. The
court should:

A. Admit the testimony, because it is

relevant.

B. Admit the testimony, because it is

proper habit evidence.

C. Exclude the testimony, as specula-

tive.

D. Exclude the testimony, as preju-

dicial.

END OF QUESTIONS 

350 EVIDENCE

EVIDENCE ANSWERS

1. A is the correct answer. If a proper foun-
dation is laid, the photograph is admis-
sible into evidence. This requires that
there be someone who can testify that
the photograph is a true and accurate
representation of the accident scene.
Since anyone who was present at the
scene when the photograph was taken
can testify to the accuracy of the photo-
graph, the photographer does not have
to be present. B is incorrect because the
burden is on Petunia, not Daisy, to lay
the foundation showing that the photo-
graph is a true and accurate representa-
tion of the accident scene. C is incorrect
because the photographer does not have
to be present. D is incorrect because the
photo could be taken by anyone; it does
not have to be an investigative agent.

2. B is the correct answer. Mistress may in-
troduce evidence of her good character
to show that she is not the type of person
likely to murder Wife. A is incorrect
because Mistress has not taken the stand
and put her credibility into issue. C is
incorrect because, at this point, Mistress
is not trying to prove her character for
truthfulness. D is legally incorrect be-
cause reputation is a permissible way
to prove character.

3. D is the correct answer. A declarant's
statement as to her present state of mind
is admissible, if it tends to establish the
declarant's state of mind or intent to
do something in some future time. A is
incorrect because the statement is hear-
say, but is admissible under the present
mental state exception. B is incorrect
because the defendant's mental state
is certainly probative, i.e., relevant - it
may establish her alibi. C is incorrect
because the statement is hearsay. It is
an out-of-court statement going to the
truth of the matter asserted, i.e., it is
a direct assertion of Mistress' state of
mind — her intent to visit her relatives
— offered to prove that Mistress had
that intent to show that Mistress acted
on her intent (i.e., that she, in fact, vis-
ited her relatives in another state.) This
is the "Hillmon" use of the state of mind
exception to the hearsay rule.

4. C is the correct answer. Questions which
point to possible prejudice or bias are
always relevant. A is incorrect, since,
as a matter of law, bias and prejudice
do not go beyond the scope of direct
examination. B is incorrect because
the credibility of a testifying witness is
always a consequential (i.e., provable)
proposition. D is incorrect because it is
an incorrect statement of law.

EVIDENCE  351        

5. B is the correct answer. Although there
is nothing wrong with the prosecutor's
question, the prejudicial effect on the
jury may be great. Therefore, the judge
has the discretion to decide that the
probative value is substantially out-
weighed by the potential prejudice. A
is incorrect because a question tending
to prove bias is never beyond the scope
of direct examination. C is incorrect
because leading questions are permitted
on cross-examination. D is incorrect, as
it is an incorrect statement of law.

6. D is the correct answer. The general rule
is that other crimes or wrongs are not
admissible to prove a person's character
(i.e., propensity to act a certain way)
to show action that the person acted
in conformity with his character (i.e.,
propensity). However, other crimes,
wrongs or acts are admissible for a
non-character purpose, i.e., to show
identity (by modus operandi). That is,
other crimes are admissible only if, as
here, the hand-gun used by Sam in the
prior robbery against Pete is so unique
that it tends to establish the identity of
Sam as the one who robbed Joe. Here,
Sam's use of a psychedlic-painted gun
to rob Pete is a "signature" crime. The
psychedelic-painted gun is unique
enough to be relevant, in a non-char-
acter way, to establish Sam's modus
operandi. A is incorrect because, in this
fact pattern, Sam's character is not "in
issue". B is incorrect because, although
the evidence may be prejudicial, the risk
of causing unfair prejudice to Sam (by
showing his propensity to rob) does not
substantially outweigh the evidence's
strong probative value (to show Sam's
identity through M.O.). C is incorrect
because mere possession of the gun
would not show Sam is capable of
armed robbery.

352 EVIDENCE

7. B is the correct answer. Under the
Federal Rules of Evidence [hereinaf-
ter F.R.E.1, Rule 803(1), there is an
exception to the hearsay rule for pres-
ent sense impressions. Since Wilma
made a statement about a condition
she observed while she was observing
it, this would qualify the statement as a
present-sense impression. A is incorrect
because the excited utterance exception
requires that the statement was made
under the stress of an exciting event.
This is not the case, under these facts.
C is incorrect because a prior consistent
statement is used to rebut a charge of
recent fabrication. Wilma's credibility
as a witness has not been attacked (i.e.,
impeached) as a recent fabrication. D is
incorrect since the state of drunkenness
is the type of subject a lay person may
give an opinion on.

8. D is the correct answer. The F.R.E. al-
low a prior inconsistent statement to
be used for impeachment purposes as
well as substantive evidence of the fact
in question, if the statement was made
under oath, at a proceeding (including
a deposition), and the declarant is avail-
able to testify concerning the statement.
A is incorrect because, under the F.R.E.,
one may impeach his own witness. B is
incorrect because a prior inconsistent
statement, under oath, is not hearsay.
C is incorrect because it is not the best
answer. Although it can be used to
refresh Pete's memory, the better use
here would be to impeach and can also
be used as substantive evidence. There-
fore, D is the better answer under the
facts.

9. D is the correct answer. F.R.E. 407 ex-
cludes evidence of subsequent remedial
measures. The rationale falls under
public policy; if such evidence could
be used to establish the prior existence
of a dangerous condition or practice,
the person liable would be reluctant
to take corrective action. A, B and C
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.

EVIDENCE

353

10. B is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
409, evidence that a party has offered
to pay medical expenses is not admis-
sible to prove liability. However, any
admission of fact made in connection
therewith is admissible. A is incorrect
because, under an offer to compromise
accompanying the admission, it would
most likely be inadmissible. C is in-
correct because an admission made by
a party is an exception to the hearsay
rule. D is incorrect under F.R.E. 409,
admissions of fact accompanying the
offer are admissible.

11. C is the correct answer. For the physi-
cian-patient privilege to attach, the
information obtained from the patient
must be necessary to enable the physi-
cian to treat the patient. Here, Angelo's
statements to the doctor do not relate to
treatment and, thus, are not protected
by the privilege. A is incorrect for the
reasons stated in correct answer C. B
is an incorrect statement of law. Confi-
dentiality, which is an essential element
to the formation of the privilege, would
not be impaired by the fact that the ad-
mitting nurse overheard Angelo's com-
munication to the doctor. D is incorrect
because, whether Angelo intended this
statement to be confidential or not
would not, the privilege did not "form"
for the reasons stated in answer A.

12. B is the best answer. Under F.R.E.
901, a letter must be authenticated be-
fore it will be admitted into evidence.
F.R.E. 901(a) states, "the requirement
of authentication or identification as a
condition precedent to admissibility is
satisfied by evidence sufficient to sup-
port a finding that the matter in ques-
tion is what the proponent claims." A
is an incorrect statement of law - there
is not an absolute rule that the Court
receive the original document. C is an
incorrect answer, as the issue here is
authentication. D is incorrect because,
under the F.R.E., the letter need not be
authenticated by an expert.

13. B is the correct answer. Attorney-cli-
ent communications remain privileged
even when made in the presence of joint
clients or others, if the others are "rea-
sonably necessary" to the consultation.
A is incorrect because the testimony
is not offered to prove the contents of
Sneak's notes - thus, the best evidence
rule is inapplicable. C is incorrect be-
cause the other persons present were
reasonably necessary to the consulta-
tion. Thus, the privilege attaches. D is
incorrect because Ace and Owner are
joint clients, and the attorney-client
privilege would attach. 

354 EVIDENCE

14. A is the correct answer. A business re-
port prepared as a communication from
client to attorney is privileged. B and C
are incorrect because even though a re-
port contains hearsay or is self-serving,
it does not prevent its discovery by the
opponent. D is incorrect for the reasons
supporting answer A.

15. A is the correct answer. F.R.E. 803(1)
holds that a present sense impression
and excited utterance are not excluded
by the hearsay rule, even though the
declarant is available as a witness. A
present sense impression is a statement
describing or explaining an event or
condition made while the declarant
was perceiving the event or condition,
or immediately thereafter. Thus, Ella's
statement would qualify. B is incor-
rect because the declarant, Ella, does
not have to be unavailable. C is incor-
rect because although the statement is
hearsay, it falls within the present sense
impression exception. D is an incorrect
statement of law. Although Ella is not a
legal adult (18 years of age), she is still
able to perceive and communicate.

16. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
404(b), evidence of other crimes,
wrongs, or acts is not admissible to
prove the character of a person in order
to show that he acted in conformity
therewith. However, it may be admis-
sible for other purposes, such as proof
of intent, motive, preparation, opportu-
nity, knowledge, plan, scheme or iden-
tity. Under these facts, this evidence
may be used to show Deft's intent as
well as common scheme or plan. A is
incorrect, as it is an incorrect statement
of law. This evidence is very relevant
to the charges against Deft. Both B and
D are incorrect since they miss the key
legal issue of utilizing the evidence to
show intent.

17. A is the correct answer. Because there
was self-identification and a phone
book, the voice would be considered
properly identified. B is incorrect be-
cause the accuracy of a telephone book
is not an easily verifiable fact. C is in-
correct because Farmer does not have
to be familiar with Rancher's voice for
authentication. D is an incorrect state-
ment of law.

EVIDENCE

355

18. C is the correct answer. The general
rule is that in a civil case, evidence of
character to prove probable conduct is
inadmissible. A is incorrect because of
the reasoning stated in correct answer
C. B is incorrect because reputation
testimony is not "habit" evidence. Also,
being a "dare devil" rider is too general
to be classified as "habit". Habit is a
specific and unvarying response to a
specific situation. D is incorrect because
this answer states the rule for criminal
cases, not civil.

19. A is the correct answer. Porter's testi-
mony is relevant in two ways: first, it
is substantive evidence that tends to es-
tablish a consequential proposition, i.e.,
that David, in fact, ran the red light and,
second, it impeaches Witt's testimony
by contradicting him (i.e., by showing
that Witt's testimony — that David's car
did not run the red light — was false). B
is not correct because the mere fact that
Porter was surprised does not give him
the right to impeach. C and D are both
incorrect. Under F.R.E. 607, any wit-
ness may be impeached by any party.

20. B is the correct answer. The question as
to whether Valor was high 18 months
prior to the accident is collateral to the
issue of whether David ran the red light.
A witness may not be impeached on a
matter not directly relevant to the issues
in the case. A is incorrect because the
F.R.E. allow for the impeachment by
specific acts of conduct. C is incorrect
because Valor's use of marijuana is not
logically relevant to show that Valor has
an untruthful character. D is incorrect
because Sam's use of marijuana 18
months prior to the event to which he
testified in court is not logically relevant
to show an impaired memory of that
event.

21. D is the correct answer. Although the
statement is hearsay, F.R.E. 803(2)
allows a statement relating to a star-
tling event or condition made while
the declarant was under the stress of
excitement caused by the event or
condition. This is known as the excited
utterance exception. A is incorrect be-
cause although the statement preceded
the accident, it was still made relating
to a startling event, allowing for the
F.R.E. exception. B is incorrect because
unavailability is not a requirement. C is
incorrect because although it is hearsay,
it falls within an exception. 

356 EVIDENCE

22. B is the correct answer. Here, Driver's
failure to deny Polly's statement may
constitute an admission by silence. A
is an incorrect statement of law. C is
incorrect because no facts support it.
D is incorrect because no foundation
is required for an admission.

23. C is the correct answer. Although the
statement is hearsay, it is admissible
under the F.R.E., which allow for the
statement of the declarant describing
his own physical sensation or condition.
A is incorrect because self-serving evi-
dence may be admissible. B is incorrect
because it falls within the F.R.E. 803(3)
exception for physical condition. D is
incorrect because only an expert could
testify to whether the hip was fractured
or not.

24. A is the correct answer. Settlement of-
fers, although they may be relevant, are
inadmissible. This policy is to encour-
age settlement negotiations. B, C and
D are incorrect for the reasons stated
in answer A.

25. B is the correct answer. Under the doc-
trine of present recollection refreshed, a
witness may be shown anything which
may reasonably refresh the recollection.
A is incorrect because past recollection
recorded introduces the contents of a
writing into evidence and requires the
laying of a foundation. C is incorrect
because the time lapse factor here is
not enough to prevent use of the letter.
D is incorrect because evidence may
not be excluded merely because it is
self-serving.

26. B is the correct answer. Whenever a
party's character is at issue under the
pleading, character evidence is fully
admissible. In this case, character is
an ultimate fact in dispute, and it must
be proved by competent evidence. Al-
though A is legally correct, it is not the
best answer because the more relevant
inquiry is whether evidence of character
is available in the case-in-chief. C is
incorrect because the statement is not
hearsay. Officer Smith is testifying di-
rectly. D is incorrect because character
is directly at issue in a defamation case,
i.e., such is highly probative. 

EVIDENCE 357

27. C is the correct answer. A communica-
tion made during marriage is privileged,
even after the marriage has ended.
Either spouse may assert the privilege,
to bar the other from testifying. A is
incorrect for the same reasons that C
is correct. B is incorrect because the
marital privilege may be asserted in
both civil and criminal proceedings. D
is incorrect because "spite" has noth-
ing to do with whether Felicia will be
allowed to testify or not.

28. D is the correct answer. A is incorrect
because the color of the jacket is not of
consequence to the action. B is incor-
rect because Wally's testimony is not
relevant to show Wally's untruthful
character. Wally's is relevant to contra-
dict Wally on the color of Shove's jacket
which tends to undermine Wally's cred-
ibility as a witness by casting doubt
on how attentive he was in observing
the event in question. However, the
color of Shove's jacket is a collateral
matter because its only relevance is to
contradict Wally. Extrinsic evidence is
inadmissible to impeach a witness on a
collateral matter. C is incorrect because
Walt's capacity to observe is a relevant
issue.

358 EVIDENCE

29. D is the correct answer. An admission
is an out-of-court statement made by a
party which is offered at trial against
that party by the opposing party. A
is incorrect because an admission is
not inadmissible hearsay, under the
F.R.E. B is incorrect as no foundation
is required. C is incorrect because an
admission is admissible whether or not
it discredits prior testimony.

30. A is the correct answer. The accused in
a criminal case may always offer evi-
dence of her good character to show that
she was unlikely to commit the crime
charged. B is an incorrect statement of
law. C is incorrect because Hilda does
not have to take the stand for Lionel's
testimony to be admissible. D is incor-
rect for the reasons A is the correct
answer.

31. A is the correct answer. The doctor-pa-
tient privilege protects any communica-
tion that was intended to be confidential
and was made for the purpose of medi-
cal diagnosis and treatment. This privi-
lege protects any information obtained
by verbal statements, examination,
and any diagnosis and treatment. The
patient is the holder of the privilege, but
if the patient is not present at trial, the
Doctor is ethically obligated to assert
the privilege on the patient's behalf.
The facts state that Dr. Perry was called
in to testify as a defense witness in the
case Jones v. Smith, and since Loll is
not present, Dr. Perry must assert the
privilege. B, C and D are incorrect for
the reasons stated in answer A.

32. C is the correct answer. As a general
rule, expert testimony is usually im-
proper when the jurors are competent
to draw their own conclusions on the
issue. Negligence for failing to file
within the statute of limitations in this
example is a conclusion which jurors
are competent to draw from the facts
presented at trial. A and B are incorrect
for the reason stated in correct answer
C. D is an incorrect statement of law
because the judge is not allowed, in
a jury case, to resolve the issue of the
existence of negligence in the action
before her.

33. A is the correct answer. Client must
prove that "but for" the lawyers' neg-
ligence she would have recovered. B,
C and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer A.

34. D is the best answer. Since the facts
state that the hallway had been waxed
approximately one hour before the ac-
cident, there was no substantial identity
of material circumstances between the
freshly waxed condition of the floor,
and the floor which was used by 11,000
other people without incident over the
prior one-week period. A and B are
incorrect for the reasons stated in the
correct answer D. C is incorrect be-
cause evidence of the absence of prior
accidents to show the nonexistence of
a dangerous condition or causation is
subject to the "substantial similarity"
requirement. Under the stated facts,
the hallway floor had just been waxed
an hour before Paul walked on it. Willy
did not lay a foundation showing that
the floor was in substantially similar
condition (i.e., excessively waxed) the
previous week when the 11,000 people
walked on it. Because the substantial
similarity requirement was not met, D
is the best answer.

35. A is the correct answer. There is no rule
which disqualifies a person with mental
illness or defect from testifying. The
test of competency is not insanity, but
only whether a witness can appreci-
ate the obligation to tell the truth and
have sufficient ability to perceive and
communicate perceptions. B, C and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A.

EVIDENCE 359

40. A is the correct answer. In a criminal
case the court shall instruct the jury
that it may, but is not required to, ac-
cept as conclusive any fact judicially
noticed. By the judge taking judicial
notice, such merely allowed the jury to
accept the fact as true, or not, that Birdie
drove across state lines (an element in
the crime charged). B is an incorrect
statement of law. C is incorrect for the
reasons stated in correct answer A. D
is incorrect because this is a criminal
case.

41. D is the correct answer because Abel's
committing the hoax on the church is a
specific act of misconduct which may
not be proven by extrinsic evidence.
Therefore, his purported testimony is
inadmissible pursuant to F.R.E. 608. A,
B, and C are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer D.

42. B is the correct answer. If a witness'
testimony concerning a crime could
lead to a criminal conviction, the privi-
lege against self-incrimination can be
claimed. However, in a criminal case,
after direct examination of a witness,
the direct testimony can be stricken
if the witness invokes the privilege so
that a defendant is not denied his con-
stitutional right to confrontation. A is
incorrect because there need not be a
charge pending, in order to invoke the
privilege. C and D are incorrect for the
identical reasons stated in answer B.

36. D is the correct answer. F.R.E. 408 pro-
vides that any evidence that one of the
parties offered to settle or compromise
the claim against another is inadmis-
sible to show liability. A, B and C are
incorrect for the reasons stated in the
answer D.

37. C is the correct answer. The placing
of a speed governor on the truck is a
subsequent remedial repair. F.R.E. 407
prohibits evidence of subsequent repairs
to prove negligence, culpable conduct,
or product defect because public policy
favors making such repairs. A, B and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer C.

38. A is the correct answer. A statement
made by a party's agent or employee
concerning a matter within the scope
of his agency or employment may be
offered against the party. Under the
F.R.E., no authority to speak is required.
C is incorrect because an admission
does not require proof of unavailability
to be admissible. B and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer A.

39. A is the correct answer. Jamie's state-
ment to Officer is a party admission.
Under the F.R.E., an admission is ex-
empted from the hearsay rule. B, C and
D are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A.

360 EVIDENCE

43. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
609, evidence of being convicted of a
crime shall be admitted, if the crime was
punishable by death or imprisonment
in excess of one year, if the accused is
the witness, and if its probative value
outweighs the prejudicial effect to the
defendant. B is an incorrect statement of
law. C is incorrect because the question
deals with impeachment. D is incorrect
because F.R.E. 609 provides notice
must be given for crimes more than ten
years old. Here, the crime took place
exactly ten years ago; thus, requiring
no notice.

44. B is the correct answer. The affidavit
is being offered in evidence to prove
Jack's incompetency (i.e., offered for
the truth), and is an out-of-court state-
ment by the declarant, Henry. The af-
fidavit is inadmissible hearsay, unless
there is an exception. Based upon the
facts, there is no exception that will ap-
ply. A is incorrect because lay opinion
as to common perceptions is permitted.
C and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer B.

45. D is the correct answer because a
criminal defendant, after being read his
Miranda rights, has a right to remain
silent. Although an adoptive admission
by silence can generally be used against
a party who manifested his adoption or
belief in its truth by conduct or silence,
here it cannot, since Neal is exercising a
constitutional right. A, B and C are in-
correct for the reasons stated in answer
D.

46. A is the correct answer because Loaden
received the invoice from the shipping
clerk as part of his regular-conducted
business responsibilities. His testimony
merely authenticated the invoice and is
sufficient to lay a foundation in order
to allow the shipping invoice into evi-
dence. B is incorrect because Loaden
had no personal knowledge of the
merchandise listed upon the invoice.
C is incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A. D is incorrect because the
invoice qualifies as a business record,
an exception to the hearsay rule.

47. C is the correct answer. Hearsay is an
out-of-court statement offered to prove
the truth of the matter asserted. Here,
the statement is offered to prove that
Ginger hit James. A is incorrect because
a present sense impression is a state-
ment describing or explaining an event
or condition made at the time of the
event or immediately thereafter. A ten-
minute time lapse between the accident
and the statement made, allows time for
fabrication. Thus, the statement is not
trustworthy and does not qualify as a
present sense impression. B is incorrect
for the reason stated in answer C. D is
an incorrect statement of law. 

EVIDENCE 361

49. D is the best answer by a process of
elimination. There is no applicable
rule that renders Raymond's testimony
inadmissible. "Absence of complaint"
to prove that a condition did not exist
is not hearsay. A is incorrect because
there are no facts to indicate Raymond's
statement is reliable. Raymond, as a
plaintiff-witness, is biased. Further-
more, A is not based on any applicable
legal principle. B is incorrect because
Raymond did not testify to his opinion,
but simply that, as a matter of fact, he
never complained of knee pain before
his fall. C is incorrect for the same rea-
son that B is incorrect. 

48. A is the best answer. Pursuant to F.R.E.
803(3) (and California Evidence Code
1250), a person's statement concerning
his then-existing physical condition is
admissible when the declarant's physi-
cal condition at a specified time is at
issue and the statement relates to the
time his condition is at issue. Although
Raymond is claiming permanent in-
juries resulting from the incident, he
was observed swimming in the hotel
pool later in the same day. Because
these facts raise an issue of whether
Raymond suffered injuries as a result
of the incident, his statement of physi-
cal complaint to Jean Paul immediately
after his fall is admissible as evidence
that he was, in fact, injured. B is incor-
rect because it does not provide a suf-
ficient basis for admitting Raymond's
statement. C is incorrect because there
is no requirement that the declarant's
statement be made to a treating doctor.
D is incorrect because Raymond, as a
lay person, is permitted to describe his
own condition concerning knee pain.

362 EVIDENCE

51. B is the best answer. F.R.E. 409 provides
that evidence of furnishing, offering or
promising to pay medical, hospital or
similar expenses for an injury is not ad-
missible to prove liability for the injury.
However, an admission is admissible
when made in connection with an offer
or promise to pay medical or hospital
expenses, although the offer or promise
is inadmissible. A, C and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer B. 

50. B is the correct answer. Although
Raymond's statement to Dr. Cure is
hearsay, if offered to prove the truth
of Raymond's assertion, i.e., that he
suffered knee pain after helping a col-
lege buddy move, the statement is ad-
missible hearsay under F.R.E. 803(4).
Under this rule, a statement made for
the purpose of medical diagnosis or
treatment and describing medical his-
tory, or past or present symptoms, pain
or sensations, or the inception or gen-
eral character of the cause or external
source thereof insofar as reasonably
pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, is
admissible. A is incorrect because it
does not address the hearsay issue. C is
incorrect because Raymond's statement
to his physician is not covered by the
physician-patient privilege. The physi-
cian-patient privilege, under California
Evidence Code 994, grants a privilege
to a patient to refuse to disclose, and to
prevent his physician from disclosing,
any confidential information obtained
by his physician while attending the
patient. However, under the "patient-
litigant exception," the privilege cannot
be claimed in a personal injury lawsuit
where the patient relies on a physical
condition as an element of his claim
or defense. D is incorrect because B is
correct.

EVIDENCE 363

52. C is the best answer. Stan only testi-
fied to part of Don's statement to Paul,
leaving out the remainder of the state-
ment pertaining to the accident which
diminishes the force of Don's apparent
admission of fault. On cross-examina-
tion, Don's attorney seeks to elicit from
Stan the remainder of Don's statement
pertaining to the cause of the accident,
in order to give the trier of fact a more
accurate understanding of what Don
said to Paul about the cause of the ac-
cident. A judge might rule that Paul has
"opened the door" to the remainder of
Don's statement to Paul. A is incorrect
because it assumes facts not contained
in the fact pattern (i.e., that there was
a police report) and, furthermore, the
best evidence rule is inapplicable here
because Stan's testimony is not being
offered to prove the contents of a writ-
ing (Stan testified to what he overheard
Don say to Paul). B is incorrect because
Don's attorney is not offering Don's of-
fer to pay Paul's medical bills in order
to prove Don's fault. Under F.R.E. 409,
evidence of offering to pay medical ex-
penses is inadmissible only when used
to prove liability for the injury. D is
not the best answer because it states an
incorrect legal principle. By process of
elimination, C is the best answer.

53. C is the best answer. Under F.R.E.
803(1), a declarant's statement describ-
ing or explaining an event or condition
made while the declarant was perceiving
the event or condition, or immediately
thereafter, is an exception to the hear-
say rule. Marie's statement concerning
Larry's failure to stop for the red light
described the incident. Because Marie
was conscious for only a few moments
after the accident, her statement was
necessarily made immediately after the
accident occurred. Therefore, Marie's
statement is a present sense impression.
A, B and D are incorrect for the reasons
explaining answer C.

54. B is the best answer. Deputy Fife is
merely testifying in regard to his ob-
servations of Pete's appearance when
he was arrested. Fife's testimony was
not admissible as a prior identification
because admissibility on such grounds
requires the witness to make a statement
of identification prior to trial which did
not occur in these facts. A, C and D are
incorrect for the reasons stated in the
answer B.

364 EVIDENCE

55. C is the correct answer. The attorney-
client privilege protects those com-
munications which the client either
expressly made confidential or would
reasonably be assumed, under the
circumstances, to be confidential. In
the case where a lawyer has a clerk or
secretary present, the privilege is still in
effect, even if the client does not retain
that attorney. A and B are incorrect for
the reasons stated in answer C. D is an
incorrect statement.

56. A is the correct answer. Under the F.R.E.
and California Evidence rules, a prior
inconsistent statement in a deposition
may be used as substantive evidence.
Comment to F.R.E. 613(b) says that,
although foundation must be laid for
extrinsic proof of a prior inconsistent
statement, the witness does not have to
be shown the prior inconsistent state-
ment before introducing the intrinsic
evidence, as long as the witness, at
some time during trial, has the op-
portunity to explain. B is incorrect
because unavailability to testify is not
a requirement under the rule stated in
A. C is incorrect for the reasons stated
for A. D is incorrect because intentional
untruthfulness is not a requirement for
admissibility of deposition testimony
under the rule stated in A.

57. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
405, character or trait of character of a
person, if an essential element of a claim
or essential to the case of the defense,
may be proven by specific instances of
conduct. Bud sued Troy for negligently
allowing Don to use his car ("negligent
entrustment").Don's propensity to drive
carelessly is an element of the cause
of action for negligent entrustment. A,
B and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer C.

58. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
405(a), "in all cases in which evidence
of character is admissible (including
where character is an element of a claim
or defense), proof may be made by tes-
timony as to reputation or by testimony
in the form of an opinion." A is incor-
rect because habit refers to a routine,
activity, or response frequently repeated
over a protracted period of time. B is
incorrect because reputation evidence
of character, although hearsay to prove
the character trait, is admissible under
F.R.E. 803(21) which creates a hearsay
exception for reputation as to character.
D is incorrect because Don's reputa-
tion as a careful driver is not relevant
to prove bias. 

EVIDENCE 365

59. C is the best answer. The statement is
not hearsay because it is being used to
circumstantially show Sally's knowl-
edge that Brian was in fact still alive
when he was shot. A and B are incorrect
because the statement was not hearsay
- it was not being used to prove whether
Brian "was going to die." D is incorrect
because firsthand knowledge is not the
test as to whether a particular statement
is hearsay or not.

60. A is the best answer. The Best Evidence
Rule requires the painting, which can be
easily produced, to be introduced into
evidence to show whether the scene
portrayed is libelous or not, a key is-
sue in the case. B is incorrect because
Witness testified that she observed Ben
hanging the painting she described. C
is incorrect because there are no facts
indicating that Witness is competent to
testify whether or not it was Marie's
signature on the painting. D is incorrect
for the reasons stated for answer A.

61. B is the correct answer because the tes-
timony of Paul proves the earnings of
the partnership in which he has personal
knowledge, and is relevant. A is incor-
rect because it is immaterial whether
the books can be inspected to decide
whether Paul's testimony is permissible
or not. C is incorrect because Paul is tes-
tifying to facts in which he has personal
knowledge, not to the contents of the
books. D is incorrect because Paul is not
testifying to the contents of a writing.

366 EVIDENCE

62. A is the correct answer. Where facts
are attempted to be shown through
written records, the best evidence rule
generally applies because the contents
of the writing are then being proved.
However, a qualified expert may testify
as to summaries of complex records,
even though the records themselves are
not introduced. The only requirement
attached to the admissibility of Alvin's
testimony, is that the original books be
available for inspection by the adver-
sary. Here, the books are available for
inspection. B, C and D are incorrect for
the reasons stated in answer A.

63. D is the correct answer. F.R.E. 704(a)
abolished the "ultimate issue" objection
that once prevented lay and expert wit-
nesses from giving testimony phrased
in terms of the ultimate facts that the
jury must determine. Modernly, opinion
testimony is admissible if it would be
helpful to the jury. See F.R.E. 701 (lay
opinion) and 702 (expert opinion).With
respect to this question, while lay or
expert opinion as to the legal conclu-
sion that the decedent had the " capacity
to make a will" is improper, because
unhelpful, lay and expert opinion as
to the factual basis of such capacity is
admissible as an aid to the jury because
it would assist the jury in determin-
ing the legal issue of the decedent's
"testamentary capacity." An expert is
expected to bring to bear principles of
his or her specialty when testifying as
to an ultimate issue of fact. A, B and C
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.  

64. C is the correct answer. F.R.E. 407
permits admissibility of evidence of
subsequent remedial measures when
offered to prove ownership and control.
A, B and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer C.

65. A is the correct answer. In a criminal
case, self-interest may be shown when
the witness testifies for the state and
it is shown that a criminal indictment
has been forgiven or lessened for her
testimony. B, C and D are incorrect for
the reasons stated in answer A.

66. C is the correct answer. This question
is testing the student's understanding
of impeachment. F.R.E. 608(b) permits
cross-examination into specific in-
stances of misconduct, which have not
resulted in a criminal conviction, if such
misconduct is pertinent to truthfulness
or veracity. However, this rule prohibits
the use of extrinsic evidence to establish
a prior bad act. Defense counsel cannot
use Tom's testimony for 2 reasons: (1)
because it is extrinsic evidence and (2)
because Tom's testimony regarding the
purchase of marijuana is not pertinent
of truthfulness or veracity. A and B
are incorrect for the reasons stated for
answer C. D is an incorrect statement
of law regarding competency to testify
by a lay person.

67. D is the correct answer. A lay witness
may testify in the form of opinions
and inferences, which are rationally
based on the perception of the witness
and helpful to a clear understanding of
either his testimony or a fact in issue.
A, B and C are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer D.

68. D is the correct answer. A confidential
communication between an attorney
and his client pertaining to their rela-
tionship is privileged from disclosure.
Any communications made in the
course of preliminary discussions with a
view of employing the lawyer are privi-
leged, even though the employment is
not accepted. The presence of Stan's
father did not remove the element of
"confidentiality." Since Stan is 6 years
old, his father's presence was necessary
for the attorney to render legal service
to Stan. Thus, the presence of A, B and
C are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.

69. D is the correct answer. The best evi-
dence rule provides, where a writing
contains terms which are material, the
original writing must be produced,
unless reasons are shown as to why
it is unavailable or unless the writing
pertains to a collateral matter. Here, the
reference to the newspaper is collateral
to the issue of the finalization date. A,
B and C are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer D.

EVIDENCE

367

70. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
609 evidence of a public record of a
criminal conviction involving dishon-
esty or false statement is admissible for
the purpose of attacking the credibility
of a witness. B is incorrect because the
reference to the newspaper story is not
being offered to prove that there was, in
fact, an earthquake in L.A., but merely
to fix the date, in Cam's mind, on which
the Zit Zap Gun was finalized. C and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A.

71. A is the correct answer. F.R.E. 412
permits evidence of specific instances
of past sexual behavior of the victim
with the accused regarding the issue
of the victim's consent. B is incorrect
because it is an incorrect statement of
law. C is incorrect because F.R.E. 412
will permit this type of testimony as
circumstantial evidence that defendant
was on intimate sexual terms with the
victim. D is incorrect because A is the
correct answer.

368 EVIDENCE

72. D is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
609, evidence that an accused was
convicted of a crime can be used to at-
tack the credibility of the accused who
testifies as a witness, if the crime was
punishable by death or imprisonment
in excess of one year and the probative
value of the conviction outweighs its
prejudicial effect, or the crime involves
"dishonesty or false statement" (wheth-
er a felony or a misdemeanor). A crimi-
nal conviction over 10 years old may be
admitted within the court's discretion,
if it is found that the probative value
substantially outweighs the prejudicial
effect, and the adverse party was given
written notice that the conviction was
to be used. Since no written notice was
given to the defense before trial, even if
the court finds that the probative value
substantially outweighs the prejudicial
effect, the objection must be sustained.
A, B, and C are incorrect for the reasons
stated for answer D.

73. D is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
408, evidence that one party offered to
settle or compromise the claim against
another is inadmissible to show liabil-
ity, unless it is offered to prove bias, or
prejudice, or to negate the contentions
of undue delay, or to obstruct a criminal
conviction. Here, the settlement offer
had an admission within it, but any
statements made by the parties when
trying to settle are inadmissible. Note
that the F.R.E. do not permit sever-
ance of admissions of liability from
compromise discussions. A, B and C
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.  

74. A is the correct answer. A confidential
communication between an attorney
and her client pertaining to their rela-
tionship is privileged from disclosure.
Bonnie's communication to Steve,
while made with a view of employing
Steve, is privileged, even though the
employment is not accepted. B, C and
D are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A.

75. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
407, evidence of subsequent repairs or
other precautionary measures made fol-
lowing an accident are inadmissible to
prove negligence or culpable conduct.
However, such measures are admis-
sible to show ownership, control, or
feasibility of precautionary measures,
if controverted, and are also admissible
for purposes of impeachment. Since
Mr. Roper denied responsibility, but
went ahead and hired Larry to remove
the tree, the evidence is admissible to
show his control in making the repairs.
B, C and D are incorrect for the reason
stated in answer A.

76. A is the correct answer. Pursuant to
F.R.E. 409, evidence of furnishing,
offering or promising to pay medical,
hospital, or similar expenses occasioned
by an injury is not admissible to prove
liability for the injury. Funeral expenses
are considered to be "similar expenses"
by the court, under this rule. B, C and
D are incorrect for the reason stated in
answer A.

77. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
704, testimony in the form of an expert
opinion is not objectionable because it
embraces the ultimate issue or issues to
be decided by the trier of fact. However,
pursuant to F.R.E. 704(b), an expert
who testifies in regard to a criminal
defendant's mental state or condition
may not testify as to whether the defen-
dant did or did not have the mental state
or condition constituting an element
of the crime charged or of a defense
thereto. Thus, the jury is permitted to
draw its own conclusions on the issue.
A is incorrect even if an expert is prop-
erly qualified to testify on matters of
mental state or condition. B is incorrect
because the evidence is improper, even
if it were uncontroverted. D is incorrect
because C is the better answer, and there
is no evidence of bias presented in the
facts.

EVIDENCE

369

78. A is the best answer if the evidence of
prior forgetfulness is offered to show
that Yvette tends to be forgetful. The
testimony of Stephanie is specific in-
stance evidence of Yvette's propensity
to be forgetful to prove that Yvette was
forgetful on the specific occasion in
question (i.e., that she forgot she had
placed the blouse on the outside of her
stroller). While it is true that evidence
showing Yvette forgot that she put the
blouse on the outside of the stroller
tends to show that Yvette was mentally
incapable of forming an intent to steal
the blouse, the evidence does so by
showing that Yvette acted forgetfully
(walking out of the store without her
baby) on a prior occasion. B is incorrect
because Stephanie is not testifying as
to her opinion, but instead is testifying
concerning facts of a prior circum-
stance. Although C may be factually
correct, it is not the best answer. D is
the second best answer because it could
be argued that Yvette lacked the mental
capacity to form the requisite intent to
steal the blouse (forgetting she had it
when she left the store) because she had
the same mental state leaving the same
store on a prior occasion (forgetting her
baby). This reasoning is weak because,
when offered to prove intent or lack
of intent, the prior acts generally must
involve similar conduct committed
under similar circumstances. Leaving a
store with a blouse, without paying for
it, and leaving the same store without
one's baby, six months previously, are
arguably very different circumstances.

370 EVIDENCE

79. D is the correct answer. This question is
intended to further clarify the answer to
Question 78. In contrast to Question 78,
the incident of forgetfulness in Question
79 occurred only two hours before the
incident at Nordstrom's (where Yvette
was charged with shoplifting) and is
more closely related to the incident at
Nordstrom's, involving store merchan-
dise. Yvette's act of leaving behind a
diamond ring for which she had, in fact,
paid, tends to support her story that she
similarly forgot that she had placed the
blouse on the baby carriage as she left
Nordstrom's.

80. C is the correct answer. F.R.E. 702
provides that a witness qualified as an
expert by knowledge, skill, experience
or training may testify on matters of
scientific, technical or other specialized
knowledge thereto, in the form of an
opinion, if it will assist the trier of fact to
understand the evidence or to determine
a fact in issue. Here, Burt's testimony
will assist the trier of fact to determine
whether or not Yvette intended to take
the blouse without paying for it. A and
B are incorrect for the reasons stated
for answer C. D is incorrect because it
is an incorrect statement of law.

81. B is the correct answer. F.R.E. 404(a)
requires that evidence of a character
trait must be relevant to the issue being
tried. Here, non-violence is irrelevant
to the issue of innocence of the crime
of selling narcotics. A, C and D are in-
correct for the reasons stated in answer
B.  

82. A is the correct answer. Where a doctor
examines a party to enable the client to
communicate his or her condition to the
attorney, the attorney-client privilege
applies. Note that where an attorney
employs a physician to examine the
client, the physician's report may not
be privileged under the physician-pa-
tient privilege because no treatment is
contemplated. Therefore, Dr. Cathy's
opinions, which are based on com-
munications from Mark, are protected
from disclosure, because the doctor
was an agent of Mark's lawyer when
the doctor examined Mark. B, C and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer A.

83. C is the correct answer. F.R.E. 404(b)
provides that character evidence, to
prove that the accused is a bad person or
had the propensity to commit the crime
for which he is charged, is inadmis-
sible. A is incorrect because there are
not enough facts in the hypothetical to
evidence a plan. B and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer C.

84. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
404, evidence of a party's character is
generally inadmissible in civil cases,
unless it is an element of a claim, charge
or defense. Evidence of a person's
character or a trait of character is not
admissible for the purpose of proving
that he acted in conformity therewith,
on a particular occasion. A, B and D are
incorrect for the reason stated in answer
C.

85. B is the correct answer. F.R.E. 803(1)
provides an exception to the hearsay
rule, where a statement describing or
explaining an event or condition is
made while the declarant is perceiving
an event or condition, or immediately
thereafter. Here, Lucy's statement is
admissible because she made it while
observing Fred's driving manner and
her statement describes Fred's driving
manner. A is an incorrect statement.
C and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer B.

86. B is the best answer. Pursuant to F.R.E.
803(1), a statement made while perceiv-
ing an event or condition, or immedi-
ately thereafter, and which describes
or explains that event or condition, is
admissible. However, the comment to
F.R.E. 803(1) states that a "slight" time
lapse is permissible. Although Maybel
made the statement a brief period of
time after the incident, her dialing for
the ambulance followed by walking
across the street suggests more than
just a "slight" period of time, and may
indicate deliberate thought. A, C, and
D are incorrect for the reasons stated
in answer B.

EVIDENCE

371

89. B is the correct answer. Under the
F.R.E., an out-of-court statement made
by a party and offered at trial  against
that party is an admission by a party-
opponent which is exempt from the
hearsay rule. Thus, it is not-hearsay. A is
incorrect because Betty is not unavail-
able to testify. C and D are incorrect for
the reasons stated in answer B.

90. A is the correct answer. Statements of
commands and questions have no as-
sertive content; therefore, they cannot
be hearsay. B, C and D are incorrect for
the reason stated for answer A.

91. D is the correct answer. Any statement
made by a machine or animal is not
hearsay. The rationale is that state-
ments from machines and animals are
trustworthy. A, B and C are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer D.

92. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
801, hearsay is an out-of-court state-
ment offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted. Here, the bill of sale
is being introduced to prove the truth
of Jim's representation that the car is a
Rolls Royce. Thus, it is hearsay and is
inadmissible. A, B and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer C. 

87. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
401, evidence having any tendency to
make the existence of any fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the
action more probable or less probable
is generally admissible. Relevant evi-
dence is admissible, unless its probative
value is substantially outweighed by the
danger of unfair prejudice. Under these
facts, the video tape is relevant to show
Tina's intoxication, and although the
tape is prejudicial, its probative value
substantially outweighs its prejudice
to Tina. Thus, it is admissible. B is in-
correct because the F.R.E. follows the
Wigmore theory, which views Tina's
non-assertive conduct as non-hearsay.
C and D are incorrect for the reasons
stated in answer A.

88. C is the correct answer. Extrinsic
evidence is inadmissible to impeach a
witness on a collateral matter. Wilma's
testimony of what Betty was wearing on
the day of the incident is extrinsic evi-
dence of a collateral matter because its
sole relevance is to contradict Wilma's
testimony regarding Betty's dress. Wil-
ma's testimony does not tend to prove
or disprove what caused the accident
nor is it relevant to impeach Wilma by
an impeachment method which allows
extrinsic evidence (e.g., to show the
witness' impaired capacity to perceive
or remember). A, B and D are incorrect
for the reasons answer C is correct.

372 EVIDENCE

93. C is the correct answer. Under FRE 608
(b) "specific instances of the conduct
of a witness, for the purpose of attack-
ing or supporting his credibility, other
than conviction of a crime as provided
in rule 609, may not be proved by ex-
trinsic evidence. They may, however, in
of truthfulness or untruthfulness,  be
inquired into on cross-examination of
the witness (1) concerning his character
for truthfulness or untruthfulness, or (2)
concerning the character for truthful-
ness or untruthfulness of another wit-
ness as to which character the witness
being cross-examined has testified."
The court, therefore, has the discretion
to permit the question to be answered
to impeach Ali By because the question
inquires into Ali's character for truthful-
ness or untruthfulness. A, B and D are
therefore incorrect.

94. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
801, an out-of-court statement offered
to prove the truth of the matter asserted
is hearsay and is not allowed in court,
unless there is an exception. Under
these facts, there is no exception to
allow the disciplinary reports in. B is
incorrect because, in federal court, spe-
cific instance evidence of character is
inadmissible under the "victim's excep-
tion" (i.e., to prove Ponch's propensity
to use excessive force to show that
Ponch used excessive force against the
defendant, John). C is incorrect because
a written complaint by a citizen is not a
business record. D is incorrect for the
reasons stated above.

95. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
405(b), where character or a trait of
character of a person is an essential
element of a claim, charge, or defense,
proof may be made by reputation, opin-
ion, or specific instances of conduct. In
a wrongful death action, the surviving
I lie survivor is enuueu to prove 111(11 LUG
decedent had a character trait for being
loving and affectionate to demonstrate
the extent of the loss of companionship.
Therefore, the decedent's character trait
becomes a disputed issue. Shirley is
entitled to rebut Laverne's testimony
by evidence that Squiggy was separated
from Laverne for over a two-year pe-
riod, since the decedent's character is
in issue. A and B are incorrect for the
reasons stated in answer C. D is incor-
rect because C is the better answer.

96. A is the correct answer. In a criminal
case in which the defendant is accused
of sexual assault, evidence of a prior
rape is admissible for any relevant pur-
pose. (Also, a prior rape by defendant
in a rape case does fit within the 1994
Violent Crime Control Act.) B is incor-
rect because it is an incorrect statement
of law. C is incorrect because, as stated
above, evidence of a prior rape by de-
fendant is not character evidence. D is
incorrect because it is not prejudicial. 

EVIDENCE 373

97. D is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
1002, the original writing must be of-
fered into evidence, to prove the con-
tents of that writing. Here, Alex seeks
to prove the terms of the contract that
were not complied with. Alex must
produce the contract, since the terms
of the contract are in dispute. A, B and
C are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.

98. B is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
608(a), evidence offered to support the
truthfulness of a witness is inadmissi-
ble, until evidence has been admitted to
attack the witness' credibility. Here, the
prosecution seeks to support A's cred-
ibility as a witness by B's testimony,
before X has offered any evidence to
impeach A. A, C and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer B.

99. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
801, hearsay evidence is an out-of-court
statement offered to prove the truth of
the matter asserted. Here, William's
testimony is being offered to prove the
matter asserted (i.e., that Jon committed
the robbery). A, B and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer C.

100. A is the best answer. F.R.E. 901(b)(4)
suggests that the contents of the letter
(which Abel testifies was mailed to
him 2 weeks after the accident) satis-
fies the requirement of authentication.
This means that the letter will be ad-
mitted so that the jury can determine
whether, based upon the contents, they
believe the letter was written by Cain.
The contents of the letter is probably
sufficient circumstantial evidence to
let this issue of conditional relevance
go to the jury. B, C and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated for answer A.

101. A is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
801(d)(2), an admission by a party-
opponent is a statement which is
not-hearsay. B is incorrect because it
is an incorrect statement of law. C is
incorrect because, under the F.R.E., a
party admission is not-hearsay, rather
than an exception to the hearsay rule.
D is incorrect for the same reasons that
A is correct.

102. A is the best answer. Under F.R.E.
803(3), a declaration of a then-exist-
ing physical condition is an exception
to the hearsay rule. The declaration
made by Paul, indicating his present
existing bodily condition, is therefore
admissible as an exception. B, C and
D are incorrect for the same reasons
stated in answer A. 

374 EVIDENCE

103. C is the correct answer. Pursuant to
F.R.E. 404(a), character evidence is in-
admissible by the prosecution to prove
conduct by defendant in conformity
therewith on a particular occasion,
unless one of the exceptions applies
(e.g., defendant "opens the door" un-
der the defendant's exception - F.R.E.
404 (a)(1)). A and B are incorrect for
the reasons stated for answer C. D is
incorrect because even if character
evidence in the form of reputation or
opinion were offered, it is not the type
of evidence that makes the evidence
inadmissible, but that defendant has
not "opened the door" by offering
evidence of his good character.

104. D is the correct answer. Pursuant to
F.R.E. 409, evidence of offering or
promising to pay medical expenses
occasioned by an injury is not admis-
sible to prove liability. A, B and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer D.

105. C is the correct answer. Under Tram-
mel v. U.S., 445 U.S. 40 (1980), the
witness-spouse may choose whether or
not to testify against the other spouse,
whether or not the other spouse con-
sents. Thus, Teena may properly refuse
to testify against Mike at his battery
trial. A, B and C are incorrect for the
reasons stated in answer C.

106. A is the correct answer. The marital
communication privilege excludes
evidence of confidential communica-
tions made between spouses while
they were married from admissibility
at trial. Since both Mike and Teena are
holders of the privilege, even if Teena
wanted to testify, Mike can prevent
her from disclosing the confidential
statement. If the statement was made
during marriage, a subsequent annul-
ment or dissolution does not terminate
the privilege. B, C and D are incorrect
for the reasons stated in answer A.

107. B is the correct answer. Although Mo-
riarty is not an attorney, the evidence
is inadmissible where the client has
a reasonable belief that he is seeking
advice from an attorney at the time of
his communication. A, C and D are in-
correct for the reason stated in answer
B.

108. C is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
801, any out-of-court statement of-
fered to prove the truth of the matter
asserted is inadmissible hearsay, unless
the hearsay objection can be overcome.
A is incorrect because the report was
prepared for litigation, not to record
regular conduct of the business. Also,
the source of the information, Eddie,
indicates a "lack of trustworthiness,"
since Eddie could potentially be sued,
and therefore has an interest in being
self-serving and making the report
favorable to the Railroad. A, B and
D are incorrect for the same reasons
stated in answer C.

EVIDENCE 375

109. C is the correct answer. Under Shepard
v. U.S., 290 U.S. 96 (1933), an out-
of-court statement asserting the past
conduct of another person is not
admissible because it is hearsay, and
does not fall under the state of mind
exception ("memory" or "belief' of
the declarant does not qualify as the
declarant's "state of mind"). A is in-
correct because the statement is not
a dying declaration. B is incorrect
because the statement is being used to
prove the past conduct of a third party,
not the declarant's state of mind. D is
an incorrect statement of law.

110. B is the correct answer. Under F.R.E.
406, evidence of a person's habit or
routine practice is relevant to prove
conduct in conformity therewith.
Mr. Clean's testimony is relevant to
rebut Bert's allegations that Vons was
negligent in permitting the candy to
be present on the floor. A, C and D
are incorrect for the reasons stated in
answer B.  

376 EVIDENCE

PROPERTY - QUESTION BREAKDOWN

1.

Future Interest

2. Assignment

19.	 License

20. Covenants - Running With The Land

3. Rule Against Perpetuities

21. Implied Reciprocal Negative

4. Grantor - Grantee Index

5.

Fee Simple Absolute

6. Adverse Possession

7. Delivery Of Deed

8. Defeasible - Removal Rights

9.

Statute Of Frauds

Easement

22. Breach Of Condition

23. Deeds

24. Rule Against Perpetuities

25. Tenancy In Common

26. Vested Remainder Subject To

Divestment

10. Covenants

27. Equitable Conversion

11. Covenants To Pay Money

28. Equitable Conversion

12. Life Tenant - Mortgage Principal

29. Deeds - Legal Description

13. Lease/Subsequent Conveyance

30. Deeds - Acreage Discrepancy

14. Retaliatory Eviction

31. Lateral And Subjacent Support

15. Tenancy By The Entirety

32. Contingent Remainders

16. Easement By Prescription

33. Express Easement

17.

Joint Tenancy

34. Negative Easements

18. Statute Of Frauds

35. Deeds - Grantor Retaining Possession 

PROPERTY 379

36. Deed - Grantors Intent

56. Covenants - Benefit Running With

37. Remainders - Duty Owed To Future

Interest

57. Covenants - Writing Requirement

The Land

38. Warranty Deed

58. Covenants - Privity

39. Tenancy By The Entirety

59. Subjacent Support

40. Recording Act - Race - Race Notice

60. Executory Interest

41. Recording Act - Bona Fide Purchase

61. Tenants In Common

42. Executory Interest

62. Tenants In Common - Co-Tenant

Rights

63. Rule Against Perpetuities

64. Vested Remainder Subject To Open

65. Adverse Possession

66. Rule In Dumpor's Case

67. Covenants

68. Privity Of Contract / Privity Of Estate

69. Adverse Possession

70. Covenant Of Seisin

71. Title Insurance

72. Warranty Deed

73. Quit Claim Deed - Warranties

74. Adverse Possession

43. Recording Act - Notice Statute

44. Recording Act - Chain Of Title

45. Recording Act - Donee

46. Recording Act - Race Statute

47. Assignment Of Lease

48. Rule Against Perpetuities

49. Fixtures

50. Ameliorative Waste

51. Ameliorative Waste

52. Rule Against Perpetuities

53. Executory Interest

54. Profits A Prendre

55. Covenants - Running With The Land 

380 PROPERTY

75. Adverse Possession - Statute of 	

95. Easements - By Implication

Limitations

76. Riparian Rights

Covenants

96. Running Of The Burden And Benefit

77. Statute Of Frauds

97. Covenants - Horizontal Privity

78. Dower Rights

79. Dower Rights

80. Statute Of Frauds - Exception

81. Reversion

82. Life Estate

83. Fee Estate - Fee Tail

84. Reversions

85. Riparian Rights

86. Zoning

87. Easements

88. Express Easements

89. License

90. Fee Simple Absolute

91. Possibility Of Reverter

92. Tenancy For Years

93. Landlord Duties

94. Easements

98. Equitable Servitudes - Specific

Enforcement

99. Equitable Servitudes

100. Tenancy At Sufferance

101. Mortgage/Deed Of Trust

102. Installment Contract

103. Mortgage Liability

104. Mortgage Transferability

105. Mortgage Liability

106. Mortgage - Assumption

107. Mortgage - Assumption

108. Mortgage - Foreclosure

109. Mortgage - Foreclosure

110. Mortgage - Foreclosure

111. Mortgage - Foreclosure

112. Mortgage - Lenders Interest

113. Mortgage - Proceed Distribution

PROPERTY 381

114. Mortgage — Recording Act

120. Mortgage — Recording Act

115. Mortgage — Recording Act

121. Mortgage — Transferability

116. Mortgage — Covenants

122. Mortgage — Joint Tenancy

117. Mortgage — Recording Act

123. Mortgage — Transferability

118. Mortgage — Priority Of Title

124. Mortgage — Interest Extinguished

119. Mortgage — Estoppel By Deed

125. Mortgage — Interest Extinguished

382 PROPERTY

PROPERTY QUESTIONS

1. Juan Antonio conveyed his house and
land to Carlos by a validly executed and
delivered warranty deed which stated:

"To have and to hold the above-

described tract of land in fee

simple absolute, subject to the

understanding that said grantee

shall construct and maintain a fa-

cility for the preservation of wild

horses on said property."

Carlos did, in fact, construct and main-
tain a facility for the preservation of
wild horses on the property which he
operated for ten years after the grant
from Juan Antonio. However, at the
end of ten years, Carlos converted the
property to a dude ranch. All parties
agree that a dude ranch is not a facility
for the preservation of wild horses.

Juan Antonio seeks a court declara-
tion that the change in the property's
use means that the land and house has
reverted to him. In this lawsuit, Juan
Antonio will:

A. Lose, because an equitable
charge is enforceable only in
equity.

B. Win, because the language of the
deed created a fee simple deter-
minable, which leaves a possibil-
ity of reverter in the grantor.     

C. Lose, because the language of the
deed created only a contractual
obligation and did not create
a reversionary interest in Juan
Antonio.

D. Win, because the language of the
deed created a fee simple subject
to condition subsequent, which
leaves a power of termination,
or right of entry, in the grantor.

2. Terry and Harry leased a house from
Larry, the landlord. The lease was in
proper form and contained the follow-
ing language:

"Any assignment, subletting or

transfer of any rights under this

lease without the express written

consent of Larry, the landlord,

shall be null and void and is pro-

hibited."

Despite this clause, after Terry and Har-
ry moved into the house, Harry verbally
invited Gary to share the house with
Terry and himself. Gary agreed to pay
his portion of the rent to Larry who did
not object to this arrangement. Terry,
however, objected to Gary's sharing
the dwelling, even if Gary paid a fair
share of the rent.

PROPERTY 383

0
0
CE

As soon as Gary moved into the house,
Terry sued Harry, Gary and Larry for a
declaratory judgment, that Harry was
without rights to assign to Gary. Harry
answered that he and Terry were tenants
in common for the estate of a term of
years, and that he, Harry, had the right
to assign a part interest in his undivided
one-half interest in the leasehold. The
court should award judgment in favor
of:

A. Terry, because a co-tenant has no
right to assign any part or all of
a leasehold without the consent
of all relevant parties.

B. Terry, because the lease contained
a "no assignment" clause.

C. Harry, because Terry is not the
beneficiary of the "no assign-
ment" clause in the lease.

D. Harry, because Terry's claim is
essentially a restraint on alien-
ation and is disfavored.

3. In 1970, Oscar executed his will in

which he left Ochreacre:

384 PROPERTY

"To my surviving widow for life,
and then to such of my children
who shall reach 30 years of age;
however, if any such child should
die under the age of 30 and such
child shall be survived by a child
or children, that child or children
shall step up and take his or her
parents' share being that share
which would have gone to that
parent had he or she attained the
age of 30 years."

In 1970, at the time of the will, Oscar
was married to Wendy and he and
Wendy had two children, Arnold and
Beulah. Beulah had one child, Carlotta.
In 1980, Wendy died and Oscar remar-
ried a woman named, Winfred. In 1981,
Winfred and Oscar had a son named,
Delbert. In 1985, Oscar died survived
by Winfred, Arnold, Beulah, Carlotta
and Delbert.

In a state which applies the common
law Rule Against Perpetuities unmodi-
fied by statute, the result of applying
the Rule to the interests under the will
is that:

A. The remainder to Oscar's chil-
dren and grandchildren is void
because Oscar could have mar-
ried a person not yet in being
at the time Oscar's will was
executed.

B. The remainder to the children is
valid and the substitute gift to the
grandchildren is also valid. 

C. The remainder to Arnold and
Beulah is valid, but the remain-
der to Carlotta is void as is any
gift to Carlotta's children.

D. The remainder to the children is
valid, but the substitute gift to
the grandchildren is void because
Oscar could have married a per-
son not yet in being at the time
Oscar's will was executed.

4. In 1990, Andrea was the owner of
Pinkacre. However, in 1990, Mary gave
a warranty deed to Pinkacre to Nancy.
Nancy promptly recorded that deed. In
1991, Andrea conveyed Pinkacre by
warranty deed to Mary who promptly
recorded her deed. In 1992, Mary gave
a warranty deed to Pinkacre to Orene
who promptly recorded her deed. Orene
paid fair market value for Pinkacre and
was unaware of any prior conveyances
of Pinkacre. Both Orene and Nancy
claim title to Pinkacre. The court should
award judgment to:

A. Nancy, because her deed is prior

in time to Orene's.

B. Orene, because she was a pur-
chaser for value without notice
of Nancy's claim.

C. Either Orene or Nancy, depend-
ing on whether Pinkacre is lo-
cated in a state which applies
estoppel by deed.

Q

D. Either Orene or Nancy, depend-
ing on whether Nancy's deed is
deemed to be recorded within
Orene's chain of title. 

PROPERTY 385

  
C. Xavier as first taker of the fod-

der.

D. The person who then held title
to Purpleacre in fee simple ab-
solute.

6. After Orville's 1993 conveyance to
Norris, title to Purpleacre was in:

A. Xavier.

B. Orville.

C. Yves.

D. Norris.

7. While her daughter, Darla, was away at
school, Marie executed and promptly
recorded a deed in the proper form to
Marie's property, Yellowacre, to Darla.
When Marie told Dada what she (Ma-
rie) had done, Darla said, "Mother, I
don't want Yellowacre. You take that
deed right back. It's yours." Before
any other relevant events, Darla died
leaving her entire estate to Butch.
Marie then sued Butch to quiet title in
Yellowacre. If Marie wins, it will be
because:

A. The presumption of delivery
arising from recordation is in-
valid unless the grantee has
knowledge of the deed at the
time of recording. 

LLI
0-

0ce

Questions 5 — 6 are based on the
following facts:

In 1970, Orville owned Purpleacre in fee
simple absolute. Unbeknownst to Orville, in
1971, Xavier entered Purpleacre under color
of title and began to use a square of land on
the eastern side of Purpleacre to cut fodder
for food for Xavier's sheep. After 14 years
of possession of Purpleacre, Xavier gave
possession of Purpleacre to Yves. Xavier
also sold Yves all his sheep and purported
to transfer to Yves, Xavier's interests in
the fodder and fodder area by means of a
document which was adequate to transfer
personal property (the sheep), but inadequate
to transfer real property.

In 1986, Xavier leased Purpleacre from
Orville for a term of five years. At the end
of the five year term, Xavier remained on
Purpleacre for two more years before he
quit Purpleacre. In 1993, Orville conveyed
Purpleacre by quitclaim deed to Norris.
Purpleacre is located in a state where the
statute of limitations for adverse possession
is ten years.

5. After Orville's 1993 conveyance to
Norris, title to the fodder area was in:

A. Yves, as the purchaser of the
fodder area under the 1985 docu-
ment selling Xavier's sheep to
Yves.

B. The person who owned fodder
rights as a necessary incident to
the fodder.

386 PROPERTY

	
	
Q

B. There was no effective ac-
ceptance of the delivery of the
deed.

C. Darla's renunciation of Yellow-
acre was a constructive convey-
ance to Marie.

D. The court will impose a construc-
tive trust to carry out Darla's
intent.

8. Abe conveyed Silveracres to "Ben and
his heirs, but if Ben dies survived by
children who attain the age of 30, then
to Carl and his heirs." Once Ben began
possessing Silveracres, he began to
cut the valuable timber on Silveracres
without giving Carl any notice of his
actions. Ben is married to Darlene but
has no children. If Carl sues for an ac-
counting for the value of the cut timber
and for an injunction to prevent future
logging, and the court gives judgment
against Carl and in favor of Ben, it will
be because:

A. Carl has no interest in Silver-

acres.

B. The right to log and remove tim-
ber is an incident to possession.

C. The right to log and remove tim-
ber is an incident to a fee.

D. There is no showing Ben acted

in bad faith.

9. John and Joan, an unmarried couple,
owned Goldacre as tenants in common.
After five years, they orally agreed that
there was no need for them to make
wills since the survivor of either of
them would own Goldacre solely and
outright per this agreement. Three years
later, John died intestate. One day later,
Joan died, also intestate. John's sole heir
is his father, Dave; Joan's sole heir is
her aunt, Sophie. Dave claims an inter-
est in Goldacre; Sophie claims all of
Goldacre. Goldacre is located in a state
with the Statute of Frauds, but no other
applicable statute. That state does not
recognize common law marriages.

In the Dave v. Sophie  litigation regard-
ing the ownership of Goldacre, the court
should find that:

A. Dave and Sophie each own an
undivided interest in Goldacre
because the deaths of John and
Joan were essentially simultane-
ous.

B. Dave and Sophie each own an
undivided interest in Goldacre
because the Statute of Frauds
applies.

C. Sophie owns Goldacres solely
because John and Joan did not
make wills in detrimental reli-
ance on the oral agreement. 

PROPERTY 387

D. Sophie owns Goldacre solely be-
cause she is entitled to equitable
reformation of the title to reflect
the oral agreement.

Questions 10 —11 are based on the
following facts:  

Orson is the owner of a 1,000 acre tract of
land called Greyacres. Orson wishes to de-
velop Greyacres into a planned residential
community surrounding a man-made lake
and marina. He needs to ensure that pro-
spective purchasers of lots in Greyacres are
guaranteed the following 3 things:

1) Apart from the lake and marina,
no non-residential use will be
made of Greyacres.

2) Residents of lots in Greyacres
will have clear access to and use
of the marina and lake which ac-
cess and use will be capable of
being transferred to subsequent
purchasers of those lots.

3) Residents of lots in Greyacres
must be obligated to pay a pro-
rated share for the maintenance
of the lake and marina regardless
of their actual use of the facili-
ties.

10. In the context of the entire scheme of de-
velopment, which of the following will
offer the best method of implementing
Orson's requirement that residents of
Greyacres pay money to maintain the
lake and marina?

A. An easement.

B. A covenant.

C. A mortgage. 

388 PROPERTY

    
D. A personal contractual obligation

by each purchaser.

11. Which of the following is the greatest
difficulty that Orson will face in estab-
lishing his scheme on Greyacres?

A. The scheme, if effective, renders

title unmarketable.

B. One or more of the essential re-
quirements for development of
Greyacres constitute a restraint
on alienation.

C. There is a judicial reluctance to
recognize an affirmative burden
to pay money over an indefinite
period as an obligation which
attaches to land and passes to
future purchasers of land.

D. Judicial enforcement of these
requirements constitutes state ac-
tion which would raise substan-
tial questions as to the constitu-
tionality of such requirements
under the 14th Amendment.

Q

12. Azureacre is owned by Amanda as a life
tenant and Bailey as remainderman in
fee simple. Amanda and Bailey were
conveyed Azureacre subject to a mort-
gage of $100,000, payable in $10,000
installments of the principal over ten
years at ten percent interest per year
payable with each installment of the
principal. Azureacre produces $50,000
in net income per year after paying all
expenses except the mortgage. Amanda
and Bailey each dispute who should pay
the mortgage principal. If Bailey seeks
legal advice as to his obligations for
the mortgage principal of Azureacre,
he should be told:

A. He could compel Amanda to pay
the mortgage principal because
the income from Azureacre is
more than adequate to meet this
obligation.

B. Amanda could compel Bailey
to pay his share of the principal
because the discharge of the
mortgage enhances his remain-
der.

C. He could not be held person-
ally liable for the mortgage, but
Bailey's remainder could be lost
if the mortgage is not paid.

D. Bailey's only protection lies in
instituting an action for partition
to compel the sale of Amanda's
life estate to obtain the value of
his remainder. 

PROPERTY 389

C. Beatrice, because Otto's permis-
sion to occupy pre-dated Otto's
conveyance.

D. Beatrice, because Otto is Bea-
trice's landlord, not Aaron.

14. In May, Tina moved into and began
paying a monthly rental of $200 for
an apartment in a ten-unit apartment
building owned by Lulu. The hallways
and stairwells of the building needed
repair. Lulu refused to undertake those
repairs, even after Tina requested she
do so. Therefore, in late August, Tina
met with the other tenants and discussed
with them the tenants' legal options
against Lulu for failure to make repairs.
When Tina paid September's rent, Lulu
notified Tina that beginning in October,
Tina's rent would be $400 per month.
When Tina protested that all of the other
tenants were paying $200 per month,
Lulu gave Tina the statutorily-required
30-day notice to vacate the apartment.
If Tina prevails in a lawsuit contesting
the termination of her tenancy, the most
likely reason for her victory is that:

A. Her payment of monthly rental
implies the existence of a peri-
odic tenancy.

B. The rent increase from $200
to $400 is unconscionable and
will shock the conscience of the
court.  

ce
0
0
ce

13. Otto owned Violetacre, a house and lot.
Aaron and Beatrice occupied Violetacre
rent-free with Otto's oral permission.
Both Aaron and Beatrice were 21-year-
old actors looking for acting work in
show business. Otto conveyed, properly
executed and recorded a warranty deed
to Violetacre as follows:

"To Aaron and his heirs, upon

condition that he obtain an act-
ing role in a Hollywood movie

by the time he reaches the age
of 35. However, if he does not do

so, then Violetacre is to pass to

my daughter, Della, for life, and

then to Della's two children, Ed

and Fred."

At the time of the conveyance, neither
Aaron nor Beatrice had ever acted in a
Hollywood movie. One month after the
conveyance to Aaron, Aaron informed
Beatrice that he, Aaron, was now her
landlord and expected a fair rental
each month, payable to him. Beatrice
refused. Violetacre is located in a ju-
risdiction with no statute applicable to
this situation. In a properly filed action
for ejectment of Beatrice by Aaron, the
court should award judgment for:

A. Aaron, because Otto's convey-
ance created a fee simple sub-
ject to executory limitation in
Aaron.

B. Aaron, because Otto's convey-
ance terminated Beatrice's ten-
ancy.

390 PROPERTY

Q

0
m

C. The fact that Tina would have
to pay double the rental rate
charged to other tenants violates
the implied agreement that rent-
als for similar apartments be
comparable.

D. The doctrine of retaliatory evic-
tion is part of the law of this
jurisdiction.

16. 011ie owned Blackacre, a one-acre tract
of land, in fee simple absolute. How-
ever, Paul was in adverse possession
of Blackacre. During Paul's adverse
possession, 011ie gave Agnes oral per-
mission to use the south forty feet along
Blackacre as a road to reach Whiteacre,
a tract of Agnes' land. During all times
relevant to this question, Agnes regu-
larly used Blackacre as a road to reach
Whiteacre from the public highway.

15. Indiogoacres was conveyed to Adolph
and Bette by a deed which created a
co-tenancy with equal rights of pos-
session, equal shares in interest, and
a gift of survivorship. Adolph con-
veyed to Cal his "undivided one-half
interest in Indiogoacres" to Cal. After
Adolph's death, Bette sues Cal claim-
ing Indiogoacres is her sole property.
Cal claims he is owner of an undivided
one-half of Indiogoacres. The court
should award judgment for:

A. Cal, if Bette had actual or con-
structive knowledge of Adolph's
deed to Cal.

B. Cal, since he and Bette own
Indiogoacres as tenants in com-
mon.

C. Bette, because she is the sole

owner of Indiogoacres.

D. Bette, but only if the original ten-
ancy created in Adolph and Bette
was a tenancy by the entirety.

A few years later, Paul quit possession
of Blackacre without gaining title by
adverse possession. Agnes continued
to use the south forty feet along Black-
acre from the time of her original use
for a sufficiently long period of time to
gain an easement by prescription. All
of this use was accomplished without
further communication between Agnes
and 011ie. 011ie then blocked the road
on the south forty feet along Blackacre
and has refused to permit Agnes' further
use. Agnes then sued to determine her
continued use of the road. In that law-
suit, Agnes should:

A. Win, because her use was ad-
verse to Paul and once adversely
begun, it continued in that man-
ner until some affirmative show-
ing of a change.

B. Win, because Agnes made no
attempt to renew 011ie's permis-
sion after Paul quit possession of
Blackacre. 

PROPERTY 391

LLI
0-
0
ce

C. Lose, because her use was per-

missive.

Questions 17 —18 are based on the
following facts:

D. Lose, because there is no evi-
dence that she continued to
adversely use Blackacre for the
required period after Paul quit
Blackacre.

Two sisters, Alice and Betty, contributed
one-half of the purchase price of Yellow-
acres, a 50-acre tract of land. They held Yel-
lowacres together as joint tenants. Five years
after the original purchase, Alice proposed
that the two sisters develop Yellowacres
as a retail shopping center. Betty did not
want to do so. She orally agreed with Alice
that Alice could alone develop the western
one-half of Yellowacres as she wished and
that Betty would do whatever she wanted
with the eastern one-half of Yellowacres.
Alice developed her retail shopping center
on the western 25 acres and Betty gave oral
permission for the Sierra Club to use the
eastern one-half of Yellowacres as a wildlife
sanctuary. Alice died, leaving her entire es-
tate, by will, to her son, Sam. The will also
named Betty executrix of Alice's estate, but
she refused to serve. 

17. In an appropriate lawsuit to determine
Sam and Betty's respective interests in
Yellowacres, if Sam is adjudicated to
be the owner of the western 25 acres of
Yellowacres, the most likely reason for
the judgment will be that:

A. Betty's actions during Alice's life
has estopped her from asserting
title to the western one-half of
Yellowacres.

B. The joint tenancy was terminated
by the oral agreement of Alice
and Betty at the time it was
made. 

392 PROPERTY

C. Betty had a fiduciary obligation
to Sam by reason of her be-
ing named executrix of Alice's
will.

D. The close blood relationship be-
tween Alice and Betty removes
the necessity to comply with the
Statute of Frauds.

18. In an appropriate lawsuit to determine
Sam and Betty's respective interests in
Yellowacres, if Betty is adjudicated to
be the sole owner of Yellowacres, the
most likely reason for the judgment will
be that:

A. The record title of the joint ten-
ancy to Yellowacres can only
be changed by a duly recorded
instrument.

B. The Statute of Frauds prevents
the proof of Betty and Alice's
oral agreement.

C. Alice could not unilaterally sever

the joint tenancy.

D. Betty's nomination as executrix
of Alice's estate does not prevent
her from asserting her claim
against Sam.

"CP
0
m

19. Baker and Selwyn entered into a valid,
enforceable written contract in which
Baker agreed to buy and Selwyn agreed
to sell Orangeacre, Selwyn's residence.
The contract contained a provision al-
lowing Selwyn the right to remain in
residence of Orangeacre for 30 days
before relinquishing possession. The
closing took place as scheduled; title
passed to Baker and Selwyn remained
in possession. A week later, however,
the house Selwyn was scheduled to
move into was destroyed. At the end
of the 30-day period, Selwyn refused
to leave Orangeacre. Instead, Selwyn
tendered to Baker a monthly rental pay-
ment in excess of the fair rental value
of Orangeacre. Baker refused the rent
and sued to gain immediate possession
of Orangeacre. There is no law of this
jurisdiction dealing with this situation
and the contract is similarly silent. The
landlord-tenant law of this jurisdiction
requires a 30-day notice by the landlord
before he can evict a tenant. Baker did
not give the 30-day statutory notice.
Baker's best legal argument in support
of his action for immediate possession
is that Selwyn is a:

A. Licensee.

B. Tenant at sufferance.

C. Tenant from month to month.

D. Trespasser ab initio. 

PROPERTY 393

Q

Questions 20 — 21 are based on the
following facts:

Oliver Wendell, the owner of a 100-acre tract
of land, prepared and properly recorded a
subdivision plan called the Oliver Wendell
Homes. The plan contained 40 two-acre lots
and a 20-acre tract in the southeast corner.
Oliver Wendell sold 20 of the lots to indi-
vidual purchasers. Those deeds all referred
to the recorded plan and contained the
following clause, "No multi-family dwell-
ings shall be erected within Oliver Wendell
Homes."

Abby purchased one of these original lots
from Oliver Wendell. Eight years later, Oli-
ver Wendell sold the remaining land (20 lots
and 20 acre parcel) to Beth by a deed which
referred to the plan and contained the same
clause prohibiting multi-family dwellings.
Beth then resold the 20 lots to individual
purchasers and the 20 acre parcel to Carol.
None of Beth's deeds referred to the plan,
nor contained the multi-family dwelling
restriction.

20. Assume for this question only, that
Della, a purchaser from Beth, has begun
construction of a multi-family apart-
ment building on her lot and that Abby
sues to prevent Della's apartment build-
ing. Who will prevail in this lawsuit?

A. Abby, because the restrictive
covenant in the deed runs with
the land.

B. Abby, because the apartment
building will lower Abby's land
value. 

394 PROPERTY

C. Della, because she is a remote
grantee — not a direct grantee of
Oliver Wendell.

D. Della, because she did not re-
ceive a deed containing a restric-
tive covenant.

21. Assume for this question only, that
Carol has announced her intention to
build a multifamily condominium com-
plex on the 20-acre parcel and that Abby
has sued to prevent its construction. If
Carol wins, it will be because:

A. Carol's proposed use will allow
a sufficient diversity in economic
classes in the vicinity to satisfy
the requirements of the Equal
Protection clause of the Constitu-
tion.

B. Restriction in deeds are to be
construed in favor of free alien-
ation of land and against the
grantor.

C. There has been an insufficient
showing that the common de-
velopment scheme applied to the
entire subdivision.

D. Restrictive equitable servitudes
bind only those in privity with
the original covenanting par-
ties.

Q

22. In 1960 Juan, the owner of a fee simple
absolute in Greenacres, conveyed
Greenacres to the Oak Ridge School.
The operative words of conveyance
were "to the Oak Ridge School for the
life of my daughter, Juanita, and then at
that time to all of my grandchildren and
their heirs in equal shares; provided,
however, that the Oak Ridge School
shall use Greenacres for school purpos-
es only." After the conveyance, the Oak
Ridge School began holding classes on
Greenacres and has continued to do so
for all relevant times.

In 1980, Oak Ridge School granted
Shelly a right to mine and remove
minerals from the northwest portion
of Greenacres. Shelly began to remove
minerals under this grant.

All three of the present grandchildren
of Juan, as well as a guardian ad litem,
appointed to represent Juan's unborn
grandchildren, have sued the Oak Ridge
School and Shelly for damages and
injunction for the mining operations
on Greenacres. There is no applicable
statute. Which of the following best
describes the probable outcome of the
litigation?

A. Plaintiffs should prevail, since
the Oak Ridge School's interest
terminated the instant Shelly
began mining operations on
Greenacres.

B. The judge should grant the in-
junction, but not award damages
since Juan and Juanita are not
parties to the lawsuit.

C. The judge should award dam-
ages, but not the injunction.

D. The judge should grant the in-
junction and impound the dam-
ages to be awarded.

23. Maria owned three condos in Condo
Heaven, numbers 6, 7 and 21. The price
and fair market value of condos 6 and 7
was $50,000, and number 21, $75,000.
Nellie was interested in purchasing a
condo in Condo Heaven but couldn't
decide between #6 or #7. Therefore,
Nellie gave Maria $50,000 and Ma-
ria prepared and executed a deed to
Nellie for a condo in Condo Heaven,
complete in every way except that the
unit number was left blank. Maria told
Nellie to fill in unit #6 or #7 as she
wished and then Nellie should record
the deed. The next day, Nellie went to
Condo Heaven, filled in unit #21 in the
deed and recorded the deed. In an action
by Maria to rescind the transaction, if
Maria loses, the most likely reason for
that judgment is that:

A. The necessity for certainty in
land title records controls.

B. The agency implied to complete
the deed cannot be restricted by
the oral understanding. 

PROPERTY 395

In an action to determine the property
rights in Beigeacres, it was alleged that
the gifts to Harold's grandchildren were
void and that the interests in Beigeacres,
after Dolly's children's life estates
passed to Harold's children, passed
absolutely under the residuary clause of
the will. Assuming a properly instituted
action with all parties represented, the
judge should decide that:

A. The attempted gifts to the grand-
children are void as restraints on
alienation.

B. The attempted gifts to the grand-
children are void under the Rule
Against Perpetuities.

C. The attempted gifts to the grand-
children are valid except for the
provisions against sale, convey-
ance or mortgage.

D. The attempted gifts to the grand-
children are entirely valid and
will be enforced as written. 

LLI
0-
0
ce
CL

C. The recordation of the deed
precludes any questioning of the
deed in its recorded form.

D. Maria's casual business practices

caused her loss.

24. In 1980, Harold willed Beigeacres as

follows:

"To my daughter, Dolly, and at

her death to those of Dolly's chil-

dren who survive her, provided,

however, that no such child of

Dolly shall have the power to con-

vey, sell or mortgage such child's

interest prior to attaining the age

of 30 years; and if any such child

of Dolly shall not comply with
this provision then that child's

interest shall determine and pass

to the remaining children of Dolly

alive at that time, share and share

alike."

Harold's 1980 will devised Whiteacres
to his son, Solomon, in an identical
manner. The residuary clause in the
1980 will gave the residual estate to
Harold's two children, Dolly and Solo-
mon, equally. In 1990, Harold died sur-
vived by Dolly and Solomon and their
two children each. Since 1990, Dolly
has had one additional child.

396 PROPERTY

25. Thelma Jones and Louis Boggs lived
together for ten years. They never for-
mally married, although they always
referred to each other as husband and
wife, and Thelma always identified
herself as Thelma Boggs or Mrs. Louis
Boggs. During this time, they decided
to purchase a home. The deed was in
proper form and identified the grantees
as "Thelma and Louis Boggs, as hus-
band and wife, and their heirs forever,
as tenants by the entirety." Thelma
provided a down payment and she and
Louis gave a mortgage for the balance.
The mortgage was signed by both
Thelma and Louis, as husband and wife.
Thelma made payments on the loan for
one year, until she abandoned Louis and
the house and moved to another state.
Louis made one further mortgage pay-
ment after Thelma's departure and then
sued for partition. The suit for partition
should be:

A. Denied, since no single tenant by
the entirety has a right to sue for
partition.

B. Denied, since Thelma has sole

title to the property.

C. Granted, because the tenancy by
the entirety that was created by
the deed was destroyed when
Thelma abandoned Louis.

D. Granted, because the deed never
created a tenancy by the en-
tirety.     

26. In 1991, Wilma conveyed Redacres as

follows:

'CP

0
m

"To my friend Fred for life and

then to Fred's two children, Bar-

ney and Betty, and their heirs,
provided that should any of them

move to California, then that

child's interest to pass to the Red

Cross."

In 1991, Fred was alive and had two
children, Barney and Betty. In an appro-
priate action to determine the interests
in Redacres, the gift to Fred's children
shall be held to be:

A. An executory interest.

B. A vested remainder subject to

complete divestment.

C. An indefeasible vested remain-

der.

D. A contingent remainder.

PROPERTY 397

28. Assume for this question only, that
Carla dies before the real estate clos-
ing and her will gives her real property
to Ricky and her personal property to
Paula. Assume further, that the contract
is otherwise fully performed. Which
statement is most correct?

A. Ricky has the right to specifically

perform the contract.

B. Bernie has the right to can-
cel the contract and refuse the
$50,000.

C. Since the land sale contract
could have provided for the con-
tingency of death of one of the
parties but did not do so, death
terminates the contract.

D. The death of the buyer renders
title to Blueacres unmarketable.

Questions 27 — 28 are based on the
following facts:

Bernie is the owner of Blueacres, a tract of
land. In 1990, he contracted to sell Blueacres
to Carla. Bernie and Carla executed an agree-
ment for Carla to purchase Blueacres from
Bernie for $50,000 cash. Assume Blueacres
is located in a jurisdiction which recognizes
the principle of equitable estoppel, but has
no statute specifically dealing with these
problems.

27. Assume for this question only, that
Bernie dies before the real estate clos-
ing and his will leaves his real property
to Rhoda and his personal property to
Peter. Assume further that the contract
is otherwise fully performed. Which
statement is correct?

A. Rhoda is entitled to the $50,000
on closing since equitable con-
version is inapplicable here.

B. Peter is entitled to the $50,000 on
closing since equitable conver-
sion applies here.

C. Since the land sale contract
could have provided for the con-
tingency of death of one of the
parties but did not do so, death
terminates the contract.

D. The death of the seller renders
title to Blueacres unmarketable. 

398 PROPERTY

Q

Questions 29 — 30 are based on the
following facts:

In 1975, Wanda gave a deed to her boyfriend,
Bill, containing the covenant of general war-
ranty, quiet enjoyment and right to convey.
That deed contained legal descriptions of
land as follows:

C. Is enforceable, because no ambi-
guity appears on the face of the
deed.

D. Is sufficient, if Bill paid consid-

eration.

30. The legal description of 1313 Mocking-

bird Lane is:

(a)

"All of my land and house

known commonly as 1313 Mock-

ingbird Lane, Addamsville, United

States, the same comprising 3/4 of

an acre."

"All that part of my ranch, be-

(b)
ing a square with 600 foot sides,

the northeast corner of which is

the west line of my neighbor, Ru-

fus Choate."

On the date of the deed, Wanda handed the
document to Bill who immediately gave
it back to Wanda for safekeeping. Wanda
took the deed to her bank and put it in her
safe-deposit box. The deed was not re-
corded. As it turns out, the property at 1313
Mockingbird Lane was, in fact, only 5/8 of
an acre but contained a house, garage and
tool shed. Wanda owned no other land on
Mockingbird Lane.

29. The legal description of the portion of

Wanda's ranch given to Bill:

A. Is insufficient, because of vague-

ness.

B. Is enforceable, if the deed con-
tinued the covenant of seisin.

A. Insufficient, because it contains
no description by metes and
bounds.

B. Insufficient, because the acreage

given is inaccurate.

C. Insufficient, because a grantor
cannot convey more than she
owns.

D. Sufficient, because the discrep-

ancy in area is not fatal.

31. Ethel was the fee simple owner of Weed-
acres (a vacant tract of land). Weedacres
was located adjacent to Hedgeacres,
a tract of land with a house and barn
located on it and owned in fee simple
by Fred. In 1990, Ethel began digging a
foundation for a building on Weedacres
to be located near the property line with
Hedgeacres. Ethel's digging caused the
barn and land on Hedgeacres to collapse
due to earth movement. In a lawsuit by
Fred against Ethel for damages to his
barn and land, due to Ethel's excava-
tion, the prevailing party should be:

PROPERTY

399

A. Fred, because he has an absolute
right to lateral support of his
land.

B. Fred, unless the weight of the
barn contributed to the damage.

C. Ethel, but only if she was negli-

gent in her excavation.

D. Ethel, unless her excavation
would have caused the same
damage to unimproved land, or
she was negligent.

32. Francisco owned Farmacres (a tract of
land) in fee simple absolute. He con-
veyed it "to Gilbert for life, and then
to the children of Helen in fee simple."
At the time of the conveyance, both
Gilbert and Helen were alive; neither
had any children. What interest, if any,
was created in Helen's unborn children
at the time of the conveyance?

A. A vested remainder, subject to

partial divestment.

B. A contingent remainder.

C. An executory interest.

D. None.

400 PROPERTY

Questions 33 — 34 are based on the
following facts:

Quintin was the owner of Sandacres (a large
tract of undeveloped land) in fee simple
absolute. In 1970, he subdivided Sandacres
into 3 parcels, #1-3. Quintin conveyed lot
#1 to Rhoda, lot #2 (the middle lot) to Susan
and lot #3, he retained as vacant land for
speculation. Rhoda and Susan built houses
and swimming pools on their lots. The land
around Sandacres was undeveloped, unim-
proved and unzoned. After their houses were
built, Rhoda and Susan agreed to build and
jointly construct a sewer line running from
the street in front of their houses along the
common property line to the rear of their
respective lots and connecting into each
house. The sewer line was so constructed
that one half of the line was located on each
lot. Rhoda and Susan exchanged sewer ease-
ment grants by which each of them granted
to the other, her heirs and assigns, the right
to use and maintain the common sewer line.
Both documents were properly recorded.

In 1990, the area surrounding Sandacres was
more developed and the city government
decided to install and maintain a new sewer
line running along the rear of the three lots.
That new line removed the need for the com-
mon line constructed by Rhoda and Susan.
Rhoda informed Susan that she considered
the new sewer line to be a replacement for
the old common line, that she intended to
discontinue use of the common line and that
she expected Susan to do the same. In 1990,
Quintin decided to develop lot #3 into a
high-rise condominium building, containing
20 stories and 200 units. If developed in that
way, Quintin's building would completely  

shade Susan's swimming pool, for all but
forty minutes a day. This change would
substantially affect the fair market value of
Susan's lot.

33. If Susan sues Rhoda to enjoin Rhoda
from interfering with Susan's contin-
ued use of the common sewer line, the
prevailing party will be:

A. Rhoda, because the termination
of the necessity for the sewer
easement terminated the ease-
ment.

B. Rhoda, because the continued use
of the common easement after a
material change in circumstances
would diminish the fair market
value of the lots, without a cor-
responding and commensurate
increase in value.

C. Susan, because an incorporeal
hereditament lies in grant and
cannot be terminated without a
writing.

D. Susan, because the termination
of the necessity for the ease-
ment which had been created by
express grant does not affect the
rights in the easement.

34. If Susan sues Quintin to enjoin him from
erecting the high-rise condominium in
such a way to shade Susan's swimming
pool, the prevailing party will be:

Q

A. Susan, if, and only if, she was
misled by Quintin's failure to
complain when she was building
her pool.

B. Susan, because Quintin's build-
ing would be an unreasonable
obstruction with her natural right
to an easement for light, air or
view.

C. Quintin, because Susan has no
natural right to an easement for
air, light or view. 

D. Quintin, if, and only if, he can
show that his intention to build
in this manner was known to
Susan before or at the time she
received her conveyance from
the common grantor, Quintin.

PROPERTY

401

  
36. In a lawsuit by Victoria against Wilma
to establish that Victoria has title to
Plantacres, if Victoria loses, it will be
because:

A. Parol evidence is inadmissible to
prove an oral condition rebutting
valid delivery.

B. As between the parties to a trans-
action, recording is not required
to transfer title after a valid de-
livery.

C. Wilma has proven that Victoria
intended to part with Plantacres
irrevocably.

D. This is a donative escrow, which
creates consideration for the
transfer through the relationship
of blood or marriage.

Questions 35 — 36 are based on the
following facts:

Victoria was the fee simple owner of Planta-
cres (a vacant tract of land). On January 1,
1990, she went to the house of her 30-year-
old daughter, Wilma. In her daughter's
presence, Victoria executed a warranty deed
to Plantacres and said, "Here is a deed to
Plantacres which I am giving you as a gift."
Wilma thanked her mother, and Victoria
took the deed and subsequently placed it in
her (Victoria's) safe deposit box. In 1993,
Victoria received an offer from Xenaphon to
purchase Plantacres for several times the cur-
rent market value. The recording act in this
jurisdiction states that unless a conveyance
or other transfer of land is duly recorded,
every deed or other conveyance of an interest
in land is void as to a subsequent purchaser
for value in good faith who records.

35. In a lawsuit by Victoria against Wilma
to establish that Victoria has title to
Plantacres, if Wilma loses it will be
because:

A. The events of January 1, 1990
were a conditional delivery to a
grantee without an escrow.

B. Wilma is a donee and not a bona
fide purchaser under the record-
ing act.

C. The events of January 1, 1990
were insufficient to constitute a
valid delivery.

D. Wilma did not record her deed as
required by the recording act.

402 PROPERTY

Q

37. Ursula conveyed Vineacres (a house
and tract of land) "to Will for life, re-
mainder to Xerxes and his heirs, subject
to a first mortgage in favor of First Fed-
eralist Savings and Loan for $100,000."
The mortgage had an unpaid balance of
$100,000, payable in monthly install-
ments of $1,000 plus interest at 8%
on the balance. The next payment of
principal and interest is due May 1. The
reasonable rental value of the property
is greater than the sum necessary to
meet all current charges. Will is cur-
rently living on the property. Assume
that the common law rules governing
contributions between life tenants and
remaindermen apply in this state. How
should the burden for repayment of the
first mortgage to First Federalist Sav-
ings and Loan be allocated between
Will and Xerxes?

A. Will must pay both the principal

and interest.

B. Xerxes must pay both principal

and interest.

C. Will must pay the principal and
Xerxes must pay the interest.

D. Xerxes must pay the principal
and Will must pay the interest.

38. Yvette conveys Bambooacres (a tract
of land) to Zerlina by warranty deed as
a gift for Zerlina's birthday. One year
later, Yvette conveys the same property,
Bambooacres, to Abelia for $100,000.
Abelia is without constructive or actual
knowledge of the prior deed to Zerlina.
Abelia records her deed to Bamboo-
acres first. Abelia receives the property
pursuant to the recording act in this
jurisdiction. If Zerlina sues Yvette for
having lost the property to Abelia, the
outcome of Zerlina's lawsuit against
Yvette will depend on:

A. Whether Yvette's warranty deed
to Zerlina was invalid ab initio.

B. Whether deeds without cov-
enants are sufficient to transfer
title to real property.

C. Whether the jurisdiction views
title covenants as personal or
running with the land.

D. Whether Zerlina is a bona fide

purchaser.

PROPERTY

403

0
ce
a_

39. Benjy owned Bushacres (a tract of land)
in fee simple absolute. He conveyed
Bushacres in 1954 "to Carla and Dan, as
wife and husband." In this jurisdiction,
Benjy's conveyance would be sufficient
to create a tenancy by the entirety.
Thereafter, Carla conveyed by a deed
in valid form and delivery "my undi-
vided one-half interest in Bushacres"
to Esther. Carla died one year later. If
Esther sues Dan to quiet title in himself
and herself as co-owners of Bushacres,
she will:

A. Not prevail, unless Carla and
Dan were not legally married
according to the laws in this
jurisdiction during the relevant
times in this problem.

B. Not prevail, because he is the

sole owner of Bushacres.

C. Prevail, if, and only if, Esther had
no actual or constructive notice
of the deed to Dan and Carla.

D. Prevail, since Esther and Dan
own Bushacres as tenants in
common.

404 PROPERTY

Questions 40 — 41 are based on the
following facts:

In 1978, Fiona owned Palmacres (a tract of
land) in fee simple absolute. In that year, she
executed and delivered to Gus a quitclaim
deed which purported to convey to Gus all
Fiona's interest and title in Palmacres. Gus
accepted the deed and placed it in his bank
safe deposit box. In satisfaction of a prior
debt she owed to Hal, Fiona executed and
delivered a warranty deed to Hal also pur-
porting to convey full fee title to Palmacres
in full release of her obligation to him. Hal
promptly recorded his deed. Two years
later, Gus recorded his deed. At no time has
there been evidence of any occupation of
Palmacres. Assume that provisions of the
recording statute in this jurisdiction require
that a junior claimant be in good faith and
have provided value in order to claim protec-
tion of the recording act.

40. The recording act in this jurisdiction

may be:

I. Race

II. Race-Notice

III. Notice

A. I or II.

B. II or III.

C. I or III.

D. None of the above. 

41. Which is the most accurate statement
regarding the conflicting claims to
Palmacres of Gus and Hal?

A. Gus cannot prevail, since he
received a quitclaim deed which
automatically puts him on notice
and, thus, not in good faith.

B. Gus' failure to record until after
Hal, equitably estops Gus from
asserting title against Hal (but
not against Fiona).

C. The outcome will turn on wheth-
er Hal paid value within the
meaning of the recording act.

D. None of the above.

42. Quincy was the owner of Shrubacres
(a tract of land) in fee simple absolute.
In 1950, he conveyed the property "to
Randy and her heirs as long as the prop-
erty is used for residential purposes, but
if it is ever used for non-residential pur-
poses prior to 1970, then to UNICEF, a
charity." In 1964, Quincy died leaving
a valid will which devised all Quincy's
real property to her niece, Selma. The
will had no residuary clause and Quincy
was survived by Selma and Quincy's
son Ted, her sole heir. Assume that the
common law Rule Against Perpetuities
applies and that all future interests are
alienable, devisable, and descendible
in the same manner as possessory in-
terests in land. In 1951, the interest in
Shrubacres held by UNICEF could have
best been described as a (an):

Q

A. Valid contingent remainder.

B. Invalid contingent remainder.

C. Valid executory interest.

D. Invalid executory interest. 

PROPERTY

405

  
Q

›-

LLJ
0-
0
ce
CL

Questions 43 — 46 are based on the
following facts:

Lana owned Pineacres (a tract of vacant
land) in fee simple absolute. The recording
act for this jurisdiction states that unless a
conveyance or other transfer of land is duly
recorded, every deed or other conveyance of
an interest in land is void as to a subsequent
purchaser for value in good faith. In 1970,
Lana sold Pineacres in fee simple for fair
market value to Max by general warranty
deed. Max recorded his deed in 1985. In
1975, Lana signed a mortgage to Pineacres
in favor of Nancy in return for money lent
by Nancy to Lana. Nancy was without ac-
tual notice of the prior deed to Max. She
recorded her mortgage immediately. In 1980,
Lana gratuitously gave her then-boyfriend,
Oliver, a fee simple, general warranty deed
to Pineacres. Oliver promptly recorded
his deed. In 1990, Oliver conveyed a fee
simple to Pineacres at full fair market value
by general warranty deed to Pedro. Pedro
had no actual knowledge of any of the prior
transactions in Pineacres. Pedro promptly
recorded his deed.

43. Assume for this question only, that in
1995 Max sues Nancy claiming that
Max owns the property and that Nancy
does not. The prevailing party owning
Pineacres will be:

A. Max, because a mortgagee can-
not be a subsequent purchaser
within the meaning of the stat-
ute.

406 PROPERTY

B. Max, because a mortgagee can-
not be deemed to have paid
value within the meaning of the
statute.

C. Nancy, because she recorded

first.

D. Nancy, because she lent money
without notice of Max's interest
in Pineacres.

44. Assume for this question only, that in
1995 Max sues Pedro claiming that
Max owns the property and that Pedro
does not. If Pedro prevails, it will be
because:

A. As between two warranty deeds,
the subsequent one controls.

B. Oliver, Pedro's grantor, had no
notice of Max's interest in Pine-
acres.

C. Max's prior recorded deed is
outside Pedro's chain of title.

D. Oliver, Pedro's grantor, recorded

before Max.

45. Assume for this question only, that in
1989 Max sued Oliver claiming that
Max owned Pineacres and that Oliver
did not. The prevailing party owning
Pineacres should have been:

A. Max, because Oliver was not a
bona fide purchaser for value.  

Q

-0
XI
0
13
m
-I
-<

B. Max, because he was a purchaser
for full market value and had no
actual or constructive notice of
the deed to Oliver.

C. Oliver, because Oliver had no
notice of Max's interest in Pine-
acres.

D. Oliver, because Oliver's deed

was the first recorded.

46. Assume for this question only, that in
1970 Lana did not sell Pineacres to
Max; she gave it to him free of charge.
Assume also that Max did not receive
a general warranty deed, but received
a quitclaim. Assume further, that in
1989 Max sued Oliver claiming that
Max owned Pineacres and that Oliver
did not. The prevailing party owning
Pineacres should have been:

A. Oliver, because Oliver's deed

was the first recorded.

B. Oliver, because Max was not a
purchaser for value under the
statute.

C. Oliver, because Max received
a quitclaim deed which should
have put him on constructive
notice.

D. Max, because his was the first

conveyance from Lana. 

47. Irene leased her house and surround-
ing yard to Juan for fifteen years. The
lease contained a clause prohibiting
Juan from assigning his interest in the
lease. Kris has approached Juan about
subletting the house and yard to him.
May Juan do so?

A. Yes, because restraints on alien-

ation are invalid.

B. Yes, because a lease term pro-
hibiting assignments is strictly
construed.

C. No, because the term "assign-
ment" includes "subleasing" and
vice versa.

D. No, because a tenant can never
assign or sublease without the
landlord's permission, since to
do so would be to impair the
landlord's security interest in the
property.

48. Ignatz owned Grassacres (a tract of
land) in fee simple absolute. He con-
veyed it "to Jenny, her heirs and assigns
while the property is used for ranch
purposes; then to Kelly and his heirs
forever. Assume the common law Rule
Against Perpetuities applies to this con-
veyance. Kelly's interest in Grassacres
as a result of this conveyance is best
described as:

A. A possibility of reverter.

PROPERTY 407

Q

LLI
O
CL

B. A right of entry (or power of	

termination).	

Questions 49 — 51 are based on the
following facts:

Terah leased a single family residence from
Utley for a term of four years. Without
Utley's knowledge, Terah, a skilled carpen-
ter, installed three beautiful, hand-crafted
floor-to-ceiling oak bookcases, which he se-
curely bolted to the wall next to the fireplace.
He also replaced the old wooden steps lead-
ing to the front door with a new, larger and
more efficient set of stone steps and he added
a banister. At the end of his lease, Terah re-
moved the bookcases, leaving several deep
holes and other damage to the wall.

49. In an action for damages to the house
brought by Utley against Terah for the
removal of the bookcases, the prevail-
ing party will be:

A. Terah, but only if the bookcases
were used in his trade or busi-
ness.

B. Terah, but only if the jurisdiction
follows the modern trend in the
law of fixtures.

C. Terah, because the bookcases are
considered personal property.

D. Utley, because the bookcases are

considered real property.

50. In an action by Terah against Utley to
recover the cost of replacing the old
front door steps, Terah will: 

C. An executory interest.

D. Nothing.

408 PROPERTY

A. Win, because he has created an
improvement to Utley's freehold
interest in the property.

B. Win, but only if he added value
of the improvement will last be-
yond the term of Terah's lease.

C. Lose, if the jurisdiction preserves
the common law doctrine of per-
missive waste.

D. Lose, if the jurisdiction preserves
the common law doctrine of
ameliorative waste.

51. Assume for this question only, that
Terah does not remove the bookcases
when his leasehold ends, but leaves
them intact next to the fireplace. Con-
sequently, there are no holes or other
damage to the wall. In an action for
damages brought by Utley against
Terah regarding the bookcases, the
prevailing party will be:

A. Terah, because he has created an
improvement to Utley's freehold
interest in the property.

B. Terah, but only if the added value
of the improvement will last be-
yond the term of Terah's lease.

C. Utley, if the jurisdiction pre-
serves the common law doctrine
of permissive waste.

Q

D. Utley, if the jurisdiction pre-
serves the common law doctrine
of ameliorative waste. 

PROPERTY 409

  
Q

Questions 52 — 53 are based on the
following facts: 	

D. Denied, because Marcy has a
valid interest in Grassacres. 

In 1968, Laura owned Grassacres (a tract
of land) in fee simple absolute. She con-
veyed the property "to Marcy and her heirs
as long as the property is used for resi-
dential purposes, but if it is ever used for
non-residential purposes, then to UNICEF,
a charity." In 1974 Laura died, leaving a
valid will which devised all of Laura's real
property to her niece, Nella. The will had no
residuary clause and Laura was survived by
Nella and Laura's son, Oscar, her sole heir.
Assume that the common law Rule Against
Perpetuities applies and that all future inter-
ests are alienable, devisable and descendible
in the same manner as possessory interests
in land.

52. In 1980, Marcy and Oscar contracted
with Paul to sell Grassacres to Paul
in fee simple absolute. After a title
examination, Paul refused to perform
the contract because he claimed Marcy
and Oscar could not convey good title
in fee simple absolute. In a lawsuit for
specific performance by Marcy and Os-
car against Paul, specific performance
will be:

A. Granted, because Marcy and
Oscar together own Grassacres
in fee simple absolute.

B. Granted, because Marcy alone
owns Grassacres in fee simple
absolute.

C. Denied, because UNICEF has a
valid interest in Grassacres.

410 PROPERTY

53. In 1969, UNICEF's interest in Gras-
sacres could have best been described
as:

A. A valid contingent remainder.

B. An invalid contingent remain-

der.

C. A valid executory interest.

D. An invalid executory interest.

54. Yetta was the fee simple owner of
Wheatacres, a tract of land planted with
a yearly, seasonal wheat crop. Yetta
reached agreement with her neighbor,
Zedidiah, that in exchange for an an-
nual payment of $1000, after Yetta had
harvested her wheat crop, Zedidiah had
the privilege to take and use the leftover
wheat from Yetta's fields to feed his
animals. That arrangement was formal-
ized in a written document, duly signed
and recorded. By its terms, Zedidiah's
privilege was exclusive against all
others except Yetta, who reserved the
right to use Wheatacres for any purpose
whatsoever, including harvesting all the
wheat from her fields. Two years later,
the state condemned Wheatacres by
eminent domain for use as a municipal
golf course. In an action by Zedidiah
against the state for a portion of the
condemnation award for Wheatacres,
Zedidiah will:

	
A. Win, because he has a profit a
prendre, which is a property right
protected by the due process
clause of the federal Constitu-
tion.

B. Win, because he has a license,
which is a property right pro-
tected by the due process clause
of the federal Constitution.

C. Lose, because he has a profit a
prendre, which is not a prop-
erty right protected by the due
process clause of the federal
Constitution.

D. Lose, because he has a license,
which is not a property right pro-
tected by the due process clause
of the federal Constitution.

Q     

Questions 55 — 58 are based on the
following facts:   

Adam is the fee simple owner of Oakacres
(a tract of land) located next to the Elmacres,
a tract of land which he also owned in fee
simple. In 1980, Adam deeded Elmacres to
Boris in return for a promise in that same
document that Boris would not construct
anything other than a single-family dwelling
on Elmacres. In 1985, Adam sold Oakacres
to Carole. In 1990, Boris sold Elmacres to
Della. With the promise in force, Oakacres
is worth $100,000. If Elmacres is used for
anything other than a single family dwelling,
Oakacres would be worth $60,000. 

55. Assume for this question only, that in
1984, Boris built a multiple-family
apartment house on Elmacres. In a
lawsuit for $40,000 (damages to com-
pensate Adam for the fact that Boris did
not honor the 1980 agreement), Adam
should:

A. Win, because Boris broke the

1980 promise.

B. Win, but only if the burden of the
covenant touches and concerns
land.

C. Win, but only if the benefit of the
covenant touches and concerns
land.

D. Win, but only if the benefit and
the burden of the covenant touch
and concern land. 

PROPERTY 411

    
Q  

C. Lose, because Adam and Boris
are not in horizontal privity with
each other.

D. Lose, but only if Adam seeks
damages and not an injunction.

58. Assume for this question only, that the
1980 promise by Boris to Adam was
not made in the Adam-Boris deed, but
made in a written, notarized document
executed, delivered and recorded one
month later for which Adam paid Boris
$1,000. Assume further that in 1991,
Della built a multiple-family apartment
house on Elmacres. In a lawsuit for
$40,000 (damages to compensate Car-
ole for the fact that Della did not honor
the 1980 agreement), Carole should:

A. Win, because Della broke the

1980 promise.

B. Win, but only if the benefit and
the burden of the covenant touch
and concern land.

C. Lose, because Adam and Boris
are not in horizontal privity with
each other.

D. Lose, but only if the surround-
ing properties were zoned for
multi-family dwellings so as to
make Della's restriction an eco-
nomically inefficient use of the
land. 

56. Assume for this question only, that in
1988, Boris built a multiple-family
apartment house on Elmacres. In a
lawsuit for $40,000 (damages to com-
pensate Carole for the fact that Boris did
not honor the 1980 agreement), Carole
should:

A. Lose, even though Boris broke

the 1980 promise.

B. Win, but only if the burden of the
covenant runs with the land.

C. Win, but only if the benefit of the
covenant runs with the land.

D. Win, but only if the benefit and
the burden of the covenant run
with the land.

57. Assume for this question only, that the
1980 promise by Boris to Adam was
not made in the Adam-Boris deed, but
made in a written, notarized document
executed, delivered and recorded one
month later for which Adam paid Boris
$1,000. Assume further that in 1984,
Boris built a multiple-family apartment
house on Elmacres. In a lawsuit for
$40,000 (damages to compensate Adam
for the fact that Boris did not honor the
1980 agreement), Adam should:

A. Win, because Boris broke the

1980 promise.

B. Win, but only if the benefit and
the burden of the covenant touch
and concern land.

412 PROPERTY

59. Ginny is the fee simple owner of
Strawacres (a tract of land). In 1980,
Ginny built a house on Strawacres and
began occupying the property. In 1992,
because she had never had a place to
park her car before, Ginny built a garage
on Strawacres. In 1991, she conveyed
the mineral rights to the land beneath
Strawacres to Horace, who immediately
began mining the minerals. Horace
enlarged his mining operations under
Strawacres, in 1993, until his exca-
vation caused subsidence damage to
Ginny's house and garage. In a lawsuit
by Ginny against Horace for subsidence
damage to her house and garage on
Strawacres, if Ginny cannot prove that
Horace negligently excavated beneath
Strawacres, she will recover:

A. Nothing.

B. Damages for the house, but not

for the garage.

C. Damages for the garage, but not

for the house.

D. Damages for the house and ga-

rage.

60. Chad owned Treeacres (a tract of land)
in fee simple absolute. He conveyed it
"to Della, her heirs and assigns; pro-
vided that if my sister, Ellen, should
ever have a son, then to that son, his
heirs and assigns." The limitation to
Ellen's "son, his heirs and assigns" is:

Q

1:I
0
'CP
m

A. Valid, because Ellen's son's
interest is vested subject to com-
plete divestment.

B. Valid, because the Rule Against
Perpetuities does not apply to
Ellen's son's interest

C. Valid, because Ellen's son's in-
terest will vest, if at all, within a
life in being at the creation of the
interest.

D. Invalid.

PROPERTY 413

  
C. Not owe 1/2 of the property taxes
paid by Carl, but receive an offset
for the fair market rental value of
Carl's use of the property.

D. Not owe 1/2 of the property taxes
paid by Carl, and not receive an
offset for the fair market rental
value of Carl's use of the prop-
erty.

63. Ellen was the owner of Whiteacre, a
tract of land which she owned in fee
simple absolute. In 1950, Ellen con-
veyed Whiteacre as follows: "to Fran-
cisco for life, and then to Francisco's
children for life, and then to Francisco's
grandchildren." In 1950, Francisco was
40-years-old and had two living chil-
dren, Guadalupe and Hortensia, but no
grandchildren. In 1952, another daugh-
ter of Francisco, Isabella was born, but
Isabella only lived until 1982. Which of
Francisco's grandchildren may receive
an interest under Ellen's 1950 convey-
ance?

A. The children, if any, of Guada-
lupe, Hortensia and Isabella,
since the "all or nothing" rule
applies.

B. The children, if any, of Guada-
lupe and Hortensia, but not Isa-
bella, since Isabella was born af-
ter the date of the conveyance. 

Questions 61— 62 are based on the
following facts:

In 1980, Albertine conveyed Blackacre,
which she owned in fee simple absolute,
"to Benny and Carl, jointly and forever."
In 1990, Benny died, willing Blackacre to
Della. Carl, believing himself to be the sole
owner of Blackacre, lived on Blackacre and
paid all property taxes.

61. In 1990, after Benny's death, the title

to the property is held:

A. By Carl only.

B. By Della only.

C. By Carl and Della as joint ten-

ants.

D. By Carl and Della as tenants in

common.

62. Assume for this question only, that
Carl and Della are tenants in common.
In 1993, if Della sues Carl for an ac-
counting as a result of that action, Della
will:

A. Owe 1/2 of the property taxes
paid by Carl, but receive an
offset for the fair market rental
value of Carl's use of the prop-
erty.

B. Owe 1/2 of the property taxes
paid by Carl, but not receive an
offset for the fair market rental
value of Carl's use of the prop-
erty.

414 PROPERTY

C. The children, if any, of Isabella
only, since in a per stirpes dis-
tribution, each child will receive
his or her deceased parent's
share.

D. None, since the "all or nothing"

rule applies.

64. In 1960, Joe was the owner of Blueacre,
a tract of land which he owned in fee
simple absolute. In that year he died,
willing Blueacre "to Kermit for life,
then to Kermit's children for life, and
then to Kermit's heirs." In 1960, Ker-
mit had one child. Kermit's interest in
Blueacre, after this devise, is a:

A. Life estate.

B. Fee simple absolute.

C. Life estate and a vested remain-

der.

D. None of the above.

0
-0
m

-4

65. Larry is the fee simple absolute owner
of Greenacre, a tract of land with a
house located in the state of Columbia.
In 1980, Larry was 18 and lived with
his parents in the state of Marbury,
100 miles away from Greenacre. In
1980, Maxella moved into the house
on Greenacre, planted a vegetable
garden, paid all taxes and assessments
on Greenacre, and received mail and
telephone service at that address. In
1982, Larry suffered a traumatic injury,
became insane and was committed to a
psychiatric hospital. The age of major-
ity in Columbia is 21. Assuming that
Columbia follows the common law of
real property, when, if ever, does Max-
ella gain title to Greenacre?

A. The year 2000.

B. The year 2003.

C. Twenty years after Larry regains

his sanity.

D. Never. 

PROPERTY 415

Q

>.i-
ce
w
CL
0
ce
a

Questions 66 — 68 are based on the
following facts:

Laurette leased to Ted 400 square feet of of-
fice space and four parking spaces in a park-
ing garage to be constructed next door to the
leased office building. That lease contained
a covenant by Ted to pay Laurette $200 per
month for a term of three years, and another
covenant to paint and maintain the parking
spaces in conformance with city codes. The
lease also prohibited assignments and/or
subleases without the prior permission of
the landlord. Six months after Ted signed
the lease, the parking garage was completed
and Ted began the rental term and moved
into the office. One year into his lease, Ted
transferred his interest in the office and
parking spaces to Tina. Laurette wrote a
letter to Tina, stating that she (Laurette) ac-
cepted Tina as an assignee under the lease.
After nine months, however, Tina moved
out and transferred her interest in the office
and parking spaces to Tomasso, who moved
into the property.

66. Assume for this question only, that
Laurette refused to accept Tomasso as
a tenant and accepted no money from
him. If Tomasso sues Laurette to force
her to accept him as a tenant, Tomasso's
best argument would be that:

A. Lease covenants are strictly con-
strued against the landlord.

B. A covenant prohibiting assign-
ments does not prohibit sub-
leases, and vice versa. 

416 PROPERTY

C. The Rule in Dumpor's case re-
quires the landlord to accept this
assignment.

D. The Rule in Spencer's case re-
quires the landlord to accept this
assignment.

67. Assume for this question only, that To-
masso pays rent to Laurette who accepts
it, but that Tomasso refuses to maintain
the parking spaces according to the city
code. If Laurette sues Tomasso for dam-
ages under the lease provision regarding
the maintenance of the parking spaces
and Laurette loses, it will most likely
be because:

A. A covenant concerning a thing
not yet in existence must ex-
pressly mention assignees in
order to bind them.

B. There is no horizontal privity for

the covenant.

C. The benefit of the covenant does
not increase or enhance the value
of the land or the landlord's es-
tate therein.

D. The burden of the covenant does
not curtail the use of the land or
diminish the value of the tenant's
estate therein.

68. Assume for this question only, that
Laurette accepted Tomasso as an as-
signee, but that Tomasso never moved
in. Assume further, that neither Tina nor
Tomasso ever paid rent. At the end of
the lease term, Laurette may collect:

A. $3000 from Tomasso, under

privity of contract.

B. $3000 from Tomasso, under

privity of estate.

C. $4800 from Tina, under privity

of contract.

D. $1800 from Tina, under privity

of estate.

69. In 1990, Nevill is the fee simple ab-
solute owner of Yellowacre, a tract of
land with a house located in the state of
Franklin. In 1990, Olive moved into the
house on Yellowacre and lived in that
house intermittently for twenty years,
without Nevill's permission. Assuming
that Franklin follows the common law
of real property, after the twenty year
period, who holds title to Yellowacre?

A. Olive, because intermittent use
is consistent with the nature of
the property.

B. Olive, if intermittent use is
consistent with the nature of the
property.

Q

C. Nevill, because intermittent use
is consistent with the nature of
the property.

D. Nevill, if intermittent use is
consistent with the nature of the
property. 

PROPERTY 417

  
ce
0
0
ce

Questions 70 — 73 are based on the
following facts:

Owen was the fee simple absolute owner of
Redacres, a twenty acre tract of land. Owen
contracted to sell Redacres to Albert in fee
simple absolute, for $40,000, by warranty
deed. After the close of escrow and delivery
of the warranty deed to Albert in fee simple
absolute, Albert discovered that Owen was
not the sole owner of Redacre; he was a ten-
ant in common with Lee. The value of that
land as a sole interest was $40,000; the value
of that land as an undivided 1/2, as tenant in
common, was $15,000.

70. Assume for this question only, that
Albert sues Owen in a timely manner
for breach of the covenant of seisin. If
Albert prevails, his damages will be:

A. $20,000.

B. $25,000.

C. $40,000.

D. $50,000.

72. Assume for this question only, that
Albert remained unaware of Owen's
tenancy in common interest in Redacres
with Lee. Albert then sold Redacres by
warranty deed for $50,000 to Bea. After
Bea paid the money to Albert and ac-
cepted the deed, Lee sued Bea to quiet
title in himself as a tenant in common
in Redacres with Bea. If Bea then sues
Albert for breach of one of the cov-
enants for title in the Albert-Bea deed,
Bea will recover:

A. $15,000.

B. $20,000.

C. $25,000.

D. $40,000.

71. Assume for this question only, that Al-
bert purchased a title insurance policy
for $50,000 on the property, but that the
title insurance company did not disclose
to Albert the fact that Owen only owned
a tenancy in common interest in Red-
acres. That fact was discovered by the
title insurance company during its title
search. If Albert sues the title insurance
company and prevails, his damages will
be:

418 PROPERTY

A. $20,000.

B. $25,000.

C. $40,000.

D. $50,000.

73. Assume the same facts as in question
72, except that the deed from Albert to
Bea was a quitclaim deed. If Bea sues
Owen for breach of one of the title
covenants, her damages will be:

A. $0, she received a quitclaim

deed.

B. $20,000.  

C. $25,000.

D. $40,000.

74. In 1950, Paulette, the fee simple owner
of Purpleacres, conveyed Purpleacres, a
house and farm in the state of Madison,
"to Quintin for life, then to Rula in fee
simple." Quintin never moved onto
Purpleacres. Instead, in 1951, Sara did
so and used the property as her own. In
1966, Quintin died. Rula never moved
to Purpleacres, and Sara continued to
live there. Assuming that the state of
Madison follows the common law of
real property, when, if ever, does Sara
become the owner of Purpleacres?

A. The year 1969.

B. The year 1971.

C. The year 1986.

D. Never.

75. Assume the same facts as in question
74, except that Sara moved onto Pur-
pleacres in 1949. Assuming that the
state of Madison follows the common
law of real property, when, if ever,
does Sara become the owner of Pur-
pleacres?

A. The year 1969.

B. The year 1971.

C. The year 1986.  

0
'CP
m

D. Never.

76. Wilbur owns a one-acre tract of land
in the state of Jefferson. That land was
located five miles away from the near-
est source of fresh water, the Jefferson
River. If Wilbur wants to transport
water from the Jefferson River to use
to irrigate his crops, which system of
water rights for the state of Jefferson
will best allow him to do so?

I. Natural Flow Riparian

Rights.

II. Reasonable Use Riparian

Rights.

III. Prior Appropriation

Rights.

A. I and II only.

B. II only.

C. III only.

D. None of the above.

PROPERTY 419

77. Sam orally agreed to sell Orangeacre to
Beth for $100,000. That agreement was
reduced to a writing, which complied
with all the formalities for the statute of
frauds. It stated that Sam would transfer
by marketable title via a warranty deed
a fee simple absolute in Orangeacre to
Beth on July 1. Sam contracted in writ-
ing for Theresa to sign that Sam-Beth
agreement as Sam's agent. Beth orally
arranged to have Carlos sign that same
agreement for Beth as her agent. The
agreement described above was signed
by "Theresa as agent for Sam, the seller
"and by Carlos, "as agent for Beth, the
buyer." Beth later refused to complete
the purchase of Orangeacre. If Sam
sues Beth, and Beth pleads the statute
of frauds as a defense, Sam will:

A. Win, because the land sales con-

tract was in writing.

B. Win, because the Sam-Theresa

contract was in writing.

C. Lose, because the Beth-Carlos
contract was not in writing.

D. Lose, because the land sales con-
tract was not personally signed
by the parties to be charged.

420 PROPERTY

Questions 78 — 79 are based on the
following facts:

In 1930, Lee, the fee simple absolute owner,
conveyed Violetacres "to Harry for life, then
to Lee's heirs." In 1940, Mark, the fee simple
absolute owner, conveyed Indigoacres "to
Harry as long as California requires attorneys
to pass the California Bar Examination." In
1950, Nell, the fee simple absolute owner,
conveyed Purpleacres "to Harry forever." In
1960, Harry married Wendy. In 1970, Harry
died; willing all his real property to Oscar.
Violetacres, Indigoacres and Purpleacres are
all located in the state of Adams, and Adams
retains the law pertaining to dower.

78. If Wendy sues to claim her dower
interest in Harry's property, in which
property(s) will she receive an inter-
est?

I. Violetacres.

II. Indigoacres.

III. Purpleacres.

A. I, II and III.

B. I and II only.

C. II and III only.

D. Neither I, II nor III.

79. If Wendy sues to receive her dower
interest in Harry's real property, the
interest she will receive is: 

A. A fee simple absolute in all

seised lands.

B. A life estate in all seised lands.

C. A 1/2 interest in all seised

lands.

D. A 1/3 interest in all seised

lands.

80. Bella orally agreed to purchase, and Sal-
ly agreed to sell Greyacre for $100,000.
The parties reduced the agreement to a
writing which contained all of the ele-
ments required by the statute of frauds,
except that there was no mention of the
$100,000 purchase price (upon which
Sally and Bella agreed.) Sally has re-
fused to consummate the transaction
and deliver a deed to Greyacre. In an
action for specific performance by Bella
against Sally, Sally has claimed the
statute of frauds as a aefense. If Bella
offers into evidence the above described
written agreement, and also credible
evidence that the parties discussed and
agreed upon the $100,000 purchase
price, Bella's lawsuit for specific per-
formance will:

A. Succeed, because the law will
imply that the reasonable market
value of Greyacre was discussed
and agreed upon by the contract-
ing parties — even if the fair mar-
ket value was not the purchase
price orally agreed upon.  

Q

0
m

B. Succeed, because if the price
agreed upon is a fair and equi-
table one, the seller is estopped
from pleading the statute of
frauds as a defense and that term
may be implied into the written
memorandum.

C. Fail, because Bella has not of-
fered evidence that $100,000
is the fair market value of Grey-
acre.

D. Fail, because price is an essential
element of a written memoran-
dum necessary to satisfy the
statute of frauds.

PROPERTY 421

Q

Questions 81 — 84 are based on the
following facts:

In 1950, Lee, a fee simple owner of Scarleta-
cre, conveyed Scarletacre "to Agnes and the
heirs of her body." In 1965 Agnes conveyed
the property " to Bruno for life." In 1980,
Agnes died, survived by Bruno, Carlotta (the
child of Agnes) and Lee.

81. In 1950, after the conveyance of Scarle-
tacre to Agnes, what is the interest that
Lee has in that property?

A. A possibility of reverter.

B. A right of entry.

C. A reversion.

D. None of the above.

82. In 1965, after Agnes' conveyance to
Bruno, what is the interest that Bruno
has in Scarletacre?

A. A life estate for the life of Agnes
or Bruno, whomever dies first.

B. A life estate for the life of Agnes
or Bruno, whomever dies last.

C. A life estate for the life of Agnes

only.

A. A life estate.

B. A fee simple absolute.

C. A remainder after Bruno's life

estate.

D. A fee tail.

84. In 1980, after Agnes' death, what is the
interest that Lee has in Scarletacre?

A. A possibility of reverter.

B. A right of entry.

C. A reversion.

D. None of the above.

85. Yvette owns a tract of land located in the
state of Monroe, adjacent to the Monroe
River. Yvette's land is downstream from
the land owned by Zack. Both Yvette
and Zack have water rights protected
by the laws of Monroe. Assume that
Yvette is receiving the same amount of
water for her needs as she always had,
but that Zack has increased his use of
the water, thereby reducing the flow of
water past Yvette's land. If Yvette seeks
to enjoin Zack's additional diversion
of water for his use, she will prevail if
Monroe follows:

D. A life estate for the life of Bruno

A. Natural flow riparian rights

only.

theory only.

83. In 1980, after Agnes' death, what is the
interest that Carlotta has in Scarleta-
cre?

B. Reasonable use riparian rights

theory only. 

422 PROPERTY

C. Either natural flow riparian rights
theory or reasonable use riparian
rights theory.

D. None of the above.

86. The state of Jackson has a zoning or-
dinance which classifies property uses
into four types: single-family residen-
tial; multi-family residential; com-
mercial; and industrial. Single-family
residential is considered the highest use
of a property, next multi-family, then
commercial, and industrial is the lowest
use. Jackson's zoning ordinances are
cumulative. Which uses are permitted
in the multi-family residential zone?

I. Single-family residen-

tial.

II. Multi-family residen-

tial.

III. Commercial.

IV. Industrial.

A. I and IV only.

B. II only.

C. I and II only.

D. II, III and IV only.

Q

Questions 87 — 89 are based on the
following facts:

In 1960, Juan was the fee simple owner of
Taupeacres, a tract of land with a house on
it. In 1961, the telephone company requested
and received a written agreement from Juan
giving the company the right to install and
maintain telephone poles and wires across
Taupeacres. The telephone company did
in fact install poles and wires across Tau-
peacres.

87. If in 1972 Juan sues to remove the
telephone wires from Taupeacres and
he loses, it will probably be because:

A. The telephone company has a

license.

B. The telephone company has an

easement.

C. The telephone company has
gained title to Taupeacres by
prescription.

D. The telephone company has an
easement by necessity, since
phone service is necessary in
today's society.

88. Assume for this question only, that in
1975 the telephone company permitted
a cable television company to place
its cables on the telephone company's
poles which crossed Taupeacres. If Juan
sues to prevent the cable company's use
of his land, Juan's best argument will
be: 

PROPERTY 423

Q

A. The telephone company has a

non-exclusive easement.

Questions 90 — 91 are based on the
following facts:

B. The telephone company has an

exclusive easement.

C. The telephone company has an

easement in gross.

D. The telephone company has an

easement by prescription.

89. Assume for this question only, that the
1961 agreement between Juan and the
telephone company was oral instead of
written. If in 1972 Juan sues the tele-
phone company to force the company
to remove its poles and wires from
Taupeacres and Juan loses, it will most
likely be because:

A. The telephone company has a

permanent easement.

B. The telephone company has a

revocable license.

C. The telephone company has a

prescriptive easement.

D. The telephone company has an

irrevocable license.

424 PROPERTY

In 1960, Chad, the fee simple owner of
Magentaacres, a tract of land, conveyed that
property "to the school board to be used for
school purposes only." The school board
accepted the gift and constructed a school
on the property in 1961. The school board
continued to use the property as a school
until 1993, when due to a population shift
in the community, the school board decided
to level the school building and construct a
gas station/mini-market on Magentaacres.
All parties concede that the property has not
been used for school purposes since 1993.

90. In 1994, the school board seeks to quiet
title to Magentaacres in itself. A court
will most likely quiet title to the prop-
erty in:

A. The school board, in fee simple

absolute.

B. The school board, but only until
Chad retakes the property.

C. Chad, in fee simple absolute.

D. Chad, but only if it is not eco-
nomically efficient to continue to
use Magentaacres as a school.

91. For which interest in land should Chad's
lawyer argue, in order to retain for Chad
the greatest possible rights in Magenta-
acres, as a result of this conveyance?

A. A right of entry. 

B. A power of termination.

C. A possibility of reverter.

D. A reversion.

Q     

Questions 92 — 93 are based on the
following facts:   

Louisa leased an apartment to Tilly for
twenty-four months, beginning January 1,
1991. The lease was in writing and provided
for an annual rental of $4,800, payable in 12
monthly installments. On January 1, 1991,
Louisa handed the keys to the apartment to
Tilly. However, the previous tenant, Tom,
was still in possession of the apartment. 

92. The type of tenancy created in Tilly by

the lease agreement was a:

A. Periodic tenancy, whose term is
month-to-month because of the
monthly rental installments.

B. Periodic tenancy, whose term is
year-to-year because the lease
states an annual rental term of
$4,800.

C. Tenancy at will, which is turned
into a periodic tenancy by the
acceptance of rent.

D. Tenancy for years, because a
definite ending date is provided
in the lease.

93. If Tilly sues Louisa claiming a violation
of the landlord's duties towards a ten-
ant because of the continued presence
of Tom in the apartment, Tilly, under
modern law, should:

A. Win, because Tilly is entitled to
actual possession of the estate
promised by Louisa. 

PROPERTY 425

    
LLI
CL
0

B. Win, because Louisa's lease
with Tilly is an election by the
landlord to treat Tom's tenancy
at sufferance as a trespass.

C. Lose, because Tilly, as the owner
of the non-freehold estate, is
entitled to possession of the
apartment and therefore is the
only one entitled to sue Tom in
ejectment.

D. Lose, because Louisa has fully
delivered the legal right to pos-
session to Tilly.

Questions 94 — 95 are based on the
following facts:

In 1960, Bo owned twenty acres with a house
on the south 1/2 of the property. Bo cleared
a dirt road from the house to the only public
road which ran along the north frontage of
the property. In 1970, Bo gave, by warranty
deed, the north 1/2 of the property to Celia
and kept for himself the south 1/2 with the
house. Bo continued to use the dirt road to
reach the public highway.

94. In 1989, if Bo is able to use the dirt
road access Celia's property over her
objections, it is because he has an:

I. Easement by Implica-
tion/Quasi-Easement.

II. Easement by Necessity.

III. Easement by Prescrip-

tion.

A. I and II only.

B. II and III only.

C. I and III only.

D. I, II and III.

95. Assume for this question only, that in
1988 the county put in a new road along
the southern frontage of Bo's property.
If Celia seeks to prevent Bo from using
the dirt road across Celia's property,
Bo's strongest argument in opposition
will be that he (Bo) has: 

426 PROPERTY

A. An easement by prescription.

B. An easement by implication/

Quasi-easement.

C. An easement by necessity.

D. A license.

Questions 96 — 99 are based on the
following facts:  

0
"CP 

Minny and Nora are owners of adjoining
land. In 1970, Minny promises Nora that
Minny will maintain her land forever, as a
single-family residence, only. That promise
was made in writing and was recorded with
the county recorders office. In 1975, Nora
conveyed her property to Peter, who did not
have actual knowledge of the promise.  

96. Assume for this question only, that in
1980 Minny develops her land as a
multiple-family apartment complex.
If Peter sues Minny for damages for
breaching the 1970 Minny-Nora prom-
ise, Peter will:

A. Win, because the covenant runs

with the land.

B. Lose, because there is no vertical

privity.

C. Lose, because there is no hori-

zontal privity.

D. Lose, because the covenant does
not touch and concern land.

97. Assume for this question only, that in
1976 Minny conveys her property to
Otto, who does not have actual knowl-
edge of the promise. In 1980, Otto
develops his land as a multiple-family
apartment complex. If Peter sues Otto
for damages for breaching the 1970
Minny-Nora promise, Peter will: 

PROPERTY 427

          
A. Win, because the covenant runs

with the land.

B. Lose, because there is no vertical

privity.

C. Lose, because there is no hori-

zontal privity.

D. Lose, because the covenant does
not touch and concern land.

99. Assume for this question only, that the
1970 promise was not in writing and
therefore was not recorded. Assume
further, that in 1976 Minny conveys
her property to Otto, who does not have
actual knowledge of the promise. In
1980, Otto wishes to develop his land as
a multiple-family apartment complex. If
Peter sues Otto to specifically enforce
the 1970 Minny-Nora promise against
Otto, Peter will:

A. Win, but only if Minny and Nora
had an interest in the same land
at the same time in 1970.

B. Win, but only if the character
of the land was such to make
Otto aware of the single-family
restriction.

C. Lose, because the 1970 promise

was not in writing.

D. Lose, because there was no com-
mon plan or scheme for all of the
lots.

98. Assume for this question only, that
in 1976 Minny conveys her prop-
erty to Otto, who does not have actual
knowledge of the promise. In 1980,
Otto wishes to develop his land as a
multiple-family apartment complex. If
Peter sues Otto to specifically enforce
the 1970 Minny-Nora promise against
Otto, Peter will:

A. Win, but only if Minny and Nora
had an interest in the same land
at the same time in 1970.

B. Lose, because the promise does
not touch and concern land.

C. Lose, because there is no vertical

privity.

D. Lose, but only if the notice was

insufficient. 

428 PROPERTY

Q

0
m
7C1

100. Larry leased Brownacres to Tilly for
a period of three years beginning
November 1, 1990. On November 5,
1993, Tilly was still in possession of
Brownacres without obtaining Larry's
prior consent to her continued presence
on the property. As of that date, she has
not paid Larry any money for her pos-
session of Brownacres after October
31, 1993. Before Larry decides what
legal action to take with respect to
Tilly's continued presence on Browna-
cres, she may best be describe as a:

A. Periodic tenant.

B. Tenant for years.

C. Tenant at sufferance.

D. Trespasser.

101. One of the principal differences be-
tween a mortgage and a deed of trust
is:

A. A mortgage can be foreclosed
by a judicial sale, a deed of trust
cannot.

B. A deed of trust can be foreclosed
by a judicial sale, a mortgage
cannot.

C. A mortgage can be foreclosed
by a private sale, a deed of trust
cannot.

D. A deed of trust can be foreclosed
by a private sale, a mortgage can-
not.

102. Bernice agreed in writing to buy
Sarah's land. Since Bernice did not
have enough cash to pay the purchase
price immediately, they entered into
the following land security device
agreement. Their agreement stated that
Bernice would pay Sarah a monthly
percentage of the total purchase price
plus interest each month until the total
price and accrued interest was paid.
Bernice had the legal right to posses-
sion of the property and the obligation
to pay taxes, etc. on it. As security for
the money owed, Sarah would transfer
legal title to Bernice when the total
price was paid. If at any time Bernice
defaulted on her payments, Sarah
could cancel the agreement, retain all
moneys paid, and retake possession.
This land security device is most prop-
erly described as:

A. A deed of trust.

B. An installment land contract.

C. A mortgage.

D. A present transfer of a leasehold
coupled with a future interest
in fee simple absolute when
Bernice pays the full purchase
price.

PROPERTY

429

C. Both Ellen and Frank. Even af-
ter the transfer, unless there is a
novation, Ellen is still personally
liable on the mortgage.

D. Frank. He is substituted for Ellen
with respect to the mortgage.

105. Gayle sold Blueacre to Hector, who
gave her a 30 year mortgage as security
for the purchase price. Fifteen years
later, Hector sold Blueacre to Ignatz,
who assumed the mortgage. Ignatz
defaulted and Blueacre was sold at a
judicial sale for less than the remaining
debt. From whom can Gayle collect the
deficiency on the debt?

A. Hector.

B. Ignatz.

C. Hector and Ignatz.

D. Neither Hector nor Ignatz.

103. Aaron borrowed $100,000 from Barry
to purchase Blackacre. In return, he
gave Barry a mortgage on Blackacre
for 30 years. After 15 years, Aaron
sold Blackacre to Carla who began
paying the mortgage debt to Barry.
However, after 5 years of payments,
Carla moved from Blackacre and
stopped paying rent. Which of the fol-
lowing people are personally liable on
the mortgage to Barry?

A. Aaron.

B. Carla.

C. Aaron and Carla.

D. Neither Aaron nor Carla.

104. Dilbert bought Greenacre from Ellen
who took a mortgage from him in
return for lending him the money for
the purchase price. Ellen transferred
her interest in the mortgage to Frank.
The Ellen-to-Frank agreement was
silent as to whether Frank assumed the
mortgage along with Ellen's interest in
it. After the Ellen-Frank transfer, the
mortgagee's rights and responsibilities
lie with:

A. Ellen. If a transfer is silent, it is
presumed to be taken "subject
to" the mortgage.

B. Frank. If a transfer is silent, the
transferee is presumed to be "as-
suming" the mortgage. 

430 PROPERTY

Q

106. Jerrold sold Goldacre to Kyle, who
gave him a 30 year mortgage as se-
curity for the purchase price. Fifteen
years later, Lyle sold Goldacre to
Lilly, who assumed the mortgage. As
a result of the transfer, Jerrold agreed
to release Kyle from the debt since
the property was worth more than
the outstanding mortgage. However,
property values fell and the mortgage
exceeded the value of the land. Lilly
defaulted and Goldacre was sold at a
judicial sale for less than the remaining
debt. From whom can Jerrold collect
the deficiency on the debt?

A. Kyle.

B. Lilly.

C. Kyle and Lilly.

D. Neither Kyle nor Lilly.

107. In 1960, Marcy and Bob owned Sil-
veracre, which they mortgaged to
Adam for 30 years in order to borrow
$150,000 from him. In 1970, Marcy
and Bob sold Silveracre to Della for
$200,000. Della did not agree to as-
sume the mortgage and she moved
onto the property. In 1980, Marcy and
Bob defaulted on the mortgage. Adam
now wishes to sell the property at a
judicial sale without Della's consent.
May he do so?

A. Yes. Della took the property sub-
ject to the mortgage and cannot
prevent the sale, even though she
is not liable on the debt.

B. No. Della took the property
subject to the mortgage and she
is not liable on the debt. The
property cannot be foreclosed
upon without her consent.

C. Yes. Marcy and Bob did not
pay Adam in 1970 when they
received $200,000 from Della.
Della should have insisted that
they do so and, therefore, is not
a BFP.

D. No. Della paid $200,000 to the
original mortgagor, more money
than the outstanding debt, there-
fore, she has been equitably
discharged from the mortgage.

108. In 1980, Nancy mortgaged Orangeacre
to Orville for $100,000. In 1985, Nan-
cy borrowed $35,000 from Paula and
gave another mortgage on Orangeacre.
Paula was aware of Orville's mortgage.
In 1990, Nancy defaulted on Orville's
loan on which there was an outstanding
balance of $80,000, although she did
not default on her loan from Paula. Af-
ter giving notice to all relevant parties,
Orville foreclosed and had the property
sold at a judicial sale for $120,000 after
court costs, etc. The proper distribution
of the foreclosure proceeds is:

PROPERTY

431

Q

LLI
0-
0

A. $80,000 to Orville first, then
$40,000 to Nancy, since she is
not in default to Paula.

B. $35,000 to Paula first, because
she has had the security for her
mortgage taken away without
any action on her part, then
$80,000 to Orville, and last
$5,000 to Nancy.

C. $80,000 to Orville by first in
time, first in right, then $35,000
to Paula, and last $5,000 to
Nancy.

D. $80,000 to Orville by first in
time, first in right, then $35,000
to Paula, and the remaining
$5,000 to be divided by Or-
ville and Paula according to
their mortgage percentages be-
cause Nancy is the person in
default and cannot profit from
her wrongdoing.

109. In 1970, Rhetta mortgaged Redacre
to Tom for $100,000. In 1980, Rhetta
borrowed $45,000 from Sally and
gave another mortgage on Redacre.
Sally was aware of Tom's mortgage.
In 1985, Rhetta defaulted on Tom's
loan on which there was an outstand-
ing balance of $80,000, and she also
defaulted on her loan from Sally ow-
ing $40,000. After giving notice to all
relevant parties, Tom foreclosed and
had the property sold at a judicial sale
for $90,000 after court costs, etc. The
proper distribution of the foreclosure
proceeds is:

A. $60,000 to Tom (2/3 of $90,000),
$30,000 to Sally (1/3 of $90,000)
— since Tom is owed twice as
much as Sally by Rhetta.

B. $60,000 to Tom (75% of
$80,000), $30,000 to Sally (75%
of 40,000) — since $90,000
is 75% of $120,000 the total
amount owed.

C. $50,000 to Tom, $40,000 to Sally
since she is the junior mortgag-
ee.

D. $80,000 to Tom, $10,000 to Sally
since she is the junior mortgag-
ee. 

432 PROPERTY

Q

0
m

111. In 1970, Xenia mortgaged Purpleacre
to Zack for $100,000. In 1980, Xenia
borrowed $45,000 from Yvetta and
gave another mortgage on Purpleacre.
Yvetta was aware of Zack's mortgage.
In 1985, Xenia defaulted on Zack's
loan, on which there was an outstand-
ing balance of $90,000, but she was
not in default on the second mortgage
to Yvetta. After giving notice to all
relevant parties, Zack foreclosed and
had the property sold to Arthur at a
judicial sale for $90,000 after court
costs, etc. What is the state of the title
to Purpleacre after the judicial sale to
Arthur?

A. Title is free and clear in Arthur.

B. Title is in Arthur, subject to

Yvetta's mortgage.

C. Title is free and clear in Arthur,
but only if he pays the balance
on Yvetta's mortgage.

D. Title is in Yvetta, but held in trust

for Arthur.

110. In 1980, Ursala mortgaged Copperacre
to Vern for $100,000. In 1985, Ursala
borrowed $50,000 from Wilma and
gave Wilma a mortgage on Copper-
acre. Wilma was aware of Vern's
mortgage. In 1990, Ursala defaulted on
her loan to Vern, owing him $80,000.
She did not default on her loan to
Wilma, of which $40,000 remained.
Vern foreclosed on his mortgage, but
did not give Wilma notice of the fore-
closure or the resulting sale. That sale
netted $80,000. Wilma's rights in her
mortgage after Vern's foreclosure:

A. Are extinguished; she was the
junior claimant and there is no
money left from the sale.

B. Are extinguished, but only if
the buyer at the foreclosure sale
was unaware that Wilma was not
given notice of the sale.

C. Are not extinguished; since she
was not given notice, the prop-
erty remains subject to her mort-
gage and Ursala is still liable to
her personally.

D. Are not extinguished; since she
was not given notice, she is
entitled to be fully paid before
Vern.

PROPERTY

433

>-

LLI

0
ce

Questions 112 — 113 are based on
the following facts:

C. $40,000 to Cynthia, $50,000 to

Alice.

In 1970, Alice mortgaged Yellowacre to
Benjamin for $100,000. In 1980, Alice
borrowed $45,000 from Cynthia and gave
another mortgage on Yellowacre. Cynthia
was aware of Benjamin's mortgage. In
1985, Alice defaulted on Cynthia's loan on
which there was an outstanding balance of
$40,000, but she was not in default on the
first mortgage to Benjamin on which there
was still $85,000 owing. After giving notice
to all relevant parties, Cynthia foreclosed
and had the property sold to Ed at a judicial
sale for $90,000 after court costs, etc.

112. What is the state of the title to Yellow-
acre after the judicial sale to Ed?

A. Title is free and clear in Ed.

B. Title is in Ed, subject to Ben-

jamin's mortgage.

C. Title would be free and clear in
Ed, but only if the proceeds had
been enough to pay the balance
on Benjamin's mortgage.

D. Title is in Benjamin, but held in

trust for Ed.

113. How should the proceeds of the judi-

cial sale be distributed?

A. $85,000 to Benjamin, $5,000 to

Cynthia.

D. None of the above.

114. In 1980, Fiona mortgaged Browna-
cre to Gus for $100,000. Gus did not
record his mortgage although he was
permitted to do so by the state's record-
ing act. In 1985, Fiona sold Browna-
cre by warranty deed to Howard for
$150,000. Howard had no actual
knowledge of Gus's mortgage. What
is the state of the title to Brownacre in
1986?

A. Free and clear in Howard.

B. In Howard, subject to Gus's

mortgage.

C. In Howard, who has a claim for
breach of the covenant of seisin
against Fiona.

D. In Howard, who has a claim of
breach of the covenant against
encumbrances against Fiona.

115. In 1980, Julie mortgaged Whiteacre to
Mel for $100,000. Mel did not record
his mortgage, since the state's record-
ing act did not encompass property
liens. In 1985, Julie sold Whiteacre by
warranty deed to Kurt for $150,000.
Kurt had no actual knowledge of Mel's
mortgage. What is the state of the title
in 1986?

B. $40,000 to Cynthia, $50,000 to

A. Free and clear in Kurt. 

Benjamin.

434 PROPERTY

	
	
Q

B. In Kurt, subject to Mel's mort-

gage.

C. In Kurt, who has a claim for
breach of the covenant of seisin
against Julie.

D. In Kurt, who has a claim of
breach of the covenant of war-
ranty against Julie.

117. In 1970, Pete mortgaged Greyacre
to Quentin. Quentin did not record,
although the state's recording act per-
mitted the recording of liens. In 1975,
Pete transferred his mortgage to Ruby,
who assumed that mortgage. In 1980,
the mortgage went into default and
Greyacre was sold for less than the
outstanding balance on the mortgage.
What are Quentin's rights? 

116. In 1980, Oprah mortgaged Pinkacre to
Lou for $100,000. Lou did not record
his mortgage since the state's record-
ing act did not encompass property
liens. In 1985, Oprah sold Pinkacre
by warranty deed to Ned for $150,000.
Ned had no actual knowledge of Lou's
mortgage. If Ned's property is now
burdened with Lou's mortgage, al-
though not yet in default, Ned can sue
Oprah:

A. For breach of the covenant of

quiet use and enjoyment.

B. For breach of the covenant

against encumbrances.

C. For breach of the covenant of

seisin against Oprah.

D. For breach of the covenant of

warranty against Oprah.

A. He may sue Pete, but not Ruby,
since the mortgage was not re-
corded.

B. He may sue Ruby, but not Pete,
since Ruby assumed the mort-
gage.

C. He may sue both Ruby and

Pete.

D. He may not sue either Ruby or
Pete, since he did not record his
mortgage.

PROPERTY 435

  
119. In 1970, Al sold Peachacre to Betty for
$80,000. Betty recorded her warranty
deed. In 1970, however, Peachacre was
actually owned by Oscar. In 1980, Os-
car sold Peachacre to Al for $90,000.
That deed was recorded. In 1990,
Al gave a mortgage on Peachacre to
Chuck for $70,000. That mortgage was
recorded. What is the state of the title
after 1990?

A. Title is in Betty, free and clear.

B. Title is in Betty, subject to

Chuck's mortgage.

C. Title is in Al, subject to Chuck's

mortgage.

D. Title is in Al, free and clear.

118. In 1975, Samantha mortgaged Violet-
acre to Ted for $100,000. Ted did not
record although the state's recording
act permitted the recording of liens.
In 1980, Ted transferred his interest
in the mortgage to Umberto. Umberto
recorded that transfer. In 1985, Saman-
tha gave a second mortgage to Velma
for $75,000. Velma was unaware of the
prior mortgage and she recorded her
mortgage. In 1990, Samantha default-
ed on both mortgages with $90,000
remaining to Umberto and $70,000
remaining to Velma. The property was
sold at a foreclosure sale for $80,000
after expenses. How should the court
award the proceeds?

A. $80,000 to Umberto, since his is

the senior mortgage.

B. $70,000 to Velma, $10,000 to
Umberto, since Velma is the
junior interest.

C. $80,000 to Umberto, since his
is the first document to be re-
corded.

D. $70,000 to Velma, $10,000 to
Umberto, since Umberto's mort-
gage is not within her chain of
title. 

436 PROPERTY

Q

0
-0
m

120. In 1980, Dwane gave a mortgage on
Aquaacres to Edna for $75,000. That
document was not recorded, although
recoramg or liens. in i u,  IJWUlle
gave another mortgage on Aquaacres
to Felicia for $75,000. Felicia did not
have actual knowledge of the prior
mortgage. Felicia recorded her mort-
gage. In 1995, Dwane defaulted on
both mortgages, owing $65,000 on
each. Both Edna and Felicia discovered
and gave notice to the other, and both
foreclosed on the property. Aquaacres
was sold for $65,000 after expenses.
Under which types of recording acts
will Felicia get the $65,000 from the
foreclosure?

I. Race.

II. Race-Notice.

III. Notice

A. I and II.

B. H and III.

C. I and III.

D. I, II and III.

E. None. She is the junior mort-

gagee.

121. Gwen and Hilda owned Oliveacre as
joint tenants in 1980. In 1985, Gwen
gave a mortgage on Oliveacre to
lJI1VeilLIC 10 is.erty. VV Hal IS tile stale 1/1
the title after Gwen's death?

A. In Hilda, free and clear.

B. In Hilda, subject to Jeremy's

mortgage.

C. In Hilda and Kelly, as tenants in

common.

D. In Hilda and Kelly, as tenants
in common, subject to Jeremy's
mortgage on Kelly's share.

122. Lance, Mike and Norris all owned
Beigeacre as joint tenants in 1960. In
1970, Lance sold his undivided 1/3
to Orene. In 1975, Mike mortgaged
his share to Perry. In 1980, Norris
died, willing his share to Quigley. If
Beigeacre is located in a state follow-
ing the title theory of secured land
devices, what is the state of the title
to Beigeacre in 1981?

A. In Mike, free and clear.

B. In Mike for 2/3 subject to Perry's
mortgage, and Orene for 1/3 as
tenants in common.

C. In Mike for 2/3, 1/3 subject to
Perry's mortgage, and Orene for
1/3 as tenants in common.

PROPERTY  437        

124. In 1960, Beulah gave a deed of trust
to Sandacre to Carlos for $150,000.
In 1965, Beulah borrowed $75,000
from Delilah and gave Delilah a deed
of trust on Sandacre. Delilah was
aware of Carlos's deed of trust. In
1980 Beulah defaulted on her loan to
Carlos, owing him $130,000. She also
defaulted on her loan to Delilah, of
which $60,000 remained. Carlos fore-
closed on his deed of trust, but did not
give Delilah notice of the foreclosure
or the resulting sale. Delilah did not
foreclose. The judicial sale at Carlos's
foreclosure netted $100,000. What are
Delilah's rights in her deed of trust
after Carlos's foreclosure?

A. They are not extinguished. Since
she was not given notice, the
property remains subject to her
deed of trust and Beulah is still
liable to her personally.

B. They are extinguished. She was
the junior claimant and there is
no money left from the sale.

C. They are not extinguished. Since
she was not given notice, she is
entitled to be fully paid before
Carlos.

D. They are extinguished, but only
if the buyer at the foreclosure
sale was unaware that Delilah
was not given notice of the
sale. 

D. In Mike for 1/3 subject to Perry's
mortgage, in Orene for 1/3, and
in Quigley for 1/3 — all tenants
in common.

123. Renee and Sal were husband and wife
who owned Taupeacre as concurrent
owners in 1985. In 1990, Renee se-
cretly gave a mortgage on her share in
the property to Tony in exchange for
$100,000. In 1995, Renee died, leav-
ing the mortgage in default. If Tony
wishes to sell Taupeacre at a judicial
foreclosure sale, he will most likely:

A. Be able to foreclose on Renee's
heirs who own her former ten-
ancy in common interest.

B. Be able to foreclose on Sal, who
owns her former joint tenancy in-
terest subject to the mortgage.

C. Not be able to foreclose on Sal,
because Renee's interest passed
to him by right of survivorship.

D. Not be able to foreclose on Sal,
because a tenancy by the entirety
cannot be severed unilaterally
by one member of a married
couple.

438 PROPERTY

125. In 1970, Loni mortgaged Wheatacre
to Maria for $250,000. That mortgage
was recorded. In 1975, Loni borrowed
$175,000 from Nash and gave Nash
a mortgage on Wheatacre. Nash re-
corded his mortgage. In 1980, Loni
defaulted on her loan to Maria, owing
her $200,000. She did not default on
her loan to Nash, of which $160,000
remained. Maria foreclosed on her
mortgage, but did not give Nash notice
of the foreclosure or the resulting sale.
The property was sold at foreclosure to
Otto for $200,000. Since the foreclo-
sure sale, Loni has not paid anything
on her mortgage to Nash. If Nash seeks
to force a judicial foreclosure sale of
Wheatacre out from under Otto, he
will:

A. Prevail, but only if Otto had
actual knowledge of Nash's
mortgage.

B. Not prevail, once a senior interest
forecloses at a judicial sale, all
unpaid junior claims are extin-
guished.

C. Prevail, but only because she
was not given notice or joined
in Maria's foreclosure sale.

D. Not prevail, because Otto was a
BFP who purchased at a judicial
sale without Nash present and
without notice of Nash's inter-
est.

Q

END OF QUESTIONS

PROPERTY 439

440 PROPERTY

 
PROPERTY ANSWERS

1. C is the correct answer. The deed states
that it is "subject to the understanding
that...", which states a contractual obli-
gation and not a limitation on the estate
granted. Either a fee simple determin-
able, B, or by a fee subject to condition
subsequent, D, limits the estate. More-
over, A is incorrect because although
an equitable charge or servitude is
enforceable in equity, it too needs to be
created with words of limitation on the
use of the property.

2. C is the correct answer and is really
the only correct statement of law. A
is incorrect because a co-tenant may
assign his share of the leasehold bar-
ring other contractual provisions. B is
incorrect because a "no assignment"
clause grants rights to the landlord, but
not to the co-tenant as co-signatory. D
is incorrect because although restraints
on alienation are disfavored, they are
sometimes upheld when public policy
dictates, and "no assignment" clauses
are examples of this policy choice.

3. B is the correct answer. The Rule
Against Perpetuities is not violated.
Since this is a will, at Oscar's death
we will know who all of his surviving
children are regardless of age. Using
those children as measuring lives, we
must know, at each child's life, whether
or not that child attained age 30. Thus,
A, C and D are incorrect.

4. D is the correct answer. This problem
depends on whether the jurisdiction
requires that a title searcher look in
the entire grantor-grantee index for all
conveyances made by a grantor, even
those beyond the years the record shows
title in that person. If so, then the wild
deed from Mary to Nancy will be within
Orene's chain of title and she is bound
by constructive notice of it. Thus, es-
toppel by deed. C will not apply under
that type of recording scheme and C is
incorrect, as well as A and B.

5. D is the correct answer. The question
asks for legal title to the fodder area
(land). Therefore, since the document of
which A speaks is inadequate to transfer
title to land, A cannot be correct. B is
also wrong since title to the land is not
an incident to the easement or profit
to cut fodder which are rights to use
property. Similarly, C is also incorrect
for the same reason as B. Thus, D is the
only answer which correctly speaks of
title to land.

6. A is the correct answer. Xavier had been
in adverse possession of Purpleacres
under color of title for 14 years when
the statute of limitations is 10 years.
Title is in him from that point forward.
All subsequent events (i.e. the lease, the
transfer of rights to Yves, and the deed
to Norris are irrelevant to this problem.)
B, C and D are therefore incorrect. 

PROPERTY 441

10. B is the correct answer. A covenant runs
with the land to bind successive owners
of the property regardless of their use
of the facilities. An easement, A grants
the right to use someone's property,
and does not pertain to the payment
of money. Both a mortgage, C, and a
personal obligation, D, are personal to
the signatory of the promise and do not
automatically pass to successor own-
ers.

11. C is the correct answer. The courts
are reluctant to recognize affirmative
obligations to pay money indefinitely
per covenants. A and B are incorrect
statements of law. D, while potentially
correct as a matter of constitutional
law, does not necessarily mean that
the provisions would in fact violate
the Constitution; in fact, they probably
would not. 

7. B is the correct answer. Delivery of the
deed requires acceptance by the grantee.
Here, Darla was unaware of the deed
when made and when she became aware
of the deed's existence, she did not ac-
cept it. A is incorrect because even if a
grantee was unaware of the deed at the
time of recording, the grantee's subse-
quent actions at the time of learning of
the existence of the deed may constitute
valid delivery. C and D are incorrect
statements of law.

8. C is the correct answer. The right to
remove timber is incident to a fee and
Ben has a defeasible fee. Carl does have
a future interest in Silveracres, so A is
wrong. Bad faith is irrelevant to the
right to take timber — ownership, and
not possession, is the relevant factor;
thus, D and C are incorrect.

9. B is the correct answer. The Statute of
Frauds requires a writing to transfer
real property, so despite the fact that
John and Joan orally agreed to a right
of survivorship, Joan died as a tenant in
common with John. Thus, the property
goes to their heirs equally. A states a
correct result for the wrong reason. C
and D are wrong because the Statute of
Frauds controls the result.

442 PROPERTY

12. C is the correct answer. The life ten-
ant is responsible for payment of the
mortgage principal during that estate
in this instance. Although the general
rule is that the life tenant is responsible
for the interest and the remainderman
is responsible for the principal, in this
fact pattern the mortgage is for 10
years. Thus, the mortgage should be
completely satisfied within the life
tenant's estate and Amanda should be
responsible for the principal as well.
However, the remainderman is respon-
sible for any remaining portion and may
have his future interest affected if the
life tenant does not pay. A and B are
therefore incorrect. Bailey could try
to compel partition, D, but it is not his
only protection as the answer states;
therefore, it is wrong.

13. D is the correct answer. Otto entered
into a lease with Beatrice, even if it was
rent-free. The subsequent conveyance
to Aaron only gave Aaron rights in the
property if he obtained a role in a Hol-
lywood movie by age 35, something
he had not done. Thus, Otto is still
the landlord of Beatrice. A is incorrect
because the key to the question lies in
recognizing the fact that Aaron's inter-
est was a future interest. B is wrong as
a matter of law. C is the right result for
the wrong reason.

14. D is the correct answer since it is the
only answer that makes sense. Retalia-
tory eviction would prevent a landlord
from raising rent in response to the as-
sertion of a tenant's legal rights. C states
a rule of law which does not exist and
B may or may not be true depending on
what, if anything, this jurisdiction's law
on unconscionability states. Although
the payment of monthly rental may in
some circumstances imply a periodic
tenancy, that does not directly affect the
amount of rent due under that tenancy;
therefore A is incorrect.

15. D is the correct answer. The answer
depends on the type of tenancy created.
B and C state absolutely what the own-
ership of Indigoacres is; however, the
question does not make that clear. Thus,
there are situations in which B and C
might be wrong. D is the only answer
which states the conditions under which
it will be true, and those conditions
make the answer true under all readings
of the facts in the question. Therefore,
D is correct. A is wrong; constructive
knowledge is irrelevant.

16. C is the correct answer. Agnes began us-
ing the property with 011ie's permission
and, therefore, no easement by prescrip-
tion could be gained. Since Paul never
gained title to the property, his posses-
sion cannot affect Agnes since he was
never the owner of the property. Thus,
answers A, B and D, which all depend
on Paul's involvement in the problem
in some way, are incorrect. 

PROPERTY 443

20. A is the correct answer. The restrictive
covenant in the deed from Oliver Wen-
dell to Beth runs with the land to Della
even if the deed from Beth to Della did
not physically contain that covenant.
Thus, D and C are both incorrect.
Whether or not the apartment building
value is irrelevant ro me answer ro  11115
question. Therefore, B is incorrect.

21. C is the correct answer. D is an incorrect
statement of law: Equitable servitudes
do not require privity with the original
covenanting parties. A is a nonsense
answer. It may sound good, but means
nothing and is not even correct as a
statement of constitutional law. Al-
though B is true as an abstract statement
of principle, it has little to do with this
question which specifically depends on
whether Abby can say that it was origi-
nally contemplated that Oliver Wendell
intended to develop the 20-acre parcel
in the same manner as the 40 lots. Thus,
C is the best choice. 

17. A is the correct answer. B is not a cor-
rect statement of law. The joint tenancy
cannot be severed by an oral agree-
ment. Whatever fiduciary obligations,
if any, Betty had by being named as
executrix of Alice's estate cannot affect
title to land; C is incorrect. D is also
the Statute or Frauds tor ciose family
relationships. Thus, although A is not
obviously always correct, it is the only
likely possibility.

18. B is the correct answer. The Statute of
Frauds demands a writing not present
in this problem. Neither A nor C are
correct since a joint tenancy can be sev-
ered unilaterally by one tenant through
a valid conveyance which need not be
recorded. D, while true, does not have
much to do with whether Alice severed
the joint tenancy during her lifetime
— which is what the problem is about.

19. A is the correct answer. The question
asks for Baker's best argument for
immediate possession; therefore, C is
wrong since a month-to-month tenant
would need to give 30 days notice,
which Baker did not provide. Since
Selwyn was, in fact, once lawfully in
possession, he could not be a trespasser,
answer D. Only calling Selwyn a licens-
ee, A gives Baker the automatic right to
terminate Selwyn's use of the property
immediately and unequivocally. Calling
him a tenant at sufferance, B provides
Baker with the option of ejectment, but
still requires termination of the tenancy
by Baker.

444 PROPERTY

22. D is the correct answer. The question
asks for the probable outcome of the
litigation. The school has breached the
condition on the land and, thus, dam-
ages and an injunction are proper. B
and C are, therefore, incorrect. The real
choice is between A and D. The problem
with A is that it is not as specific as D
as to the outcome of the suit. D states
that damages need to be impounded,
presumably to await the determination
of who Juan's grandchildren will be at
the time of Juanita's death. This answer
is more accurate than A because it is
more complete.

23. B is the correct answer. C is not correct,
as a matter of law, because recording
cannot insulate an invalid deed. D calls
upon a general equitable principle that
the most innocent person not bear the
loss, but that principle cannot control
over a legal reason like agency. Simi-
larly, A states a general public policy
for certainty in land records, but that
policy also cannot control over a legal
reason like agency. Therefore, B is cor-
rect since, if true in this situation, Maria
will lose the suit.

24. C is the correct answer. The Rule
Against Perpetuities is not violated
and so B is wrong. Using Dolly as the
measuring life, we must know who her
surviving children are within 21 years
of her death. Only the restrictions on
mortgage or sale are invalid as restraints
on alienation. Thus, A and D are incor-
rect.

25. D is the correct answer. A tenancy by
the entirety absolutely requires a grant
to a validly married couple. The con-
veyance granted a tenancy which can
be partitioned by the petition of one of
the tenants. B and C are incorrect state-
ments of law. Although A is true in the
abstract, it is not true on these facts.

26. B is the correct answer. At the end of
Fred's life estate, the gift to his children
takes immediate effect. It is, therefore,
a remainder and not an executory inter-
est, answer A. It vests now, but will be
divested "provided that...."; thus, it is
vested subject to divestment, answer
B, and is not contingent, answer D, nor
indefeasibly vested, answer C.

27. B is the correct answer. At the time
the land sale contract was executed,
equitable conversion applies and the
purchase price is treated as the personal
property of the seller, and title to the
land is treated as real property of the
buyer. Therefore, when Bernie died, the
proceeds of the sale were his personal
property and pass to Peter. A is, thus,
incorrect because B is correct. C and
D are incorrect statements of law.

PROPERTY 445

31. D is the correct answer. A is incorrect
because a landowner has an absolute
right to lateral support for unimproved
land. B is incorrect because even if
the weight of the barn contributed to
the damage, he may still recover if he
can prove that Ethel was negligent in
her excavation. C is incorrect, for the
reasons given for A and B, even if she
is negligent, Fred has an absolute right
to lateral support for unimproved land.
Therefore, D correctly states the full
legal principle.

32. B is the correct answer. The interest in
Helen's children immediately follows
the preceding life estate; thus, it is a
remainder and C is incorrect. Moreover,
since there is no child of Helen alive
at the time of the conveyance, the re-
mainder is contingent and A is incorrect.
Since the Rule Against Perpetuities is
not violated (use Helen as the measur-
ing life), D is incorrect. 

28. A is the correct answer. At the time
the land sale contract was executed,
equitable conversion applies and the
purchase price is treated as personal
property of the seller and title to the
land is treated as the real property of the
buyer. Therefore, when Carla died, the
title to the land was in her and passes
to Ricky, her heir who can demand
specific performance of the contract. B
is incorrect because A is correct. C and
D are incorrect statements of law.

29. A is the correct answer. The legal
description of land in a deed must be
precise enough to determine which
property is being conveyed. This de-
scription is insufficient. The covenant of
seisin, answer B, consideration, answer
D, and lack of facial ambiguity, answer
C, are all irrelevant.

30. D is the correct answer. Although there
is a discrepancy in acreage B, the legal
description of land given by the address
is sufficient to adequately identify the
property, especially where, as here,
the discrepancy is minor. There is no
requirement that the deed contain a
metes and bounds description, answer
A. C is incorrect because, although a
grantor cannot convey more than she
owns, the problem here is with the land
description in the deed, not the amount
of the property conveyed.

446 PROPERTY

33. D is the correct answer. An easement
created by express grant is not de-
pendent on continued necessity for its
continuation. Thus, A is incorrect. B
is incorrect since a change in circum-
stances does not necessarily terminate
an easement, and, in any event, this is
an express easement which is imposed
and perpetuated despite any diminution
in market value. C is incorrect because
this is an easement and not an incorpo-
real hereditament (which is an interest
in land incapable of being possessed
and only consisting of a right to use
something). This sewer was not only
used but possessed by the parties.

34. C is the correct answer. There is no
natural right to an easement for light, air
or view. A states otherwise and is incor-
rect. B is incorrect because Quintin was
under no obligation to inform anyone
of his plans to lawfully develop his
property and, thus, under no obligation
to "preserve" that right by complain-
ing about Susan's pool. Similarly, D is
incorrect because his right to lawfully
develop his property is not dependent
on informing his neighbors.

35. C is the correct answer. The fact that
the grantor retains possession of the
deed creates a rebuttable presumption
of an invalid delivery and there is no
evidence which would rebut that pre-
sumption here. As between the parties
to a transaction, recording of the deed
is not necessary for a deed's validity.
Therefore, B and D are incorrect. A is
incorrect because there is no conditional
delivery on these facts.

36. C is the correct answer. If Wilma rebuts
the presumption of invalidity which
arises when the deed remains in the
grantor's possession by showing that
her mother intended to part with the
property irrevocably, Victoria would
lose. A is incorrect because there is no
oral condition on these facts which is
being used to rebut delivery. B and D
are incorrect because they state prin-
ciples of law which are irrelevant to this
problem.

37. D is the correct answer. Since repay-
ment of the principal goes to protect the
future value of the remainderman's fee,
Xerxes is responsible for that amount.
The interest represents the current use
of the money borrowed and is, there-
fore, payable by the current user of the
property, Will. A, B and C are incorrect
for the same reasons that D is correct. 

PROPERTY 447

38. A is the correct answer. Zerlina's status
as a bona fide purchaser is irrelevant as
between the covenanting parties, Zer-
lina and Yvette. Therefore, for this rea-
son, D is incorrect. Yvette gave Zerlina
a warranty deed, which by definition
contains all the title covenants. There-
fore, B is inapplicable here. Moreover,
the suit for breach of title covenants is
a suit for breach by the original cov-
enantee, Zerlina, and thus, answer C is
inapplicable here, too. The suit for title
covenant breaches is dependent on the
original Yvette-Zerlina deed's original
validity.

39. A is the correct answer. If Carla and
Dan were legally married at the time
of Benjy's conveyance and remained
so when Carla conveyed to Esther,
the title was held by Carla and Dan
as tenants by the entirety, and was
inalienable by either of them without
the other spouse's consent. B is incor-
rect because if Carla and Dan were not
married during the relevant period, the
tenancy might have been a joint ten-
ancy which was severable by Carla's
intervivos conveyance. Dan would not
be the sole owner. D is incorrect for the
same reason A is the correct answer, i.e.,
Carla and Dan's possible marriage. C is
incorrect because notice is irrelevant to
this problem.

448 PROPERTY

40. B is the correct answer. The question
states that a junior claimant must be
in good faith. Therefore, he must be
without notice and a Race statute is
inapplicable. The question does not tell
us that the claimant must record first (or
at all), and so the recording act could
be either Race-Notice or Notice. A, C
and D are, therefore, incorrect.

41. C is the correct answer. Since the re-
cording act must be a Race-Notice or a
Notice statute (see answer above), Hal
must prevail if he paid value. When
Hal received his deed, Gus' deed was
not recorded (Hal wins under a Notice
statute), and when Hal recorded first, he
wins under a Race-Notice statute. The
only scenario under which Hal does
not prevail is if he is not a purchaser
and therefore cannot claim protection
under the act. A and B are inaccurate
statements of law. D is incorrect for
the same reasons that C is the correct
answer.

42. C is the correct answer. The interest
in UNICEF followed a defeasible fee
in Randy. Therefore, it could not have
been a remainder of any sort. A and
B are incorrect. The interest does not
violate the Rule Against Perpetuities
because the residential-purposes condi-
tion only applies until 1970. Therefore,
using anyone alive in 1950 as the mea-
suring life, at their death plus 21 years,
we must know whether the property has
been used for residential purposes until
1970. D is, therefore, incorrect. 

43. D is the correct answer. This is a notice
statute, giving priority to purchasers for
value who take without notice. A and B
are incorrect because a mortgagee pays
consideration (the loan proceeds) for
the interest in land received (mortgage)
and would qualify under the statute as
an "interest in land." C is incorrect,
because under a notice statute, priority
in recording is not required to prevail.

44. C is the correct answer. Since Max
did not record his deed until 1985, his
deed is outside of Pedro's chain of title
because it cannot be found under the
traditional method of searching title.
Therefore, Pedro is without notice of
Max's interest in Pineacres and entitled
to prevail under a Notice statute. A is an
erroneous statement of law. B and D are
incorrect because Pedro's rights derive
from his being without notice and are
not dependent on the equities regarding
his grantor, Oliver (who may not be able
to prevail himself in an action against
Max — see below).

45. A is the correct answer. Oliver is a donee
and not a purchaser for value. Thus, the
recording act is inapplicable to him. The
property will be awarded by common
law "first in time, first in right," to Max.
B is incorrect because the reason Max
prevails is that he was the first convey-
ance from Lana. His knowledge and
purchase price are irrelevant. C and
D are incorrect since these statements
refer to priority under the recording act
which is inapplicable to Oliver.

46. D is the correct answer. Max prevails
because of the common law rule of
"first in time, first in right." His status
as purchaser, or taker under a quitclaim
are all irrelevant. B and C are, thus, in-
correct. A is incorrect since it refers to
priority under the recording act which
is irrelevant here.

47. B is the correct answer. Covenants in
a lease against assignment or sublet-
ting are strictly construed against the
landlord. C and D are incorrect since
they state erroneous conclusions of law.
Although they are disfavored, those
lease covenants are not always invalid.
A is therefore incorrect.

48. D is the correct answer. Kelly's interest
would have been an executory inter-
est since it follows a fee — had it not
violated the Rule Against Perpetuities.
It violates the Rule since there is no
life in being such that at that person's
death, we must know whether or not the
property will cease being used for ranch
purposes. Thus, A and B are wrong even
before the application of the Rule, and
C is incorrect after the application of
the Rule.  

PROPERTY 449

49. D is the correct answer. Since the book-
cases were permanently affixed to the
realty, they are treated as fixtures. Thus,
C is incorrect. Whether or not they are
considered trade fixtures and remov-
able at the end of the lease (answer A),
or non-trade fixtures and removable
per the modern trend (answer B), the
removing tenant must remove them
without doing damage to the realty — a
requirement contradicted by the facts
here. A and B are, therefore, incorrect.

50. D is the correct answer. If common law
ameliorative waste is still the law of
this jurisdiction, a tenant cannot make
alteration to the premises — even those
which improve the property. A and B
are incorrect because, although mod-
ernly a long-term or life tenant may
be permitted to set off the value of the
improvements against any money owed
the landlord, at common law he could
not. Neither A nor B make that distinc-
tion. C is incorrect because permissive
waste (failure to make repairs) does not
apply to this situation.

51. D is the correct answer. If common law
ameliorative waste is still the law of
this jurisdiction, a tenant cannot make
alterations to the premises — even those
which improve the property. The book-
cases are an alteration to the premises.
A and B are incorrect because, although
modernly a long-term or life tenant may
be permitted to set off the value of the
improvements against any money owed
the landlord, at common law he could
not. Neither A nor B make that distinc-
tion. C is incorrect because permissive
waste (failure to make repairs), does not
apply to this situation.

52. D is the correct answer. The interest
in UNICEF violates the Rule Against
Perpetuities since there is no life in be-
ing such that at that person's death, we
must know whether the property has
ceased being used for residential pur-
poses. Therefore, the executory interest
in UNICEF fails and is replaced by a
possibility of reverter in Laura, which
is willed to Nella in 1974. Therefore,
A, B and C are all incorrect.

53. D is the correct answer. The interest
in UNICEF followed a defeasible fee
in Marcy. Therefore, it could not have
been a remainder of any sort. A and B
are thus incorrect. The interest violates
the Rule Against Perpetuities (see an-
swer above), and, thus, C is incorrect. 

450 PROPERTY

54. A is the correct answer. Zedidiah has
a written document from the owner of
Wheatacres entitling him to enter the
property and remove wheat from it.
This describes a protectable property
interest under the due process clause
of the federal Constitution (called a
profit a prendre). B and D are incorrect
since this interest is not a license. C is
incorrect because a profit is an interest
in land, the taking of which requires
compensation by the state.

55. A is the correct answer. As between he
original parties to a covenant, there is
no requirement that the covenant (bur-
den or benefit) run with the land. The
arrangement need only be in writing, as
this one is. Therefore, B, C and D are
incorrect.

56. C is the correct answer. Since this cov-
enant is sought to be enforced by Car-
ole, the grantee of the covenantee, only
the benefit side of the promise must run
with the land. If it does so, Carole may
enforce this covenant against Boris, the
original covenantor. B and D are incor-
rect for the same reasons that C is the
correct answer. A is incorrect because
the requirements for the benefit of a
covenant to run are met on these facts.

57. A is the correct answer. As between
the original parties to a covenant, there
is no requirement that the covenant
(burden or benefit) run with the land.
The arrangement need only be in writ-
ing as this one is. Similarly, there is no
requirement of horizontal privity either;
it is irrelevant to this problem that Boris
and Adam do not have an interest in the
same land at the same time (horizontal
privity). C is therefore incorrect. D is in-
correct since the difference in remedies
is relevant to whether the agreement can
be enforced as a covenant (damages)
or servitude (injunction). This promise
could be enforced as either.

58. C is the correct answer. Carole, a
grantee from the original covenantee,
Adam is seeking to enforce the cov-
enant against Della, a grantee from the
original covenantor. The burden and
benefit of the covenant must touch and
concern land. However, there is also a
requirement that the original covenant-
ing parties be in horizontal privity with
each other. Therefore, A and B are
incorrect. D is incorrect because the
validity of a covenant is not affected
solely by economic efficiency or the
zoning of adjacent properties.

59. B is the correct answer. A landowner has
the absolute right to subjacent support
for land and all buildings existing on
the date of severance of the underlying
strata. In order to recover for damage
to subsequently erected buildings, a
landowner must prove negligence.
Therefore, A, C and D are incorrect. 

PROPERTY 451

60. C is the correct answer. Ellen's son's
interest is an executory interest. There-
fore, A is incorrect since it is not vested.
The Rule Against Perpetuities applies
to all executory interests, and, thus, B
is incorrect. However, the Rule is not
violated since using Ellen as the mea-
suring life, one must know at her death
plus 21 years whether or not she has a
son. D is, therefore, incorrect.

61. D is the correct answer. The 1980 con-
veyance did not expressly create a joint
tenancy and thus was a tenancy in com-
mon. Therefore, when Benny died, his
1/2 interest passed to Della, who shared
the property with Carl. Consequently,
A and B are incorrect since they state
sole interests. C is incorrect because the
interest shared by Carl and Della is not
a joint tenancy.

62. B is the correct answer. A co-tenant
owes a proportionate share of taxes
and other expenses of the property.
However, since each co-tenant has the
exclusive right to possess the entire
property, Carl does not owe the fair
market rental value of the property to
Della. Therefore, since B is the only
answer to contain the correct combina-
tion of those two principles, A, C and
D are incorrect.

452 PROPERTY

63. D is the correct answer. The class gift
to the grandchildren is void under the
Rule Against Perpetuities. Presently, no
person exists as a "measuring life" such
that, at that person(s)' death, plus 21
years, you will know who all the grand-
children are. Since it is possible for
Francisco to have children born after the
date of the instrument, the class of his
children cannot be used as measuring
lives. Therefore, by the "all or nothing"
rule, since it is possible for one member
of the class (grandchildren) to vest (be
born) after the perpetuities period, the
gift to the class must completely fail,
and the interest is void. Therefore, A
is incorrect. B is incorrect because the
date of Isabella's birth, per se, is not rel-
evant. C is incorrect, because although
in a per stirpes distribution the children
of a deceased parent do step up to take
their parent's share, that principle is
irrelevant to this problem.

64. C is the correct answer. The will
originally gave Kermit a life estate, his
children a vested remainder subject to
open (one child is alive in 1960), and a
contingent remainder in Kermit's heirs.
The Rule in Shelly's case changes the
remainder in Kermit's heirs to a vested
remainder in Kermit which cannot
merge with Kermit's life estate because
of the vested interest in Kermit's chil-
dren. Therefore, A is incorrect because
it ignores the Rule in Shelly's case. B is
incorrect because it improperly applies
merger. D is incorrect for the reasons
stated above.  

65. B is the correct answer. Maxilla has hos-
tilely, openly, actually and continuously
adversely possessed Greenacre for the
statutory period of 20 years. However,
the statute of limitations for adverse
possession begins in 1983 when Larry's
disability of infancy is terminated. A
is incorrect because it ignores the fact
that Larry is disabled by his age from
bringing an action in ejectment. C is
incorrect because there is no tacking
of disabilities. D is incorrect because
of the reasons stated above.

66. C is the correct answer. The Rule in
Dumpor's case states that once the
landlord gives consent to one assign-
ment, any covenant in a lease requiring
consent is terminated. Because Laurette
already consented to the assignment
to Tina, she did not need to give her
consent to any other assignment to To-
masso. A is incorrect because although
lease covenants may be construed
against the landlord, that principle is
merely a generalized policy statement
and would not necessarily determine the
outcome of a case, like answer C. B is
a correct statement of principle, but is
inapplicable to these facts. D refers to
the Rule in Spencer's case, which states
that a covenant relating to a thing not
yet in existence must expressly bind
successors. That rule is also inappli-
cable to the facts.

67. A is the correct answer. The parking
garage was not yet in existence when
a promise was made concerning the
maintenance of the spaces. That prom-
ise did not expressly mention assigns,
and therefore does not bind successors.
B is incorrect because there is hori-
zontal privity in that Laurette and Ted
were landlord and tenant respectively.
C and D are incorrect since the benefit
and burden do touch and concern land
in that the parking spaces would be
maintained, causing a benefit to the
landlord's reversion and a detriment
through the expenditure of time/labor/
money by the tenant.

68. D is the correct answer. Tina possessed
the office space for nine months; thus,
constituting an obligation of $200 per
month under privity of estate, for that
time. Since she never signed a lease
agreement with Laurette, she is not
bound by privity of contract for any
amount of money. Thus, C is incorrect.
Since Tomasso never signed a lease, nor
moved into the building, he is bound by
neither privity of contract nor privity of
estate, respectively. Therefore, A and B
are incorrect. 

PROPERTY 453

72. B is the correct answer. The measure
of damages for a breach of one of the
title covenants, regarding title defects,
is the purchase price received by the
person making the promise (plus inter-
est). Since Owen was only an owner
of 1/2 of the interest promised in the
deed, the damages here would be 1/2
the purchase price received by Albert
($50,000/2= $25,000). A, C and D are
all incorrect figures.

73. B is the correct answer. The measure of
damages for a breach of one of the title
covenants, regarding title defects, is the
purchase price received by the person
making the promise (plus interest).
Since Owen was only an owner of 1/2
of the interest promised in the deed, the
damages here would be 1/2 the purchase
price received by Owen ($40,000/2 =
$20,000). C and D are incorrect fig-
ures. A is incorrect because although
the Albert-Bea deed was a quitclaim,
Bea can sue under the future covenants
given in the Owen-Albert deed.

74. C is the correct answer. In adverse
possession, the possessor gains the es-
tate in existence at the date she began
possession. In 1951, when Sara began
possession of Purpleacres, the estate in
existence was a life estate in Quintin.
After his death in 1966, the remainder in
Rula went into effect and a new period
of adverse possession began. That pe-
riod would be complete in 1986. Thus,
A, B and D are incorrect. 

69. B is the correct answer. In adverse
possession, a possessor does not have
to constantly live on the land for the
statutory period, but need only make
such use of the property consistent with
its nature and character, e.g., using a ski
cabin during ski season. A is incorrect
because it assumes the essential issue
to be resolved, i.e., whether intermit-
tent use is consistent with the nature of
the property. C and D state conclusions
which contradict the legal principle in
this problem.

70. B is the correct answer. The measure of
damages for a breach of the covenant of
seisin is the purchase price (plus inter-
est). Since Owen was only an owner of
1/2 of the interest promised in the deed,
the damages here would be 1/2 the pur-
chase price ($40,000/2= $20,000). A, C
and D are all incorrect figures.

71. B is the correct answer. The measure of
damages for breach of a title insurance
contract is normally the diminution in
fair market value of the land caused by
the defect. Since the value of the land
as promised was $40,000 and the value
of the land as a tenancy in common is
$15,000, the damages equal $40,000
— $15,000, i.e., = $25,000. A, C and D
are all incorrect figures.

454 PROPERTY

75. A is the correct answer. In adverse
possession, the possessor gains the es-
tate in existence at the date she began
possession. In 1949, when Sara began
possession of Purpleacres, the estate in
existence was a fee simple in Paulette.
The subsequent conveyance and divi-
cinn of thr. ■ci-atir• wac irt-FdPArant tri t1ii
session. That period was completed in
1969. B, C and D are incorrect for the
same reasons that A is correct.

76. C is the correct answer. Since Wilbur's
land is not located adjacent or beneath
the Jefferson River, it is not riparian
land. Therefore, A and B, which are
riparian theories, only permit water to
be taken for use on riparian land and
are not available for Wilbur's use. Prior
appropriation gives rights in water to
the first taker, regardless of his or her
ownership or use on riparian land. It is
the only water rights theory available
to Wilbur. D is incorrect for the same
reason that C is correct.

77. C is the correct answer. The statute of
frauds requires that contracts for the
sale of land, and also agency contracts,
be in writing. Therefore, although the
land sales contract and the Sam-Theresa
contract are in writing, the Beth-Carlos
contract was not. Thus, A and B are
incorrect. D is incorrect since there
is no requirement that the parties to a
contract personally sign the agreement.
An agent's signature is binding on the
principal.

78. C is the correct answer. A wife received
a dower interest of 1/3 in all the land in
which her husband was seised at his
death. At Harry's death, his life estate
in Violetacres ended. Thus, answers A
and B, which state Wendy has an inter-
est in that property, are incorrect. The
riPfplacihlta fPPj n Indiana•rt.c and thg. fgla
(or his heirs) after his death, and Wendy
had dower in those lands. Therefore,
answer D is incorrect.

79. D is the correct answer. A wife received
a dower interest in 1/3 in all land in
which her husband was seized at his
death. A, B and C are, therefore, incor-
rect.

80. D is the correct answer. In order to
satisfy the statute of frauds, a written
memorandum must contain the price
term. A and B are incorrect, as an es-
sential term price may never be implied
by the court in a land sales contract. C
is incorrect. Whether or not Bella intro-
duced evidence of fair market value, the
written memorandum must contain the
actual price agreed upon.

81. C is the correct answer. The 1950 con-
veyance created a fee tail in Agnes,
and, therefore, left a reversion in Lee.
A, B and D are incorrect since they
state other interests in grantors — none
of which are present here. 

PROPERTY 455

82. A is the correct answer. Since Agnes
had a fee tail, after her death the land
must transfer to her lineal descendants
or, if none, it must revert to the grantor.
Therefore, Bruno's interest must end
at Agnes' death. Moreover, since she
gave him a life estate, it must also end
at his death. Consequently, C and D are
incorrect. B is incorrect since the death
of either Agnes or Bruno immediately
ends the estate. Thus, it is the first to die,
not the last, which terminates Bruno's
estate.

83. D is the correct answer. Agnes had a
fee tail which descends to her lineal
heirs, here Carlotta, the child of Agnes.
A, B and C are all estates which may
approximate a fee tail, but are not the
estate granted to Agnes and inherited
by Carlotta.

84. C is the correct answer. After Agnes
died, her fee tail passed to her daughter,
Carlotta. Lee still retains a reversion
which will go into possession, if ever,
after Agnes' lineal heirs all die. A, B and
D are incorrect since they all state in-
terests in the grantor not present here.

85. A is the correct answer. The natural-
flow riparian rights theory gives a
downstream owner the right not to have
the flow of water diminished in either
quality or quantity from its natural state.
This is true even if the downstream
owner had sufficient water for her
needs. The reasonable-use theory only
permits injunction if the downstream
owner has insufficient water for her
needs. Since answer A is the only option
which presents the natural-flow theory
alone, it is the only correct answer.

86. C is the correct answer. A cumulative
zoning ordinance is one in which higher,
but not lower, uses are permitted. Since
single-family residential is a higher use
than multi-family residential, both those
uses are permitted in a multi-family
zone. A, B and D are incorrect since
they do not state that combination.

87. B is the correct answer. The grant in
writing of the right to enter Juan's land
and install and maintain telephone
equipment is an easement. A is incorrect
since a license only grants permission to
enter the land of another. If a license had
been granted, Juan could have forced
the telephone company to remove its
equipment by withdrawing his permis-
sion. C incorrectly applies the law, and
D misstates the law. 

456 PROPERTY

88. A is the correct answer. Juan expressly
granted the telephone company the right
to enter the land; therefore, it could
not have been granted an easement by
prescription. D is incorrect. The type
of easement granted is an easement
in gross, since the telephone company
owns no land benefited by the ease-
ment. However, C is incorrect since the
fact that the easement is in gross is not
relevant to whether that easement can
be apportioned/transferred to the cable
television company. A non-exclusive
easement is one in which the owner
of the servient estate (Juan) retains
the right to make the same use of his
land that was granted by the easement.
Therefore, the owner of a non-exclusive
easement (but not the owner of an ex-
clusive one) cannot apportion/transfer
it to another, since to do so would be in
derogation of the rights of the owner of
the property to sell another easement
to the cable company. B is, therefore,
incorrect.

89. D is the correct answer. If the agree-
ment was not in writing, it could not be
an easement. Therefore, A is incorrect.
Moreover, since Juan gave his permis-
sion for the telephone company to
install and maintain its equipment, the
company could not gain a prescriptive
easement (which is adverse to the owner
of the servient estate). C is, thus, incor-
rect. If the license were revocable, then
Juan could force the telephone com-
pany to remove its equipment. Since
the question states that Juan loses, B
cannot be the correct answer. The oral
agreement must have been a license,
which was made irrevocable through
the expenditure of money and labor by
the telephone company in installing and
maintaining its equipment. Therefore, D
is correct. 

PROPERTY 457

91. C is the correct answer. A and B state the
same interest in land — the future inter-
est in the grantor after he or she conveys
an estate on condition subsequent. That
interest must be affirmatively exercised
by the grantor before it goes into effect.
Answer C correctly states the interest
in the grantor, which automatically fol-
lows the divesting event in a determin-
able estate. Thus, C is better than A or
B. D is not possible on this set of facts,
since a reversion cannot follow a fee
(the present interest here).

92. D is the correct answer. The lease states
that it is to run for 24 months. Therefore,
it has a definite ending date, December
31, 1993, and, consequently, must be a
tenancy for years. The provision of an-
nual rent or monthly rental installments
cannot contradict the fixed term in the
lease. Periodic tenancies continue for
period-to-period because they do not
have a definite ending point. A and B
are, thus, incorrect. D states a possible
scenario in a holdover tenant situation,
which is not present in the Louisa-Tilly
agreement.

93. A is the correct answer. Modernly, the
landlord has a duty to deliver actual
possession of the leasehold to the tenant
at the beginning of the lease. C and D
state the common law rule of delivery
of the legal right to possession only,
and are accordingly incorrect. B may
be correct as a factual statement, but it
does not answer the question posed.

90. A is the correct answer. Although the
conveyance is somewhat ambiguous, it
does not state the limitation for school
purposes in such a way as to cut down
the estate granted (the length of time
that the school board is given title to
the property). Therefore, given the
courts' policy preference for the estate
that will least result in forfeitures, the
most likely result of the conveyance is
that Chad granted the school board a fee
simple absolute with a covenant that the
property would be used for school pur-
poses. In that event, in 1993, the school
may be liable in damages for breach of
the covenant, but its estate continues.
B refers to the school board's having a
fee simple on condition subsequent, fol-
lowed by a right of entry in Chad. That
answer is not as good as A, but better
than C. C refers to the school board as
an owner of a fee simple determinable,
which contains an automatic possibility
of reverter in Chad. The language of the
grant did not so specify. D is simply
wrong — economic inefficiency cannot
change the estate granted.

458 PROPERTY

94. A is the correct answer. This scenario
meets the elements for both an ease-
ment by implication/quasi easement
(common owner, quasi-easement, ap-
parent, continuous and strict necessity)
and an easement by necessity (common
grantor, strict necessity). Since there
have only been 19 years of use by Bo
against the use by his grantee, Celia, an
easement by prescription is not possible
here (such requires 20 years). There-
fore, A is the only answer which states
the correct combination; B, C and D do
not.

95. B is the correct answer. As stated above,
in the answer to #94, an easement by
necessity and an easement by implica-
tion/quasi-easement are possible here.
However, if an easement by necessity
is chosen, the easement will terminate
whenever the necessity does. That limi-
tation does not apply to the easement by
implication/quasi-easement. Here, the
necessity ends when the county puts in
the new road in 1988. Therefore, C will
not give Bo what he wants. A is incor-
rect since there could not be an ease-
ment by prescription here. D is possible,
but a license is normally revocable by
the licensor. Thus, Bo's best argument
is B.

96. A is the correct answer. Since Peter is
suing the original promisor, Minny, only
the benefit side of this covenant needs
to run with the land. All those elements
are met: Intent, the parties intended the
promise to run "forever"; Notice, the
promise was recorded; Touch and Con-
cern, the promise will raise the value
of Peter's land by limiting the uses to
be made on Minny's land; and Vertical
Privity, Peter is Nora's grantee. Thus,
B and D are incorrect. Since only the
benefit needs to run, horizontal privity
(choice C), is not required.

97. C is the correct answer. Unlike #96,
when Peter sues Otto, both the benefit
and the burden of the covenant need to
run. As stated above, the benefit does
run with the land. However, the burden
cannot since Minny and Nora did not
have an interest in the same land at the
same time that the promise was made
(horizontal privity). A is incorrect since
the covenant does not run with the land.
C and D are incorrect since there is ver-
tical privity (choice C) and the covenant
does touch and concern the land (choice
D).

PROPERTY 459

100. C is the correct answer. A tenant who
wrongfully holds over on her lease is
a tenant at sufferance until such time
as the landlord chooses to treat her as
a trespasser and evict her, or as a ten-
ant for a new term. Since Tilly legally
entered possession of Brownacres
initially, she is not a trespasser; D
is incorrect. Until Tilly pays a new
month's rent and Larry accepts that
rent, she cannot be a periodic tenant;
A is incorrect. B is also incorrect since,
unless there is an express agreement
between the landlord and the tenant
to fix the ending date of the new term
of Tilly's holdover tenancy, she cannot
be a tenant for years.

101. D is the correct answer. On default of a
deed of trust the lender/beneficiary has
the right to sell the property at either
a judicial or private sale. A mortgage
permits only a judicial sale. Therefore,
D is correct, and A, B, and C are incor-
rect. 

98. D is the correct answer. This is a suit
for specific enforcement, in equity.
Therefore, the question is whether the
promise can be enforced as an equitable
servitude. This servitude will run be-
cause the elements of intent, notice and
touch and concern (see above) are all
met. Of all the answers, only D can be
correct. A is wrong because horizontal
privity is not required for the servitude
to run. B and C are wrong since those
elements are present here. D is correct
because should notice be insufficient,
the servitude cannot run.

99. B is the correct answer. An equitable
servitude needs neither horizontal priv-
ity (choice A), nor a writing (choice C),
to run with the land. Moreover, since
there was an actual promise made in
1970 binding Minny's property, there is
no need to imply one via a negative re-
ciprocal easement, and no need to have
a common plan or scheme for develop-
ment of all lots (choice D). Therefore,
A, C and D are all incorrect. However,
since there is no other possibility of
gaining notice of this restriction through
actual notice (personal knowledge) or
constructive notice (recording), only
if the character of the property is such
that Otto should have inquired as to the
single-family restriction on Minny's
former land, would there be sufficient
notice to make the servitude run with
the land. Therefore, B is an accurate
statement.

460 PROPERTY

102. B is the correct answer. In a mortgage,
the title to the property transfers im-
mediately to the mortgagor, thus C is
incorrect. In a deed of trust, the legal
title would be vested in a third party
(trustee) by the debtor (Bernice) for
the benefit of the lender (Sarah). No
such arrangement exists here, so A is
incorrect. D is also incorrect, since
neither a present transfer of leasehold
nor a future interest in a fee simple ap-
pears contemplated. Rather, the parties
entered into a contractual arrangement
leading to transfer of title. The agree-
ment states that payments will be
made in installments with title passing
to Bernice when the full price plus
interest is paid. That arrangement is
characteristic of an installment sale.

103. A is the correct answer. The general
rule is that when property burdened
with a mortgage is sold, the property
is transferred "subject to" the mort-
gage. Therefore, Aaron is still person-
ally liable to Barry for the debt as the
original mortgagor. The transfer does
not release him from liability. There-
fore, A is correct and D is not. Carla is
not personally liable on the mortgage
unless she "assumes" the mortgage, a
fact not present here. Thus, B and C
are incorrect.

104. D is the correct answer. Ellen is the
lender/mortgagee in this transaction.
When she transfers her interest in the
mortgage to Frank, he steps into her
shoes. The phrases "subject to" or "as-
suming" a mortgage have to do with
the debtor's/mortgagor's interest. A, B
and C are incorrect.

105. C is the correct answer. When a person
takes property and assumes a mort-
gage, he or she becomes personally
liable on the debt. The original debtor
is not released from personal liability
unless there has been a novation. Thus,
A, B and D are incorrect.

106. B is the correct answer. When a person
takes property and assumes a mort-
gage, he or she becomes personally li-
able on the debt. The original debtor is
released from personal liability when
there has been a novation (release from
liability). Thus, A, C and D are incor-
rect.

107. A is the correct answer. Even though
Della did not assume the mortgage
(and is therefore, not personally li-
able on the debt), she still took land
burdened with the mortgage. Con-
sequently, if the original mortgagors
default, the land can be sold out from
under Della. B is incorrect, Della's
consent is irrelevant. The fact that
Della paid more than the amount of
the outstanding debt to the original
mortgagors is similarly irrelevant to
this question. C and D are incorrect. 

PROPERTY 461

108. C is the correct answer. On sale, the
proceeds are distributed according to
the priority of the mortgages with se-
nior interests paid before junior ones.
Any excess is given to the mortgagor.
Thus, $80,000 to Orville, $35,000 to
Paula, and $5,000 to Nancy. A, B and
D are incorrect.

109. D is the correct answer. On sale, the
proceeds are distributed according
to the priority of the mortgages with
senior interests paid before junior
ones. If there is a shortfall, the senior
claims are paid in full before the junior
who may have a right to go against the
mortgagor personally. C is incorrect. A
and B divide the proceeds among the
various claimants proportionally. That
is not correct.

110. C is the correct answer. If a junior inter-
est is not given notice at a foreclosure
sale, that interest is not extinguished.
The property is taken by the buyer
subject to the mortgage. A and B are
incorrect. However, despite no notice,
on sale, the proceeds are distributed ac-
cording to the priority of the mortgages
with senior interests paid before junior
ones. If there is a shortfall, the senior
claims are paid in full before the junior
who may have a right to go against the
mortgagor personally. D is incorrect.

462 PROPERTY

111. A is the correct answer. After a fore-
closure sale by a senior interest, any
properly noticed junior interests are
extinguished. The property can be sold
free and clear. The junior mortgagee
has a personal right to recover against
the mortgagor. Thus, B, C and D are
incorrect.

112. B is the correct answer. A foreclosure
sale by a junior interest cannot affect
the rights of a senior interest. The
property can be sold, but it is taken by
the buyer subject to the senior interest.
Thus, A and D are incorrect. The buyer
is under no obligation to pay that debt
of the original mortgagor. Thus, C is
incorrect.

113. C is the correct answer. A foreclosure
sale by a junior interest cannot affect
the rights of a senior interest. The
property can be sold, but it is taken by
the buyer subject to the senior interest.
Therefore, the proceeds are paid to the
junior claimant who foreclosed, with
the balance given to the mortgagor.
The senior's interests are still secured
by the mortgage on the property and
the personal debt of the mortgagor.
Thus, A, B and D are incorrect.

114. A is the correct answer. If a mortgage is
a recordable interest in land and if it is
not duly recorded, it is void as against a
subsequent BFP. Answers, B, C and D
assume that Gus's mortgage survives
as against Howard. It does not. They
are incorrect. 

115. B is the correct answer. If a mortgage
is not a recordable interest in land then
priority cannot be determined by the
recording act, but by the common law
rule of first in time, first in right. Kurt
takes the land, subject to Mel's interest.
A is incorrect. C and D are incorrect
since the covenants of seisin or war-
ranty concern defects in title, and a
mortgage is an encumbrance/lien.

116. B is the correct answer. A mortgage is,
in most states, considered to be a lien,
not affecting title to property. Since
the covenant of quiet use and enjoy-
ment is a future covenant, it required
a dispossession before breach. That
has not occurred on these facts. A is
incorrect. C and D are incorrect since
the covenants of seisin or warranty
concern defects in title, and a mortgage
is an encumbrance/lien.

117. C is the correct answer. Recording,
or lack of it is only used to determine
priority among claimants to the same
property. As between the transacting
parties it is not relevant. A and D are
incorrect. Since Ruby assumed the
mortgage, she agreed to be personally
bound by the debt. Pete is not released
from liability by her assumption. Thus,
B is incorrect.

118. D is the correct answer. Umberto's
mortgage, although recorded, will not
be found by a proper search of the
records because the Samantha-Ted
mortgage was not recorded. Thus,
between Umberto and Velma, Velma
has priority. C is incorrect because he
needed to be within the chain of title to
claim recording act priority. A is incor-
rect, because, although he is the senior
interest, he lost his seniority because
of Ted's non-recordation. B is the right
conclusion, for the wrong reason.

119. B is the correct answer. This is an af-
ter-acquired title problem/estoppel by
deed issue. Since the Al-Betty deed is
wild, Chuck, as a BFP, should be the
person with first priority in Peachacre.
Therefore, title is in Betty, subject to
Chuck's mortgage. Therefore, B is cor-
rect and A is not. As between Al and
Betty, Betty should prevail, therefore,
title cannot go to Al. C and D are incor-
rect.

120. D is the correct answer. Although
Felicia is the junior mortgagee, she is
the only one to record. Recording then
determines priority, not the common
law first in time, first in right. Under a
race statute, she is the first to record.
Under a race-notice statute, she is the
first to record without notice. Under a
notice statute she is the last person to
take without notice. Therefore, A, B,
and C are incomplete/incorrect. 

PROPERTY 463

121. B is the correct answer. The majority
rule is that the grant of a mortgage
by one joint tenant does not sever the
joint tenancy, it merely places a lien
on it to the extent of the joint tenant's
share. Therefore, when Gwen died, her
undivided 1/2 passed to Hilda by right
of survivorship — subject to Jeremy's
mortgage. A is incorrect. Gwen's inter-
est could not pass to Kelly. C and D
are incorrect.

122. D is the correct answer. In a title theory
state, the conveyance of a mortgage af-
fects title and severs the joint tenancy.
Therefore, when Lance sells his share,
it is severed; when Mike mortgages
his share, it is severed; and when Nor-
ris dies, he has a tenancy in common
share, so it passes to Quigley. A, B and
C are incorrect.

123. A is the correct answer. The facts do
not state which concurrent estate Re-
nee and Sal have. The law modernly
presumes that a tenancy in common
was created. Therefore, Renee can
mortgage her interest and on her death
it goes to her heirs subject to the mort-
gage. B, C and D are incorrect.

124. A is the correct answer. If a junior inter-
est is not given notice at a foreclosure
sale, that interest is not extinguished.
The property is taken by the buyer
subject to the deed of trust. B and D are
incorrect. However, despite no notice,
on sale, the proceeds are distributed ac-
cording to the priority of the deeds of
trust with senior interests paid before
junior ones. If there is a shortfall, the
senior claims are paid in full before
the junior who may have a right to
go against the trustor personally. C is
incorrect.

125. C is the correct answer. If a junior inter-
est is not given notice at a foreclosure
sale, that interest is not extinguished.
The property is taken by the buyer
subject to the mortgage. B is incor-
rect. Although Otto may not have had
actual notice of Nash's mortgage, he
had constructive notice via the record-
ing act. A and D are incorrect.

ikliilLatiall§....- 

464 PROPERTY

MULTISTATE

EXAMINATION WORKBOOK
VOLUME II

The Multistate Workbook  IS DESIGNED FOR ALL MULTISTATE EXAMINATIONS

Fleming's Fundamentals Multistate Examination Workbook  is a complete self instruction resource
book that permits you to effectively prepare for the Multistate Examination at your own pace.

WHY YOU NEED The Multistate Examination. Workbook

With Fleming's Fundamentals Multistate Examination Workbook,  you will learn the proper test-
taking techniques and methodology that you must implement when analyzing this type of testing
format. The methodology discussed herein can be applied to any multiple choice testing format,
both in law school and for the Bar Examination.

WHAT YOU RECEIVE WITH  The Multistate Examination Workbook

♦ The "Rules Of The Road," and introduction to the Multistate Method that explains

examination techniques with specific examples and illustrations describing each "rule"

♦

♦

♦

♦

♦

100 Questions and explanatory answers in Civil Procedure

101 Questions and explanatory answers in Constitutional Law

100 Questions and explanatory answers in Criminal Procedure

110 Questions and explanatory answers in Evidence

125 Questions and explanatory answers in Real Property

•••••••••••••••• •♦ WRITE .

LEARN TO

THE RIGHT WAY®

♦••••••••••••••♦

