National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 1 - Evidence

In a suit based on a will, inheritance of $1 million depended upon whether the wife had survived her husband when both
died  in  the  crash  of  a  small  airplane.  An  applicable  statute  provided  that,  for  purposes  of  distributing  an  estate  after  a
common disaster, there was a rebuttable presumption that neither spouse had survived the other. A witness was called to
testify that as she approached the plane she heard what she thought was a woman’s voice saying, “I’m dying,” although by
the time the two occupants were removed from the wreckage they were both dead.

Is the witness’s testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the matter is governed by the presumption that neither spouse survived the other.

(B) No, because the witness’s testimony is too speculative to support a finding.

(C) Yes, because the hearsay rule does not apply to statements by decedents in actions to determine rights under a will.

(D) Yes, because it is relevant and not otherwise prohibited.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 2 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  lawfully  arrested  without  a  warrant  for  bank  robbery.  He  was  not  given  Miranda  warnings,  but  was
immediately taken to a police station where he and five other men were placed in a lineup to be viewed by the bank teller.
Each man was required to say the words spoken by the bank robber: “Give me all your money. I’ve got a gun.” After all
the men in the lineup spoke those words, the teller identified the defendant as the robber.

The defendant subsequently moved to suppress the testimony of the teller, claiming the lineup violated his privilege against
self-incrimination.  At a  suppression  hearing,  the  teller  testified  that  she  had  not  gotten  a  good look  at  the  robber’s  face,
because the robber had been wearing a hat pulled down over most of his face, but that she was certain the defendant was
the robber because she had recognized his voice at the lineup.

Should the defendant’s motion be granted?

(A) No, because being required to speak at the lineup, while compelled, was not testimonial or communicative.

(B) No,  because  testimony  of  a  witness  based  on  firsthand  observation  is  not  subject  to  exclusion  as  the  fruit  of  the

poisonous tree.

(C) Yes,  because  the  defendant  was  compelled  to  speak  at  the  lineup,  and  this  compelled  speech  led  to  the  witness’s

identification testimony.

(D) Yes, because the defendant was never informed that he could refuse to make a statement and that any statement could

be used as evidence against him.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 3 - Constitutional Law

A city owned and operated a municipal bus system. The city sold space on its buses for the posting of placards. Decisions
on the type of placards that could be posted on the buses were left wholly to the discretion of the administrator of the bus
system. Although most of the placards that appeared on city buses were commercial advertisements, the administrator had
often sold space on the buses for placards promoting various political, charitable, and religious causes.

A  circus  bought  space  on  the  city  buses  for  placards  advertising  its  forthcoming  performances.  An  animal  rights
organization asked the administrator to sell it space for a placard with photographs showing the mistreatment of animals in
circus shows.

The  administrator  denied  the  organization’s  request.  She  said  that  the  display  of  this  placard  would  be  offensive  to  the
circus, which had paid a substantial sum to place its placards on the buses, and that she had been told by a circus employee
that none of the photographs on the organization’s placard depicted an animal belonging to this particular circus. Under the
relevant city ordinance, the administrator’s decision was final.

The  organization  sued  the  administrator  in  an  appropriate  court  for  a  declaration  that  she  could  not,  consistent  with  the
First Amendment as made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment, refuse to sell the organization space for
its placard for the reasons she gave.

Will the organization prevail?

(A) No,  because  the  administrator’s  denial  of  space  to  the  organization  was  a  reasonable  time,  manner,  and  place

restriction of speech.

(B) No, because a public official may not allow the use of public facilities for the propagation of a message that he or she

believes may create a false or misleading impression.

(C) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to permit the dissemination of a message in a public forum wholly on the

basis of its content unless that denial is necessary to serve a compelling government interest.

(D) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to allow the use of any public facility to publish a message dealing with

an issue of public concern.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 4 - Torts

A landowner who owned a large tract of land in the mountains sought to protect a herd of wild deer that frequented the
area. Although the landowner had posted signs that said, “No Hunting—No Trespassing,” hunters frequently intruded to
kill the deer. Recently, the landowner built an eight-foot chain-link fence, topped by three strands of barbed wire, across a
gully on her land that provided the only access to the area frequented by the deer.

A  wildlife  photographer  asked  the  landowner  for  permission  to  enter  the  property  to  photograph  the  deer.  Because  the
landowner feared that any publicity would encourage further intrusions, she denied the photographer’s request. Frustrated,
the photographer attempted to climb the fence. He became entangled in the barbed wire and suffered extensive lacerations.
The  wounds  became  infected  and  ultimately  caused  his  death.  The  photographer’s  personal  representative  brought  an
action against the landowner.

Will the plaintiff prevail?

(A) Yes, because the landowner may not use deadly force to protect her land from intrusion.

(B) Yes, because the landowner had no property interest in the deer that entitled her to use force to protect them.

(C) No, because the photographer entered the landowner’s land after the landowner had refused him permission to do so.

(D) No, because the potential for harm created by the presence of the barbed wire was apparent.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 5 - Torts

A smoker and a nonsmoker were seated at adjoining tables in a small restaurant. The smoker’s table was in the smoking
section, and the nonsmoker’s table was in the nonsmoking section. When the smoker lit a cigarette, the nonsmoker politely
requested  that  he  not  smoke,  explaining  that  she  had  a  severe  allergy  to  cigarette  smoke.  The  smoker  ignored  the
nonsmoker’s request and continued to smoke. As a result, the nonsmoker was hospitalized with a severe allergic reaction to
the smoke.

The nonsmoker brought a battery action against the smoker.

Which of the following questions will NOT be an issue in the battery action?

(A) Did the smoker intend to cause the nonsmoker’s contact with the cigarette smoke?

(B) Does smoke have the physical properties necessary for making the kind of contact required for battery?

(C)

Is contact with cigarette smoke from a lawful smoking section in a restaurant the kind of contact one must endure as a
voluntary restaurant patron?

(D) Was the smoker’s conduct unreasonable under the circumstances?

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 6 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A federal officer had probable cause to believe a woman had participated in a bank robbery. Two days after the robbery,
the  woman  checked  into  a  local  hotel  room.  When  the  woman  left  for  the  evening,  the  hotel  manager  opened  the  hotel
room door so the officer could enter the room and look inside. The officer did not find any of the stolen money but did see,
lying open on the bed, the woman’s diary. The diary contained an entry describing the woman’s involvement in robbing
the bank.

The woman was charged in federal court with bank robbery. She moved to suppress the diary.

Should the court suppress the diary?

(A) Yes, because the officer had no warrant.

(B) Yes, because admitting the diary would violate the woman’s privilege against self-incrimination.

(C) No, because the hotel manager had actual authority to allow the officer into the hotel room.

(D) No, because the officer reasonably relied on the hotel manager’s apparent authority to allow the officer into the hotel

room.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 7 - Real Property

Thirty years ago, a landowner conveyed land by warranty deed to a church (a charity) “so long as the land herein conveyed
is used as the site for the principal religious edifice maintained by said church.”

Twenty years ago, the landowner died intestate, survived by a single heir.

One year ago, the church dissolved and its church building situated on the land was demolished.

There is no applicable statute. The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

In  an  appropriate  action,  the  landowner’s  heir  and  the  attorney  general,  who  is  the  appropriate  official  to  assert  public
interests in charitable trusts, contest the right to the land.

In such action, who will prevail?

(A) The landowner’s heir, as successor to the landowner’s possibility of reverter.

(B) The landowner’s heir, because a charity cannot convey assets donated to it.

(C) The  attorney  general,  because  cy  pres  should  be  applied  to  devote  the  land  to  religious  purposes  to  carry  out  the

charitable intent of the landowner.

(D) The attorney  general,  because  the  landowner’s  attempt  to  restrict  the  church’s  fee  simple  violated  the  Rule  Against

Perpetuities.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 8 - Constitutional Law

With the advice and consent of the Senate, the President entered into a self-executing treaty with a foreign country. The
treaty provided that citizens of both nations were required to pay whatever torts damages were awarded against them by a
court of either nation.

A man and a woman who were U.S. citizens and residents of the same state were traveling separately in the foreign country
when their cars collided. The foreign court awarded the woman a judgment for $500,000 in damages for her injuries from
the accident.

In federal district court in their home state, the woman filed suit against the man to enforce the judgment. The man filed a
motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction.

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss?

(A) Yes, because the citizenship of the parties is not diverse.

(B) Yes, because the traffic accident was a noncommercial transaction outside interstate commerce.

(C) No, because the case falls within the federal question jurisdiction of the court.

(D) No, because the treaty power is plenary and not subject to judicial review.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 9 - Contracts

A  fugitive  was  wanted  for  murder.  The  authorities  offered  the  following  reward:  “$20,000  to  anyone  who  provides
information  leading  to  the  arrest  and  conviction  of  this  fugitive.”  A  private  detective  knew  of  the  reward,  located  the
fugitive, and brought him to the authorities, who arrested him. The authorities then determined that while the fugitive had,
in fact, committed the crime, he had been directed to commit the crime by his boss. The authorities and the fugitive then
agreed that in exchange for the fugitive’s testimony against his boss, all charges against the fugitive would be dropped. The
fugitive testified and was released. The authorities refused to pay the reward to the private detective on the ground that the
fugitive was never convicted.

Would the private detective be likely to prevail in a breach of contract action against the authorities?

(A) No, because the private detective failed to notify the authorities that he had accepted the reward offer.

(B) No, because the express conditions set out in the reward were not met.

(C) Yes, because the authorities’ agreement with the fugitive was against public policy.

(D) Yes, because the authorities themselves prevented the conviction of the fugitive.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 10 - Evidence

A defendant was on trial for burglary. The prosecutor called the arresting officer to testify that shortly after the arrest the
defendant had orally admitted her guilt to him. Before the officer testified, the defendant objected that no Miranda warning
had been given, and she requested a hearing outside the presence of the jury to hear evidence on that issue.

How should the court proceed?

(A) The  court  should  grant  the  request,  because  the  hearing  on  the  admissibility  of  the  confession  must  be  conducted

outside the presence of the jury.

(B) The court may grant or deny the request, because the court has discretion whether to conduct preliminary hearings in

the presence of the jury.

(C) The court should deny the request and rule the confession inadmissible, because only signed confessions are permitted

in criminal cases.

(D) The court should deny the request and rule the confession admissible, because it is the statement of a party-opponent.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 11 - Torts

Under  the  Federal  Tort  Claims  Act,  with  certain  exceptions  not  relevant  here,  the  federal  government  is  liable  only  for
negligence. A federally owned and operated nuclear reactor emitted substantial quantities of radioactive matter that settled
on  a  nearby  dairy  farm,  killing  the  dairy  herd  and  contaminating  the  soil.  At  the  trial  of  an  action  brought  against  the
federal government by the farm’s owner, the trier of fact found that the nuclear plant had a sound design, but that a valve
made  by  the  Acme  Engineering  Company  had  malfunctioned  and  allowed  the  radioactive  matter  to  escape,  that  Acme
Engineering Company is universally regarded as a quality manufacturer of components for nuclear plants, and that there
was no way the federal government could have anticipated or prevented the emission of the radioactive matter.

If there is no other applicable statute, for whom should the trial judge enter judgment?

(A) The plaintiff, on the ground that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur applies.

(B) The plaintiff, on the ground that one who allows dangerous material to escape to the property of another is liable for

the damage done.

(C) The defendant, on the ground that a case under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved.

(D) The defendant, on the ground that the Acme Engineering Company is the proximate cause of the owner’s damage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 12 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides as follows: “In all criminal cases, whenever the Constitution permits, the burden of proof as to a
defense  claimed  by  the  defendant  shall  rest  on  the  defendant,  and  the  magnitude  of  the  burden  shall  be  as  great  as  the
Constitution permits.”

The same state defines the crime of forcible rape as follows: “Forcible rape consists of sexual penetration inflicted on an
unconsenting person by means of force or violence. Consent of the victim is a complete defense to a charge of rape.” 

At a defendant’s trial for forcible rape, he testified that the alleged victim had consented to having sexual intercourse with
him.

How should the trial judge instruct the jury regarding the issue of consent?

(A) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by a preponderance of the evidence, rests on the defendant.

(B) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by clear and convincing evidence, rests on the defendant.

(C) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the defendant.

(D) The burden of proving that the victim did not consent, by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the prosecution.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 13 - Contracts

A buyer and a seller entered into a contract for the sale of 10,000 novelty bracelets. The seller had the bracelets in stock.
The contract specified that the seller would ship the bracelets by a third-party carrier. However, the contract did not specify
either who was to pay the costs of carriage or the place of tender for the bracelets.

On the above facts, when would the risk of loss of the bracelets pass to the buyer?

(A) When the contract was made.

(B) When the bracelets were identified to the contract by the seller, assuming the goods conformed to the contract.

(C) When the bracelets were delivered to a carrier and a proper contract for their carriage was made.

(D) When the bracelets were unloaded on the buyer’s premises by the carrier.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 14 - Constitutional Law

A state legislature received complaints from accident victims who, in the days immediately following their accidents, had
received unwelcome and occasionally misleading telephone calls on behalf of medical care providers. The callers warned
of  the  risks  of  not  obtaining  prompt  medical  evaluation  to  detect  injuries  resulting  from  accidents  and  offered  free
examinations to determine whether the victims had suffered any injuries.

In  response  to  these  complaints,  the  legislature  enacted  a  law  prohibiting  medical  care  providers  from  soliciting  any
accident victim by telephone within 30 days of his or her accident.

Which of the following is the most useful argument for the state to use in defending the constitutionality of the law?

(A) Because  the  commercial  speech  that  is  the  subject  of  this  law  includes  some  speech  that  is  misleading,  the  First

Amendment does not limit the power of the state to regulate that speech.

(B) Because the  law regulates  only commercial  speech, the  state  need  only demonstrate  that the  restriction  is  rationally
related to achieving the state’s legitimate interests in protecting the privacy of accident victims and in regulating the
medical profession.

(C) The  state  has  substantial  interests  in  protecting  the  privacy  of  accident  victims  and  in  regulating  the  practice  of

medical care providers, and the law is narrowly tailored to achieve the state’s objectives.

(D) The law is a reasonable time, place, and manner regulation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 15 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with murder. While walking down the hallway during a recess in the defendant’s trial, the judge
overheard the defendant say to his attorney, “So what if I did it? There’s not enough proof to convict.” Upon the judge’s
reporting the incident to counsel, the prosecutor called the judge as a witness in the trial.

Is the judge’s testimony regarding the defendant’s statement admissible?

(A) Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

(B) Yes,  because  the  defendant’s  statement,  although  otherwise  privileged,  was  made  without  reasonable  efforts  to

preserve confidentiality.

(C) No, because the statement was a privileged attorney-client communication.

(D) No, because a judge may never testify in a trial over which he or she is presiding.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 16 - Real Property

A  man  borrowed  money  from  a  bank  and  executed  a  promissory  note  for  the  amount  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  his
residence.  Several  years  later,  the  man  sold  his  residence.  As  provided  by  the  contract  of  sale,  the  deed  to  the  buyer
provided that the buyer agreed “to assume the existing mortgage debt” on the residence.

Subsequently,  the  buyer  defaulted  on  the  mortgage  loan  to  the  bank,  and  appropriate  foreclosure  proceedings  were
initiated. The foreclosure sale resulted in a deficiency.

There is no applicable statute.

Is the buyer liable for the deficiency?

(A) No, because even if the buyer assumed the mortgage, the seller is solely responsible for any deficiency.

(B) No, because the buyer did not sign a promissory note to the bank and therefore has no personal liability.

(C) Yes, because the buyer assumed the mortgage and therefore became personally liable for the mortgage loan and any

deficiency.

(D) Yes, because the transfer of the mortgage debt to the buyer resulted in a novation of the original mortgage and loan

and rendered the buyer solely responsible for any deficiency.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 17 - Contracts

In a written contract, an architect agreed to draw up the plans for and to supervise construction of a client’s new house. In
return, the client agreed to pay the architect a fee of $10,000 to be paid upon the house’s completion. After completion, the
client claimed erroneously but in good faith that the architect’s plans were defective. The client orally offered to pay the
architect $7,500 in full settlement of the claim for the fee. The architect orally accepted that offer despite the fact that the
reasonable value of his services was in fact $10,000. The client paid the architect $7,500 pursuant to their agreement.

The architect subsequently sued the client for the remaining $2,500. In a preliminary finding, the trier of fact found that
there were no defects in the architect’s plans.

Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against the client for $2,500?

(A) Yes, because payment of $7,500 cannot furnish consideration for the architect’s promise to surrender his claim.

(B) Yes, because the oral agreement to modify the written contract is not enforceable.

(C) No, because the architect’s promise to accept $7,500 became binding when the client made the payment.

(D) No, because the architect’s acceptance of partial payment constituted a novation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 18 - Evidence

A defendant’s house was destroyed by fire and she was charged with arson. To prove that the defendant had a motive to
burn down her house, the government offered evidence that the defendant had fully insured the house and its contents.

Should the court admit this evidence?

(A) No, because  the  probative  value  of  the  evidence  of  insurance  upon  the  issue  of  whether  the  defendant  intentionally
burned her house down is substantially outweighed by the dangers of unfair prejudice and confusion of the jury.

(B) No, because evidence of insurance is not admissible upon the issue of whether the insured acted wrongfully.

(C) Yes, because evidence of insurance on the house has a tendency to show that the defendant had a motive to burn down

the house.

(D) Yes, because any conduct of a party to the case is admissible when offered against the party.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 19 - Torts

The  owner  of  a  shopping  mall  hired  a  construction  company  to  design  and  construct  the  entryway  to  the  mall.  The
construction  company  negligently  selected  an  unusually  slippery  material  for  the  floor  covering.  A customer  at  the  mall
slipped on the floor of the entryway, sustaining injuries. The customer sued the mall owner for the construction company’s
negligent design of the mall’s entryway.

Will the injured customer recover damages?

(A) No, if the construction company was an independent contractor.

(B) No, if no customers had previously slipped on the floor.

(C) Yes, if the customer intended to make a purchase at the mall.

(D) Yes, if the mall’s duty to maintain safe conditions was nondelegable.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 20 - Contracts

On June 1, a seller agreed, in a writing signed by both the seller and the buyer, to sell an antique car to a buyer for $20,000.
The car was at the time on display in a museum in a different city and was to be delivered to the buyer on August 1. On
July  15,  before  the  risk  of  loss  had  passed  to  the  buyer,  the  car  was  destroyed  by  fire  without  fault  of  either  party.
Subsequent to the contract but before the fire, the car had increased in value to $30,000. The seller sued the buyer for the
contract price of $20,000, and the buyer counterclaimed for $30,000.

Which of the following will the court conclude?

(A) Both claims fail.

(B) Only the seller’s claim prevails.

(C) Only the buyer’s claim prevails.

(D) Both claims prevail.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 21 - Constitutional Law

A report released by a Senate investigating committee named three U.S. citizens as helping to organize support for terrorist
activities. All three were employed by the U.S. government as park rangers.

Congress enacted a statute naming the three individuals identified in the report and providing that they could not hold any
position of employment with the federal government.

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  provides  the  best  means  for  challenging  the  constitutionality  of  the
statute?

(A) The bill of attainder clause.

(B) The due process clause.

(C) The ex post facto clause.

(D) The takings clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 22 - Real Property

A seller owned a single family house. A buyer gave the seller a signed handwritten offer to purchase the house. The offer
was unconditional and sufficient to satisfy the statute of frauds, and when the seller signed an acceptance an enforceable
contract resulted.

The house on the land had been the seller’s home, but he had moved to an apartment, so the house was vacant at all times
relevant to the proposed transaction. Two weeks after the parties had entered into their contract, one week after the buyer
had obtained a written mortgage lending commitment from a lender, and one week before the agreed-upon closing date, the
house was struck by lightning and burned to the ground. The loss was not insured, because three years earlier, the seller
had let his homeowner’s insurance policy lapse after he had paid his mortgage debt in full.

The handwritten contract was wholly silent as to matters of financing, risk of loss, and insurance. The buyer declared the
contract voided by the fire, but the seller asserted a right to enforce the contract despite the loss.

There is no applicable statute.

If a court finds for the seller, what is the likely reason?

(A) The contract was construed against the buyer, who drafted it.

(B) The lender’s written commitment to make a mortgage loan to the buyer made the contract of sale fully binding on the

buyer.

(C) The risk of loss falls on the party in possession, and constructive possession passed to the buyer on the contract date.

(D) The risk of loss passed to the buyer on the contract date under the doctrine of equitable conversion.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 23 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  federal  grand  jury  was  investigating  drug  trafficking  in  the  jurisdiction.  It  subpoenaed  a  witness  to  testify,  and  the
prosecutor advised the witness that he had a Fifth Amendment privilege not to testify if he so chose. The witness asked that
his counsel be allowed to advise him inside the grand jury room, but the prosecutor refused to allow the attorney inside.
The  witness,  after  speaking  with  his  attorney  outside  the  grand  jury  room,  decided  to  testify  and  ended  up  making
self-incriminating statements. 

The witness subsequently was indicted for drug crimes. The indictment was based on the witness’s grand jury testimony
and on evidence seized in an unconstitutional search of the witness’s home.

The witness moved to dismiss the indictment.

Should the court dismiss the indictment?

(A) Yes, because the witness was denied his constitutional right to advice of counsel.

(B) Yes, because the indictment was based upon illegally seized evidence.

(C) No, because the witness waived his constitutional rights by testifying.

(D) No, because the witness had no right to counsel inside the grand jury room and the illegally seized evidence did not

affect the validity of the indictment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 24 - Torts

A hiker sustained a head injury when he was struck by a limb that fell from a tree. At the time of his injury, the hiker was
walking through a forest on private property without the property owner’s knowledge or permission. It was determined that
the limb fell because the tree was infested with termites.

In an action by the hiker against the property owner to recover for his head injury, will the hiker prevail?

(A) No, because the property owner could not foresee that anyone would be injured.

(B) No, because the property owner breached no duty to the hiker, who was a trespasser.

(C) Yes, because the property owner had a duty to prevent the trees on his property from becoming dangerous.

(D) Yes, because the property owner is liable for hidden dangers on his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 25 - Criminal Law and Procedure

United States  customs  officials  received  an anonymous  tip  that  heroin  would be found  inside  a  distinctively  marked  red
package mailed from a foreign country to the United States. Pursuant to this tip, United States customs officers opened the
red  package  and  found  heroin  inside.  They  then  resealed  the  package  and  left  the  heroin  inside  it. The  FBI was notified
and, as agents watched, the package was delivered to the address.

The FBI then secured a warrant to search the house for the package. About two hours after the package was delivered, the
warrant  was  executed  at  the  house. The  man  who  opened  the  door  was  arrested,  and the  agents  found  the  package,
unopened, in an upstairs bedroom closet. After seizing the package, the agents looked through the rest of the house. In a
footlocker in the basement, they found a machine gun.

The man was charged with, among other crimes, unlawful possession of the machine gun. He moved to suppress its use as
evidence.

Should the court grant the motion to suppress the machine gun?

(A) Yes, because the search exceeded the authority granted by the warrant.

(B) Yes, because the initial search by the customs officers was without probable cause.

(C) No, because, having found the package, the agents had probable cause to believe more narcotics could be located in

the house and the gun was found in a proper search for narcotics.

(D) No, because narcotics dealers are often armed and the search was justified to protect the agents.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 26 - Contracts

A  homeowner  and  a  contractor  entered  into  a  contract  for  the  construction  of  a  home  for  the  price  of  $300,000.  The
contractor  was  to  earn  a  profit  of  $10,000  for  the  job.  After  the  contractor  had  spent  $45,000  on  labor  and  materials,
including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed, the homeowner informed the contractor that the homeowner had lost his
job and could not pay for any services. The homeowner told the contractor to stop working immediately. The reasonable
market value of the labor and materials provided by the contractor at that point, including the oak flooring, was $40,000.
The contractor used the $5,000 worth of oak flooring on another job.

In an action by the contractor against the homeowner for damages, which of the following would be the largest amount of
damages recoverable by the contractor?

(A) $40,000, the reasonable value of the services the contractor had provided.

(B) $40,000, the contractor’s construction costs.

(C) $50,000, the contractor’s construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit minus the $5,000 saved by reusing the

oak flooring on another job.

(D) $55,000, the contractor’s construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 27 - Real Property

A man died testate. The man’s estate consisted of a residence as well as significant personal property. By his duly probated
will, the man devised the residence  to a friend  who was specifically  identified  in the will. The residue of the estate  was
given to a stated charity.

The man’s friend, although alive at the time the man executed the will, predeceased the man. The friend’s wife and their
child, who has a disability, survived the man.

The  value  of  the  residence  has  increased  significantly  because  of  recent  zoning  changes.  There  is  credible  extrinsic
evidence that the man wanted his friend to own the residence after the man’s death so that the friend and his wife could
care for their child there.

There is no applicable statute.

If both the charity and the child claim the residence, to whom should the estate distribute the residence?

(A) The charity, because the devise to the friend adeemed.

(B) The charity, because the devise to the friend lapsed.

(C) The child, because extrinsic evidence exists that the man’s intent was to benefit the child.

(D) The child, because no conditions of survivorship were noted in the will.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 28 - Constitutional Law

Several sites on a mountain within federal public lands are regarded as sacred to a group that for years has gathered there to
perform religious ceremonies. The United States Forest Service recently issued a permit to a private developer to construct
a ski facility in an area that includes the sites that are sacred to the group.

The  group  filed  suit  in  federal  district  court  against  the  Forest  Service  to  force  cancellation  of  the  permit.  The  group
claimed  solely  that  the  permit  violated  its  First  Amendment  right  to  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  The  Forest  Service
conceded  that  the  group’s  religious  beliefs  were  sincere  and  that  the  ski  facility  would  adversely  affect  the  group’s
religious practices.

In order to prevail in its First Amendment claim, what must the group show?

(A) Construction of the ski facility will have a discriminatory impact on the group’s religious practices in relation to the

practices of other religious groups.

(B) The burden on the group’s religious practices imposed by construction of the ski facility outweighs the government’s

interest in allowing the facility.

(C) The  Forest  Service  can  achieve  its  legitimate  interest  in  allowing  the  ski  facility  by  issuing  a  permit  that  is  less

burdensome on the group’s religious practices.

(D) The permit issued by the Forest Service is aimed at suppressing the religious practices of the group.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 29 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with battery for allegedly attacking a man as they left a local bar together. No one else witnessed
the fight. At trial, each testified  that he had acted only in self-defense.  The defendant called his next-door neighbor as a
witness to testify as to the defendant’s reputation both for truthfulness and for peacefulness. The government objected to
the testimony in its entirety.

How should the court proceed?

(A) Admit the evidence in its entirety.

(B) Admit  the  evidence  regarding  the  defendant’s  reputation  for  peacefulness,  but  exclude  the  evidence  regarding  his

truthfulness.

(C) Exclude  the  evidence  regarding  the  defendant’s  reputation  for  peacefulness,  but  admit  the  evidence  regarding  his

truthfulness.

(D) Exclude the evidence in its entirety.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 30 - Torts

A  cigarette  maker  created  and  published  a  magazine  advertisement  that  featured  a  model  dressed  as  a  race-car  driver
standing in front of a distinctive race car. In fact, the car looked almost exactly like the very unusually marked one driven
by a famous and popular driver. The driver in the ad was not identified, and his face was not shown in the advertisement.
The  cigarette  maker  published  the  advertisement  without  obtaining  the  famous  driver’s  permission.  The  race-car  driver
sued  the  cigarette  maker  for  economic  loss  only,  based  on  common  law  misappropriation  of  the  right  of  publicity.  The
cigarette maker moved to dismiss the complaint.

Will the cigarette maker’s motion to dismiss the complaint be granted?

(A) No, because there are sufficient indicia of the driver’s identity to support a verdict of liability.

(B) Yes, because the driver is a public figure.

(C) Yes, because there was no mention of the driver’s name in the ad.

(D) Yes, because the driver did not claim any emotional or dignitary loss.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 31 - Criminal Law and Procedure

In a city, a number of armed bank robberies were committed near closing time by a masked man wearing a white hooded
sweatshirt and blue sweatpants. Police saw a man wearing a white hooded sweatshirt and blue sweatpants pacing nervously
outside one of the city’s banks just before it closed. The police stopped the man and frisked the outer layers of his clothing
for weapons, but found none. They asked the man what he was doing outside the bank and pointed out that he was wearing
clothing  similar  to  clothing  worn  by  the  perpetrator  of  recent  robberies.  After  pausing  for  several  moments,  the  man
confessed. The police had not provided him with any Miranda warnings.

After being charged with the bank robberies, the man moved to suppress his confession. The parties agreed, and the court
properly found, that the police had reasonable suspicion but not probable cause at all times before the man confessed.

Should the man’s motion to suppress be granted?

(A) Yes,  because  the  confession  was  the  fruit  of  a  Fourth  Amendment  violation,  even  though  there  was  no  Miranda

violation.

(B) Yes,  because  the  confession  was  the  fruit  of  a  Miranda  violation,  even  though  there  was  no  Fourth  Amendment

violation.

(C) Yes, because the confession was the fruit of both a Fourth Amendment violation and a Miranda violation.

(D) No, because there was neither a Fourth Amendment violation nor a Miranda violation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 32 - Real Property

A man owned property that he used as his residence. The man received a loan, secured by a mortgage on the property, from
a bank. Later, the man defaulted on the loan. The bank then brought an appropriate action to foreclose the mortgage, was
the sole bidder at the judicial sale, and received title to the property as a result of the foreclosure sale.

Shortly  after  the  foreclosure  sale,  the  man  received  a  substantial  inheritance.  He  approached  the  bank  to  repurchase  the
property, but the bank decided to build a branch office on the property and declined to sell.

If the man prevails in an appropriate action to recover title to the property, what is the most likely reason?

(A) He had used the property as his residence.

(B) He timely exercised an equitable right of redemption.

(C) The court applied the doctrine of exoneration.

(D) The jurisdiction provides for a statutory right of redemption.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 33 - Real Property

A farmer borrowed $100,000 from a bank and gave the bank a promissory note secured by a mortgage on the farm that she
owned. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage, which contained a due-on-sale provision.

A few years later, the farmer borrowed $5,000 from a second bank and gave it a promissory note secured by a mortgage on
her farm. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage.

Subsequently, the farmer defaulted on her obligation to the first bank, which then validly accelerated the debt and instituted
nonjudicial  foreclosure  proceedings  as  permitted  by the  jurisdiction.  The  second  bank  received  notice  of  the  foreclosure
sale but did not send a representative to the sale. At the foreclosure sale, a buyer who was not acting in collusion with the
farmer outbid all other bidders and received a deed to the farm.

Several months later, the original farmer repurchased her farm from the buyer, who executed a warranty deed transferring
the  farm  to  her.  After  the  farmer  promptly  and  properly  recorded  that  deed,  the  second  bank  commenced  foreclosure
proceedings on the farm. The farmer denied the validity of the second bank’s mortgage.

Does the second bank continue to have a valid mortgage on the farm?

(A) Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

(B) Yes, because the original owner reacquired title to the farm.

(C) No, because the purchase at the foreclosure  sale by the buyer under these facts eliminated  the second bank’s junior

mortgage lien.

(D) No, because of the due-on-sale provision in the farmer’s mortgage to the first bank.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 34 - Evidence

At a trial of a contract dispute, the plaintiff offered to testify to what the defendant said in a private conversation between
the two of them, which the plaintiff had secretly recorded on an audiotape that she did not offer in evidence.

Is the plaintiff’s testimony admissible?

(A) Yes, because the plaintiff has personal knowledge of the statement of a party-opponent.

(B) Yes, because the original document rule does not apply to audiotapes.

(C) No, because the statement must be proved by introduction of the audiotape itself.

(D) No, because of the plaintiff’s deception, even if the recording was not illegal.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 35 - Torts

A manufacturing plant located near a busy highway uses and stores highly volatile explosives. The owner of the plant has
imposed strict safety measures to prevent an explosion at the plant. During an unusually heavy windstorm, a large tile was
blown off the roof of the plant and crashed into the windshield of a passing car, damaging it. The driver of the car brought
a strict liability action against the owner of the plant to recover for the damage to the car’s windshield.

Is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the damage to the windshield did not result from the abnormally dangerous aspect of the plant’s activity.

(B) No, because the severity of the windstorm was unusual.

(C) Yes, because the plant’s activity was abnormally dangerous.

(D) Yes, because the plant’s location near a busy highway was abnormally dangerous.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 36 - Contracts

While  waiting  in  line  to  open  an  account  with  a  bank,  a  customer  read  a  poster  on  the  bank’s  wall  that  said,  “New
Customers! $25 FOR 5 MINUTES. If you stand in line for more than five minutes, we will pay you $25! We like happy
customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)” The customer started timing his wait and just as five minutes was
about  to  pass,  the  bank  manager  tore  the  poster  down  and  announced,  “The  $25  stand-in-line  promotion  is  over.”  The
customer waited in line for 10 more minutes before being served.

In the customer’s action against the bank for $25, will the customer prevail?

(A) No, because the bank withdrew its offer before the customer completed the requested performance.

(B) No, because the bank’s statement was a nonbinding gift promise.

(C) Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the customer had commenced performance.

(D) Yes, because the customer’s presence in line served as notice to the bank that he had accepted.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 37 - Constitutional Law

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100 cars had to ensure that at least 10 percent of
those cars were electric-powered.

A  city  filed  suit  in  federal  district  court  against  the  federal  official  who  enforced  this  requirement.  The  city  sought  an
injunction prohibiting enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Should the court grant the injunction?

(A) No, because the statute is valid under the commerce clause and does not violate the Tenth Amendment.

(B) No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot be sued without its explicit consent.

(C) Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under the Tenth Amendment.

(D) Yes,  because  as  applied  to  state  and  local  governments,  the  statute  exceeds  Congress’s  power  under  the  commerce

clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 38 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A driver stopped at a red light in his home state. A stranger opened the passenger door, got in, and pointed a gun at the
driver. The stranger then directed the driver to keep driving. They drove several miles, crossed into a neighboring state, and
drove several more miles. When they reached a remote location, the stranger ordered the driver to pull over. The stranger
then robbed the driver of his wallet and cash, and ordered him out of the car. The stranger drove off in the driver’s car.

The stranger is charged with kidnapping in the neighboring state, which has adopted the Model Penal Code.

Could the stranger properly be convicted of kidnapping in the neighboring state?

(A) Yes, because the driver was transported under threat of force in the neighboring state.

(B) Yes, because the driver in effect paid ransom for his release.

(C) No, because any kidnapping took place in the driver’s home state.

(D) No, because the restraint was incidental to the robbery.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 39 - Contracts

On June 1, a seller received a mail order from a buyer requesting prompt shipment of a specified computer model at the
seller’s current catalog price. On June 2, the seller mailed to the buyer a letter accepting the order and assuring the buyer
that the computer would be shipped on June 3. On June 3, the seller realized that he was out of that computer model and
shipped to the buyer a different computer model and a notice of accommodation. On June 5, the buyer received the seller’s
June 2 letter and the different computer model, but not the notice of accommodation.

At that juncture, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties’ legal rights and duties?

(A) The buyer can  either  accept  or reject  the different  computer  model  and in  either  event  recover  damages,  if any, for

breach of contract.

(B) The  buyer  can  either  accept  or  reject  the  different  computer  model,  but  if  he  rejects  it,  he  will  thereby  waive  any

remedy for breach of contract.

(C) The seller’s prompt shipment of nonconforming goods constituted an acceptance of the buyer’s offer, thereby creating

a contract for sale of the replacement computer model.

(D) The seller’s notice of accommodation was timely mailed and his shipment of the different computer model constituted

a counteroffer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 40 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a ladder manufacturer for injuries he suffered to his neck and back when a rung of the ladder on which he
was  standing  gave  way.  When  the  plaintiff’s  back  and  neck  continued  to  be  very  sore  after  more  than  two  weeks,  his
treating  physician  sent  him  to  an  orthopedist  for  an  evaluation.  Though  the  orthopedist  did  not  treat  the  plaintiff,  he
diagnosed an acute cervical strain. At trial, the plaintiff called the orthopedist to testify that in response to the orthopedist’s
inquiry about how the plaintiff had injured his back, the plaintiff told him, “I was standing near the top of a 15-foot ladder
when I abruptly fell, landing hard on my back, after which the ladder toppled onto my neck.”

Should the statement be admitted?

(A) Yes, because the plaintiff is present and can be cross-examined about it.

(B) Yes, because it was made for the purpose of medical diagnosis or treatment.

(C) No, because it was not made to a treating physician.

(D) No, because it relates to the inception or the cause of the injury rather than the plaintiff’s physical condition.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 41 - Constitutional Law

The  United  States  government  demonstrated  that  terrorist  attacks  involving  commercial  airliners  were  perpetrated
exclusively by individuals of one particular  race. In response, Congress enacted a statute  imposing stringent  new airport
and airline security measures only on individuals of that race seeking to board airplanes in the United States.

Which of the following provides the best ground for challenging the constitutionality of this statute?

(A) The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.

(B) The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(C) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.

(D) The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 42 - Torts

A consumer bought an electric kitchen blender from the manufacturer. Soon after the purchase, the consumer was using the
blender in an appropriate way when the blender jar shattered, throwing a piece of glass into the consumer’s eye.

The consumer brought an action against the manufacturer  based solely on strict product liability. The consumer’s expert
testified  that  the  blender  was  defectively  designed.  However,  because  the  blender  jar  was  destroyed  in  the  accident,  the
expert  could  not  determine  whether  the  accident  was  caused  by  the  design  defect  or  a  manufacturing  defect.  The
manufacturer’s expert testified that the blender was not defective.

If, at the conclusion of the evidence, both parties move for directed verdicts, how should the trial judge rule?

(A) Direct a verdict for the manufacturer, because the consumer’s expert was unable to specify the nature of the defect.

(B) Direct a verdict for the manufacturer, because the consumer’s action was brought solely on a strict liability theory.

(C) Direct a verdict for the consumer, because the blender was new when the jar shattered.

(D) Deny both motions and send the case to the jury, because a jury reasonably could conclude that the harm probably was

caused by a defect present in the product when it was sold.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 43 - Constitutional Law

Congressional committees heard testimony from present and former holders of licenses issued by state vocational licensing
boards. According to the testimony, the boards had unfairly manipulated their disciplinary proceedings in order to revoke
the licenses of some license holders as a means of protecting favored licensees from competition.

In response, Congress enacted a statute prescribing detailed procedural requirements for the disciplinary proceedings of all
state  vocational  licensing  boards.  For  example,  the  statute  required  the  state  boards  to  provide  licensees  with  adequate
notice and opportunity for an adjudicatory hearing in all disciplinary proceedings. The statute also prescribed criteria for
the  membership  of  all  state  vocational  licensing  boards  that  were  designed  to  ensure  that  the  boards  were  likely  to  be
neutral.

Which of the following provides the best source of authority for this federal statute?

(A) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.

(C) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV, Section 2.

(D) The takings clause of the Fifth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 44 - Real Property

A  seller  who  owned  land  in  fee  simple  entered  into  a  valid  written  agreement  to  sell  the  land  to  a  buyer  by  installment
purchase. The contract stipulated that the seller would deliver to the buyer, upon the payment of the last installment due, “a
warranty deed sufficient to convey a fee simple title.” The contract contained no other provision that could be construed as
referring to title.

The  buyer  entered  into  possession  of  the  land.  After  making  10  of  the  300  installment  payments  obligated  under  the
contract,  the  buyer  discovered  that  there  was  outstanding  a  valid  and  enforceable  mortgage  on  the  land,  securing  the
payment  of  a  debt  in  the  amount  of  25  percent  of  the  purchase  price  that  the  buyer  had  agreed  to  pay.  There  was  no
evidence that the seller had ever been late in payments due under the mortgage and there was no evidence of any danger of
insolvency of the seller. The value of the land was then four times the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage.

The buyer quit possession of the land, stopped making payments on the contract, and demanded that the seller repay the
amounts that the buyer had paid under the contract. After the seller refused the demand, the buyer sued the seller to recover
damages for the seller’s alleged breach of the contract.

In such action, should damages be awarded to the buyer?

(A) Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an obligation to convey marketable title is implied.

(B) Yes,  because  an  installment  purchase  contract  is  treated  as  a  mortgage  and  the  outstanding  mortgage  impairs  the

buyer’s equity of redemption.

(C) No, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a security device.

(D) No, because the time for the seller to deliver marketable title has not arrived.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 45 - Contracts

On May 1, a seller  and a buyer entered  into a written  contract,  signed by both parties,  for the sale  of a tract  of land for
$100,000. Delivery of the deed and payment of the purchase price were scheduled for July 1. On June 1, the buyer received
a letter from the seller repudiating the contract. On June 5, the buyer bought a second tract of land at a higher price as a
substitute for the first tract. On June 10, the seller communicated a retraction of the repudiation to the buyer.

The  buyer  did  not  tender  the  purchase  price  for  the  first  tract  on  July  1,  but  subsequently  sued  the  seller  for  breach  of
contract.

Will the buyer likely prevail?

(A) No, because the seller retracted the repudiation prior to the agreed time for performance.

(B) No,  because  the  buyer’s  tender  of  the  purchase  price  on  July  1  was  a  constructive  condition  to  the  seller’s  duty  to

tender a conveyance.

(C) Yes, because the seller’s repudiation was nonretractable after it was communicated to the buyer.

(D) Yes, because the buyer bought the second tract as a substitute for the first tract prior to the seller’s retraction.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 46 - Torts

A driver negligently ran over a pedestrian. A bystander witnessed the accident from across the street. The bystander ran to
the  pedestrian,  whom  he  did  not  know,  and  administered  first  aid,  but  the  pedestrian  died  in  the  bystander’s  arms. The
bystander suffered serious emotional distress as a result of his failure to save the pedestrian’s life, but he experienced no
resulting physical manifestations. The bystander brought a negligence action against the driver.

Is the bystander likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the bystander assumed the risk.

(B) No, because the bystander had no familial or other preexisting relationship with the pedestrian.

(C) Yes, because danger invites rescue.

(D) Yes, because the bystander was in the zone of danger.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 47 - Constitutional Law

A state legislature conducted an investigation into a series of fatal accidents in the state involving commercial trucks with
trailer exteriors made of polished aluminum. The investigation revealed that the sun’s glare off of these trucks blinded the
drivers of other vehicles. The state’s legislature then enacted a law prohibiting commercial trucks with polished aluminum
trailer exteriors from traveling on the state’s highways.

Litigation  over  the  state  law  resulted  in  a  final  decision  by the  United  States  Supreme  Court  that  the  law  impermissibly
burdened interstate commerce and, therefore, was unconstitutional. Congress later enacted a statute permitting any state to
enact a law regulating the degree of light reflectiveness of the exteriors of commercial trucks using the state’s highways.

Is this federal statute constitutional?

(A) No,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  already  determined  that  state  laws  of  this  type  impermissibly  burden

interstate commerce.

(B) No, because  Article  III  vests  the  judicial  power  in  the  federal  courts,  the  essence  of  judicial  power  is  the  ability  to

render a final judgment, and this statute overrules a final judgment of the federal Supreme Court.

(C) Yes, because Article I, Section 8 grants Congress authority to enact statutes authorizing states to impose burdens on

interstate commerce that would otherwise be prohibited.

(D) Yes,  because  Article  I,  Section  8  grants  Congress  authority  to  enact  statutes  for  the  general  welfare,  and  Congress
could  reasonably  believe  that  state  laws  regulating  the  light  reflectiveness  of  the  exteriors  of  trucks  promote  the
general welfare.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 48 - Evidence

A plaintiff  sued a defendant for wrongful death arising out of a traffic collision between the plaintiff’s  decedent and the
defendant. At  trial,  the  investigating  traffic  officer  authenticated  a  tape  recording  of  her  shift-end  dictation  of  comments
used in preparing the written report of her factual findings. She testified that the tape recording was accurate when made
and that she currently had no clear memory of the details of the investigation.

Is the tape recording admissible as evidence?

(A) Yes, under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule.

(B) Yes, under the public records exception to the hearsay rule.

(C) No, because it is hearsay and is a police report being offered against the defendant in a wrongful death case.

(D) No, because the police report itself is the best evidence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 49 - Contracts

A debtor’s  liquidated  and undisputed  $1,000 debt  to a  creditor  was due  on March  1. On March  15, the  creditor  told  the
debtor that if the debtor promised to pay the $1,000 on or before December 1, then the creditor wouldn’t sue to collect the
debt. The debtor orally agreed. On April 1, the creditor sued the debtor to collect the debt that had become due on March 1.
The debtor moved to dismiss the creditor’s complaint.

Should the court grant the debtor’s motion?

(A) No, because there was no consideration to support the creditor’s promise not to sue.

(B) No, because there was no consideration to support the debtor’s promise to pay $1,000 on December 1.

(C) Yes, because a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past debt is enforceable without consideration.

(D) Yes, because the debtor was bargaining for the creditor’s forbearance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 50 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man who had become very drunk left a bar and started to walk home. Another patron of the bar, who had observed the
man’s  condition,  followed  him.  The  patron  saw  the  man  stumble  and  fall  to  the  ground  near  an  alley.  The  patron  then
began to pull out a gun but saw that the man had passed out asleep in the gutter. The patron reached into the man’s pocket,
grabbed his wallet, and started to walk away. When the patron heard police officers approaching, he dropped the wallet and
ran off.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime for which the patron properly could be convicted?

(A) Robbery.

(B) Larceny.

(C) Attempted robbery.

(D) Attempted larceny.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 51 - Contracts

On March 1, a homeowner contacted a builder about constructing an addition to the homeowner’s house. The builder orally
offered to perform the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected. The homeowner accepted the
builder’s terms and the builder then prepared a written contract that both parties signed. The contract did not refer to the
builder’s  pending  bid.  One  week  later,  upon  learning  that  his  pending  bid  on  the  other  project  had  been  accepted,  the
builder refused to perform any work for the homeowner.

Can the homeowner recover for the builder’s nonperformance?

(A) No, because efficiency principles justify the builder’s services being directed to a higher-valued use.

(B) No, because the builder’s duty to perform was subject to a condition.

(C) Yes, because the builder’s attempt to condition his duty to perform rendered the contract illusory.

(D) Yes,  because  the  parol  evidence  rule  would  bar  the  builder  from  presenting  evidence  of  oral  understandings  not

included in the final writing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 52 - Constitutional Law

A city passed an ordinance requiring individuals to obtain a license in order to care for children under the age of 12 for
pay.  To  receive  such  a  license,  the  ordinance  required  the  individuals  to  complete  10  hours  of  instruction  in  child  care,
undergo  a  background  check,  and  pay  a  $100  fee.  The  ordinance  affected  women  disproportionately  to  men,  because
female  babysitters  far  outnumbered  male  babysitters  in  the  city.  City  officials  who  promoted  the  measure  said  that  the
certification  process  would  ensure  that  babysitters  were  adequately  regulated  for  the  health  and  safety  of  the  city’s
children.

Is the ordinance constitutional?

(A) No,  because  it  has  a  disparate  impact  on  women  without  a  showing  that  the  ordinance  is  necessary  to  advance  a

compelling government interest.

(B) No, because it infringes on the freedom of contract without a compelling government interest.

(C) Yes, because any burden it imposes is clearly outweighed by an important government objective.

(D) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate government objective.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 53 - Real Property

By a valid written contract, a seller agreed to sell land to a buyer. The contract stated, “The parties agree that closing will
occur on next May 1 at 10 a.m.” There was no other reference to closing. The contract was silent as to quality of title.

On April 27, the seller notified the buyer that she had discovered that the land was subject to a longstanding easement in
favor of a corporation for a towpath for a canal, should the corporation ever want to build a canal.

The buyer thought it so unlikely that a canal would be built that the closing should occur notwithstanding this outstanding
easement. Therefore, the buyer notified the seller on April 28 that he would expect to close on May 1.

When the seller refused to close, the buyer sued for specific performance.

Will the buyer prevail?

(A) No, because the easement renders the seller’s title unmarketable.

(B) No, because rights of third parties are unresolved.

(C) Yes, because the decision to terminate the contract for title not being marketable belongs only to the buyer.

(D) Yes, because the seller did not give notice of the easement a reasonable time before the closing date.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 54 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  drug  dealer  agreed  with  another  individual  to  purchase  heroin  from  the  individual  in  order  to  sell  it  on  a  city  street
corner.  Unknown  to  the  drug  dealer,  the  other  individual  was  an  undercover  police  officer  whose  only  purpose  was  to
arrest distributors of drugs. The drug dealer made a down payment for the heroin and agreed to pay the remainder after he
sold it on the  street.  As soon  as the undercover  officer  handed over the  heroin, other  officers  moved  in and arrested  the
dealer.

The jurisdiction follows the common law approach to conspiracy.

Could the dealer properly be convicted of conspiring to distribute drugs?

(A) No, because there was no overt act.

(B) No, because there was no plurality of agreement.

(C) Yes, because neither an overt act nor plurality of agreement is required at common law.

(D) Yes, because the dealer believed all the elements of conspiracy were present and cannot take advantage of a mistake

of fact or law.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 55 - Constitutional Law

Residents  of  a  city  complained  that  brightly  colored  signs  detracted  from  the  character  of  the  city’s  historic  district  and
distracted motorists trying to navigate its narrow streets. In response, the city council enacted an ordinance requiring any
“sign or visual display” visible on the streets of the historic district to be black and white and to be no more than four feet
long or wide.

A political party wanted to hang a six-foot-long red, white, and blue political banner in front of a building in the historic
district. The party filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the sign ordinance as applied to the display of its banner.

Which of the following would be the most useful argument for the political party?

(A) The ordinance is not the least restrictive means of promoting a compelling government interest.

(B) The ordinance is not narrowly tailored to an important government interest, nor does it leave open alternative channels

of communication.

(C) The ordinance imposes a prior restraint on political expression.

(D) The ordinance effectively favors some categories of speech over others.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 56 - Contracts

A buyer ordered a new machine from a manufacturer. The machine arrived on time and conformed in all respects to the
contract.  The  buyer,  however,  rejected  the  machine  because  he  no  longer  needed  it  in  his  business  and  returned  the
machine to the manufacturer. The manufacturer sold many such machines each year and its factory was not operating at
full capacity.

In an action by the manufacturer against the buyer for breach of contract, which of the following is NOT a proper measure
of the manufacturer’s damages?

(A) The contract price of the machine.

(B) The difference between the contract price and the market price of the machine.

(C) The difference between the contract price and the price obtained from a proper resale of the machine.

(D) The profit the manufacturer would have made on the sale of the machine to the buyer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 57 - Contracts

An  insurance  company  issued  an  insurance  policy  to  a  homeowner.  The  policy  failed  to  contain  certain  coverage  terms
required by a state insurance statute. When the homeowner suffered a loss due to a theft that was within the policy’s terms,
the insurance company refused to pay, claiming that the contract was unenforceable because it violated the statute.

Will the homeowner succeed in an action against the insurance company to recover for the loss?

(A) No, because the insurance policy is not a divisible contract.

(B) No, because the insurance policy violated the statute.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner belongs to the class of persons intended to be protected by the statute.

(D) Yes, because the insurance policy would be strictly construed against the insurance company as the drafter.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 58 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  foreign  diplomat  discovered  that  a  small  person  could  enter  a  jewelry  store  by  crawling  through  an  air  vent.  The
diplomat became friendly with a woman in a bar who he believed was small enough to crawl through the air vent. Without
telling her that he was a diplomat, he explained how she could get into the jewelry store. She agreed to help him burglarize
the  store.  Someone  overheard  their  conversation  and  reported  it  to  the  police.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  police  arrested  the
diplomat and the woman. Both were charged with conspiracy to commit burglary.

Before  trial,  the  diplomat  moved  to  dismiss  the  charge  against  him  on  the  ground  that  he  was  entitled  to  diplomatic
immunity. The court granted his motion. The woman then moved to dismiss the conspiracy charge against her.

The jurisdiction has adopted the Model Penal Code version of conspiracy.

Should the woman’s motion to dismiss the conspiracy charge against her be granted?

(A) No, because the diplomat’s defense does not negate any element of the crime.

(B) No, because the woman was not aware of the diplomat’s status.

(C) Yes, because a conspiracy requires two guilty participants.

(D) Yes, because but for the diplomat’s conduct, no conspiracy would have occurred.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 59 - Torts

A recently established law school constructed its building in a quiet residential neighborhood. The law school had obtained
all of the necessary municipal permits for the construction of the building, which included a large clock tower whose clock
chimed every hour. The chimes disturbed only one homeowner in the neighborhood, who had purchased her house prior to
the construction of the building. The homeowner was abnormally sensitive to ringing sounds, such as bells and sirens, and
found the chimes to be extremely annoying.

In a nuisance action by the homeowner against the law school, will the homeowner prevail?

(A) Yes, because the chimes interfere with the homeowner’s use and enjoyment of her property.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner purchased her house prior to the construction of the building.

(C) No, because the chimes do not disturb the other residents of the neighborhood.

(D) No, because the law school had the requisite municipal permits to erect the clock tower.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 60 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman told a man to go into her friend’s  unlocked barn and retrieve  an expensive  black saddle that she said she had
loaned  to  the  friend.  The  man  went  to  the  friend’s  barn,  opened  the  door,  found  a  black  saddle,  and  took  it  back  to  the
woman’s house. The friend had in fact not borrowed a saddle from the woman, and when the friend discovered her black
saddle missing, she suspected that the woman was the thief. The friend used a screwdriver to break into the woman’s house
to find the saddle. Upon discovering the saddle on the woman’s table, the friend took it back and called the police.

The jurisdiction follows the common law, except that burglary covers structures in addition to dwellings and the nighttime
element has been eliminated.

Which, if any, of these individuals is guilty of burglary?

(A) All of them.

(B) Only the friend.

(C) Only the man.

(D) Only the woman.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 61 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the full loss of his banquet hall by fire. The insurance company defended under
a  provision  of  the  policy  limiting  liability  to  50  percent  if  “flammable  materials  not  essential  to  the  operation  of  the
business  were  stored  on  the  premises  and  caused  a  fire.”  The  insurance  company  called  the  keeper  of  the  city  fire
inspection  records  to  identify  a  report  prepared  and  filed  by  the  fire  marshal  as  required  by  law,  indicating  that  shortly
before the fire, the fire marshal had cited the plaintiff for storing gasoline at the banquet hall.

Is the report admissible?

(A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the proceeding is civil, rather than criminal.

(C) Yes, as a public record describing matters observed as to which there was a duty to report.

(D) Yes, as a record of regularly conducted activity, provided the fire marshal is unavailable.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 62 - Real Property

A  rectangular  parcel  of  undeveloped  land  contained  three  acres  and  had  150  feet  of  frontage  on  a  public  street.  The
applicable zoning ordinance required that a buildable lot contain at least two acres and have frontage of not less than 100
feet on a public street.

A brother and sister owned the land as tenants in common, the brother owning a one-third interest and the sister owning a
two-thirds interest. Neither of them owned any other real property.

The sister brought an appropriate action to partition the land and proposed that a two-acre rectangular lot with 100 feet of
frontage be set off to her and that a one-acre rectangular lot with 50 feet of frontage be set off to the brother. The brother’s
defense included a demand that the land be sold and its proceeds be divided one-third to the brother and two-thirds to the
sister.

Who will prevail?

(A) The brother, because partition by sale is the preferred remedy, unless a fair price is not the likely result of a sale.

(B) The brother, because the zoning ordinance makes it impossible to divide the land fairly.

(C) The sister, because partition by sale is not appropriate if the subject property can be physically divided.

(D) The sister,  because  the  ratio  of  the  two lots  that  would  result  from  her  proposal  conforms  exactly  to  the  ownership

ratio.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 63 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman promised to pay $10,000 to a hit man if he would kill her neighbor in any manner that could not be traced to her.
The hit man bought a gun and watched the neighbor’s house for an opportunity to shoot him. One evening, unaware of the
hit man’s presence, the neighbor tripped as he was walking toward his house, falling and hitting his head against the front
steps. Believing that the neighbor was unconscious, the hit man ran over to him and shot him twice in the chest.

When the woman learned of the neighbor’s death, she paid the hit man $10,000. A medical examiner determined that the
neighbor was already dead when the hit man shot him.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime for which the woman properly could be convicted?

(A) Murder.

(B) Attempted murder.

(C) Conspiracy.

(D) Solicitation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 64 - Contracts

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct a garage for a homeowner for $10,000. Nothing was
stated in the parties’ negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of the work.

After completing 25 percent of the garage according to the homeowner’s specifications, the builder demanded $2,000 as a
reasonable progress payment. The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.

If each party sues the other for breach of contract, which of the following will the court decide?

(A) Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from the other.

(B) Only the builder is in breach and liable for the homeowner’s damages, if any.

(C) Only the homeowner is in breach and liable for the builder’s damages, if any.

(D) Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 65 - Torts

A  company  manufactured  metal  stamping  presses  that  were  usually  sold  with  an  installed  safety  device  that  made  it
impossible for a press to close on a worker’s hands. The company strongly recommended that its presses be purchased with
the safety device installed, but would sell a press without the safety device at a slightly reduced price.

Rejecting  the  company’s  advice,  a  worker’s  employer  purchased  a  stamping  press  without  the  safety  device.  The  press
closed on the worker’s hand, crushing it.

In an action brought by the worker against the company, will the worker prevail?

(A) Yes, because the company’s press was the cause in fact of the worker’s injury.

(B) Yes, because the company sold the press to the worker’s employer without an installed safety device.

(C) No,  because  the  failure  of  the  worker’s  employer  to  purchase  the  press  with  a  safety  device  was  a  superseding

intervening cause of the worker’s injury.

(D) No,  because  the  company  strongly  recommended  that  the  worker’s  employer  purchase  the  press  with  the  safety

device.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 66 - Constitutional Law

In one state, certain kinds of advanced diagnostic medical technology were located only in hospitals, where they provided a
major  source  of  revenue.  In  many  other  states,  such  technology  was  also  available  at  “diagnostic  centers”  that  were  not
affiliated with hospitals.

A group of physicians announced its plan to immediately open in the state a diagnostic center that would not be affiliated
with  a  hospital.  The  state  hospital  association  argued  to  the  state  legislature  that  only  hospitals  could  reliably  handle
advanced  medical  technologies.  The  legislature  then  enacted  a  law  prohibiting  the  operation  in  the  state  of  diagnostic
centers that were not affiliated with hospitals.

The group of physicians filed suit challenging the constitutionality of the state law.

What action should the court take?

(A) Uphold  the  law,  because  the  provision  of  medical  services  is  traditionally  a  matter  of  legitimate  local  concern  that

states have unreviewable authority to regulate.

(B) Uphold  the  law,  because  the  legislature  could  rationally  believe  that  diagnostic  centers  not  affiliated  with  hospitals

would be less reliable than hospitals.

(C)

Invalidate the law, because it imposes an undue burden on access to medical services in the state.

(D) Dismiss the suit without reaching the merits, because the suit is not ripe.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 67 - Torts

While driving his open-bed truck with a friend in the open bed, the driver swerved, throwing his friend to the pavement.
The friend sustained severe injuries. The friend had often ridden in the open bed of the driver’s truck, and on some of those
occasions the driver had swerved to frighten his friend. The friend sued the driver to recover both compensatory damages
for his injuries and punitive damages.

Which cause of action would NOT permit the friend to recover punitive damages?

(A) Assault.

(B) Battery.

(C) Negligence.

(D) Recklessness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 68 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued an individual defendant for injuries suffered in a collision between the plaintiff’s car and the defendant’s
truck  while  the  defendant’s  employee  was  driving  the  truck.  The  plaintiff  sought  discovery  of  any  accident  report  the
employee  might  have  made  to  the  defendant,  but  the  defendant  responded  that  no  such  report  existed.  Before  trial,  the
defendant moved to preclude the plaintiff from asking the defendant in the presence of the jury whether he destroyed such
a report, because the defendant would then invoke his privilege against self-incrimination.

Should the court allow the plaintiff to ask the defendant about the destruction of the report?

(A) No, because a report that was prepared in anticipation of litigation is not subject to discovery.

(B) No, because no inference may properly be drawn from invocation of a legitimate privilege.

(C) Yes, because a party in a civil action may not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination.

(D) Yes,  because  the  defendant’s  destruction  of  the  report  would  serve  as  the  basis  of  an  inference  adverse  to  the

defendant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 69 - Contracts

A  collector  bought  from  a  gallery  a  painting  correctly  described  in  the  parties’  signed  contract  as  a  “one-of-a-kind
self-portrait” by a famous artist that had recently died. The contract price was $100,000 in cash, payable one month after a
truck carrier delivered the painting to the collector.

The painting was damaged in transit. The collector timely rejected it after inspection and immediately notified the gallery
of  the  rejection.  The  gallery  then  sold  the  painting  to  a  third  party.  It  informed  the  collector  that  it  would  pick  up  the
painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  Two  weeks  later,  before  the  gallery  picked  up  the  painting,  the  collector  sold  the
painting to an art admirer for $120,000 cash, after notifying her about the damage.

If the collector’s sale of the painting was NOT an acceptance of the goods, what is the maximum amount that the gallery is
entitled to recover from the collector?

(A) $120,000 (damages for conversion).

(B) $100,000 (the collector-gallery contract price).

(C) $20,000 (the excess of the market price over the contract price).

(D) Only the allowance of lost profit to the gallery as a volume dealer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 70 - Real Property

Six years ago, a landlord and a tenant entered into a 10-year commercial lease of land. The written lease provided that, if a
public  entity  under  the  power  of  eminent  domain  condemned  any  part  of  the  land,  the  lease  would  terminate  and  the
landlord  would  receive  the  entire  condemnation  award.  Thereafter,  the  city  condemned  approximately  two-thirds  of  the
land.

The tenant notified the city and the landlord that an independent appraisal of the value of the tenant’s possessory interest
established that it substantially exceeded the tenant’s obligation under the lease and that the tenant was entitled to share the
award. The appraisal was accurate.

In  an  appropriate  action  among  the  landlord,  the  tenant,  and  the  city  as  to  the  right  of  the  tenant  to  a  portion  of  the
condemnation award, for whom will the court likely find?

(A) The landlord, because the condemnation superseded and canceled the lease.

(B) The landlord, because the parties specifically agreed as to the consequences of condemnation.

(C) The tenant, because the landlord breached the landlord’s implied warranty of quiet enjoyment.

(D) The tenant, because otherwise the landlord would be unjustly enriched.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 71 - Constitutional Law

In order to reduce the federal deficit, Congress enacted a statute imposing a five percent national retail sales tax. The tax
was levied upon all retail sales in the United States and applied equally to the sales of all kinds of goods.

Is this tax constitutional as applied to retail sales of newspapers?

(A) Yes, because it is within Congress’s power to tax.

(B) Yes, because the tax is necessary to serve the compelling interest of balancing the federal budget.

(C) No, because retail sales taxes are within the taxing power of the states.

(D) No, because the imposition of a tax on the sale of newspapers violates the freedom of the press.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 72 - Criminal Law and Procedure

The police suspected a woman of growing marijuana in her private residence. Narcotics officers went to her neighborhood
in the middle of the night. Nothing unlawful could be seen from the street, so the officers walked into the neighbors’ yard
and  looked  through  the  woman’s  kitchen  window,  which  had  neither  drapes  nor  shades.  The  officers  observed  what
appeared  to  be  marijuana  plants  being  cultivated  under  grow  lights  in  the  kitchen.  Using  this  information,  the  officers
obtained a search warrant. The execution of that warrant netted numerous marijuana plants.

The woman was charged with possession of marijuana.  She moved to suppress the marijuana  plants recovered when the
warrant was executed, claiming that the evidence supporting the warrant was obtained through a search that violated the
Fourth Amendment.

Should the marijuana plants be suppressed?

(A) No,  because  regardless  of  the  lawfulness  of  the  police  conduct  beforehand,  they  did  obtain  a  warrant  to  search  the

woman’s home.

(B) No, because the woman could have no reasonable expectation of privacy concerning activities that she exposed to the

view of her neighbors.

(C) Yes,  because  the  officers’  clandestine  observation  of  the  plants  violated  the  woman’s  reasonable  expectation  of

privacy concerning activities occurring in her home.

(D) Yes, because no unlawful activities could be observed by the officers from any public vantage point.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 73 - Real Property

A niece inherited vacant land from her uncle. She lived in a distant state and decided to sell the land to a colleague who
was interested in purchasing the land as an investment. They orally agreed upon a price, and, at the colleague’s insistence,
the niece agreed to provide him with a warranty deed without any exceptions. The price was paid, the warranty deed was
delivered, and the deed was promptly and properly recorded.  Neither the niece nor the colleague  had, at that point, ever
seen the land.

After recording the deed, the colleague visited the land for the first time and discovered that it had no access to any public
right-of-way and that none of the surrounding lands had ever been held in common ownership with any previous owner of
the tract of land.

The colleague sued the niece for damages.

For whom will the court find?

(A) The colleague, because lack of access makes title unmarketable.

(B) The colleague, because the covenants of warranty and quiet enjoyment in the deed were breached.

(C) The niece, because no title covenants were breached.

(D) The niece, because the agreement to sell was oral.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 74 - Evidence

In a prosecution for aggravated battery, a police officer testified that when he arrested the defendant, he took a knife from
the defendant and delivered it to the medical examiner. The medical examiner testified that the knife blade was consistent
with the victim’s  wound but admitted  on cross-examination  that  any number of other  knives could also have caused  the
wound.

Should the judge grant a motion to strike the medical examiner’s testimony?

(A) No, because the probative worth of this evidence is for the jury to assess.

(B) Yes, because in light of the medical examiner’s admission, his testimony has insufficient probative value.

(C) Yes, because the medical examiner could not state the probability that the wound was caused by the defendant’s knife.

(D) Yes, because the probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 75 - Torts

In  a  plaintiff’s  action  for  battery,  the  evidence  established  that  the  plaintiff  was  bad-tempered  and,  the  defendant  knew,
carried  a  gun  and  used  it  often;  that  the  plaintiff  struck  the  defendant  first;  that  during  the  altercation,  the  plaintiff
repeatedly tried to get to his gun; and that the blows inflicted upon the plaintiff by the defendant resulted in the plaintiff
being hospitalized.

Which finding of fact would be most likely to result in a verdict for the defendant?

(A) The defendant used no more force than he actually believed was necessary to protect himself against death or serious

bodily harm.

(B) The  defendant  used  no  more  force  than  he  reasonably  believed  was  necessary  to  protect  himself  against  death  or

serious bodily harm.

(C) The defendant, in fact, feared death or serious bodily harm.

(D) The defendant was justified in retaliating against the plaintiff because the plaintiff struck the first blow.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 76 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  perjury  for  having  falsely  testified  in  an  earlier  civil  case  that  he  knew  nothing  about  a
business fraud. In the perjury trial, the defendant again testified that he knew nothing about the business fraud. In rebuttal,
the prosecutor called a witness to testify that after the civil trial was over, the defendant admitted to the witness privately
that he had known about the fraud.

Is the witness’s testimony in the perjury trial admissible?

(A) Yes, but only to impeach the defendant’s testimony.

(B) Yes, both to impeach the defendant’s testimony and as substantive evidence of the perjury.

(C) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) No, because it relates to the business fraud and not to the commission of perjury.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 77 - Real Property

A landowner mortgaged her land to a nationally chartered bank as security for a loan. The mortgage provided that the bank
could, at its option, declare the entire loan due and payable if all or any part of the land, or an interest therein, was sold or
transferred without the bank’s prior written consent.

Subsequently, the landowner wanted to sell the land to a neighbor by an installment land contract, but the bank refused to
consent. The neighbor’s credit was good, and all mortgage payments to the bank were fully current.

The landowner and the neighbor consulted an attorney about their proposed transaction, their desire to complete it, and the
bank’s refusal to consent.

What would the attorney’s best advice be?

(A) Even if the landowner transfers to the neighbor by land contract, the bank may accelerate the debt and foreclose if the

full amount is not paid.

(B) The due-on-sale clause is void as an illegal restraint on alienation of the fee simple, so they may proceed.

(C) By making the transfer in land contract form, the landowner will prevent enforcement of the due-on-sale clause if the

mortgage payments are kept current.

(D) The due-on-sale clause has only the effect that the proposed transfer will automatically make the neighbor personally

liable on the debt, whether or not the neighbor specifically agrees to assume it.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 78 - Contracts

On  March  1,  an  excavator  entered  into  a  contract  with  a  contractor  to  perform  excavation  work  on  a  large  project.  The
contract expressly required that the excavator begin work on June 1 to enable other subcontractors to install utilities. On
May 15, the excavator requested a 30-day delay in the start date for the excavation work because he was seriously behind
schedule on another project. When the contractor refused to grant the delay, the excavator stated that he would try to begin
the work for the contractor on June 1.

Does the contractor have valid legal grounds to cancel the contract with the excavator and hire a replacement?

(A) Yes,  because  the  excavator  committed  an  anticipatory  repudiation  of  the  contract  by  causing  the  contractor  to  feel

insecure about the performance.

(B) Yes, because the excavator breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.

(C) No, because the excavator would be entitled to specific performance of the contract if he could begin by June 1.

(D) No, because the excavator did not state unequivocally that he would delay the beginning of his work.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 79 - Constitutional Law

In response to the need for additional toxic waste landfills in a state, the state’s legislature enacted a law authorizing a state
agency to establish five new state-owned and state-operated toxic waste landfills. The law provided that the agency would
decide  the  locations  and  sizes  of  the  landfills  after  an  investigation  of  all  potential  sites  and  a  determination  that  the
particular sites chosen would not endanger public health and would be consistent with the public welfare.

A community in the state was scheduled for inspection by the agency as a potential toxic waste landfill site. Because the
community’s  residents  obtained  most  of  their  drinking  water  from  an  aquifer  that  ran  under  the  entire  community,  a
citizens’ group, made up of residents of that community, sued the appropriate officials of the agency in federal court. The
group  sought  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  selection  of  the  community  as  the  site  of  a  toxic  waste  landfill  would  be
unconstitutional  and an injunction preventing  the agency from  selecting  the community  as a site  for such a landfill.  The
agency officials moved to dismiss.

Which of the following is the most appropriate basis for the court to dismiss this suit?

(A) The case presents a nonjusticiable political question.

(B) The  interest  of  the  state  in  obtaining  suitable  sites  for  toxic  waste  landfills  is  sufficiently  compelling  to  justify  the

selection of the community as a location for such a facility.

(C) The Eleventh Amendment bars suits of this kind in the federal courts.

(D) The case is not ripe for a decision on the merits.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 80 - Real Property

A man contacted his lawyer regarding his right to use a path that was on his neighbor’s vacant land.

Fifteen years ago, after a part of the path located on his land and connecting his cabin to the public highway washed out,
the man cleared a small part of his neighbor’s land and rerouted a section of the path through the neighbor’s land.

Twelve years ago, the neighbor leased her land to some hunters. For the next 12 years, the hunters and the man who had
rerouted the path used the path for access to the highway.

A month ago, the neighbor discovered that part of the path was on her land. The neighbor told the man that she had not
given him permission to cross her land and that she would be closing the rerouted path after 90 days.

The man’s land and the neighbor’s land have never been in common ownership.

The period of time necessary to acquire rights by prescription in the jurisdiction is 10 years. The period of time necessary
to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.

What should the lawyer tell the man concerning his right to use the rerouted path on the neighbor’s land?

(A) The man has fee title by adverse possession of the land included in the path.

(B) The man has an easement by necessity to use the path.

(C) The man has an easement by prescription to use the path.

(D) The man has no right to use the path.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 81 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries allegedly suffered when he slipped and fell on the defendant’s business property.
Without  asking  that  the  defendant’s  property  manager  be  declared  a  hostile  witness,  the  plaintiff  called  him  solely  to
establish that the defendant was the owner of the property where the plaintiff fell. On cross-examination of the manager,
the defendant’s attorney sought to establish that the defendant had taken reasonable precautions to make the property safe
for business invitees.

Should the defendant’s cross-examination of the manager be permitted over the plaintiff’s objection?

(A) No, because cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the direct examination and matters affecting

the credibility of the witness.

(B) No, because the court has not declared the manager hostile.

(C) Yes, because the cross-examiner is entitled to explore matters relevant to any issue in the case, including credibility.

(D) Yes, because the manager is the agent of a party, as to whom the scope of cross-examination is unlimited.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 82 - Torts

As a shopper was leaving a supermarket, an automatic door that should have opened outward opened inward, striking and
breaking the shopper’s nose. The owner of the building had installed the automatic door. The lease, pursuant to which the
supermarket leased the building, provided that the supermarket was responsible for all maintenance of the premises.

The  shopper  sued  the  supermarket.  At  trial,  neither  the  shopper  nor  the  supermarket  offered  any  testimony,  expert  or
otherwise, as to why the door had opened inward. At the conclusion of the proofs, both the shopper and the supermarket
moved for judgment.

How should the trial judge rule?

(A) Grant judgment for the shopper, because it is undisputed that the door malfunctioned.

(B) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to join the owner of the building as a defendant.

(C) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to offer proof of the supermarket’s negligence.

(D) Submit the case to the jury, because on these facts negligence may be inferred.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 83 - Torts

A  man  owned  a  much-loved  cat,  worth  about  $25,  that  frequently  trespassed  on  a  neighbor’s  property.  The  neighbor
repeatedly  asked  the  man  to  keep  the  cat  on  his  own  property,  but  the  trespasses  did  not  diminish.  Aware  of  the  man’s
attachment  to  the  cat,  the  neighbor  killed  the  cat  with  a  shotgun  in  full  view  of  the  man.  As  a  consequence,  the  man
suffered great emotional distress.

In  an  action  by  the  man  against  the  neighbor,  which  of  the  following  claims  would  be  likely  to  result  in  the  greatest
monetary recovery?

(A) Battery.

(B)

Intentional infliction of mental suffering.

(C) Trespass to a chattel.

(D) Conversion.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 84 - Constitutional Law

National  statistics  revealed  a  dramatic  increase  in  the  number  of  elementary  and  secondary  school  students  bringing
controlled substances to school for sale. In response, Congress enacted a statute requiring each state legislature to enact a
state law making it a crime for any person to sell, within 1,000 feet of any elementary or secondary school, any controlled
substance that had previously been transported in interstate commerce.

Is the federal statute constitutional?

(A) No, because Congress has no authority to require a state legislature to enact any specified legislation.

(B) No, because the sale of a controlled substance in close proximity to a school does not have a sufficiently close nexus

to interstate commerce to justify its regulation by Congress.

(C) Yes,  because  it  contains  a  jurisdictional  provision  that  will  ensure,  on  a  case-by-case  basis,  that  any  particular

controlled substance subject to the terms of this statute will, in fact, affect interstate commerce.

(D) Yes, because Congress possesses broad authority under both the general welfare clause and the commerce clause to
regulate any activities affecting education that also have, in inseverable aggregates, a substantial effect on interstate
commerce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 85 - Evidence

When a man entered a bank and presented a check for payment, the bank teller recognized the signature on the check as a
forgery because the check was drawn on the account of a customer whose handwriting she knew. The bank teller called the
police. Before the police arrived, the man picked up the check from the counter and left.

The man was charged with attempting to cash a forged check. At trial, the prosecutor called the bank teller to testify that
the signature on the check was forged.

Is the bank teller’s testimony admissible?

(A) Yes, because a bank teller is by occupation an expert on handwriting.

(B) Yes, because it is rationally based on the bank teller’s perception and is helpful to the jury.

(C) No, because the bank teller was at fault in allowing loss of the original by failing to secure the check.

(D) No, because  it is not possible  for either the jury or an expert  to compare the signature  on the missing  check with a

signature established as genuine.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 86 - Contracts

An  accountant  and  a  bookkeeper,  as  part  of  a  contract  dissolving  their  accounting  business,  agreed  that  each  would
contribute  $100,000  to  fund  an  annuity  for  a  clerk  who  was  a  longtime  employee  of  the  business.  The  clerk’s  position
would  be  terminated  due  to  the  dissolution,  and  he  did  not  have  a  retirement  plan.  The  accountant  and  the  bookkeeper
informed the clerk of their plan to fund an annuity for him. The clerk, confident about his financial future because of the
promised annuity, purchased a retirement home. The accountant later contributed his $100,000 to fund the annuity, but the
bookkeeper  stated  that  he  could  afford  to  contribute  only  $50,000.  The  accountant  agreed  that  the  bookkeeper  should
contribute only $50,000.

Does the clerk have a valid basis for an action against the bookkeeper for the unpaid $50,000?

(A) No, because the clerk was bound by the modification of the agreement made by the accountant and the bookkeeper.

(B) No, because the clerk was only a donee beneficiary of the agreement between the accountant and the bookkeeper, and

had no vested rights.

(C) Yes, because the clerk’s reliance on the promised retirement fund prevented the parties from changing the terms.

(D) Yes, because the promises to establish the fund were made binding by consideration from the clerk’s many years of

employment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 87 - Real Property

Twenty-five years ago, a man who owned a 45-acre tract of land conveyed 40 of the 45 acres to a developer by warranty
deed. The man retained the rear five-acre portion of the land and continues to live there in a large farmhouse.

The deed to the 40-acre tract was promptly and properly recorded. It contained the following language:

“It is a term and condition of this deed, which shall be a covenant running with the land and binding on all owners, their
heirs and assigns, that no use shall be made of the 40-acre tract of land except for residential purposes.”

Subsequently,  the  developer  fully  developed  the  40-acre  tract  into  a  residential  subdivision  consisting  of  40  lots  with  a
single-family residence on each lot.

Although  there  have  been  multiple  transfers  of  ownership  of  each  of  the  40  lots  within  the  subdivision,  none  of  them
included a reference to the quoted provision in the deed from the man to the developer, nor did any deed to a subdivision
lot create any new covenants restricting use.

Last  year,  a  major  new  medical  center  was  constructed  adjacent  to  the  subdivision.  A  doctor  who  owns  a  house  in  the
subdivision  wishes  to  relocate  her  medical  offices  to  her  house.  For  the  first  time,  the  doctor  learned  of  the  restrictive
covenant in the deed from the man to the developer. The applicable zoning ordinance permits the doctor’s intended use.
The man, as owner of the five-acre tract, however, objects to the doctor’s proposed use of her property.

There are no governing statutes other than the zoning code. The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in
the jurisdiction.

Can the doctor convert her house in the subdivision into a medical office?

(A) No,  because  the  owners  of  lots  in  the  subdivision  own  property  benefitted  by  the  original  residential  covenant  and

have the sole right to enforce it.

(B) No, because the man owns property benefitted by the original restrictive covenant and has a right to enforce it.

(C) Yes, because the original restrictive covenant violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(D) Yes, because the zoning ordinance allows the doctor’s proposed use and preempts the restrictive covenant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 88 - Contracts

On March 1, a mechanic  contracted  to repair a textile  company’s knitting  machine by March 6. On March 2, the textile
company contracted to manufacture and deliver specified cloth to a customer on March 15. The textile company knew that
it would have to use the machine then under repair to perform this contract. Because the customer’s order was for a rush
job, the two parties included in their contract a liquidated damages clause, providing that the textile company would pay
$5,000 for each day’s delay in delivery after March 15.

The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine, and, as a result, the textile company was five days
late in delivering the cloth to the customer. The textile company paid $25,000 to the customer as liquidated damages and
then  sued  the  mechanic  for  $25,000.  Both  the  mechanic  and  the  textile  company  knew  when  making  their  contract  on
March 1 that under ordinary circumstances the textile company would sustain few or no damages of any kind as a result of
a five-day delay in the machine repair.

Assuming that the $5,000-per-day liquidated damages clause in the contract between the textile company and the customer
is valid, which of the following arguments will serve as the mechanic’s best defense to the textile company’s action?

(A) Time was not of the essence in the contract between the mechanic and the textile company.

(B) The  mechanic  had  no  reason  to  foresee  on  March  1  that  the  customer  would  suffer  consequential  damages  in  the

amount of $25,000.

(C) By entering into the contract with the customer while knowing that its knitting machine was being repaired, the textile

company assumed the risk of any delay loss to the customer.

(D)

In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the textile company to the customer are not the same amount as the
actual damages sustained by the customer in consequence of the late delivery of the cloth.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 89 - Real Property

Five  years  ago,  an  investor  who  owned  a  vacant  lot  in  a  residential  area  borrowed  $25,000  from  a  friend  and  gave  the
friend a note for $25,000 due in five years, secured by a mortgage on the lot. The friend neglected to record the mortgage.
The fair market value of the lot was then $25,000.

Three  years  ago,  the  investor  discovered  that  the  friend  had  not  recorded  his  mortgage  and  in  consideration  of  $50,000
conveyed the  lot to  a buyer.  The  fair  market  value of  the  lot was  then $50,000. The  buyer knew nothing of  the friend’s
mortgage. One month thereafter, the friend discovered the sale to the buyer, recorded his $25,000 mortgage, and notified
the buyer that he held a $25,000 mortgage on the lot.

Two years ago, the buyer needed funds. Although she told her bank of the mortgage claimed by the investor’s friend, the
bank loaned her $15,000, and she gave the bank a note for $15,000 due in two years secured by a mortgage on the lot. The
bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage. At that time, the fair market value of the lot was $75,000.

The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  “No  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good  against
subsequent purchasers for value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law.”

Both notes are now due and both the investor and the buyer have refused to pay. The lot is now worth only $50,000.

What are the rights of the investor’s friend and the bank in the lot?

(A) Both mortgages are enforceable liens and the friend’s has priority because it was first recorded.

(B) Both  mortgages  are  enforceable  liens,  but  the  bank’s  has  priority  because  the  buyer  was  an  innocent  purchaser  for

value.

(C) Only  the  friend’s  mortgage  is  an  enforceable  lien,  because  the  bank  had  actual  and  constructive  notice  of  the

investor’s fraud.

(D) Only the bank’s mortgage is an enforceable lien, because the buyer was an innocent purchaser for value.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 90 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman offered to pay her friend one-third of the stolen proceeds if the friend would drive the getaway car to be used in a
bank robbery. The friend agreed but made the woman promise not to hurt anyone during the robbery.

The woman then drove to a sporting goods store, where she explained to the store owner that she needed a small firearm
for use in a bank robbery. The store owner responded that he would charge extra because the woman was so unwise as to
confide her unlawful plans for using the weapon, and he sold her a handgun at four times the regular price.

During the robbery, the woman used the gun to threaten a bank teller into handing over the money. The gun discharged by
accident and killed a bank customer.

At common law, who in addition to the woman could properly be convicted of murder in the death of the customer?

(A) Both the friend and the store owner.

(B) Neither the friend nor the store owner.

(C) Only the friend.

(D) Only the store owner.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 91 - Evidence

A  pedestrian  sued  a  driver  for  injuries  suffered  in  a  hit-and-run  accident.  At  trial,  the  pedestrian  called  a  witness  who
testified that he saw the accident and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license number into his properly
operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no longer remembered the number.

May the tape recording be played?

(A) Yes, as a present sense impression only.

(B) Yes, as a recorded recollection only.

(C) Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.

(D) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 92 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man decided to steal a car he saw parked on a hill. When he got in and started the engine, the car began rolling down the
hill.  The  man  quickly  discovered  that  the  car’s  brakes  did  not  work.  He  crashed  through  the  window  of  a  store  at  the
bottom of the hill.

The man was charged with larceny of the car and with the crime of knowingly damaging the store’s property. At trial, the
judge instructed the jury that if the jury found both that the man was guilty of larceny of the car and that the damage to the
store was the result of that larceny, then it should also find him guilty of malicious damage of property.

The man was convicted on both counts. On appeal, he argued that the conviction for malicious damage of property should
be reversed because the instruction was not a correct statement of the law.

Should the man’s conviction be affirmed?

(A) Yes, because his intent to steal the car provides the necessary mental element.

(B) Yes, because he was committing a felony.

(C) No, because the instruction wrongly described the necessary mental state.

(D) No, because it would violate double jeopardy to convict the man of two crimes for a single act.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 93 - Contracts

A seller and a buyer entered into a written agreement providing that the seller was to deliver 1,000 cases of candy bars to
the buyer during the months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to make a selection by March
1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to be delivered under the contract. The buyer did not make the selection by
March  1,  and  on  March  2 the  seller  notified  the  buyer  that  because  of  the  buyer’s  failure  to  select,  the  seller  would not
deliver the candy bars. The seller had all of the necessary candy bars on hand on March 1 and made no additional sales or
purchases  on  March  1  or  March  2.  On  March  2,  after  receiving  the  seller’s  notice  that  it  would  not  perform,  the  buyer
notified the seller of its selection and insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy bars, and the seller withdrew its offer before

selection.

(B) No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express condition to the seller’s duty to perform.

(C) Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a material effect on the seller.

(D) Yes,  because  upon  the  buyer’s  failure  to  make  a  selection  by  March  1,  the  seller  had  a  duty  to  make  a  reasonable

selection.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 94 - Real Property

A grantor owned two tracts of land, one of 15 acres and another of five acres. The two tracts were a mile apart.

Fifteen years ago, the grantor conveyed the smaller tract to a grantee. The grantor retained the larger tract. The deed to the
grantee  contained,  in  addition  to  proper  legal  descriptions  of  both  properties  and  identifications  of  the  parties,  the
following:

I, the grantor, bind myself and my heirs and assigns that in the event that the larger tract that I now retain is ever offered for
sale, I will notify the grantee and his heirs and assigns in writing, and the grantee and his heirs and assigns shall have the
right  to  purchase  the  larger  tract  for  its  fair  market  value  as  determined  by  a  board  consisting  of  three  qualified  expert
independent real estate appraisers.

With appropriate references to the other property and the parties, there followed a reciprocal provision that conferred upon
the grantor and her heirs and assigns a similar right to purchase the smaller tract, purportedly binding the grantee and his
heirs and assigns.

Ten years ago, a corporation acquired the larger tract from the grantor. At that time, the grantee had no interest in acquiring
the larger tract and by an appropriate written document released any interest he or his heirs or assigns might have had in
the larger tract.

Last  year,  the  grantee  died.  The  smaller  tract  passed  by  the  grantee’s  will  to  his  daughter.  She  has  decided  to  sell  the
smaller tract. However, because she believes the corporation has been a very poor steward of the larger tract, she refuses to
sell the smaller tract to the corporation even though she has offered it for sale in the local real estate market.

The corporation brought an appropriate action for specific performance after taking all of the necessary preliminary steps
in its effort to exercise its rights to purchase the smaller tract.

The daughter asserted all possible defenses.

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

If the court rules for the daughter, what is the reason?

(A) The provision setting out the right to purchase violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(B) The  grantee’s  release  10  years  ago  operates  as  a  waiver  regarding  any  right  to  purchase  that  the  corporation  might

have.

(C) The  two  tracts  of  land  were  not  adjacent  parcels  of  real  estate,  and  thus  the  right  to  purchase  is  in  gross  and  is

therefore unenforceable.

(D) Noncompliance with a right to purchase gives rise to a claim for money damages, but not for specific performance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 95 - Constitutional Law

In  order  to  combat  terrorism,  Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the  President  to  construct  surveillance  facilities  on
privately owned property if the President determined that the construction of such facilities was “necessary to safeguard the
security  of  the  United  States.”  The  statute  provided  no  compensation  for  the  owner  of  the  land  on  which  such  facilities
were  constructed  and  provided  that  the  surveillance  facilities  were  to  be  owned  and  operated  by  the  United  States
government.

Pursuant to this statute, the President has determined that the construction of a surveillance facility on a very small, unused
portion of an owner’s large tract of land is necessary to safeguard the security of the United States. The construction and
operation of the facility will not affect any of the uses that the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land.

The owner has filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the construction of a surveillance facility on the parcel of land
at issue without compensation.

How should the court rule?

(A)

It would be a taking of the owner’s property for which the owner must be compensated.

(B)

(C)

It  would  single  out  the  owner  for  adverse  treatment  in  violation  of  the  equal  protection  component  of  the  Fifth
Amendment.

It would not interfere with any use the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land and, therefore, would not
entitle the owner to any compensation.

(D)

It would be valid without any compensation, because it has been determined to be necessary to protect a compelling
government interest in national security.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 96 - Torts

A child was bitten by a dog while playing in a fenced-in common area of an apartment complex owned by a landlord. The
child was the guest of a tenant living in the complex, and the dog was owned by another tenant. The owner of the dog knew
that the dog had a propensity to bite, but the landlord did not have any notice of the dog’s vicious propensities.

In an action by the child against the landlord, will the child prevail?

(A) Yes, because in these circumstances a landlord is strictly liable.

(B) Yes, because a landlord’s duty to protect a tenant’s guests from dangerous conditions is nondelegable.

(C) No, because the landlord did not have any notice of the dog’s vicious propensities.

(D) No, because a landlord owes no duty to a tenant’s gratuitous guests.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 97 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state  grand  jury  investigating  a  murder  learned  that  the  key  suspect  might  have  kept  a  diary.  The  grand  jury  issued  a
subpoena duces tecum requiring the suspect to produce any diary. The subpoena made clear that the grand jury was seeking
only the diary and not any testimony from the suspect. The suspect refused to produce the diary, citing the privilege against
self-incrimination.

Under what circumstances, if any, could the grand jury compel production of the diary over the suspect’s Fifth Amendment
privilege?

(A)

It may compel production without granting immunity because the suspect was not compelled to write a diary.

(B)

It may compel production only if the suspect is granted use and derivative use immunity from the act of production.

(C)

It may compel production only if the suspect is granted transactional immunity.

(D)

It may not compel production of a private diary under any circumstances.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 98 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  tax  evasion.  The  IRS,  seeking  to  establish  the  defendant’s  income  by  showing  his
expenditures,  called  on  the  defendant’s  attorney  to  produce  records  showing  only  how  much  the  defendant  had  paid  his
attorney in fees.

Should the demand for the attorney’s fee records be upheld?

(A) Yes, because it calls for relevant information not within the attorney-client privilege.

(B) Yes, because the attorney-client privilege cannot be invoked to conceal evidence of a crime.

(C) No, because the records are protected by the attorney-client privilege.

(D) No, because the records are protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 99 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man was angered after he was unexpectedly laid off from his longtime job as a factory assembly worker. The next day,
he  returned  to  the  factory  floor  and  indiscriminately  fired  shotgun  rounds  in  the  air.  The  man  later  testified,  without
contradiction,  that  he  had  not  intended  to  kill  anyone  but  simply  sought  to  exact  revenge  on  the  factory’s  owners  by
shutting down operations  for the day. Unfortunately, one of the bullets  ricocheted off the wall and killed  the man’s  best
friend.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

On these facts, what is the most serious offense for which the man properly could be convicted?

(A) Murder.

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C)

Involuntary manslaughter.

(D) Assault.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 100 - Torts

A food company contracted with a delivery service to supply food to remote areas. The contract between the food company
and the delivery service was terminable at will. The delivery service then entered into a contract with an airline company to
provide  an  airplane  to  deliver  the  food.  The  contract  between  the  delivery  service  and  the  airline  company  was  also
terminable at will.

The food company was displeased with the airline company because of a previous business dispute between them. Upon
learning  of  the  delivery  service’s  contract  with  the  airline  company,  the  food  company  terminated  its  contract  with  the
delivery service in order to cause the airline company to lose the business. When the food company terminated the delivery
service’s contract, the delivery service had no choice but to terminate the airline company’s contract.

If the airline company sues the delivery service for tortious interference with contract, will the airline company prevail?

(A) No, because the airline company and the delivery service were the parties to the contract.

(B) No, because the airline company was not in privity with the food company.

(C) Yes, because the delivery service did not terminate the contract because of poor performance.

(D) Yes, because the delivery service’s termination of the contract made it a party to the food company’s acts.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 1 - Evidence

In a suit based on a will, inheritance of $1 million depended upon whether the wife had survived her husband when both
died  in  the  crash  of  a  small  airplane.  An  applicable  statute  provided  that,  for  purposes  of  distributing  an  estate  after  a
common disaster, there was a rebuttable presumption that neither spouse had survived the other. A witness was called to
testify that as she approached the plane she heard what she thought was a woman’s voice saying, “I’m dying,” although by
the time the two occupants were removed from the wreckage they were both dead.

Is the witness’s testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the matter is governed by the presumption that neither spouse survived the other.

(B) No, because the witness’s testimony is too speculative to support a finding.

(C) Yes, because the hearsay rule does not apply to statements by decedents in actions to determine rights under a will.

(D) Yes, because it is relevant and not otherwise prohibited.

Correct. The testimony is not barred by the hearsay rule or any other rule and is relevant on the issue of whether
the wife survived the husband.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 2 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  lawfully  arrested  without  a  warrant  for  bank  robbery.  He  was  not  given  Miranda  warnings,  but  was
immediately taken to a police station where he and five other men were placed in a lineup to be viewed by the bank teller.
Each man was required to say the words spoken by the bank robber: “Give me all your money. I’ve got a gun.” After all
the men in the lineup spoke those words, the teller identified the defendant as the robber.

The defendant subsequently moved to suppress the testimony of the teller, claiming the lineup violated his privilege against
self-incrimination.  At a  suppression  hearing,  the  teller  testified  that  she  had  not  gotten  a  good look  at  the  robber’s  face,
because the robber had been wearing a hat pulled down over most of his face, but that she was certain the defendant was
the robber because she had recognized his voice at the lineup.

Should the defendant’s motion be granted?

(A) No, because being required to speak at the lineup, while compelled, was not testimonial or communicative.

Correct. The defendant properly could be required to utter the words spoken by the bank robber. The privilege
against self-incrimination extends only to compelled “testimonial” communications; “[t]hus, even though the act
may provide incriminating evidence, a criminal suspect may be compelled . . . to make a recording of his voice.”
United States v. Hubbell, 530 U.S. 27, 34–35 (2000) (citing United States v. Wade, 388 U.S. 218 (1967)).

(B) No,  because  testimony  of  a  witness  based  on  firsthand  observation  is  not  subject  to  exclusion  as  the  fruit  of  the

poisonous tree.

(C) Yes,  because  the  defendant  was  compelled  to  speak  at  the  lineup,  and  this  compelled  speech  led  to  the  witness’s

identification testimony.

(D) Yes, because the defendant was never informed that he could refuse to make a statement and that any statement could

be used as evidence against him.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 3 - Constitutional Law

A city owned and operated a municipal bus system. The city sold space on its buses for the posting of placards. Decisions
on the type of placards that could be posted on the buses were left wholly to the discretion of the administrator of the bus
system. Although most of the placards that appeared on city buses were commercial advertisements, the administrator had
often sold space on the buses for placards promoting various political, charitable, and religious causes.

A  circus  bought  space  on  the  city  buses  for  placards  advertising  its  forthcoming  performances.  An  animal  rights
organization asked the administrator to sell it space for a placard with photographs showing the mistreatment of animals in
circus shows.

The  administrator  denied  the  organization’s  request.  She  said  that  the  display  of  this  placard  would  be  offensive  to  the
circus, which had paid a substantial sum to place its placards on the buses, and that she had been told by a circus employee
that none of the photographs on the organization’s placard depicted an animal belonging to this particular circus. Under the
relevant city ordinance, the administrator’s decision was final.

The  organization  sued  the  administrator  in  an  appropriate  court  for  a  declaration  that  she  could  not,  consistent  with  the
First Amendment as made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment, refuse to sell the organization space for
its placard for the reasons she gave.

Will the organization prevail?

(A) No,  because  the  administrator’s  denial  of  space  to  the  organization  was  a  reasonable  time,  manner,  and  place

restriction of speech.

(B) No, because a public official may not allow the use of public facilities for the propagation of a message that he or she

believes may create a false or misleading impression.

(C) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to permit the dissemination of a message in a public forum wholly on the

basis of its content unless that denial is necessary to serve a compelling government interest.

Correct. The space on city buses used for the posting of placards qualifies as a designated public forum because
it  is  public  property  that  the  city  has  decided  to  open  for  an  expressive  use.  The  organization’s  placard  was
consistent  with  the  city’s  designated  use  of  the  forum.  The  city  administrator’s  denial  of  space  to  the
organization was based on the content of the placard and therefore triggered strict scrutiny, which requires that
the denial be necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The reasons cited for the city’s denial of the
organization’s  request  do  not  implicate  compelling  government  interests  that  would  justify  a  content-based
speech restriction.

(D) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to allow the use of any public facility to publish a message dealing with

an issue of public concern.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 4 - Torts

A landowner who owned a large tract of land in the mountains sought to protect a herd of wild deer that frequented the
area. Although the landowner had posted signs that said, “No Hunting—No Trespassing,” hunters frequently intruded to
kill the deer. Recently, the landowner built an eight-foot chain-link fence, topped by three strands of barbed wire, across a
gully on her land that provided the only access to the area frequented by the deer.

A  wildlife  photographer  asked  the  landowner  for  permission  to  enter  the  property  to  photograph  the  deer.  Because  the
landowner feared that any publicity would encourage further intrusions, she denied the photographer’s request. Frustrated,
the photographer attempted to climb the fence. He became entangled in the barbed wire and suffered extensive lacerations.
The  wounds  became  infected  and  ultimately  caused  his  death.  The  photographer’s  personal  representative  brought  an
action against the landowner.

Will the plaintiff prevail?

(A) Yes, because the landowner may not use deadly force to protect her land from intrusion.

(B) Yes, because the landowner had no property interest in the deer that entitled her to use force to protect them.

(C) No, because the photographer entered the landowner’s land after the landowner had refused him permission to do so.

(D) No, because the potential for harm created by the presence of the barbed wire was apparent.

Correct. The landowner is privileged to protect her property from intrusion by a means not intended or likely to
cause death or serious bodily harm. The fact that the barbed wire presents its own warning and is not a hidden
trap makes it a reasonable device for discouraging trespassers. See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 84 & cmt. c.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 5 - Torts

A smoker and a nonsmoker were seated at adjoining tables in a small restaurant. The smoker’s table was in the smoking
section, and the nonsmoker’s table was in the nonsmoking section. When the smoker lit a cigarette, the nonsmoker politely
requested  that  he  not  smoke,  explaining  that  she  had  a  severe  allergy  to  cigarette  smoke.  The  smoker  ignored  the
nonsmoker’s request and continued to smoke. As a result, the nonsmoker was hospitalized with a severe allergic reaction to
the smoke.

The nonsmoker brought a battery action against the smoker.

Which of the following questions will NOT be an issue in the battery action?

(A) Did the smoker intend to cause the nonsmoker’s contact with the cigarette smoke?

(B) Does smoke have the physical properties necessary for making the kind of contact required for battery?

(C)

Is contact with cigarette smoke from a lawful smoking section in a restaurant the kind of contact one must endure as a
voluntary restaurant patron?

(D) Was the smoker’s conduct unreasonable under the circumstances?

Correct.  Whether  the  defendant’s  conduct  was  reasonable  under  the  circumstances  is  irrelevant  if  in  fact  the
defendant intended to make a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff. It would be relevant in a negligence
action, but not in a battery action.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 6 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A federal officer had probable cause to believe a woman had participated in a bank robbery. Two days after the robbery,
the  woman  checked  into  a  local  hotel  room.  When  the  woman  left  for  the  evening,  the  hotel  manager  opened  the  hotel
room door so the officer could enter the room and look inside. The officer did not find any of the stolen money but did see,
lying open on the bed, the woman’s diary. The diary contained an entry describing the woman’s involvement in robbing
the bank.

The woman was charged in federal court with bank robbery. She moved to suppress the diary.

Should the court suppress the diary?

(A) Yes, because the officer had no warrant.

Correct.  The  Fourth  Amendment  protects  the  woman’s  expectation  of  privacy  in  her  dwelling,  including  her
temporary  hotel room dwelling. Absent exigent  circumstances,  which were not present  in this fact  pattern,  the
Fourth  Amendment  would  require  the  officer  to  have  obtained  a  warrant  before  entering  the  hotel  room.  See
Minnesota v. Olson, 495 U.S. 91 (1990).

(B) Yes, because admitting the diary would violate the woman’s privilege against self-incrimination.

(C) No, because the hotel manager had actual authority to allow the officer into the hotel room.

(D) No, because the officer reasonably relied on the hotel manager’s apparent authority to allow the officer into the hotel

room.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 7 - Real Property

Thirty years ago, a landowner conveyed land by warranty deed to a church (a charity) “so long as the land herein conveyed
is used as the site for the principal religious edifice maintained by said church.”

Twenty years ago, the landowner died intestate, survived by a single heir.

One year ago, the church dissolved and its church building situated on the land was demolished.

There is no applicable statute. The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

In  an  appropriate  action,  the  landowner’s  heir  and  the  attorney  general,  who  is  the  appropriate  official  to  assert  public
interests in charitable trusts, contest the right to the land.

In such action, who will prevail?

(A) The landowner’s heir, as successor to the landowner’s possibility of reverter.

Correct.  The  conveyance  to  the  church  created  a  fee  simple  determinable.  The  future  interest  retained  by  the
grantor is a possibility of reverter. The church’s right to possession ended automatically when the church stopped
using the land as the site for its principal religious edifice. The heir inherited the possibility of reverter retained
by the landowner and is entitled to possession.

(B) The landowner’s heir, because a charity cannot convey assets donated to it.

(C) The  attorney  general,  because  cy  pres  should  be  applied  to  devote  the  land  to  religious  purposes  to  carry  out  the

charitable intent of the landowner.

(D) The attorney  general,  because  the  landowner’s  attempt  to  restrict  the  church’s  fee  simple  violated  the  Rule  Against

Perpetuities.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 8 - Constitutional Law

With the advice and consent of the Senate, the President entered into a self-executing treaty with a foreign country. The
treaty provided that citizens of both nations were required to pay whatever torts damages were awarded against them by a
court of either nation.

A man and a woman who were U.S. citizens and residents of the same state were traveling separately in the foreign country
when their cars collided. The foreign court awarded the woman a judgment for $500,000 in damages for her injuries from
the accident.

In federal district court in their home state, the woman filed suit against the man to enforce the judgment. The man filed a
motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction.

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss?

(A) Yes, because the citizenship of the parties is not diverse.

(B) Yes, because the traffic accident was a noncommercial transaction outside interstate commerce.

(C) No, because the case falls within the federal question jurisdiction of the court.

Correct. The court has federal question jurisdiction over the case because it “arises under” a treaty of the United
States, as provided for by Article III of the Constitution.

(D) No, because the treaty power is plenary and not subject to judicial review.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 9 - Contracts

A  fugitive  was  wanted  for  murder.  The  authorities  offered  the  following  reward:  “$20,000  to  anyone  who  provides
information  leading  to  the  arrest  and  conviction  of  this  fugitive.”  A  private  detective  knew  of  the  reward,  located  the
fugitive, and brought him to the authorities, who arrested him. The authorities then determined that while the fugitive had,
in fact, committed the crime, he had been directed to commit the crime by his boss. The authorities and the fugitive then
agreed that in exchange for the fugitive’s testimony against his boss, all charges against the fugitive would be dropped. The
fugitive testified and was released. The authorities refused to pay the reward to the private detective on the ground that the
fugitive was never convicted.

Would the private detective be likely to prevail in a breach of contract action against the authorities?

(A) No, because the private detective failed to notify the authorities that he had accepted the reward offer.

(B) No, because the express conditions set out in the reward were not met.

(C) Yes, because the authorities’ agreement with the fugitive was against public policy.

(D) Yes, because the authorities themselves prevented the conviction of the fugitive.

Correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the condition occurs or
its nonoccurrence is excused. The detective’s entitlement to the award was subject to two conditions—the arrest
and conviction of the fugitive. The first, the arrest, was satisfied when the detective delivered the fugitive to the
authorities. The second, the conviction, did not occur. Its nonoccurrence is excused, however, under the doctrine
of  prevention,  which  requires  that  a  party  refrain  from  conduct  that  prevents  or  hinders  the  occurrence  of  a
condition. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 225, 245 cmt. a.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 10 - Evidence

A defendant was on trial for burglary. The prosecutor called the arresting officer to testify that shortly after the arrest the
defendant had orally admitted her guilt to him. Before the officer testified, the defendant objected that no Miranda warning
had been given, and she requested a hearing outside the presence of the jury to hear evidence on that issue.

How should the court proceed?

(A) The  court  should  grant  the  request,  because  the  hearing  on  the  admissibility  of  the  confession  must  be  conducted

outside the presence of the jury.

Correct. Miranda warnings must be given before a confession made by a person under arrest can be admitted.
Since  the  defendant  contends  that  no  Miranda  warnings  were  given,  she  is  entitled  to  a  hearing  on  the  issue.
Under Rule 104(c) of the Federal Rules of Evidence, the hearing must be conducted outside the presence of the
jury.

(B) The court may grant or deny the request, because the court has discretion whether to conduct preliminary hearings in

the presence of the jury.

(C) The court should deny the request and rule the confession inadmissible, because only signed confessions are permitted

in criminal cases.

(D) The court should deny the request and rule the confession admissible, because it is the statement of a party-opponent.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 11 - Torts

Under  the  Federal  Tort  Claims  Act,  with  certain  exceptions  not  relevant  here,  the  federal  government  is  liable  only  for
negligence. A federally owned and operated nuclear reactor emitted substantial quantities of radioactive matter that settled
on  a  nearby  dairy  farm,  killing  the  dairy  herd  and  contaminating  the  soil.  At  the  trial  of  an  action  brought  against  the
federal government by the farm’s owner, the trier of fact found that the nuclear plant had a sound design, but that a valve
made  by  the  Acme  Engineering  Company  had  malfunctioned  and  allowed  the  radioactive  matter  to  escape,  that  Acme
Engineering Company is universally regarded as a quality manufacturer of components for nuclear plants, and that there
was no way the federal government could have anticipated or prevented the emission of the radioactive matter.

If there is no other applicable statute, for whom should the trial judge enter judgment?

(A) The plaintiff, on the ground that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur applies.

(B) The plaintiff, on the ground that one who allows dangerous material to escape to the property of another is liable for

the damage done.

(C) The defendant, on the ground that a case under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved.

Correct.  The  trier  of  fact  has  found  no  evidence  of  negligence  on  the  part  of  the  defendant.  The  defendant
selected  a  reliable  manufacturer  for  the  component  part  and  could  not  have  anticipated  or  prevented  the
malfunction. See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 298.

(D) The defendant, on the ground that the Acme Engineering Company is the proximate cause of the owner’s damage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 12 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides as follows: “In all criminal cases, whenever the Constitution permits, the burden of proof as to a
defense  claimed  by  the  defendant  shall  rest  on  the  defendant,  and  the  magnitude  of  the  burden  shall  be  as  great  as  the
Constitution permits.”

The same state defines the crime of forcible rape as follows: “Forcible rape consists of sexual penetration inflicted on an
unconsenting person by means of force or violence. Consent of the victim is a complete defense to a charge of rape.” 

At a defendant’s trial for forcible rape, he testified that the alleged victim had consented to having sexual intercourse with
him.

How should the trial judge instruct the jury regarding the issue of consent?

(A) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by a preponderance of the evidence, rests on the defendant.

(B) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by clear and convincing evidence, rests on the defendant.

(C) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the defendant.

(D) The burden of proving that the victim did not consent, by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the prosecution.

Correct.  The  state  statute  includes  lack  of  consent  as  an  element  of  the  offense.  Accordingly,  due  process
“protects the accused against conviction except upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt of every fact necessary to
prove  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt  all  of  the  elements  included  in  the  definition  of  the  offense  of  which  the
defendant is charged.” Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S. 197 (1977); see also Mullaney v. Wilbur, 421 U.S. 684
(1975).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 13 - Contracts

A buyer and a seller entered into a contract for the sale of 10,000 novelty bracelets. The seller had the bracelets in stock.
The contract specified that the seller would ship the bracelets by a third-party carrier. However, the contract did not specify
either who was to pay the costs of carriage or the place of tender for the bracelets.

On the above facts, when would the risk of loss of the bracelets pass to the buyer?

(A) When the contract was made.

(B) When the bracelets were identified to the contract by the seller, assuming the goods conformed to the contract.

(C) When the bracelets were delivered to a carrier and a proper contract for their carriage was made.

Correct.  Under  UCC § 2-509(1),  a  contract  that  requires  the  seller  to  ship  goods  to  the  buyer  by  a  third-party
carrier  is  either  a  shipment  or  a  destination  contract.  Comment  5  to  UCC  §  2-503  provides  that  where  the
contract  is  otherwise  silent,  a  shipment  contract  is  presumed  where  the  contract  requires  shipment  by  a
third-party carrier. Since this is a shipment contract, the risk of loss would pass from the seller to the buyer when
the seller duly delivered the goods to the third-party carrier.

(D) When the bracelets were unloaded on the buyer’s premises by the carrier.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 14 - Constitutional Law

A state legislature received complaints from accident victims who, in the days immediately following their accidents, had
received unwelcome and occasionally misleading telephone calls on behalf of medical care providers. The callers warned
of  the  risks  of  not  obtaining  prompt  medical  evaluation  to  detect  injuries  resulting  from  accidents  and  offered  free
examinations to determine whether the victims had suffered any injuries.

In  response  to  these  complaints,  the  legislature  enacted  a  law  prohibiting  medical  care  providers  from  soliciting  any
accident victim by telephone within 30 days of his or her accident.

Which of the following is the most useful argument for the state to use in defending the constitutionality of the law?

(A) Because  the  commercial  speech  that  is  the  subject  of  this  law  includes  some  speech  that  is  misleading,  the  First

Amendment does not limit the power of the state to regulate that speech.

(B) Because the  law regulates  only commercial  speech, the  state  need  only demonstrate  that the  restriction  is  rationally
related to achieving the state’s legitimate interests in protecting the privacy of accident victims and in regulating the
medical profession.

(C) The  state  has  substantial  interests  in  protecting  the  privacy  of  accident  victims  and  in  regulating  the  practice  of

medical care providers, and the law is narrowly tailored to achieve the state’s objectives.

Correct.  The  law  regulates  only  commercial  speech,  and  the  First  Amendment  invalidates  any  law  regulating
such  speech  unless  the  law  is  narrowly  tailored  to  serve  a  substantial  government  interest.  The  U.S.  Supreme
Court has held that a law barring the solicitation of accident victims within a limited time period following an
accident was narrowly tailored to serve the state’s substantial interest in protecting the privacy of the victims.

(D) The law is a reasonable time, place, and manner regulation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 15 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with murder. While walking down the hallway during a recess in the defendant’s trial, the judge
overheard the defendant say to his attorney, “So what if I did it? There’s not enough proof to convict.” Upon the judge’s
reporting the incident to counsel, the prosecutor called the judge as a witness in the trial.

Is the judge’s testimony regarding the defendant’s statement admissible?

(A) Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

(B) Yes,  because  the  defendant’s  statement,  although  otherwise  privileged,  was  made  without  reasonable  efforts  to

preserve confidentiality.

(C) No, because the statement was a privileged attorney-client communication.

(D) No, because a judge may never testify in a trial over which he or she is presiding.

Correct. Rule 605 of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides that a “judge presiding at the trial may not testify in
that trial as a witness.”

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 16 - Real Property

A  man  borrowed  money  from  a  bank  and  executed  a  promissory  note  for  the  amount  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  his
residence.  Several  years  later,  the  man  sold  his  residence.  As  provided  by  the  contract  of  sale,  the  deed  to  the  buyer
provided that the buyer agreed “to assume the existing mortgage debt” on the residence.

Subsequently,  the  buyer  defaulted  on  the  mortgage  loan  to  the  bank,  and  appropriate  foreclosure  proceedings  were
initiated. The foreclosure sale resulted in a deficiency.

There is no applicable statute.

Is the buyer liable for the deficiency?

(A) No, because even if the buyer assumed the mortgage, the seller is solely responsible for any deficiency.

(B) No, because the buyer did not sign a promissory note to the bank and therefore has no personal liability.

(C) Yes, because the buyer assumed the mortgage and therefore became personally liable for the mortgage loan and any

deficiency.

Correct. With a mortgage assumption, the buyer who assumes the mortgage debt becomes primarily liable. The
man,  absent  a  release  by the  bank,  also  is  liable,  although  the  man  is  secondarily  liable.  This  situation  can  be
contrasted with one in which the buyer purchased “subject to the mortgage,” in which case only the man would
be liable for any deficiency.

(D) Yes, because the transfer of the mortgage debt to the buyer resulted in a novation of the original mortgage and loan

and rendered the buyer solely responsible for any deficiency.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 17 - Contracts

In a written contract, an architect agreed to draw up the plans for and to supervise construction of a client’s new house. In
return, the client agreed to pay the architect a fee of $10,000 to be paid upon the house’s completion. After completion, the
client claimed erroneously but in good faith that the architect’s plans were defective. The client orally offered to pay the
architect $7,500 in full settlement of the claim for the fee. The architect orally accepted that offer despite the fact that the
reasonable value of his services was in fact $10,000. The client paid the architect $7,500 pursuant to their agreement.

The architect subsequently sued the client for the remaining $2,500. In a preliminary finding, the trier of fact found that
there were no defects in the architect’s plans.

Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against the client for $2,500?

(A) Yes, because payment of $7,500 cannot furnish consideration for the architect’s promise to surrender his claim.

(B) Yes, because the oral agreement to modify the written contract is not enforceable.

(C) No, because the architect’s promise to accept $7,500 became binding when the client made the payment.

Correct.  The  architect’s  agreement  to  accept  a  payment  for  less  than  the  amount  due  constituted  an  effective
accord,  supported  by  consideration,  which  was  satisfied  with  the  payment  of  $7,500.  Consideration  is  present
because of the good faith dispute as to the amount owed. By compromising, each party surrenders its respective
claim as to how much is owed. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 74.

(D) No, because the architect’s acceptance of partial payment constituted a novation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 18 - Evidence

A defendant’s house was destroyed by fire and she was charged with arson. To prove that the defendant had a motive to
burn down her house, the government offered evidence that the defendant had fully insured the house and its contents.

Should the court admit this evidence?

(A) No, because  the  probative  value  of  the  evidence  of  insurance  upon  the  issue  of  whether  the  defendant  intentionally
burned her house down is substantially outweighed by the dangers of unfair prejudice and confusion of the jury.

(B) No, because evidence of insurance is not admissible upon the issue of whether the insured acted wrongfully.

(C) Yes, because evidence of insurance on the house has a tendency to show that the defendant had a motive to burn down

the house.

Correct.  Although  this  evidence  is  certainly  not  conclusive  that  the  defendant  committed  arson  (many  people
fully insure their houses), it is relevant to the issue of whether the defendant would have had a financial incentive
to commit the arson. The defendant might be able to generate cash more quickly by burning down the house and
collecting insurance proceeds than by attempting to sell the house. To be relevant under Rule 401 of the Federal
Rules  of  Evidence,  the  evidence  need  only  have  “any  tendency  to  make  the  existence  of  a  fact  that  is  of
consequence  to  the  determination  of  the  action  more  probable  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without  the
evidence.” Therefore, evidence that has only the slightest probative value can be admitted under this rule.

(D) Yes, because any conduct of a party to the case is admissible when offered against the party.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 19 - Torts

The  owner  of  a  shopping  mall  hired  a  construction  company  to  design  and  construct  the  entryway  to  the  mall.  The
construction  company  negligently  selected  an  unusually  slippery  material  for  the  floor  covering.  A customer  at  the  mall
slipped on the floor of the entryway, sustaining injuries. The customer sued the mall owner for the construction company’s
negligent design of the mall’s entryway.

Will the injured customer recover damages?

(A) No, if the construction company was an independent contractor.

(B) No, if no customers had previously slipped on the floor.

(C) Yes, if the customer intended to make a purchase at the mall.

(D) Yes, if the mall’s duty to maintain safe conditions was nondelegable.

Correct. Although employers are not usually liable for the negligence of independent contractors, there are limits
on  the  ability  of  employers  to  circumvent  liability  in  this  way.  Work  in  public  places  often  gives  rise  to  a
nondelegable duty on the part of the landowner.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 20 - Contracts

On June 1, a seller agreed, in a writing signed by both the seller and the buyer, to sell an antique car to a buyer for $20,000.
The car was at the time on display in a museum in a different city and was to be delivered to the buyer on August 1. On
July  15,  before  the  risk  of  loss  had  passed  to  the  buyer,  the  car  was  destroyed  by  fire  without  fault  of  either  party.
Subsequent to the contract but before the fire, the car had increased in value to $30,000. The seller sued the buyer for the
contract price of $20,000, and the buyer counterclaimed for $30,000.

Which of the following will the court conclude?

(A) Both claims fail.

Correct.  UCC  §  2-613  provides  that  where  goods,  identified  at  the  time  the  contract  was  made,  are  totally
destroyed before the risk of their loss has passed to the buyer and without the fault of either party, the contract is
avoided and each party is relieved of its respective obligation to perform. Under UCC § 2-501, the goods were
identified at the time of contract formation since the parties agreed to the delivery of a specific automobile. In
addition, the facts state that the car was destroyed without the fault of either party and before the risk of loss had
passed. Therefore the contract is avoided. Since each party’s performance is discharged, neither party can assert
a valid claim against the other.

(B) Only the seller’s claim prevails.

(C) Only the buyer’s claim prevails.

(D) Both claims prevail.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 21 - Constitutional Law

A report released by a Senate investigating committee named three U.S. citizens as helping to organize support for terrorist
activities. All three were employed by the U.S. government as park rangers.

Congress enacted a statute naming the three individuals identified in the report and providing that they could not hold any
position of employment with the federal government.

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  provides  the  best  means  for  challenging  the  constitutionality  of  the
statute?

(A) The bill of attainder clause.

Correct.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a  legislative  act  that  singles  out  particular  individuals  for  punishment  without  a
trial;  bills  of  attainder  are  explicitly  prohibited  by  the  Constitution.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  held,  in  United
States v. Lovett, 328 U.S. 303 (1946), that a statute barring particular individuals from government employment
qualified as punishment within the meaning of the constitutional provision prohibiting bills of attainder.

(B) The due process clause.

(C) The ex post facto clause.

(D) The takings clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 22 - Real Property

A seller owned a single family house. A buyer gave the seller a signed handwritten offer to purchase the house. The offer
was unconditional and sufficient to satisfy the statute of frauds, and when the seller signed an acceptance an enforceable
contract resulted.

The house on the land had been the seller’s home, but he had moved to an apartment, so the house was vacant at all times
relevant to the proposed transaction. Two weeks after the parties had entered into their contract, one week after the buyer
had obtained a written mortgage lending commitment from a lender, and one week before the agreed-upon closing date, the
house was struck by lightning and burned to the ground. The loss was not insured, because three years earlier, the seller
had let his homeowner’s insurance policy lapse after he had paid his mortgage debt in full.

The handwritten contract was wholly silent as to matters of financing, risk of loss, and insurance. The buyer declared the
contract voided by the fire, but the seller asserted a right to enforce the contract despite the loss.

There is no applicable statute.

If a court finds for the seller, what is the likely reason?

(A) The contract was construed against the buyer, who drafted it.

(B) The lender’s written commitment to make a mortgage loan to the buyer made the contract of sale fully binding on the

buyer.

(C) The risk of loss falls on the party in possession, and constructive possession passed to the buyer on the contract date.

(D) The risk of loss passed to the buyer on the contract date under the doctrine of equitable conversion.

Correct. Under the doctrine of equitable conversion, the risk of loss goes to the party with the equitable title if
the  contract  is  silent.  Equitable  conversion  occurs  when  the  contract  is  capable  of  specific  performance.  This
contract  was  silent  regarding  the  risk  of  loss  and  there  were  no  conditions  to  be  met.  The  buyer  thus  had  the
equitable title at the time of the loss. If there is no statute, the Uniform Vendor and Purchaser Act, which places
the risk of loss on the one in possession, is not applicable. The court found for the seller, and thus the minority
common law rule, which places the risk on the seller under these facts, is inapplicable.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 23 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  federal  grand  jury  was  investigating  drug  trafficking  in  the  jurisdiction.  It  subpoenaed  a  witness  to  testify,  and  the
prosecutor advised the witness that he had a Fifth Amendment privilege not to testify if he so chose. The witness asked that
his counsel be allowed to advise him inside the grand jury room, but the prosecutor refused to allow the attorney inside.
The  witness,  after  speaking  with  his  attorney  outside  the  grand  jury  room,  decided  to  testify  and  ended  up  making
self-incriminating statements. 

The witness subsequently was indicted for drug crimes. The indictment was based on the witness’s grand jury testimony
and on evidence seized in an unconstitutional search of the witness’s home.

The witness moved to dismiss the indictment.

Should the court dismiss the indictment?

(A) Yes, because the witness was denied his constitutional right to advice of counsel.

(B) Yes, because the indictment was based upon illegally seized evidence.

(C) No, because the witness waived his constitutional rights by testifying.

(D) No, because the witness had no right to counsel inside the grand jury room and the illegally seized evidence did not

affect the validity of the indictment.

Correct.  A  grand  jury  witness  does  not  have  a  constitutional  right  to  counsel  inside  a  grand  jury  room.  See
Connecticut v. Gabbert, 526 U.S. 286, 292 (1999) (citing United States v. Mandujano, 425 U.S. 564 (1976)). The
Fourth  Amendment  exclusionary  rule  does  not  apply  to  federal  grand  juries  and  is  not  a  basis  upon  which  a
federal indictment can be dismissed. United States v. Calandra, 414 U.S. 338 (1974).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 24 - Torts

A hiker sustained a head injury when he was struck by a limb that fell from a tree. At the time of his injury, the hiker was
walking through a forest on private property without the property owner’s knowledge or permission. It was determined that
the limb fell because the tree was infested with termites.

In an action by the hiker against the property owner to recover for his head injury, will the hiker prevail?

(A) No, because the property owner could not foresee that anyone would be injured.

(B) No, because the property owner breached no duty to the hiker, who was a trespasser.

Correct.  A  possessor  of  land  is  not  required  to  exercise  reasonable  care  to  make  his  land  safe  for  trespassers.
Restatement (Second) of Torts § 333.

(C) Yes, because the property owner had a duty to prevent the trees on his property from becoming dangerous.

(D) Yes, because the property owner is liable for hidden dangers on his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 25 - Criminal Law and Procedure

United States  customs  officials  received  an anonymous  tip  that  heroin  would be found  inside  a  distinctively  marked  red
package mailed from a foreign country to the United States. Pursuant to this tip, United States customs officers opened the
red  package  and  found  heroin  inside.  They  then  resealed  the  package  and  left  the  heroin  inside  it. The  FBI was notified
and, as agents watched, the package was delivered to the address.

The FBI then secured a warrant to search the house for the package. About two hours after the package was delivered, the
warrant  was  executed  at  the  house. The  man  who  opened  the  door  was  arrested,  and the  agents  found  the  package,
unopened, in an upstairs bedroom closet. After seizing the package, the agents looked through the rest of the house. In a
footlocker in the basement, they found a machine gun.

The man was charged with, among other crimes, unlawful possession of the machine gun. He moved to suppress its use as
evidence.

Should the court grant the motion to suppress the machine gun?

(A) Yes, because the search exceeded the authority granted by the warrant.

Correct. The warrant was valid, but its validity was triggered by and limited to the delivered package. See United
States  v.  Grubbs,  547  U.S.  90  (2006).  Accordingly,  once  the  only  object  of  that  search  was  discovered,  the
warrant  did  not  authorize  a  further  exploratory  search  of  the  house.  See  Horton  v.  California,  496  U.S.  128
(1990).

(B) Yes, because the initial search by the customs officers was without probable cause.

(C) No, because, having found the package, the agents had probable cause to believe more narcotics could be located in

the house and the gun was found in a proper search for narcotics.

(D) No, because narcotics dealers are often armed and the search was justified to protect the agents.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 26 - Contracts

A  homeowner  and  a  contractor  entered  into  a  contract  for  the  construction  of  a  home  for  the  price  of  $300,000.  The
contractor  was  to  earn  a  profit  of  $10,000  for  the  job.  After  the  contractor  had  spent  $45,000  on  labor  and  materials,
including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed, the homeowner informed the contractor that the homeowner had lost his
job and could not pay for any services. The homeowner told the contractor to stop working immediately. The reasonable
market value of the labor and materials provided by the contractor at that point, including the oak flooring, was $40,000.
The contractor used the $5,000 worth of oak flooring on another job.

In an action by the contractor against the homeowner for damages, which of the following would be the largest amount of
damages recoverable by the contractor?

(A) $40,000, the reasonable value of the services the contractor had provided.

(B) $40,000, the contractor’s construction costs.

(C) $50,000, the contractor’s construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit minus the $5,000 saved by reusing the

oak flooring on another job.

Correct. $50,000 represents the contractor’s expectation measure of recovery and gives the contractor the benefit
of the bargain—this amount would place the contractor in the position he would have been in but for the breach.
It  is  also  the  greatest  amount  the  contractor  is  able  to  recover.  The  general  expectation  formula  permits  the
contractor to recover $50,000 and can be computed as follows:

General expectation formula = loss in value + other loss – cost avoided – loss avoided:

LIV = the difference between the performance the nonbreaching party should have received under the contract
and what was actually received, if anything, in this case, $300,000 less $0

OL = consequential and incidental damages, if any, in this case, $0

CA = the additional costs the nonbreaching party can avoid by rightfully  discontinuing performance  under the
contract as a result of the other party’s breach, in this case, $290,000 less $45,000

LA  =  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  breach  due  to  the  nonbreaching  party’s  ability  to  salvage  or  reallocate
resources that otherwise would have been devoted to performing under the contract, in this case, $5,000

So $300,000 + $0 – $245,000 – $5,000 = $50,000.

Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 347; E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts § 12.9 (4th ed. 2004).

(D) $55,000, the contractor’s construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 27 - Real Property

A man died testate. The man’s estate consisted of a residence as well as significant personal property. By his duly probated
will, the man devised the residence  to a friend  who was specifically  identified  in the will. The residue of the estate  was
given to a stated charity.

The man’s friend, although alive at the time the man executed the will, predeceased the man. The friend’s wife and their
child, who has a disability, survived the man.

The  value  of  the  residence  has  increased  significantly  because  of  recent  zoning  changes.  There  is  credible  extrinsic
evidence that the man wanted his friend to own the residence after the man’s death so that the friend and his wife could
care for their child there.

There is no applicable statute.

If both the charity and the child claim the residence, to whom should the estate distribute the residence?

(A) The charity, because the devise to the friend adeemed.

(B) The charity, because the devise to the friend lapsed.

Correct.  A  deceased  person  cannot  take  and  hold  title  to  property.  If  a  named  beneficiary  predeceases  the
testator,  the  gift  to  that  beneficiary  lapses.  In  this  case,  the  gift  to  the  friend  lapsed  because  the  friend
predeceased the man. The gift of the residence was a specific gift, and the lapse of this specific gift passes the
residence  through  the  residuary  clause  of  the  will.  The  charity  is  the  residuary  taker.  There  is  no  applicable
anti-lapse statute which might have substituted the friend’s child as the beneficiary of the bequest if the friend
were a protected beneficiary under the statute.

(C) The child, because extrinsic evidence exists that the man’s intent was to benefit the child.

(D) The child, because no conditions of survivorship were noted in the will.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 28 - Constitutional Law

Several sites on a mountain within federal public lands are regarded as sacred to a group that for years has gathered there to
perform religious ceremonies. The United States Forest Service recently issued a permit to a private developer to construct
a ski facility in an area that includes the sites that are sacred to the group.

The  group  filed  suit  in  federal  district  court  against  the  Forest  Service  to  force  cancellation  of  the  permit.  The  group
claimed  solely  that  the  permit  violated  its  First  Amendment  right  to  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  The  Forest  Service
conceded  that  the  group’s  religious  beliefs  were  sincere  and  that  the  ski  facility  would  adversely  affect  the  group’s
religious practices.

In order to prevail in its First Amendment claim, what must the group show?

(A) Construction of the ski facility will have a discriminatory impact on the group’s religious practices in relation to the

practices of other religious groups.

(B) The burden on the group’s religious practices imposed by construction of the ski facility outweighs the government’s

interest in allowing the facility.

(C) The  Forest  Service  can  achieve  its  legitimate  interest  in  allowing  the  ski  facility  by  issuing  a  permit  that  is  less

burdensome on the group’s religious practices.

(D) The permit issued by the Forest Service is aimed at suppressing the religious practices of the group.

Correct.  The  court  will  exercise  strict  scrutiny  only  if  the  challenger  can  show  that  the  government  action
targeted the religious practice in question. A court typically invalidates government action at strict scrutiny.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 29 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with battery for allegedly attacking a man as they left a local bar together. No one else witnessed
the fight. At trial, each testified  that he had acted only in self-defense.  The defendant called his next-door neighbor as a
witness to testify as to the defendant’s reputation both for truthfulness and for peacefulness. The government objected to
the testimony in its entirety.

How should the court proceed?

(A) Admit the evidence in its entirety.

(B) Admit  the  evidence  regarding  the  defendant’s  reputation  for  peacefulness,  but  exclude  the  evidence  regarding  his

truthfulness.

Correct. The defendant’s character for peacefulness is a pertinent trait of character under Rule 404(a)(1) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence. Rule 405 allows the defendant to offer evidence of his reputation for peacefulness.
The  evidence  of  the  defendant’s  truthfulness  must  be  excluded,  because  there  is  no  indication  that  the
defendant’s character for truthfulness while testifying has been attacked.

(C) Exclude  the  evidence  regarding  the  defendant’s  reputation  for  peacefulness,  but  admit  the  evidence  regarding  his

truthfulness.

(D) Exclude the evidence in its entirety.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 30 - Torts

A  cigarette  maker  created  and  published  a  magazine  advertisement  that  featured  a  model  dressed  as  a  race-car  driver
standing in front of a distinctive race car. In fact, the car looked almost exactly like the very unusually marked one driven
by a famous and popular driver. The driver in the ad was not identified, and his face was not shown in the advertisement.
The  cigarette  maker  published  the  advertisement  without  obtaining  the  famous  driver’s  permission.  The  race-car  driver
sued  the  cigarette  maker  for  economic  loss  only,  based  on  common  law  misappropriation  of  the  right  of  publicity.  The
cigarette maker moved to dismiss the complaint.

Will the cigarette maker’s motion to dismiss the complaint be granted?

(A) No, because there are sufficient indicia of the driver’s identity to support a verdict of liability.

Correct.  A  common  law  right  of  publicity  can  be  violated  when  an  advertisement,  viewed  as  a  whole,  leaves
little doubt that the ad is intended to depict a specific celebrity who has not consented to the use of his identity.

(B) Yes, because the driver is a public figure.

(C) Yes, because there was no mention of the driver’s name in the ad.

(D) Yes, because the driver did not claim any emotional or dignitary loss.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 31 - Criminal Law and Procedure

In a city, a number of armed bank robberies were committed near closing time by a masked man wearing a white hooded
sweatshirt and blue sweatpants. Police saw a man wearing a white hooded sweatshirt and blue sweatpants pacing nervously
outside one of the city’s banks just before it closed. The police stopped the man and frisked the outer layers of his clothing
for weapons, but found none. They asked the man what he was doing outside the bank and pointed out that he was wearing
clothing  similar  to  clothing  worn  by  the  perpetrator  of  recent  robberies.  After  pausing  for  several  moments,  the  man
confessed. The police had not provided him with any Miranda warnings.

After being charged with the bank robberies, the man moved to suppress his confession. The parties agreed, and the court
properly found, that the police had reasonable suspicion but not probable cause at all times before the man confessed.

Should the man’s motion to suppress be granted?

(A) Yes,  because  the  confession  was  the  fruit  of  a  Fourth  Amendment  violation,  even  though  there  was  no  Miranda

violation.

(B) Yes,  because  the  confession  was  the  fruit  of  a  Miranda  violation,  even  though  there  was  no  Fourth  Amendment

violation.

(C) Yes, because the confession was the fruit of both a Fourth Amendment violation and a Miranda violation.

(D) No, because there was neither a Fourth Amendment violation nor a Miranda violation.

Correct.  There  was  neither  a  Fourth  Amendment  violation  nor  a  Miranda  violation.  There  was  no  Fourth
Amendment violation because the stop, frisk, and questioning were permissible, under Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1
(1968), based on reasonable suspicion.  There was no Miranda violation  because warnings are not required  for
Terry stops. See Berkemer v. McCarty, 468 U.S. 420, 439–40 (1984).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 32 - Real Property

A man owned property that he used as his residence. The man received a loan, secured by a mortgage on the property, from
a bank. Later, the man defaulted on the loan. The bank then brought an appropriate action to foreclose the mortgage, was
the sole bidder at the judicial sale, and received title to the property as a result of the foreclosure sale.

Shortly  after  the  foreclosure  sale,  the  man  received  a  substantial  inheritance.  He  approached  the  bank  to  repurchase  the
property, but the bank decided to build a branch office on the property and declined to sell.

If the man prevails in an appropriate action to recover title to the property, what is the most likely reason?

(A) He had used the property as his residence.

(B) He timely exercised an equitable right of redemption.

(C) The court applied the doctrine of exoneration.

(D) The jurisdiction provides for a statutory right of redemption.

Correct. A jurisdiction may, by statute, provide a statutory right of redemption, which sets out an additional time
period after the foreclosure sale during which the prior mortgagor and perhaps others have the option to pay a
certain sum of money and redeem the title to the property. The right arises only by statute and only after there
has been a foreclosure of the mortgage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 33 - Real Property

A farmer borrowed $100,000 from a bank and gave the bank a promissory note secured by a mortgage on the farm that she
owned. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage, which contained a due-on-sale provision.

A few years later, the farmer borrowed $5,000 from a second bank and gave it a promissory note secured by a mortgage on
her farm. The bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage.

Subsequently, the farmer defaulted on her obligation to the first bank, which then validly accelerated the debt and instituted
nonjudicial  foreclosure  proceedings  as  permitted  by the  jurisdiction.  The  second  bank  received  notice  of  the  foreclosure
sale but did not send a representative to the sale. At the foreclosure sale, a buyer who was not acting in collusion with the
farmer outbid all other bidders and received a deed to the farm.

Several months later, the original farmer repurchased her farm from the buyer, who executed a warranty deed transferring
the  farm  to  her.  After  the  farmer  promptly  and  properly  recorded  that  deed,  the  second  bank  commenced  foreclosure
proceedings on the farm. The farmer denied the validity of the second bank’s mortgage.

Does the second bank continue to have a valid mortgage on the farm?

(A) Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

(B) Yes, because the original owner reacquired title to the farm.

(C) No, because the purchase at the foreclosure  sale by the buyer under these facts eliminated  the second bank’s junior

mortgage lien.

Correct. The first bank had priority. The second bank was a necessary party to the foreclosure proceeding and
was given notice of the sale. When the second bank failed to appear at the foreclosure proceeding, or to take any
other action, the buyer at the sale received the title the farmer had at the time the mortgage was given to the first
bank, which was free of any mortgage liens. The buyer and the farmer did not act in collusion, so there could be
no claim of fraud when the farmer reacquired her original interest in the farm.

(D) No, because of the due-on-sale provision in the farmer’s mortgage to the first bank.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 34 - Evidence

At a trial of a contract dispute, the plaintiff offered to testify to what the defendant said in a private conversation between
the two of them, which the plaintiff had secretly recorded on an audiotape that she did not offer in evidence.

Is the plaintiff’s testimony admissible?

(A) Yes, because the plaintiff has personal knowledge of the statement of a party-opponent.

Correct.  What  the  defendant  said  to  the  plaintiff,  even  in  a  private  conversation,  is  an  admission  of  a
party-opponent  and  is  admissible  under  Rule  801(d)(2)(A)  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence.  The plaintiff  has
personal  knowledge  of  what  the  defendant  said  and  can  testify  about  it.  The  fact  that  the  audiotape  might  be
better  evidence  of  what  the  defendant  actually  said  makes  no  difference.  The  best  evidence  rule  applies  only
when a  witness  testifies  about  the  content  of  a writing  or  recording.  Here  the  plaintiff  would not  be testifying
about the content of the audiotape but rather about what she personally heard.

(B) Yes, because the original document rule does not apply to audiotapes.

(C) No, because the statement must be proved by introduction of the audiotape itself.

(D) No, because of the plaintiff’s deception, even if the recording was not illegal.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 35 - Torts

A manufacturing plant located near a busy highway uses and stores highly volatile explosives. The owner of the plant has
imposed strict safety measures to prevent an explosion at the plant. During an unusually heavy windstorm, a large tile was
blown off the roof of the plant and crashed into the windshield of a passing car, damaging it. The driver of the car brought
a strict liability action against the owner of the plant to recover for the damage to the car’s windshield.

Is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the damage to the windshield did not result from the abnormally dangerous aspect of the plant’s activity.

Correct.  Although  the  manufacture  of  explosives  may  be  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity,  strict  liability  for
injuries caused by such activities  is limited  to the kind of harm  that makes the activity  abnormally  dangerous.
This accident could have occurred when a roof tile fell from a building that housed a perfectly safe and ordinary
activity. The owner may, however, be liable for negligence. See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 519(2).

(B) No, because the severity of the windstorm was unusual.

(C) Yes, because the plant’s activity was abnormally dangerous.

(D) Yes, because the plant’s location near a busy highway was abnormally dangerous.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 36 - Contracts

While  waiting  in  line  to  open  an  account  with  a  bank,  a  customer  read  a  poster  on  the  bank’s  wall  that  said,  “New
Customers! $25 FOR 5 MINUTES. If you stand in line for more than five minutes, we will pay you $25! We like happy
customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)” The customer started timing his wait and just as five minutes was
about  to  pass,  the  bank  manager  tore  the  poster  down  and  announced,  “The  $25  stand-in-line  promotion  is  over.”  The
customer waited in line for 10 more minutes before being served.

In the customer’s action against the bank for $25, will the customer prevail?

(A) No, because the bank withdrew its offer before the customer completed the requested performance.

(B) No, because the bank’s statement was a nonbinding gift promise.

(C) Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the customer had commenced performance.

Correct. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 45 provides that where an offer invites acceptance by performance,
the offeree’s beginning of performance creates an option contract which precludes the offeror from revoking its
offer.

(D) Yes, because the customer’s presence in line served as notice to the bank that he had accepted.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 37 - Constitutional Law

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100 cars had to ensure that at least 10 percent of
those cars were electric-powered.

A  city  filed  suit  in  federal  district  court  against  the  federal  official  who  enforced  this  requirement.  The  city  sought  an
injunction prohibiting enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Should the court grant the injunction?

(A) No, because the statute is valid under the commerce clause and does not violate the Tenth Amendment.

Correct.  The  statute  satisfies  the  commerce  clause  because  it  regulates  a  commercial  activity  (the  purchase  of
cars)  that,  when  aggregated,  has  a  substantial  effect  on  interstate  commerce.  The  statute  does  not  violate  the
Tenth  Amendment  as  applied  to  the  city  because  it  does  not  commandeer  the  city  to  regulate  the  conduct  of
others  pursuant  to  congressional  direction.  Instead,  it  directly  regulates  the  city  on  the  same  terms  as  other
entities engaged in the same conduct, which is permissible under the Tenth Amendment.

(B) No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot be sued without its explicit consent.

(C) Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under the Tenth Amendment.

(D) Yes,  because  as  applied  to  state  and  local  governments,  the  statute  exceeds  Congress’s  power  under  the  commerce

clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 38 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A driver stopped at a red light in his home state. A stranger opened the passenger door, got in, and pointed a gun at the
driver. The stranger then directed the driver to keep driving. They drove several miles, crossed into a neighboring state, and
drove several more miles. When they reached a remote location, the stranger ordered the driver to pull over. The stranger
then robbed the driver of his wallet and cash, and ordered him out of the car. The stranger drove off in the driver’s car.

The stranger is charged with kidnapping in the neighboring state, which has adopted the Model Penal Code.

Could the stranger properly be convicted of kidnapping in the neighboring state?

(A) Yes, because the driver was transported under threat of force in the neighboring state.

Correct.  The  movement  in  the  neighboring  state  would  constitute  sufficient  “asportation”  for  a  kidnapping
conviction, and was more than incidental to the robbery. See 3 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §
18.1(b) (discussing Model Penal Code § 212.1).

(B) Yes, because the driver in effect paid ransom for his release.

(C) No, because any kidnapping took place in the driver’s home state.

(D) No, because the restraint was incidental to the robbery.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 39 - Contracts

On June 1, a seller received a mail order from a buyer requesting prompt shipment of a specified computer model at the
seller’s current catalog price. On June 2, the seller mailed to the buyer a letter accepting the order and assuring the buyer
that the computer would be shipped on June 3. On June 3, the seller realized that he was out of that computer model and
shipped to the buyer a different computer model and a notice of accommodation. On June 5, the buyer received the seller’s
June 2 letter and the different computer model, but not the notice of accommodation.

At that juncture, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties’ legal rights and duties?

(A) The buyer can  either  accept  or reject  the different  computer  model  and in  either  event  recover  damages,  if any, for

breach of contract.

Correct.  UCC  §  2-206(1)(b)  provides  that  a  seller’s  shipment  of  conforming  goods  with  a  notice  of
accommodation does not constitute an acceptance and breach, but rather a counteroffer, which the buyer is free
to either accept or reject. Section 2-206(1)(b) also provides, however, that a contract calling for prompt shipment
can be accepted by either a prompt promise to ship or by the prompt shipment of goods. The seller accepted the
buyer’s offer by a promise to ship when he mailed his June 2 letter. UCC § 2-601 allows a buyer to accept or
reject nonconforming goods and in either event recover damages. The buyer has an action for breach since the
computer shipped on June 3 failed to conform to the contract formed on June 2 when the seller mailed his letter
of acceptance.

(B) The  buyer  can  either  accept  or  reject  the  different  computer  model,  but  if  he  rejects  it,  he  will  thereby  waive  any

remedy for breach of contract.

(C) The seller’s prompt shipment of nonconforming goods constituted an acceptance of the buyer’s offer, thereby creating

a contract for sale of the replacement computer model.

(D) The seller’s notice of accommodation was timely mailed and his shipment of the different computer model constituted

a counteroffer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 40 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a ladder manufacturer for injuries he suffered to his neck and back when a rung of the ladder on which he
was  standing  gave  way.  When  the  plaintiff’s  back  and  neck  continued  to  be  very  sore  after  more  than  two  weeks,  his
treating  physician  sent  him  to  an  orthopedist  for  an  evaluation.  Though  the  orthopedist  did  not  treat  the  plaintiff,  he
diagnosed an acute cervical strain. At trial, the plaintiff called the orthopedist to testify that in response to the orthopedist’s
inquiry about how the plaintiff had injured his back, the plaintiff told him, “I was standing near the top of a 15-foot ladder
when I abruptly fell, landing hard on my back, after which the ladder toppled onto my neck.”

Should the statement be admitted?

(A) Yes, because the plaintiff is present and can be cross-examined about it.

(B) Yes, because it was made for the purpose of medical diagnosis or treatment.

Correct. This statement fits Rule 803(4) of the Federal Rules of Evidence as a statement made for the purpose of
medical diagnosis. This rule allows not only statements made to treating physicians, but also statements made to
other doctors for evaluation or diagnosis.

(C) No, because it was not made to a treating physician.

(D) No, because it relates to the inception or the cause of the injury rather than the plaintiff’s physical condition.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 41 - Constitutional Law

The  United  States  government  demonstrated  that  terrorist  attacks  involving  commercial  airliners  were  perpetrated
exclusively by individuals of one particular  race. In response, Congress enacted a statute  imposing stringent  new airport
and airline security measures only on individuals of that race seeking to board airplanes in the United States.

Which of the following provides the best ground for challenging the constitutionality of this statute?

(A) The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.

(B) The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.

Correct.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  held,  in  Bolling  v.  Sharpe,  347  U.S.  497  (1954),  that  the  equal  protection
principles  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  apply  to  actions  of  the  federal  government  through  the  due  process
clause of the Fifth Amendment. The new security measures presumptively violate equal protection because they
contain a racial classification: the new security measures apply only to individuals of one race. A court therefore
would uphold the new security measures only if the government could prove that they are necessary to serve a
compelling public interest, a standard that the government typically cannot meet.

(C) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.

(D) The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 42 - Torts

A consumer bought an electric kitchen blender from the manufacturer. Soon after the purchase, the consumer was using the
blender in an appropriate way when the blender jar shattered, throwing a piece of glass into the consumer’s eye.

The consumer brought an action against the manufacturer  based solely on strict product liability. The consumer’s expert
testified  that  the  blender  was  defectively  designed.  However,  because  the  blender  jar  was  destroyed  in  the  accident,  the
expert  could  not  determine  whether  the  accident  was  caused  by  the  design  defect  or  a  manufacturing  defect.  The
manufacturer’s expert testified that the blender was not defective.

If, at the conclusion of the evidence, both parties move for directed verdicts, how should the trial judge rule?

(A) Direct a verdict for the manufacturer, because the consumer’s expert was unable to specify the nature of the defect.

(B) Direct a verdict for the manufacturer, because the consumer’s action was brought solely on a strict liability theory.

(C) Direct a verdict for the consumer, because the blender was new when the jar shattered.

(D) Deny both motions and send the case to the jury, because a jury reasonably could conclude that the harm probably was

caused by a defect present in the product when it was sold.

Correct. A jury could conclude that the blender was defective at the time of sale because the accident is the sort
of  accident  that  ordinarily  occurs  as  a  result  of  a  defect  and  no  other  cause  was  identified,  but  the  jury  is  not
required to draw that conclusion. See Restatement (Third) of Torts (Products Liability) § 3 illus. 1.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 43 - Constitutional Law

Congressional committees heard testimony from present and former holders of licenses issued by state vocational licensing
boards. According to the testimony, the boards had unfairly manipulated their disciplinary proceedings in order to revoke
the licenses of some license holders as a means of protecting favored licensees from competition.

In response, Congress enacted a statute prescribing detailed procedural requirements for the disciplinary proceedings of all
state  vocational  licensing  boards.  For  example,  the  statute  required  the  state  boards  to  provide  licensees  with  adequate
notice and opportunity for an adjudicatory hearing in all disciplinary proceedings. The statute also prescribed criteria for
the  membership  of  all  state  vocational  licensing  boards  that  were  designed  to  ensure  that  the  boards  were  likely  to  be
neutral.

Which of the following provides the best source of authority for this federal statute?

(A) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Correct.  Section  5  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  gives  Congress  the  power  to  enforce  the  provisions  of  the
Fourteenth Amendment  by appropriate  legislation.  Congressional legislation  is appropriate  within the meaning
of Section 5 if (1) it seeks to prevent or remedy actions by state or local governments that violate provisions of
the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  and  (2)  its  requirements  are  congruent  with  and  proportional  to  the  Fourteenth
Amendment  violations  it  addresses.  In  this  case,  the  legislation  seeks  to  prevent  actions  by  state  agencies  that
violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the requirements of the legislation appear to be
proportional to and congruent with the Fourteenth Amendment violations Congress has sought to prevent.

(B) The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.

(C) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV, Section 2.

(D) The takings clause of the Fifth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 44 - Real Property

A  seller  who  owned  land  in  fee  simple  entered  into  a  valid  written  agreement  to  sell  the  land  to  a  buyer  by  installment
purchase. The contract stipulated that the seller would deliver to the buyer, upon the payment of the last installment due, “a
warranty deed sufficient to convey a fee simple title.” The contract contained no other provision that could be construed as
referring to title.

The  buyer  entered  into  possession  of  the  land.  After  making  10  of  the  300  installment  payments  obligated  under  the
contract,  the  buyer  discovered  that  there  was  outstanding  a  valid  and  enforceable  mortgage  on  the  land,  securing  the
payment  of  a  debt  in  the  amount  of  25  percent  of  the  purchase  price  that  the  buyer  had  agreed  to  pay.  There  was  no
evidence that the seller had ever been late in payments due under the mortgage and there was no evidence of any danger of
insolvency of the seller. The value of the land was then four times the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage.

The buyer quit possession of the land, stopped making payments on the contract, and demanded that the seller repay the
amounts that the buyer had paid under the contract. After the seller refused the demand, the buyer sued the seller to recover
damages for the seller’s alleged breach of the contract.

In such action, should damages be awarded to the buyer?

(A) Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an obligation to convey marketable title is implied.

(B) Yes,  because  an  installment  purchase  contract  is  treated  as  a  mortgage  and  the  outstanding  mortgage  impairs  the

buyer’s equity of redemption.

(C) No, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a security device.

(D) No, because the time for the seller to deliver marketable title has not arrived.

Correct. Title does not have to be marketable until the closing date when all payments have been received. The
buyer still has 290 payments to make. A mortgage  can render  title unmarketable  but it is most  likely that title
will be marketable when all payments have been made by the buyer under the agreement. The seller has made all
mortgage payments timely. The amount of the mortgage debt is 25 percent of the purchase price the buyer will
pay, and the land is four times more valuable than the debt owed, so it is likely that the mortgage debt will be
paid off by the time the seller must provide the warranty deed, and thus the buyer is not entitled to damages at
this time.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 45 - Contracts

On May 1, a seller  and a buyer entered  into a written  contract,  signed by both parties,  for the sale  of a tract  of land for
$100,000. Delivery of the deed and payment of the purchase price were scheduled for July 1. On June 1, the buyer received
a letter from the seller repudiating the contract. On June 5, the buyer bought a second tract of land at a higher price as a
substitute for the first tract. On June 10, the seller communicated a retraction of the repudiation to the buyer.

The  buyer  did  not  tender  the  purchase  price  for  the  first  tract  on  July  1,  but  subsequently  sued  the  seller  for  breach  of
contract.

Will the buyer likely prevail?

(A) No, because the seller retracted the repudiation prior to the agreed time for performance.

(B) No,  because  the  buyer’s  tender  of  the  purchase  price  on  July  1  was  a  constructive  condition  to  the  seller’s  duty  to

tender a conveyance.

(C) Yes, because the seller’s repudiation was nonretractable after it was communicated to the buyer.

(D) Yes, because the buyer bought the second tract as a substitute for the first tract prior to the seller’s retraction.

Correct.  The  buyer’s  purchase  of  the  second  tract,  which  occurred  before  the  seller’s  attempted  retraction,
constituted  a  material  change  in  position  and  thus  terminated  the  seller’s  ability  to  retract  his  repudiation.
Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 256.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 46 - Torts

A driver negligently ran over a pedestrian. A bystander witnessed the accident from across the street. The bystander ran to
the  pedestrian,  whom  he  did  not  know,  and  administered  first  aid,  but  the  pedestrian  died  in  the  bystander’s  arms. The
bystander suffered serious emotional distress as a result of his failure to save the pedestrian’s life, but he experienced no
resulting physical manifestations. The bystander brought a negligence action against the driver.

Is the bystander likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the bystander assumed the risk.

(B) No, because the bystander had no familial or other preexisting relationship with the pedestrian.

Correct. Even states that allow witnesses who are not in the zone of danger to recover for the emotional distress
of observing an accident limit recovery to witnesses who are closely related to the injured person.

(C) Yes, because danger invites rescue.

(D) Yes, because the bystander was in the zone of danger.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 47 - Constitutional Law

A state legislature conducted an investigation into a series of fatal accidents in the state involving commercial trucks with
trailer exteriors made of polished aluminum. The investigation revealed that the sun’s glare off of these trucks blinded the
drivers of other vehicles. The state’s legislature then enacted a law prohibiting commercial trucks with polished aluminum
trailer exteriors from traveling on the state’s highways.

Litigation  over  the  state  law  resulted  in  a  final  decision  by the  United  States  Supreme  Court  that  the  law  impermissibly
burdened interstate commerce and, therefore, was unconstitutional. Congress later enacted a statute permitting any state to
enact a law regulating the degree of light reflectiveness of the exteriors of commercial trucks using the state’s highways.

Is this federal statute constitutional?

(A) No,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  already  determined  that  state  laws  of  this  type  impermissibly  burden

interstate commerce.

(B) No, because  Article  III  vests  the  judicial  power  in  the  federal  courts,  the  essence  of  judicial  power  is  the  ability  to

render a final judgment, and this statute overrules a final judgment of the federal Supreme Court.

(C) Yes, because Article I, Section 8 grants Congress authority to enact statutes authorizing states to impose burdens on

interstate commerce that would otherwise be prohibited.

Correct. The usual rule prohibiting Congress from enacting a statute overruling a constitutional decision of the
U.S.  Supreme  Court  does  not  apply  to  enactments  based  on  Congress’s  commerce  power  because  the
Constitution  gives  Congress  plenary  authority  to  regulate  conduct  that  is  within  the  commerce  power.  The
congressional  statute  permitting  any  state  to  regulate  the  degree  of  light  reflectiveness  of  the  exteriors  of
commercial trucks using the state’s highways is a valid enactment of the commerce power because commercial
trucks are instrumentalities of interstate commerce.

(D) Yes,  because  Article  I,  Section  8  grants  Congress  authority  to  enact  statutes  for  the  general  welfare,  and  Congress
could  reasonably  believe  that  state  laws  regulating  the  light  reflectiveness  of  the  exteriors  of  trucks  promote  the
general welfare.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 48 - Evidence

A plaintiff  sued a defendant for wrongful death arising out of a traffic collision between the plaintiff’s  decedent and the
defendant. At  trial,  the  investigating  traffic  officer  authenticated  a  tape  recording  of  her  shift-end  dictation  of  comments
used in preparing the written report of her factual findings. She testified that the tape recording was accurate when made
and that she currently had no clear memory of the details of the investigation.

Is the tape recording admissible as evidence?

(A) Yes, under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule.

Correct.  This  statement  meets  the  requirements  of  Rule  803(5)  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence,  the  past
recollection  recorded  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  The witness  once  had  knowledge  but  now has  insufficient
recollection to testify fully and accurately about her investigation. She made the recording when the matter was
fresh in her memory, and she has testified that the recording was an accurate reflection of her memory.

(B) Yes, under the public records exception to the hearsay rule.

(C) No, because it is hearsay and is a police report being offered against the defendant in a wrongful death case.

(D) No, because the police report itself is the best evidence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 49 - Contracts

A debtor’s  liquidated  and undisputed  $1,000 debt  to a  creditor  was due  on March  1. On March  15, the  creditor  told  the
debtor that if the debtor promised to pay the $1,000 on or before December 1, then the creditor wouldn’t sue to collect the
debt. The debtor orally agreed. On April 1, the creditor sued the debtor to collect the debt that had become due on March 1.
The debtor moved to dismiss the creditor’s complaint.

Should the court grant the debtor’s motion?

(A) No, because there was no consideration to support the creditor’s promise not to sue.

Correct. The law supports the settlement of debts and claims. However, consideration is required for a settlement
to be enforceable. Under the pre-existing duty rule, the creditor’s promise to forbear from suing to collect was
not supported by consideration from the debtor since the amount due was liquidated and the debtor promised to
do  nothing  more  than  he  was  already  obligated  to  do.  The  creditor’s  promise  here  was  not  supported  by
consideration from the debtor since it allowed for payment of an undisputed amount, $1,000, after the time for
payment of the debt had passed. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 73, 74; E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts §
4.23 (4th ed. 2004).

(B) No, because there was no consideration to support the debtor’s promise to pay $1,000 on December 1.

(C) Yes, because a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past debt is enforceable without consideration.

(D) Yes, because the debtor was bargaining for the creditor’s forbearance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 50 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man who had become very drunk left a bar and started to walk home. Another patron of the bar, who had observed the
man’s  condition,  followed  him.  The  patron  saw  the  man  stumble  and  fall  to  the  ground  near  an  alley.  The  patron  then
began to pull out a gun but saw that the man had passed out asleep in the gutter. The patron reached into the man’s pocket,
grabbed his wallet, and started to walk away. When the patron heard police officers approaching, he dropped the wallet and
ran off.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime for which the patron properly could be convicted?

(A) Robbery.

(B) Larceny.

Correct. Larceny requires a trespassory taking and carrying away of the personal property of another with intent
to steal it. All the elements were satisfied here. The asportation (carrying away) element requires movement of
only  a  slight  distance,  so  it  was  satisfied  here  even  though  the  patron  ultimately  discarded  the  wallet.  See  3
Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 19.3(b).

(C) Attempted robbery.

(D) Attempted larceny.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 51 - Contracts

On March 1, a homeowner contacted a builder about constructing an addition to the homeowner’s house. The builder orally
offered to perform the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected. The homeowner accepted the
builder’s terms and the builder then prepared a written contract that both parties signed. The contract did not refer to the
builder’s  pending  bid.  One  week  later,  upon  learning  that  his  pending  bid  on  the  other  project  had  been  accepted,  the
builder refused to perform any work for the homeowner.

Can the homeowner recover for the builder’s nonperformance?

(A) No, because efficiency principles justify the builder’s services being directed to a higher-valued use.

(B) No, because the builder’s duty to perform was subject to a condition.

Correct.  The  condition  exception  to  the  parol  evidence  rule  permits  the  admission  of  extrinsic  evidence  to
establish an oral condition to the parties’ performance under the contract. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §
217.

(C) Yes, because the builder’s attempt to condition his duty to perform rendered the contract illusory.

(D) Yes,  because  the  parol  evidence  rule  would  bar  the  builder  from  presenting  evidence  of  oral  understandings  not

included in the final writing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 52 - Constitutional Law

A city passed an ordinance requiring individuals to obtain a license in order to care for children under the age of 12 for
pay.  To  receive  such  a  license,  the  ordinance  required  the  individuals  to  complete  10  hours  of  instruction  in  child  care,
undergo  a  background  check,  and  pay  a  $100  fee.  The  ordinance  affected  women  disproportionately  to  men,  because
female  babysitters  far  outnumbered  male  babysitters  in  the  city.  City  officials  who  promoted  the  measure  said  that  the
certification  process  would  ensure  that  babysitters  were  adequately  regulated  for  the  health  and  safety  of  the  city’s
children.

Is the ordinance constitutional?

(A) No,  because  it  has  a  disparate  impact  on  women  without  a  showing  that  the  ordinance  is  necessary  to  advance  a

compelling government interest.

(B) No, because it infringes on the freedom of contract without a compelling government interest.

(C) Yes, because any burden it imposes is clearly outweighed by an important government objective.

(D) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate government objective.

Correct. The disparate impact of a law on women, without more, does not constitute sex discrimination and thus
is insufficient by itself to trigger heightened judicial scrutiny of the constitutionality of the law. In order for the
ordinance to be considered discriminatory against women, a court must find that the city adopted the ordinance
because it would have a disparate impact on women, and there are no facts upon which to base such a finding.
The ordinance is constitutional because it is rationally related to a legitimate government objective.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 53 - Real Property

By a valid written contract, a seller agreed to sell land to a buyer. The contract stated, “The parties agree that closing will
occur on next May 1 at 10 a.m.” There was no other reference to closing. The contract was silent as to quality of title.

On April 27, the seller notified the buyer that she had discovered that the land was subject to a longstanding easement in
favor of a corporation for a towpath for a canal, should the corporation ever want to build a canal.

The buyer thought it so unlikely that a canal would be built that the closing should occur notwithstanding this outstanding
easement. Therefore, the buyer notified the seller on April 28 that he would expect to close on May 1.

When the seller refused to close, the buyer sued for specific performance.

Will the buyer prevail?

(A) No, because the easement renders the seller’s title unmarketable.

(B) No, because rights of third parties are unresolved.

(C) Yes, because the decision to terminate the contract for title not being marketable belongs only to the buyer.

Correct. If a contract of sale is silent as to quality of title, the court will imply a marketable title, and an easement
does affect the marketability of title. But while the seller has a duty to deliver a marketable title, the requirement
of marketable title is for the benefit of the buyer. The buyer may waive the right to have a marketable title, which
is what the buyer did in this fact situation.

(D) Yes, because the seller did not give notice of the easement a reasonable time before the closing date.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 54 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  drug  dealer  agreed  with  another  individual  to  purchase  heroin  from  the  individual  in  order  to  sell  it  on  a  city  street
corner.  Unknown  to  the  drug  dealer,  the  other  individual  was  an  undercover  police  officer  whose  only  purpose  was  to
arrest distributors of drugs. The drug dealer made a down payment for the heroin and agreed to pay the remainder after he
sold it on the  street.  As soon  as the undercover  officer  handed over the  heroin, other  officers  moved  in and arrested  the
dealer.

The jurisdiction follows the common law approach to conspiracy.

Could the dealer properly be convicted of conspiring to distribute drugs?

(A) No, because there was no overt act.

(B) No, because there was no plurality of agreement.

Correct. The common law requires plurality of agreement and does not criminalize “unilateral” conspiracy where
only one person actually agreed to commit the crime and the other only feigned agreement. 2 Wayne R. LaFave,
Substantive Criminal Law § 12.2(c)(6).

(C) Yes, because neither an overt act nor plurality of agreement is required at common law.

(D) Yes, because the dealer believed all the elements of conspiracy were present and cannot take advantage of a mistake

of fact or law.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 55 - Constitutional Law

Residents  of  a  city  complained  that  brightly  colored  signs  detracted  from  the  character  of  the  city’s  historic  district  and
distracted motorists trying to navigate its narrow streets. In response, the city council enacted an ordinance requiring any
“sign or visual display” visible on the streets of the historic district to be black and white and to be no more than four feet
long or wide.

A political party wanted to hang a six-foot-long red, white, and blue political banner in front of a building in the historic
district. The party filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the sign ordinance as applied to the display of its banner.

Which of the following would be the most useful argument for the political party?

(A) The ordinance is not the least restrictive means of promoting a compelling government interest.

(B) The ordinance is not narrowly tailored to an important government interest, nor does it leave open alternative channels

of communication.

Correct.  Because  the  ordinance  is  a  content-neutral  restriction  of  expression,  it  must  satisfy  intermediate
scrutiny,  which  requires  the  city  to  prove  that  the  ordinance  is  narrowly  tailored  to  an  important  government
interest and that it leaves open alternative channels of communication.

(C) The ordinance imposes a prior restraint on political expression.

(D) The ordinance effectively favors some categories of speech over others.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 56 - Contracts

A buyer ordered a new machine from a manufacturer. The machine arrived on time and conformed in all respects to the
contract.  The  buyer,  however,  rejected  the  machine  because  he  no  longer  needed  it  in  his  business  and  returned  the
machine to the manufacturer. The manufacturer sold many such machines each year and its factory was not operating at
full capacity.

In an action by the manufacturer against the buyer for breach of contract, which of the following is NOT a proper measure
of the manufacturer’s damages?

(A) The contract price of the machine.

Correct. The manufacturer does not have an action for the price, which is available under three circumstances,
none of which is present here—where the buyer has accepted the goods, the goods are lost or damaged within a
commercially  reasonable  time  after  the  risk  of  loss  has  passed  to  the  buyer,  or  the  seller  is  unable  after
reasonable efforts to resell the goods. UCC § 2-709.

(B) The difference between the contract price and the market price of the machine.

(C) The difference between the contract price and the price obtained from a proper resale of the machine.

(D) The profit the manufacturer would have made on the sale of the machine to the buyer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 57 - Contracts

An  insurance  company  issued  an  insurance  policy  to  a  homeowner.  The  policy  failed  to  contain  certain  coverage  terms
required by a state insurance statute. When the homeowner suffered a loss due to a theft that was within the policy’s terms,
the insurance company refused to pay, claiming that the contract was unenforceable because it violated the statute.

Will the homeowner succeed in an action against the insurance company to recover for the loss?

(A) No, because the insurance policy is not a divisible contract.

(B) No, because the insurance policy violated the statute.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner belongs to the class of persons intended to be protected by the statute.

Correct.  A  contract  that  violates  a  state  statute  may  be  declared  unenforceable  on  grounds  of  public  policy.
Where, however, the contract violates a policy that was intended for the benefit of a contracting party seeking
relief, the contract may be enforceable in order to avoid frustrating the policy behind the statute. Accordingly,
public policy would not prevent the enforcement of the contract by those within the class of persons, including
the homeowner, that the statute was intended to protect. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 179 cmt. c, illus. 4;
E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts § 5.6 (4th ed. 2004).

(D) Yes, because the insurance policy would be strictly construed against the insurance company as the drafter.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 58 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  foreign  diplomat  discovered  that  a  small  person  could  enter  a  jewelry  store  by  crawling  through  an  air  vent.  The
diplomat became friendly with a woman in a bar who he believed was small enough to crawl through the air vent. Without
telling her that he was a diplomat, he explained how she could get into the jewelry store. She agreed to help him burglarize
the  store.  Someone  overheard  their  conversation  and  reported  it  to  the  police.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  police  arrested  the
diplomat and the woman. Both were charged with conspiracy to commit burglary.

Before  trial,  the  diplomat  moved  to  dismiss  the  charge  against  him  on  the  ground  that  he  was  entitled  to  diplomatic
immunity. The court granted his motion. The woman then moved to dismiss the conspiracy charge against her.

The jurisdiction has adopted the Model Penal Code version of conspiracy.

Should the woman’s motion to dismiss the conspiracy charge against her be granted?

(A) No, because the diplomat’s defense does not negate any element of the crime.

Correct. Model Penal Code section 5.03(1), by defining conspiracy as requiring agreement by the defendant but
not by two or more persons, adopts a unilateral interpretation of conspiracy. In addition, many jurisdictions that
require a bilateral conspiracy still allow conviction if one of the co-conspirators agreed to the crime but cannot
be  convicted  based  on  lack  of  capacity  or  some  other  defense  personal  to  the  co-conspirator.  2  Wayne  R.
LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 12.4(c)(1).

(B) No, because the woman was not aware of the diplomat’s status.

(C) Yes, because a conspiracy requires two guilty participants.

(D) Yes, because but for the diplomat’s conduct, no conspiracy would have occurred.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 59 - Torts

A recently established law school constructed its building in a quiet residential neighborhood. The law school had obtained
all of the necessary municipal permits for the construction of the building, which included a large clock tower whose clock
chimed every hour. The chimes disturbed only one homeowner in the neighborhood, who had purchased her house prior to
the construction of the building. The homeowner was abnormally sensitive to ringing sounds, such as bells and sirens, and
found the chimes to be extremely annoying.

In a nuisance action by the homeowner against the law school, will the homeowner prevail?

(A) Yes, because the chimes interfere with the homeowner’s use and enjoyment of her property.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner purchased her house prior to the construction of the building.

(C) No, because the chimes do not disturb the other residents of the neighborhood.

Correct.  Whether  an  invasion  constitutes  a nuisance  turns  on whether  it causes  significant  harm of  a kind  that
would be suffered by a normal member of the community. Restatement (Second) of Torts § 821F illus. 1.

(D) No, because the law school had the requisite municipal permits to erect the clock tower.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 60 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman told a man to go into her friend’s  unlocked barn and retrieve  an expensive  black saddle that she said she had
loaned  to  the  friend.  The  man  went  to  the  friend’s  barn,  opened  the  door,  found  a  black  saddle,  and  took  it  back  to  the
woman’s house. The friend had in fact not borrowed a saddle from the woman, and when the friend discovered her black
saddle missing, she suspected that the woman was the thief. The friend used a screwdriver to break into the woman’s house
to find the saddle. Upon discovering the saddle on the woman’s table, the friend took it back and called the police.

The jurisdiction follows the common law, except that burglary covers structures in addition to dwellings and the nighttime
element has been eliminated.

Which, if any, of these individuals is guilty of burglary?

(A) All of them.

(B) Only the friend.

(C) Only the man.

(D) Only the woman.

Correct.  Only  the  woman  had  the  requisite  criminal  intent.  Burglary  requires  unlawful  entry  with  intent  to
commit a felony (in this case, larceny). 3 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 21.1(e). Persons taking
back  their  own  property  or  taking  property  in  the  honest  but  mistaken  belief  that  the  property  belongs  to
someone who has authorized  them to take it  lack the intent  to  steal  required  for larceny.  3 Wayne R. LaFave,
Substantive Criminal Law § 19.5(a).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 61 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the full loss of his banquet hall by fire. The insurance company defended under
a  provision  of  the  policy  limiting  liability  to  50  percent  if  “flammable  materials  not  essential  to  the  operation  of  the
business  were  stored  on  the  premises  and  caused  a  fire.”  The  insurance  company  called  the  keeper  of  the  city  fire
inspection  records  to  identify  a  report  prepared  and  filed  by  the  fire  marshal  as  required  by  law,  indicating  that  shortly
before the fire, the fire marshal had cited the plaintiff for storing gasoline at the banquet hall.

Is the report admissible?

(A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the proceeding is civil, rather than criminal.

(C) Yes, as a public record describing matters observed as to which there was a duty to report.

Correct.  The  report  is  admissible  as  a  public  record  under  Rule  803(8)  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence.  The
facts of the problem indicate that the fire marshal had a legal duty to report. The fact that the fire marshal issued
the citation indicates that he observed gasoline being stored in the banquet hall.

(D) Yes, as a record of regularly conducted activity, provided the fire marshal is unavailable.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 62 - Real Property

A  rectangular  parcel  of  undeveloped  land  contained  three  acres  and  had  150  feet  of  frontage  on  a  public  street.  The
applicable zoning ordinance required that a buildable lot contain at least two acres and have frontage of not less than 100
feet on a public street.

A brother and sister owned the land as tenants in common, the brother owning a one-third interest and the sister owning a
two-thirds interest. Neither of them owned any other real property.

The sister brought an appropriate action to partition the land and proposed that a two-acre rectangular lot with 100 feet of
frontage be set off to her and that a one-acre rectangular lot with 50 feet of frontage be set off to the brother. The brother’s
defense included a demand that the land be sold and its proceeds be divided one-third to the brother and two-thirds to the
sister.

Who will prevail?

(A) The brother, because partition by sale is the preferred remedy, unless a fair price is not the likely result of a sale.

(B) The brother, because the zoning ordinance makes it impossible to divide the land fairly.

Correct. A tenant in common may bring an action to partition the property. Partition in kind, in which there is a
physical division of the common property, is preferred; however, a partition by sale is allowed when a fair and
equitable physical division of the property is impossible. The applicable zoning ordinance requires a frontage of
100 feet on a public street in order to build. It would not be fair or equitable to convey only 50 feet of frontage to
the brother, who then could not build on his lot.

(C) The sister, because partition by sale is not appropriate if the subject property can be physically divided.

(D) The sister,  because  the  ratio  of  the  two lots  that  would  result  from  her  proposal  conforms  exactly  to  the  ownership

ratio.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 63 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman promised to pay $10,000 to a hit man if he would kill her neighbor in any manner that could not be traced to her.
The hit man bought a gun and watched the neighbor’s house for an opportunity to shoot him. One evening, unaware of the
hit man’s presence, the neighbor tripped as he was walking toward his house, falling and hitting his head against the front
steps. Believing that the neighbor was unconscious, the hit man ran over to him and shot him twice in the chest.

When the woman learned of the neighbor’s death, she paid the hit man $10,000. A medical examiner determined that the
neighbor was already dead when the hit man shot him.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime for which the woman properly could be convicted?

(A) Murder.

(B) Attempted murder.

Correct. The woman cannot be guilty of murder, because the hit man did not in fact cause the neighbor’s death,
but  she  can  be  convicted  of  attempted  murder.  1  Wayne  R.  LaFave,  Substantive  Criminal  Law  §  6.4(b)
(discussing People v. Dlugash, 363 N.E.2d 1155 (N.Y. 1977)).

(C) Conspiracy.

(D) Solicitation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 64 - Contracts

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct a garage for a homeowner for $10,000. Nothing was
stated in the parties’ negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of the work.

After completing 25 percent of the garage according to the homeowner’s specifications, the builder demanded $2,000 as a
reasonable progress payment. The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.

If each party sues the other for breach of contract, which of the following will the court decide?

(A) Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from the other.

(B) Only the builder is in breach and liable for the homeowner’s damages, if any.

Correct.  Where  one  party’s  performance  requires  a  period  of  time,  that  party  must  complete  its  performance
before the other party is required to perform unless the language or circumstances indicate otherwise. Here the
parties  did  not  provide  for  progress  payments.  Therefore  the  builder  was  required  to  complete  performance
before  the  homeowner  was  obligated  to  pay  for  any  of  the  work  the  builder  had  performed.  The  builder’s
abandonment  of  the  job  constituted  a  wrongful  repudiation  giving  the  homeowner  an  action  for  breach.
Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 234, 235.

(C) Only the homeowner is in breach and liable for the builder’s damages, if any.

(D) Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 65 - Torts

A  company  manufactured  metal  stamping  presses  that  were  usually  sold  with  an  installed  safety  device  that  made  it
impossible for a press to close on a worker’s hands. The company strongly recommended that its presses be purchased with
the safety device installed, but would sell a press without the safety device at a slightly reduced price.

Rejecting  the  company’s  advice,  a  worker’s  employer  purchased  a  stamping  press  without  the  safety  device.  The  press
closed on the worker’s hand, crushing it.

In an action brought by the worker against the company, will the worker prevail?

(A) Yes, because the company’s press was the cause in fact of the worker’s injury.

(B) Yes, because the company sold the press to the worker’s employer without an installed safety device.

Correct.  A  product  is  defective  if  it  fails  to  include  a  feasible  safety  device  that  would  prevent  injuries
foreseeably incurred in ordinary use.

(C) No,  because  the  failure  of  the  worker’s  employer  to  purchase  the  press  with  a  safety  device  was  a  superseding

intervening cause of the worker’s injury.

(D) No,  because  the  company  strongly  recommended  that  the  worker’s  employer  purchase  the  press  with  the  safety

device.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 66 - Constitutional Law

In one state, certain kinds of advanced diagnostic medical technology were located only in hospitals, where they provided a
major  source  of  revenue.  In  many  other  states,  such  technology  was  also  available  at  “diagnostic  centers”  that  were  not
affiliated with hospitals.

A group of physicians announced its plan to immediately open in the state a diagnostic center that would not be affiliated
with  a  hospital.  The  state  hospital  association  argued  to  the  state  legislature  that  only  hospitals  could  reliably  handle
advanced  medical  technologies.  The  legislature  then  enacted  a  law  prohibiting  the  operation  in  the  state  of  diagnostic
centers that were not affiliated with hospitals.

The group of physicians filed suit challenging the constitutionality of the state law.

What action should the court take?

(A) Uphold  the  law,  because  the  provision  of  medical  services  is  traditionally  a  matter  of  legitimate  local  concern  that

states have unreviewable authority to regulate.

(B) Uphold  the  law,  because  the  legislature  could  rationally  believe  that  diagnostic  centers  not  affiliated  with  hospitals

would be less reliable than hospitals.

Correct. The law does not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny because it neither classifies regulatory subjects on
a  constitutionally  suspect  basis  nor  unduly  burdens  the  exercise  of  a  fundamental  right.  The  appropriate
constitutional  standard  of  review  therefore  is  whether  the  law  is  rationally  related  to  a  legitimate  government
interest.  The  apparent  legislative  judgment  that  diagnostic  centers  not  affiliated  with  hospitals  would  be  less
reliable than hospitals is rational, regardless of whether it is in fact correct.

(C)

Invalidate the law, because it imposes an undue burden on access to medical services in the state.

(D) Dismiss the suit without reaching the merits, because the suit is not ripe.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 67 - Torts

While driving his open-bed truck with a friend in the open bed, the driver swerved, throwing his friend to the pavement.
The friend sustained severe injuries. The friend had often ridden in the open bed of the driver’s truck, and on some of those
occasions the driver had swerved to frighten his friend. The friend sued the driver to recover both compensatory damages
for his injuries and punitive damages.

Which cause of action would NOT permit the friend to recover punitive damages?

(A) Assault.

(B) Battery.

(C) Negligence.

Correct.  Punitive  damages  are  not  available  in  ordinary  negligence  cases.  Restatement  (Second)  of  Torts  §
908(2).

(D) Recklessness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 68 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued an individual defendant for injuries suffered in a collision between the plaintiff’s car and the defendant’s
truck  while  the  defendant’s  employee  was  driving  the  truck.  The  plaintiff  sought  discovery  of  any  accident  report  the
employee  might  have  made  to  the  defendant,  but  the  defendant  responded  that  no  such  report  existed.  Before  trial,  the
defendant moved to preclude the plaintiff from asking the defendant in the presence of the jury whether he destroyed such
a report, because the defendant would then invoke his privilege against self-incrimination.

Should the court allow the plaintiff to ask the defendant about the destruction of the report?

(A) No, because a report that was prepared in anticipation of litigation is not subject to discovery.

(B) No, because no inference may properly be drawn from invocation of a legitimate privilege.

(C) Yes, because a party in a civil action may not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination.

(D) Yes,  because  the  defendant’s  destruction  of  the  report  would  serve  as  the  basis  of  an  inference  adverse  to  the

defendant.

Correct. If a party destroys evidence, it is proper for the jury to draw an inference that the evidence was adverse
to that party. It is also proper for the jury to draw an adverse inference in a civil case from a party’s assertion of
the  privilege  against  self-incrimination.  Thus, the  court  should  allow  the  question  to  be  asked,  because it  is
proper regardless of how the defendant responds.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 69 - Contracts

A  collector  bought  from  a  gallery  a  painting  correctly  described  in  the  parties’  signed  contract  as  a  “one-of-a-kind
self-portrait” by a famous artist that had recently died. The contract price was $100,000 in cash, payable one month after a
truck carrier delivered the painting to the collector.

The painting was damaged in transit. The collector timely rejected it after inspection and immediately notified the gallery
of  the  rejection.  The  gallery  then  sold  the  painting  to  a  third  party.  It  informed  the  collector  that  it  would  pick  up  the
painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  Two  weeks  later,  before  the  gallery  picked  up  the  painting,  the  collector  sold  the
painting to an art admirer for $120,000 cash, after notifying her about the damage.

If the collector’s sale of the painting was NOT an acceptance of the goods, what is the maximum amount that the gallery is
entitled to recover from the collector?

(A) $120,000 (damages for conversion).

Correct.  The  collector  rightfully  rejected  the  goods.  However,  the  collector’s  exercise  of  ownership  of  the
painting,  after  his  original  rejection,  caused  the  gallery  to  otherwise  dispose  of  the  goods.  Therefore,  the
collector’s  conduct  in  selling  the  painting  was  wrongful  against  the  gallery  and  constituted  conversion.  The
remedy for conversion is the fair market value of the goods at the time of the conversion. The collector’s sale of
the  painting  for  $120,000  provides  credible  evidence  of  the  painting’s  fair  market  value  at  the  time  of  the
conversion. UCC §§ 2-601 cmt. 2, 1-103.

(B) $100,000 (the collector-gallery contract price).

(C) $20,000 (the excess of the market price over the contract price).

(D) Only the allowance of lost profit to the gallery as a volume dealer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 70 - Real Property

Six years ago, a landlord and a tenant entered into a 10-year commercial lease of land. The written lease provided that, if a
public  entity  under  the  power  of  eminent  domain  condemned  any  part  of  the  land,  the  lease  would  terminate  and  the
landlord  would  receive  the  entire  condemnation  award.  Thereafter,  the  city  condemned  approximately  two-thirds  of  the
land.

The tenant notified the city and the landlord that an independent appraisal of the value of the tenant’s possessory interest
established that it substantially exceeded the tenant’s obligation under the lease and that the tenant was entitled to share the
award. The appraisal was accurate.

In  an  appropriate  action  among  the  landlord,  the  tenant,  and  the  city  as  to  the  right  of  the  tenant  to  a  portion  of  the
condemnation award, for whom will the court likely find?

(A) The landlord, because the condemnation superseded and canceled the lease.

(B) The landlord, because the parties specifically agreed as to the consequences of condemnation.

Correct.  The landlord  and the  tenant  agreed in  the lease  that if any  part  of  the land was condemned, the  lease
would terminate and the landlord would receive the entire condemnation award.

(C) The tenant, because the landlord breached the landlord’s implied warranty of quiet enjoyment.

(D) The tenant, because otherwise the landlord would be unjustly enriched.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 71 - Constitutional Law

In order to reduce the federal deficit, Congress enacted a statute imposing a five percent national retail sales tax. The tax
was levied upon all retail sales in the United States and applied equally to the sales of all kinds of goods.

Is this tax constitutional as applied to retail sales of newspapers?

(A) Yes, because it is within Congress’s power to tax.

Correct.  The  tax  clause  of  Article  I,  Section  8  gives  Congress  plenary  power  to  raise  revenue  through  taxes.
Application of the tax to the sale of newspapers does not violate the freedom of the press protected by the First
Amendment because the tax is generally applicable and in no way targets press operations.

(B) Yes, because the tax is necessary to serve the compelling interest of balancing the federal budget.

(C) No, because retail sales taxes are within the taxing power of the states.

(D) No, because the imposition of a tax on the sale of newspapers violates the freedom of the press.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 72 - Criminal Law and Procedure

The police suspected a woman of growing marijuana in her private residence. Narcotics officers went to her neighborhood
in the middle of the night. Nothing unlawful could be seen from the street, so the officers walked into the neighbors’ yard
and  looked  through  the  woman’s  kitchen  window,  which  had  neither  drapes  nor  shades.  The  officers  observed  what
appeared  to  be  marijuana  plants  being  cultivated  under  grow  lights  in  the  kitchen.  Using  this  information,  the  officers
obtained a search warrant. The execution of that warrant netted numerous marijuana plants.

The woman was charged with possession of marijuana.  She moved to suppress the marijuana  plants recovered when the
warrant was executed, claiming that the evidence supporting the warrant was obtained through a search that violated the
Fourth Amendment.

Should the marijuana plants be suppressed?

(A) No,  because  regardless  of  the  lawfulness  of  the  police  conduct  beforehand,  they  did  obtain  a  warrant  to  search  the

woman’s home.

(B) No, because the woman could have no reasonable expectation of privacy concerning activities that she exposed to the

view of her neighbors.

Correct. The marijuana plants were in plain view of the neighbors, and the woman has no standing to complain
of any police trespass on the neighbors’ property. See Horton v. California, 496 U.S. 128 (1990).

(C) Yes,  because  the  officers’  clandestine  observation  of  the  plants  violated  the  woman’s  reasonable  expectation  of

privacy concerning activities occurring in her home.

(D) Yes, because no unlawful activities could be observed by the officers from any public vantage point.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 73 - Real Property

A niece inherited vacant land from her uncle. She lived in a distant state and decided to sell the land to a colleague who
was interested in purchasing the land as an investment. They orally agreed upon a price, and, at the colleague’s insistence,
the niece agreed to provide him with a warranty deed without any exceptions. The price was paid, the warranty deed was
delivered, and the deed was promptly and properly recorded.  Neither the niece nor the colleague  had, at that point, ever
seen the land.

After recording the deed, the colleague visited the land for the first time and discovered that it had no access to any public
right-of-way and that none of the surrounding lands had ever been held in common ownership with any previous owner of
the tract of land.

The colleague sued the niece for damages.

For whom will the court find?

(A) The colleague, because lack of access makes title unmarketable.

(B) The colleague, because the covenants of warranty and quiet enjoyment in the deed were breached.

(C) The niece, because no title covenants were breached.

Correct. Lack of access may render title unmarketable under the contract of sale; however, the time to challenge
marketable title is prior to the acceptance of the deed. Under the doctrine of merger, the remedy, if any, is on the
title covenant in the deed. Lack of access does not violate any of the title covenants. The colleague received the
title the niece said she had. No one had a superior title and thus the covenants of seisin, right to convey, quiet
enjoyment, and general warranty were not breached. The covenant against encumbrances provides protection for
interests held by third parties such as easements for access. The land was not subject to an express easement nor
may  any  easement  be  implied  based  on  either  prior  use  or  necessity  because  the  lands  were  never  held  in
common ownership.

(D) The niece, because the agreement to sell was oral.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 74 - Evidence

In a prosecution for aggravated battery, a police officer testified that when he arrested the defendant, he took a knife from
the defendant and delivered it to the medical examiner. The medical examiner testified that the knife blade was consistent
with the victim’s  wound but admitted  on cross-examination  that  any number of other  knives could also have caused  the
wound.

Should the judge grant a motion to strike the medical examiner’s testimony?

(A) No, because the probative worth of this evidence is for the jury to assess.

Correct. This evidence has some probative value because it links the knife in defendant’s possession to the type
of knife that could have caused the victim’s wound. The evidence is not very strong, because other knives could
also have caused the wound. But how much weight to give to the evidence is a decision for the jury. Rule 401 of
the Federal Rules of Evidence requires only that evidence have “any tendency to make the existence of any fact
that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without
the  evidence.”  Thus  to  be  relevant,  evidence  need  only  have  some  probative  value  in  establishing  a  fact.  The
Advisory Committee’s Note to Rule 401 quotes the famous statement “A brick is not a wall,” making the point
that evidence is admissible even if it is only a single brick that is a part of a large wall of evidence establishing a
party’s case.

(B) Yes, because in light of the medical examiner’s admission, his testimony has insufficient probative value.

(C) Yes, because the medical examiner could not state the probability that the wound was caused by the defendant’s knife.

(D) Yes, because the probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 75 - Torts

In  a  plaintiff’s  action  for  battery,  the  evidence  established  that  the  plaintiff  was  bad-tempered  and,  the  defendant  knew,
carried  a  gun  and  used  it  often;  that  the  plaintiff  struck  the  defendant  first;  that  during  the  altercation,  the  plaintiff
repeatedly tried to get to his gun; and that the blows inflicted upon the plaintiff by the defendant resulted in the plaintiff
being hospitalized.

Which finding of fact would be most likely to result in a verdict for the defendant?

(A) The defendant used no more force than he actually believed was necessary to protect himself against death or serious

bodily harm.

(B) The  defendant  used  no  more  force  than  he  reasonably  believed  was  necessary  to  protect  himself  against  death  or

serious bodily harm.

Correct.  The  privilege  of  self-defense  permits  the  use  of  force  reasonably  believed  to  be  necessary  given  the
threat posed by the plaintiff. See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 63(1).

(C) The defendant, in fact, feared death or serious bodily harm.

(D) The defendant was justified in retaliating against the plaintiff because the plaintiff struck the first blow.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 76 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  perjury  for  having  falsely  testified  in  an  earlier  civil  case  that  he  knew  nothing  about  a
business fraud. In the perjury trial, the defendant again testified that he knew nothing about the business fraud. In rebuttal,
the prosecutor called a witness to testify that after the civil trial was over, the defendant admitted to the witness privately
that he had known about the fraud.

Is the witness’s testimony in the perjury trial admissible?

(A) Yes, but only to impeach the defendant’s testimony.

(B) Yes, both to impeach the defendant’s testimony and as substantive evidence of the perjury.

Correct. This statement is admissible both to impeach the defendant’s testimony as a prior inconsistent statement
and  as  substantive  evidence,  because  it  is  an  admission  of  a  party-opponent  under  Rule  801(d)(2)(A)  of  the
Federal Rules of Evidence.

(C) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(D) No, because it relates to the business fraud and not to the commission of perjury.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 77 - Real Property

A landowner mortgaged her land to a nationally chartered bank as security for a loan. The mortgage provided that the bank
could, at its option, declare the entire loan due and payable if all or any part of the land, or an interest therein, was sold or
transferred without the bank’s prior written consent.

Subsequently, the landowner wanted to sell the land to a neighbor by an installment land contract, but the bank refused to
consent. The neighbor’s credit was good, and all mortgage payments to the bank were fully current.

The landowner and the neighbor consulted an attorney about their proposed transaction, their desire to complete it, and the
bank’s refusal to consent.

What would the attorney’s best advice be?

(A) Even if the landowner transfers to the neighbor by land contract, the bank may accelerate the debt and foreclose if the

full amount is not paid.

Correct. The mortgage contains a valid due-on-sale clause. If the landowner conveys the land without the prior
consent of the bank, the bank may accelerate the debt. A sale by use of an installment land contract is a transfer
of the land which can trigger the due-on-sale clause.

(B) The due-on-sale clause is void as an illegal restraint on alienation of the fee simple, so they may proceed.

(C) By making the transfer in land contract form, the landowner will prevent enforcement of the due-on-sale clause if the

mortgage payments are kept current.

(D) The due-on-sale clause has only the effect that the proposed transfer will automatically make the neighbor personally

liable on the debt, whether or not the neighbor specifically agrees to assume it.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 78 - Contracts

On  March  1,  an  excavator  entered  into  a  contract  with  a  contractor  to  perform  excavation  work  on  a  large  project.  The
contract expressly required that the excavator begin work on June 1 to enable other subcontractors to install utilities. On
May 15, the excavator requested a 30-day delay in the start date for the excavation work because he was seriously behind
schedule on another project. When the contractor refused to grant the delay, the excavator stated that he would try to begin
the work for the contractor on June 1.

Does the contractor have valid legal grounds to cancel the contract with the excavator and hire a replacement?

(A) Yes,  because  the  excavator  committed  an  anticipatory  repudiation  of  the  contract  by  causing  the  contractor  to  feel

insecure about the performance.

(B) Yes, because the excavator breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.

(C) No, because the excavator would be entitled to specific performance of the contract if he could begin by June 1.

(D) No, because the excavator did not state unequivocally that he would delay the beginning of his work.

Correct. An anticipatory repudiation occurs when a party unequivocally manifests an intention not to perform or
an  inability  to  perform.  Expressions  of  doubt  as  to  a  party’s  ability  to  perform  or  a  mere  request  by  a  party
(excavator)  that  the  other  party  (contractor)  consider  modifying  their  agreement  would  not  constitute  an
anticipatory repudiation. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 250 cmt. b.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 79 - Constitutional Law

In response to the need for additional toxic waste landfills in a state, the state’s legislature enacted a law authorizing a state
agency to establish five new state-owned and state-operated toxic waste landfills. The law provided that the agency would
decide  the  locations  and  sizes  of  the  landfills  after  an  investigation  of  all  potential  sites  and  a  determination  that  the
particular sites chosen would not endanger public health and would be consistent with the public welfare.

A community in the state was scheduled for inspection by the agency as a potential toxic waste landfill site. Because the
community’s  residents  obtained  most  of  their  drinking  water  from  an  aquifer  that  ran  under  the  entire  community,  a
citizens’ group, made up of residents of that community, sued the appropriate officials of the agency in federal court. The
group  sought  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  selection  of  the  community  as  the  site  of  a  toxic  waste  landfill  would  be
unconstitutional  and an injunction preventing  the agency from  selecting  the community  as a site  for such a landfill.  The
agency officials moved to dismiss.

Which of the following is the most appropriate basis for the court to dismiss this suit?

(A) The case presents a nonjusticiable political question.

(B) The  interest  of  the  state  in  obtaining  suitable  sites  for  toxic  waste  landfills  is  sufficiently  compelling  to  justify  the

selection of the community as a location for such a facility.

(C) The Eleventh Amendment bars suits of this kind in the federal courts.

(D) The case is not ripe for a decision on the merits.

Correct. The case arguably is not ripe for adjudication because the agency’s inspection does not itself pose any
risk  of  harm  to  residents  of  the  community.  The  residents  face  a  risk  of  harm  only  if  the  agency  selects  their
community  as  a  site  for  a  landfill,  but  on  these  facts  it  is  unclear  whether  or  when  the  community  would  be
selected.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 80 - Real Property

A man contacted his lawyer regarding his right to use a path that was on his neighbor’s vacant land.

Fifteen years ago, after a part of the path located on his land and connecting his cabin to the public highway washed out,
the man cleared a small part of his neighbor’s land and rerouted a section of the path through the neighbor’s land.

Twelve years ago, the neighbor leased her land to some hunters. For the next 12 years, the hunters and the man who had
rerouted the path used the path for access to the highway.

A month ago, the neighbor discovered that part of the path was on her land. The neighbor told the man that she had not
given him permission to cross her land and that she would be closing the rerouted path after 90 days.

The man’s land and the neighbor’s land have never been in common ownership.

The period of time necessary to acquire rights by prescription in the jurisdiction is 10 years. The period of time necessary
to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.

What should the lawyer tell the man concerning his right to use the rerouted path on the neighbor’s land?

(A) The man has fee title by adverse possession of the land included in the path.

(B) The man has an easement by necessity to use the path.

(C) The man has an easement by prescription to use the path.

Correct.  The  man  is  claiming  a  right  to  use  the  land  of  the  neighbor,  which  is  an  easement.  An  easement  by
prescription requires that the use be without the neighbor’s permission for the requisite period of time. The man
has used the path for the past 15 years without the neighbor’s permission. His use was open and notorious in that
the neighbor could have seen him. His use was continuous and without interruption by the neighbor. His use was
actual. An easement acquired by prescription need not be exclusive. With an easement, the owner may make any
use of the easement area that does not interfere with the use made by the easement holder unless the easement is
expressly noted as exclusive. The use by the tenants of the neighbor did not interfere with the man’s use, nor did
his use interfere with theirs.

(D) The man has no right to use the path.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 81 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries allegedly suffered when he slipped and fell on the defendant’s business property.
Without  asking  that  the  defendant’s  property  manager  be  declared  a  hostile  witness,  the  plaintiff  called  him  solely  to
establish that the defendant was the owner of the property where the plaintiff fell. On cross-examination of the manager,
the defendant’s attorney sought to establish that the defendant had taken reasonable precautions to make the property safe
for business invitees.

Should the defendant’s cross-examination of the manager be permitted over the plaintiff’s objection?

(A) No, because cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the direct examination and matters affecting

the credibility of the witness.

Correct. This is a correct statement of the scope of cross-examination as set forth by Rule 611(b) of the Federal
Rules of Evidence.

(B) No, because the court has not declared the manager hostile.

(C) Yes, because the cross-examiner is entitled to explore matters relevant to any issue in the case, including credibility.

(D) Yes, because the manager is the agent of a party, as to whom the scope of cross-examination is unlimited.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 82 - Torts

As a shopper was leaving a supermarket, an automatic door that should have opened outward opened inward, striking and
breaking the shopper’s nose. The owner of the building had installed the automatic door. The lease, pursuant to which the
supermarket leased the building, provided that the supermarket was responsible for all maintenance of the premises.

The  shopper  sued  the  supermarket.  At  trial,  neither  the  shopper  nor  the  supermarket  offered  any  testimony,  expert  or
otherwise, as to why the door had opened inward. At the conclusion of the proofs, both the shopper and the supermarket
moved for judgment.

How should the trial judge rule?

(A) Grant judgment for the shopper, because it is undisputed that the door malfunctioned.

(B) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to join the owner of the building as a defendant.

(C) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to offer proof of the supermarket’s negligence.

(D) Submit the case to the jury, because on these facts negligence may be inferred.

Correct. Under the theory of res ipsa loquitur, the jury can infer negligence where an accident would ordinarily
not occur in the absence of negligence and the defendant is responsible for the instrumentality that inflicted the
injury. Restatement (Second) of Torts § 328D.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 83 - Torts

A  man  owned  a  much-loved  cat,  worth  about  $25,  that  frequently  trespassed  on  a  neighbor’s  property.  The  neighbor
repeatedly  asked  the  man  to  keep  the  cat  on  his  own  property,  but  the  trespasses  did  not  diminish.  Aware  of  the  man’s
attachment  to  the  cat,  the  neighbor  killed  the  cat  with  a  shotgun  in  full  view  of  the  man.  As  a  consequence,  the  man
suffered great emotional distress.

In  an  action  by  the  man  against  the  neighbor,  which  of  the  following  claims  would  be  likely  to  result  in  the  greatest
monetary recovery?

(A) Battery.

(B)

Intentional infliction of mental suffering.

Correct. The tort of intentional infliction of mental suffering or emotional distress allows recovery for personal
injury despite the absence of physical injury or touching. On these facts, the neighbor was aware that his conduct
would cause severe emotional distress, and he could be asked to compensate the man for the man’s emotional
suffering, as well as for the value of the cat. See Dan B. Dobbs, The Law of Torts § 303 (2000).

(C) Trespass to a chattel.

(D) Conversion.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 84 - Constitutional Law

National  statistics  revealed  a  dramatic  increase  in  the  number  of  elementary  and  secondary  school  students  bringing
controlled substances to school for sale. In response, Congress enacted a statute requiring each state legislature to enact a
state law making it a crime for any person to sell, within 1,000 feet of any elementary or secondary school, any controlled
substance that had previously been transported in interstate commerce.

Is the federal statute constitutional?

(A) No, because Congress has no authority to require a state legislature to enact any specified legislation.

Correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held, in New York v. United States, 505 U.S. 144 (1992), that the concept of
federalism  embedded  in  the  Tenth  Amendment  disables  Congress  from  requiring  states  to  enact  laws  or  to
administer federal law.

(B) No, because the sale of a controlled substance in close proximity to a school does not have a sufficiently close nexus

to interstate commerce to justify its regulation by Congress.

(C) Yes,  because  it  contains  a  jurisdictional  provision  that  will  ensure,  on  a  case-by-case  basis,  that  any  particular

controlled substance subject to the terms of this statute will, in fact, affect interstate commerce.

(D) Yes, because Congress possesses broad authority under both the general welfare clause and the commerce clause to
regulate any activities affecting education that also have, in inseverable aggregates, a substantial effect on interstate
commerce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 85 - Evidence

When a man entered a bank and presented a check for payment, the bank teller recognized the signature on the check as a
forgery because the check was drawn on the account of a customer whose handwriting she knew. The bank teller called the
police. Before the police arrived, the man picked up the check from the counter and left.

The man was charged with attempting to cash a forged check. At trial, the prosecutor called the bank teller to testify that
the signature on the check was forged.

Is the bank teller’s testimony admissible?

(A) Yes, because a bank teller is by occupation an expert on handwriting.

(B) Yes, because it is rationally based on the bank teller’s perception and is helpful to the jury.

Correct. Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence allows lay opinion testimony when it is rationally based on
the perception of the witness and is helpful to the jury. Here the teller knew the signature of the bank customer
on whose account the check was drawn. This knowledge made it possible for her to recognize the signature on
the check as a forgery. Her testimony that the signature was a forgery is testimony that the signature on the check
presented was different from the signature of the owner of the account (a signature she knows). Obviously the
owner of  the  account  would be  a  stronger  prosecution  witness  than  the  teller  in  establishing  that  the  signature
was forged, but this doesn’t mean that the teller would not be allowed to testify.

(C) No, because the bank teller was at fault in allowing loss of the original by failing to secure the check.

(D) No, because  it is not possible  for either the jury or an expert  to compare the signature  on the missing  check with a

signature established as genuine.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 86 - Contracts

An  accountant  and  a  bookkeeper,  as  part  of  a  contract  dissolving  their  accounting  business,  agreed  that  each  would
contribute  $100,000  to  fund  an  annuity  for  a  clerk  who  was  a  longtime  employee  of  the  business.  The  clerk’s  position
would  be  terminated  due  to  the  dissolution,  and  he  did  not  have  a  retirement  plan.  The  accountant  and  the  bookkeeper
informed the clerk of their plan to fund an annuity for him. The clerk, confident about his financial future because of the
promised annuity, purchased a retirement home. The accountant later contributed his $100,000 to fund the annuity, but the
bookkeeper  stated  that  he  could  afford  to  contribute  only  $50,000.  The  accountant  agreed  that  the  bookkeeper  should
contribute only $50,000.

Does the clerk have a valid basis for an action against the bookkeeper for the unpaid $50,000?

(A) No, because the clerk was bound by the modification of the agreement made by the accountant and the bookkeeper.

(B) No, because the clerk was only a donee beneficiary of the agreement between the accountant and the bookkeeper, and

had no vested rights.

(C) Yes, because the clerk’s reliance on the promised retirement fund prevented the parties from changing the terms.

Correct. The power of the bookkeeper and the accountant to modify their duty was terminated when the clerk, an
intended  beneficiary,  materially  relied  on  the  promised  performance  by  purchasing  the  retirement  home.
Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 302, 311.

(D) Yes, because the promises to establish the fund were made binding by consideration from the clerk’s many years of

employment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 87 - Real Property

Twenty-five years ago, a man who owned a 45-acre tract of land conveyed 40 of the 45 acres to a developer by warranty
deed. The man retained the rear five-acre portion of the land and continues to live there in a large farmhouse.

The deed to the 40-acre tract was promptly and properly recorded. It contained the following language:

“It is a term and condition of this deed, which shall be a covenant running with the land and binding on all owners, their
heirs and assigns, that no use shall be made of the 40-acre tract of land except for residential purposes.”

Subsequently,  the  developer  fully  developed  the  40-acre  tract  into  a  residential  subdivision  consisting  of  40  lots  with  a
single-family residence on each lot.

Although  there  have  been  multiple  transfers  of  ownership  of  each  of  the  40  lots  within  the  subdivision,  none  of  them
included a reference to the quoted provision in the deed from the man to the developer, nor did any deed to a subdivision
lot create any new covenants restricting use.

Last  year,  a  major  new  medical  center  was  constructed  adjacent  to  the  subdivision.  A  doctor  who  owns  a  house  in  the
subdivision  wishes  to  relocate  her  medical  offices  to  her  house.  For  the  first  time,  the  doctor  learned  of  the  restrictive
covenant in the deed from the man to the developer. The applicable zoning ordinance permits the doctor’s intended use.
The man, as owner of the five-acre tract, however, objects to the doctor’s proposed use of her property.

There are no governing statutes other than the zoning code. The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in
the jurisdiction.

Can the doctor convert her house in the subdivision into a medical office?

(A) No,  because  the  owners  of  lots  in  the  subdivision  own  property  benefitted  by  the  original  residential  covenant  and

have the sole right to enforce it.

(B) No, because the man owns property benefitted by the original restrictive covenant and has a right to enforce it.

Correct. The restrictive covenant created 25 years ago placed a burden (that the land must be kept residential) on
the 40-acre tract of land and gave the right to enforce the promise to the man who retained the ownership of the
benefitted  retained  five-acre  tract  of  land.  The  man  may  enforce  the  promise  because  he  owns  the  benefitted
land.

(C) Yes, because the original restrictive covenant violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(D) Yes, because the zoning ordinance allows the doctor’s proposed use and preempts the restrictive covenant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 88 - Contracts

On March 1, a mechanic  contracted  to repair a textile  company’s knitting  machine by March 6. On March 2, the textile
company contracted to manufacture and deliver specified cloth to a customer on March 15. The textile company knew that
it would have to use the machine then under repair to perform this contract. Because the customer’s order was for a rush
job, the two parties included in their contract a liquidated damages clause, providing that the textile company would pay
$5,000 for each day’s delay in delivery after March 15.

The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine, and, as a result, the textile company was five days
late in delivering the cloth to the customer. The textile company paid $25,000 to the customer as liquidated damages and
then  sued  the  mechanic  for  $25,000.  Both  the  mechanic  and  the  textile  company  knew  when  making  their  contract  on
March 1 that under ordinary circumstances the textile company would sustain few or no damages of any kind as a result of
a five-day delay in the machine repair.

Assuming that the $5,000-per-day liquidated damages clause in the contract between the textile company and the customer
is valid, which of the following arguments will serve as the mechanic’s best defense to the textile company’s action?

(A) Time was not of the essence in the contract between the mechanic and the textile company.

(B) The  mechanic  had  no  reason  to  foresee  on  March  1  that  the  customer  would  suffer  consequential  damages  in  the

amount of $25,000.

Correct. Assuming other requirements are met, an aggrieved party is entitled to recover consequential damages
only  if  they  were  reasonably  foreseeable  to  the  breaching  party.  The  textile  company  did  not  inform  the
mechanic of its contract with the customer, and thus the mechanic had no reason to know what impact his failure
timely to perform would have on the textile company’s relationship with its customer. Restatement (Second) of
Contracts § 351; E. Allen Farnsworth, Contracts § 12.14 (4th ed. 2004).

(C) By entering into the contract with the customer while knowing that its knitting machine was being repaired, the textile

company assumed the risk of any delay loss to the customer.

(D)

In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the textile company to the customer are not the same amount as the
actual damages sustained by the customer in consequence of the late delivery of the cloth.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 89 - Real Property

Five  years  ago,  an  investor  who  owned  a  vacant  lot  in  a  residential  area  borrowed  $25,000  from  a  friend  and  gave  the
friend a note for $25,000 due in five years, secured by a mortgage on the lot. The friend neglected to record the mortgage.
The fair market value of the lot was then $25,000.

Three  years  ago,  the  investor  discovered  that  the  friend  had  not  recorded  his  mortgage  and  in  consideration  of  $50,000
conveyed the  lot to  a buyer.  The  fair  market  value of  the  lot was  then $50,000. The  buyer knew nothing of  the friend’s
mortgage. One month thereafter, the friend discovered the sale to the buyer, recorded his $25,000 mortgage, and notified
the buyer that he held a $25,000 mortgage on the lot.

Two years ago, the buyer needed funds. Although she told her bank of the mortgage claimed by the investor’s friend, the
bank loaned her $15,000, and she gave the bank a note for $15,000 due in two years secured by a mortgage on the lot. The
bank promptly and properly recorded the mortgage. At that time, the fair market value of the lot was $75,000.

The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  “No  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good  against
subsequent purchasers for value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law.”

Both notes are now due and both the investor and the buyer have refused to pay. The lot is now worth only $50,000.

What are the rights of the investor’s friend and the bank in the lot?

(A) Both mortgages are enforceable liens and the friend’s has priority because it was first recorded.

(B) Both  mortgages  are  enforceable  liens,  but  the  bank’s  has  priority  because  the  buyer  was  an  innocent  purchaser  for

value.

(C) Only  the  friend’s  mortgage  is  an  enforceable  lien,  because  the  bank  had  actual  and  constructive  notice  of  the

investor’s fraud.

(D) Only the bank’s mortgage is an enforceable lien, because the buyer was an innocent purchaser for value.

Correct. The friend  does not have an enforceable  lien. The friend  did have a lien on the lot when the investor
granted the friend a mortgage. The friend, however, did not record the mortgage. The investor then sold the lot to
the  buyer.  The  buyer  had  no  actual  notice  of  the  mortgage  to  the  friend.  The  buyer  had  no  notice  based  on
possession  because  the  lot  was  vacant.  The  buyer  had  no  constructive  notice  of  the  mortgage  because  the
mortgage  to  the  friend  had  not  been  recorded  when  the  buyer  received  title.  The  lot  is  located  in  a  notice
jurisdiction.  Thus,  the  buyer  took  the  lot  free  of  any  prior  unrecorded  documents.  The  buyer  was  an  innocent
purchaser  for  value  at  the  time  the  buyer  received  title.  Later  notice  to  the  buyer  and  a  later  recording  of  the
friend’s mortgage are irrelevant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 90 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman offered to pay her friend one-third of the stolen proceeds if the friend would drive the getaway car to be used in a
bank robbery. The friend agreed but made the woman promise not to hurt anyone during the robbery.

The woman then drove to a sporting goods store, where she explained to the store owner that she needed a small firearm
for use in a bank robbery. The store owner responded that he would charge extra because the woman was so unwise as to
confide her unlawful plans for using the weapon, and he sold her a handgun at four times the regular price.

During the robbery, the woman used the gun to threaten a bank teller into handing over the money. The gun discharged by
accident and killed a bank customer.

At common law, who in addition to the woman could properly be convicted of murder in the death of the customer?

(A) Both the friend and the store owner.

Correct.  The  friend  is  responsible  for  the  unintended  but  reasonably  foreseeable  acts  of  her  coconspirator  in
furtherance of the conspiracy. 2 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 13.3(b) (discussing Pinkerton v.
United  States,  328  U.S.  640  (1946)).  The  store  owner’s  sale  of  the  gun,  combined  with  his  knowledge  of  the
woman’s  plan  to  use  it  in  a  crime  and  his  financial  benefit  from  that  knowledge,  should  suffice  to  impose
accomplice liability. 2 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 13.2(b).

(B) Neither the friend nor the store owner.

(C) Only the friend.

(D) Only the store owner.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 91 - Evidence

A  pedestrian  sued  a  driver  for  injuries  suffered  in  a  hit-and-run  accident.  At  trial,  the  pedestrian  called  a  witness  who
testified that he saw the accident and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license number into his properly
operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no longer remembered the number.

May the tape recording be played?

(A) Yes, as a present sense impression only.

(B) Yes, as a recorded recollection only.

(C) Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.

Correct.  The  statement  is  admissible  as  a  present  sense  impression  under  Rule  803(1)  of  the  Federal  Rules  of
Evidence  because  it  describes  or  explains  an  event  or  condition  and  was  “made  while  the  declarant  was
perceiving  the  event  or  condition,  or  immediately  thereafter.”  It  is  also  admissible  under  Rule  803(5)  of  the
Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  because  it  is  a  record  “concerning  a  matter  about  which  a  witness  once  had
knowledge but now has insufficient recollection to testify fully and accurately,” and it was made by the witness
“when the matter was fresh in the witness’ memory” and “reflect[s] that knowledge correctly.”

(D) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 92 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man decided to steal a car he saw parked on a hill. When he got in and started the engine, the car began rolling down the
hill.  The  man  quickly  discovered  that  the  car’s  brakes  did  not  work.  He  crashed  through  the  window  of  a  store  at  the
bottom of the hill.

The man was charged with larceny of the car and with the crime of knowingly damaging the store’s property. At trial, the
judge instructed the jury that if the jury found both that the man was guilty of larceny of the car and that the damage to the
store was the result of that larceny, then it should also find him guilty of malicious damage of property.

The man was convicted on both counts. On appeal, he argued that the conviction for malicious damage of property should
be reversed because the instruction was not a correct statement of the law.

Should the man’s conviction be affirmed?

(A) Yes, because his intent to steal the car provides the necessary mental element.

(B) Yes, because he was committing a felony.

(C) No, because the instruction wrongly described the necessary mental state.

Correct. The instruction was wrong because to have acted knowingly, the man must have been practically certain
that his conduct would damage the store. 1 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 5.2(b).

(D) No, because it would violate double jeopardy to convict the man of two crimes for a single act.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 93 - Contracts

A seller and a buyer entered into a written agreement providing that the seller was to deliver 1,000 cases of candy bars to
the buyer during the months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to make a selection by March
1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to be delivered under the contract. The buyer did not make the selection by
March  1,  and  on  March  2 the  seller  notified  the  buyer  that  because  of  the  buyer’s  failure  to  select,  the  seller  would not
deliver the candy bars. The seller had all of the necessary candy bars on hand on March 1 and made no additional sales or
purchases  on  March  1  or  March  2.  On  March  2,  after  receiving  the  seller’s  notice  that  it  would  not  perform,  the  buyer
notified the seller of its selection and insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy bars, and the seller withdrew its offer before

selection.

(B) No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express condition to the seller’s duty to perform.

(C) Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a material effect on the seller.

Correct. UCC § 2-311 imposes a duty on a buyer to cooperate by specifying the assortment of goods where the
contract fails to so provide. A seller can treat the buyer’s failure to specify as a breach by failure to accept the
contracted-for goods only if the buyer’s failure to specify materially impacts the seller’s performance. The seller
had an available supply of candy bars and had entered into no new contracts. These facts support the conclusion
that  the  buyer’s  failure  to  select  did  not  materially  impact  the  seller’s  performance.  Therefore  the  seller
unjustifiably refused to accept the buyer’s selection of goods. UCC § 2-311.

(D) Yes,  because  upon  the  buyer’s  failure  to  make  a  selection  by  March  1,  the  seller  had  a  duty  to  make  a  reasonable

selection.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 94 - Real Property

A grantor owned two tracts of land, one of 15 acres and another of five acres. The two tracts were a mile apart.

Fifteen years ago, the grantor conveyed the smaller tract to a grantee. The grantor retained the larger tract. The deed to the
grantee  contained,  in  addition  to  proper  legal  descriptions  of  both  properties  and  identifications  of  the  parties,  the
following:

I, the grantor, bind myself and my heirs and assigns that in the event that the larger tract that I now retain is ever offered for
sale, I will notify the grantee and his heirs and assigns in writing, and the grantee and his heirs and assigns shall have the
right  to  purchase  the  larger  tract  for  its  fair  market  value  as  determined  by  a  board  consisting  of  three  qualified  expert
independent real estate appraisers.

With appropriate references to the other property and the parties, there followed a reciprocal provision that conferred upon
the grantor and her heirs and assigns a similar right to purchase the smaller tract, purportedly binding the grantee and his
heirs and assigns.

Ten years ago, a corporation acquired the larger tract from the grantor. At that time, the grantee had no interest in acquiring
the larger tract and by an appropriate written document released any interest he or his heirs or assigns might have had in
the larger tract.

Last  year,  the  grantee  died.  The  smaller  tract  passed  by  the  grantee’s  will  to  his  daughter.  She  has  decided  to  sell  the
smaller tract. However, because she believes the corporation has been a very poor steward of the larger tract, she refuses to
sell the smaller tract to the corporation even though she has offered it for sale in the local real estate market.

The corporation brought an appropriate action for specific performance after taking all of the necessary preliminary steps
in its effort to exercise its rights to purchase the smaller tract.

The daughter asserted all possible defenses.

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

If the court rules for the daughter, what is the reason?

(A) The provision setting out the right to purchase violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

Correct. Fifteen years ago each of the parties granted a reciprocal right of first refusal (or a preemptive right) to
the  other.  A  right  of  first  refusal  is  a  conditional  option.  It  provides  that  if  the  owner  ever  decides  to  sell  the
property,  the  one  holding  the  right  of  first  refusal  has  the  right  to  purchase  it.  In  this  case,  the  price  for  the
purchase was to be set by three qualified expert independent real estate appraisers and was thus fair. The right,
however, violates the common law Rule Against Perpetuities. The right to purchase is triggered by the decision
of one to sell his or her land. In this case, that decision might occur more than 21 years after a life in being at the
time the right was granted. Thus, under the common law, the right of first refusal is struck ab initio. The question
notes  that  the  common  law  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  is  unmodified  in  this  jurisdiction.  Thus,  there  are  no
applicable  statutory  reforms  to  the  rule,  and  because  the  question  is  written  with  the  daughter  winning,  any
statute which may exempt a commercial transaction is inapplicable.

(B) The  grantee’s  release  10  years  ago  operates  as  a  waiver  regarding  any  right  to  purchase  that  the  corporation  might

have.

(C) The  two  tracts  of  land  were  not  adjacent  parcels  of  real  estate,  and  thus  the  right  to  purchase  is  in  gross  and  is

therefore unenforceable.

(D) Noncompliance with a right to purchase gives rise to a claim for money damages, but not for specific performance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 95 - Constitutional Law

In  order  to  combat  terrorism,  Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the  President  to  construct  surveillance  facilities  on
privately owned property if the President determined that the construction of such facilities was “necessary to safeguard the
security  of  the  United  States.”  The  statute  provided  no  compensation  for  the  owner  of  the  land  on  which  such  facilities
were  constructed  and  provided  that  the  surveillance  facilities  were  to  be  owned  and  operated  by  the  United  States
government.

Pursuant to this statute, the President has determined that the construction of a surveillance facility on a very small, unused
portion of an owner’s large tract of land is necessary to safeguard the security of the United States. The construction and
operation of the facility will not affect any of the uses that the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land.

The owner has filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the construction of a surveillance facility on the parcel of land
at issue without compensation.

How should the court rule?

(A)

It would be a taking of the owner’s property for which the owner must be compensated.

Correct.  Any  permanent  physical  occupation  by  the  government  of  private  property  is  a  taking  for  which  just
compensation to the property owner is required. It is irrelevant that in this case the portion of the owner’s tract of
land  to  be  occupied  by  the  government  is  unused  and  very  small.  Nor  is  it  relevant  that  in  this  case  the
construction and operation of the facility will not affect any of the uses that the owner is currently making of the
entire  tract  of  land.  The  permanent  physical  occupation  by  the  government  of  the  owner’s  land  would  be
sufficient by itself to constitute a taking.

(B)

(C)

It  would  single  out  the  owner  for  adverse  treatment  in  violation  of  the  equal  protection  component  of  the  Fifth
Amendment.

It would not interfere with any use the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land and, therefore, would not
entitle the owner to any compensation.

(D)

It would be valid without any compensation, because it has been determined to be necessary to protect a compelling
government interest in national security.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 96 - Torts

A child was bitten by a dog while playing in a fenced-in common area of an apartment complex owned by a landlord. The
child was the guest of a tenant living in the complex, and the dog was owned by another tenant. The owner of the dog knew
that the dog had a propensity to bite, but the landlord did not have any notice of the dog’s vicious propensities.

In an action by the child against the landlord, will the child prevail?

(A) Yes, because in these circumstances a landlord is strictly liable.

(B) Yes, because a landlord’s duty to protect a tenant’s guests from dangerous conditions is nondelegable.

(C) No, because the landlord did not have any notice of the dog’s vicious propensities.

Correct. Any duty that the landlord may have is at most a duty to act reasonably. If the landlord had no reason to
know that the dog posed a risk to those on his property, his failure to take precautions against that risk was not
negligent. Restatement (Second) of Torts §§ 343, 509.

(D) No, because a landlord owes no duty to a tenant’s gratuitous guests.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 97 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state  grand  jury  investigating  a  murder  learned  that  the  key  suspect  might  have  kept  a  diary.  The  grand  jury  issued  a
subpoena duces tecum requiring the suspect to produce any diary. The subpoena made clear that the grand jury was seeking
only the diary and not any testimony from the suspect. The suspect refused to produce the diary, citing the privilege against
self-incrimination.

Under what circumstances, if any, could the grand jury compel production of the diary over the suspect’s Fifth Amendment
privilege?

(A)

It may compel production without granting immunity because the suspect was not compelled to write a diary.

(B)

It may compel production only if the suspect is granted use and derivative use immunity from the act of production.

Correct.
self-incrimination in this situation. Kastigar v. United States, 406 U.S. 441 (1972).

 Use  and  derivative  use  immunity  sufficiently  protects  the  constitutional

 privilege  against

(C)

It may compel production only if the suspect is granted transactional immunity.

(D)

It may not compel production of a private diary under any circumstances.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 98 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  tax  evasion.  The  IRS,  seeking  to  establish  the  defendant’s  income  by  showing  his
expenditures,  called  on  the  defendant’s  attorney  to  produce  records  showing  only  how  much  the  defendant  had  paid  his
attorney in fees.

Should the demand for the attorney’s fee records be upheld?

(A) Yes, because it calls for relevant information not within the attorney-client privilege.

Correct.  The  attorney-client  privilege  applies  only  to  confidential  communications  made  for  the  purpose  of
facilitating legal representation of the client, and the amount the defendant paid in legal fees does not qualify as
such a communication. Fee arrangements and payments are generally outside the protection of the attorney-client
privilege.

(B) Yes, because the attorney-client privilege cannot be invoked to conceal evidence of a crime.

(C) No, because the records are protected by the attorney-client privilege.

(D) No, because the records are protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 99 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man was angered after he was unexpectedly laid off from his longtime job as a factory assembly worker. The next day,
he  returned  to  the  factory  floor  and  indiscriminately  fired  shotgun  rounds  in  the  air.  The  man  later  testified,  without
contradiction,  that  he  had  not  intended  to  kill  anyone  but  simply  sought  to  exact  revenge  on  the  factory’s  owners  by
shutting down operations  for the day. Unfortunately, one of the bullets  ricocheted off the wall and killed  the man’s  best
friend.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

On these facts, what is the most serious offense for which the man properly could be convicted?

(A) Murder.

Correct. The man could properly be convicted of murder, even though he lacked specific intent to kill, because
his conduct created such a high risk of death and was so devoid of social utility that he could be found to have
acted with a “depraved heart.” See 2 Wayne R. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law § 14.4(a), at 437–41 (2d ed.
2003).

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C)

Involuntary manslaughter.

(D) Assault.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 2

Question # 100 - Torts

A food company contracted with a delivery service to supply food to remote areas. The contract between the food company
and the delivery service was terminable at will. The delivery service then entered into a contract with an airline company to
provide  an  airplane  to  deliver  the  food.  The  contract  between  the  delivery  service  and  the  airline  company  was  also
terminable at will.

The food company was displeased with the airline company because of a previous business dispute between them. Upon
learning  of  the  delivery  service’s  contract  with  the  airline  company,  the  food  company  terminated  its  contract  with  the
delivery service in order to cause the airline company to lose the business. When the food company terminated the delivery
service’s contract, the delivery service had no choice but to terminate the airline company’s contract.

If the airline company sues the delivery service for tortious interference with contract, will the airline company prevail?

(A) No, because the airline company and the delivery service were the parties to the contract.

Correct. The tort of interference with contract provides a cause of action against those who improperly interfere
with  the  performance  of  a  contract  between  another  and  a  third  person.  In  this  case,  the  plaintiff  and  the
defendant were parties to the contract, and any action between them would be based on the contract, rather than
on tort. The proper defendant in the tort action would be the food company. See Restatement (Second) of Torts §
766.

(B) No, because the airline company was not in privity with the food company.

(C) Yes, because the delivery service did not terminate the contract because of poor performance.

(D) Yes, because the delivery service’s termination of the contract made it a party to the food company’s acts.

