146. X-- A construction company contracted with a warehouse owner to construct for $500,000 a warehouse and an access driveway at highway level. Shortly after commencing work on the driveway, which required for the specified level some excavation and removal of surface material, the construction company unexpectedly encountered a large mass of solid rock.
Upon encountering the rock formation, the construction company, instead of incurring additional costs to remove it, built the access driveway over the rock with a steep grade down to the highway. The warehouse owner, who was out of town for several days, was unaware of this nonconformity until the driveway had been finished. As built, it is too steep to be used safely by trucks or cars, particularly in the wet or icy weather frequently occurring in the area. It would cost $30,000 to tear out and rebuild the driveway at highway level. As built, the warehouse, including the driveway, has a fair market value of $550,000. The warehouse owner has paid $470,000 to the construction company, but refuses to pay more because of the nonconforming driveway, which the construction company has refused to tear out and rebuild.
If the construction company sues the warehouse owner for monetary relief, what is the maximum amount that the construction company is entitled to recover?
A. $30,000, because the fair market value of the warehouse and driveway "as is" exceeds the contract price by $50,000 (more than the cost of correcting the driveway).
B. $30,000, because the construction company substantially performed and the cost of correcting the driveway would involve economic waste.
C. $30,000, minus whatever amount the construction company saved by not building the driveway at the specified level.
D. Nothing, because the warehouse owner is entitled to damages for the cost of correcting the driveway.
 
147. X-- Responding to the county's written advertisement for bids, a tire salesman was the successful bidder for the sale of tires to the county for the county's vehicles. The tire salesman and the county entered into a signed, written agreement that specified, "It is agreed that the tire salesman will deliver all tires required by this agreement to the county in accordance with the attached bid form and specifications, for a one-year period beginning September 1, 1990." Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form and specifications. In the written advertisement to which the tire salesman had responded, but not in the bid form, the county had stated, "Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best interests of the county." No definite quantity of tires to be bought by the county from the tire salesman was specified in any of these documents.
In January 1991, the tire salesman learned that the county was buying some of its tires from one of the tire salesman's competitors. Contending that the tire salesman-county agreement was a requirements contract, the tire salesman sued the county for the damages caused by the county buying some of its tires from the competitor.
If the county defends by offering proof of the advertisement concerning the possibility of multiple awards, should the court admit the evidence?
A. Yes, because the provision in the written agreement, "all tires required by this agreement," is ambiguous.
B. Yes, because the advertisement was in writing.
C. No, because of the parol evidence rule.
D. No, because it would make the contract illusory.
 
148. Responding to the county's written advertisement for bids, a tire salesman was the successful bidder for the sale of tires to the county for the county's vehicles. The tire salesman and the county entered into a signed, written agreement that specified, "It is agreed that the tire salesman will deliver all tires required by this agreement to the county in accordance with the attached bid form and specifications, for a one-year period beginning September 1, 1990." Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form and specifications. In the written advertisement to which the tire salesman had responded, but not in the bid form, the county had stated, "Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best interests of the county." No definite quantity of tires to be bought by the county from the tire salesman was specified in any of these documents. 
In January 1991, the tire salesman learned that the county was buying some of its tires from one of the tire salesman's competitors. Contending that the tire salesman-county agreement was a requirements contract, the tire salesman sued the county for the damages caused by the county buying some of its tires from the competitor.
If the court concludes that the tire salesman-county contract is an agreement by the county to buy its tire requirements from the tire salesman, the tire salesman probably will
A. recover under the contracts clause of the United States Constitution.
B. recover under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code.
C. not recover, because the agreement lacks mutuality of obligation.
D. not recover, because the agreement is indefinite as to quantity.
 
149. An automobile retailer had an adult daughter who needed a car in her employment but had only $3,000 with which to buy one. The retailer wrote to his daughter, "Give me your $3,000 and I'll give you the car on our lot that we have been using as a demonstrator." The daughter thanked her father and paid him the $3,000. As both the retailer and his daughter knew, the demonstrator was reasonably worth $10,000. After the daughter had paid the $3,000, but before the car had been delivered to her, one of retailer's sales staff sold and delivered the same car to a customer for $10,000. Neither the salesperson nor the customer was aware of the transaction between the retailer and his daughter.
Does the daughter, after rejecting a tendered return of the $3,000 by her father, have an action against him for breach of contract?
A. Yes, because the retailer's promise was supported by bargained-for consideration.
B. Yes, because retailer's promise was supported by the moral obligation a father owes his child as to the necessities of modern life.
C. No, because the payment of $3,000 was inadequate consideration to support the retailer's promise.
D. No, because the salesperson's delivery of the car to the customer made it impossible for the retailer to perform.
 
150.  An owner and operator of a small business encourages "wellness" on the part of his employees and supports various physical-fitness programs to that end. Learning that one of his employees was a dedicated jogger, the business owner promised to pay her a special award of $100 if she could and would run one mile in less than six minutes on the following Saturday. The employee thanked him and did in fact run a mile in less than six minutes on the day specified. Shortly thereafter, however, the business owner discovered that for more than a year the employee had been running at least one mile in less than six minutes every day as a part of her personal fitness program. He refused to pay the $100.

In an action by the employee against the business owner for breach of contract, which of the following best summarizes the probable decision of the court?
A. The business owner wins, because it is a compelling inference that his promise did not induce the employee to run the specified mile.
B. The business owner wins, because the employee's running of the specified mile was beneficial, not detrimental, to her in any event.
C. The employee wins, because running a mile in less than six minutes is a significantly demanding enterprise.
D. The employee wins, because she ran the specified mile as requested, and her motives for doing so are irrelevant.
 
151. Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct for a homeowner a garage for $10,000. Nothing was said in the parties' negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of the work.
After completing 25% of the garage strictly according to the homeowner's specifications, the builder demanded payment of $2,000 as a "reasonable progress payment." The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.
If each party sues the other for breach of contract, which of the following will the court decide?
A. Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from the other.
B. Only the builder is in breach and liable for the homeowner's damages, if any.
C. Only the homeowner is in breach and liable for the builder's damages, if any.
D. Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.
 
152. Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct for a homeowner a garage for $10,000. Nothing was said in the parties' negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of the work.
After completing 25% of the garage strictly according to the homeowner's specifications, the builder assigned his rights under the contract to a bank as security for an $8,000 loan. The bank immediately notified the homeowner of the assignment. The builder thereafter, without legal excuse, abandoned the job before it was half-complete. The builder subsequently defaulted on the loan from the bank. The builder has no assets. It will cost the homeowner at least $8,000 to get the garage finished by another builder.
If the bank sues the homeowner for $8,000, which of the following will the court decide?
A. The bank wins, because the builder-homeowner contract was in existence and the builder was not in breach when the bank gave the homeowner notice of the assignment.
B. The bank wins, because the bank as a secured creditor over the builder is entitled to priority over the homeowner's unsecured claim against the builder.
C. The homeowner wins, because his right to recoupment on account of the builder's breach is available against the bank as the builder's assignee.
D. The homeowner wins, because his claim against the builder arose prior to the builder's default on his loan from the bank.
 
153. On June 1, a wholesale company received a purchase-order form from a retailer, in which the latter ordered 1,000 anti-recoil widgets for delivery no later than August 30 at a delivered total price of $10,000, as quoted in the wholesale company's current catalog. Both parties are merchants with respect to widgets of all types. On June 2, the wholesale company mailed to the retailer its own form, across the top of which the wholesale company's president had written, "We are pleased to accept your order." This form contained the same terms as the retailer's form except for an additional printed clause in the wholesale company's form that provided for a maximum liability of $100 for any breach of contract by the wholesale company.
As of June 5, when the retailer received the wholesale company's acceptance form, which of the following is an accurate statement concerning the legal relationship between the wholesale company and the retailer?
A. There is no contract, because the liability-limitation clause in the wholesale company's form is a material alteration of the retailer's offer.
B. There is no contract, because the retailer did not consent to the liability-limitation clause in the wholesale company's form.
C. There is an enforceable contract whose terms include the liability-limitation clause in the wholesale company's form, because liquidation of damages is expressly authorized by the Uniform Commercial Code.
D. There is an enforceable contract whose terms do not include the liability-limitation clause in the wholesale company's form.
 
154. A developer obtained a bid of $10,000 to tear down her old building and another bid of $90,000 to replace it with a new structure in which she planned to operate a sporting goods store. Having only limited cash available, the developer asked a lender for a $100,000 loan. After reviewing the plans for the project, the lender in a signed writing promised to lend the developer $100,000 secured by a mortgage on the property and repayable over ten years in equal monthly installments at 10% annual interest. The developer promptly accepted the demolition bid and the old building was removed, but the lender thereafter refused to make the loan. Despite diligent efforts, the developer was unable to obtain a loan from any other source.
Does the developer have a cause of action against the lender?
A. Yes, because by having the building demolished, she accepted the lender's offer to make the loan.
B. Yes, because her reliance on the lender's promise was substantial, reasonable, and foreseeable.
C. No, because there was no bargained-for exchange of consideration for the lender's promise to make the loan.
D. No, because the developer's inability to obtain a loan from any other source demonstrated that the project lacked the financial soundness that was a constructive condition to the lender's performance.
 
155. X-- A developer obtained a bid of $10,000 to tear down her old building and another bid of $90,000 to replace it with a new structure in which she planned to operate a sporting goods store. Having only limited cash available, the developer asked the lender for a $100,000 loan. After reviewing the plans for the project, the lender in a signed writing promised to lend the developer $100,000 secured by a mortgage on the property and repayable over ten years in equal monthly installments at 10% annual interest. The developer promptly accepted the demolition bid and the old building was removed, but the lender thereafter refused to make the loan. Despite diligent efforts, the developer was unable to obtain a loan from any other source.
Assume that the developer has a cause of action against the lender. If she sues him for monetary relief, what is the probable measure of her recovery?
A. Expectation damages, measured by the difference between the value of the new building and the old building, less the amount of the proposed loan ($100,000).
B. Expectation damages, measured by the estimated profits from operating the proposed sporting goods store for ten years, less the cost of repaying a $100,000 loan at 10% interest over ten years.
C. Reliance damages, measured by the $10,000 expense of removing the old building, adjusted by the decrease or increase in the market value of the developer's land immediately thereafter.
D. Nominal damages only, because both expectation and reliance damages are speculative, and there is no legal or equitable basis for awarding restitution.
156. X-- In a writing signed by both parties on December 1, a man agreed to buy from a distributor a gasoline engine for $1,000, delivery to be made on the following February 1. Through a secretarial error, the writing called for delivery on March 1, but neither party noticed the error until February 1. Before signing the agreement, the man and the distributor orally agreed that the contract of sale would be effective only if the man notified the distributor in writing no later than January 2 that the man had arranged to resell the engine to a third person. Otherwise, they agreed orally, "There is no deal." On December 15, the man entered into a contract with a mechanic to resell the engine to the mechanic at a profit.
The man did not give the distributor notice of the resale until January 25, and the distributor received it by mail on January 26. In the meantime, the value of the engine had unexpectedly increased about 75% since December 1, and the distributor renounced the agreement.
If the man sues distributor on February 2 for breach of contract, which of the following is distributor's best defense?
A. The secretarial error in the written delivery-term was a mutual mistake concerning a basic fact, and the agreement is voidable by either party.
B. The man's not giving written notice by January 2 of his resale was a failure of a condition precedent to the existence of a contract.
C. In view of the unexpected 75% increase in value of the engine after December 1, the distributor's performance is excused by the doctrine of commercial frustration.
D. The agreement, if any, is unenforceable because a material term was not included in the writing.
 
157. In a writing signed by both parties on December 1, a man agreed to buy from a distributor a gasoline engine for $1,000, delivery to be made on the following February 1. Through a secretarial error, the writing called for delivery on March 1, but neither party noticed the error until February 1. Before signing the agreement, the man and the distributor orally agreed that the contract of sale would be effective only if the man notified the distributor in writing no later than January 2 that the man had arranged to resell the engine to a third person. Otherwise, they agreed orally, "There is no deal." On December 15, the man entered into a contract with a mechanic to resell the engine to the mechanic at a profit.
On December 16, the man notified the distributor by telephone of the man's resale agreement with the mechanic, and explained that a written notice was not feasible because the man's secretary was ill. The distributor replied, "That's okay. I'll get the engine to you on February 1, as we agreed." Having learned, however, that the engine had increased in value about 75% since December 1, the distributor renounced the agreement on February 1.
If the man sues the distributor on February 2 for breach of contract, which of the following concepts best supports the man's claim?
A. Substantial performance.
B. Nonoccurrence of a condition subsequent.
C. Waiver of condition.
D. Novation of buyers.
 
158. A son, who knew nothing about horses, inherited a thoroughbred colt whose disagreeable behavior made him a pest around the barn. The son sold the colt for $1,500 to an experienced racehorse-trainer who knew of the son's ignorance about horses. At the time of the sale, the son said to the trainer, "I hate to say it, but this horse is bad-tempered and nothing special."
Assume that soon after the sale, the horse won three races and earned $400,000 for the trainer.
Which of the following additional facts, if established by the son, would best support his chance of obtaining rescission of the sale to the trainer?

A. The son did not know until after the sale that the purchaser was an experienced racehorse-trainer.
B. At a pre-sale exercise session of which the trainer knew that the son was not aware, the trainer clocked the horse in record-setting time, far surpassing any previous performance.
C. The horse was the only thoroughbred that the son owned, and the son did not know how to evaluate young and untested racehorses.
D. At the time of the sale, the son was angry and upset over an incident in which the horse had reared and thrown a rider.
 
159. X-- A son, who knew nothing about horses, inherited a thoroughbred colt whose disagreeable behavior made him a pest around the barn. The son sold the colt for $1,500 to an experienced racehorse-trainer who knew of the son's ignorance about horses. At the time of the sale, the son said to the trainer, "I hate to say it, but this horse is bad-tempered and nothing special."
Which one of the following scenarios would best support an action by the trainer, rather than the son, to rescind the sale?
A. In his first race after the sale, the horse galloped to a huge lead but dropped dead 100 yards from the finish line because of a rare congenital heart defect that was undiscoverable except by autopsy.
B. The horse won $5 million for the trainer over a three-year racing career but upon being retired was found to be incurably sterile and useless as a breeder.
C. After the horse had won three races for the trainer, it was discovered that by clerical error, unknown to either party, the horse's official birth registration listed an undistinguished racehorse as the sire rather than the famous racehorse that in fact was the sire.
D. A week after the sale, the horse went berserk and inflicted serious injuries upon the trainer that required his hospitalization for six months and a full year for his recovery.
 
160. The owner of a fleet of taxis contracted with a dealer in petroleum products for the purchase and sale of the taxi fleet owner's total requirements of gasoline and oil for one year. As part of that agreement, the petroleum dealer also agreed with the taxi fleet owner that for one year the petroleum dealer would place all his advertising with the taxi fleet owner's wife who owned her own small advertising agency. When the wife was informed of the owner-dealer contract, she declined to accept an advertising account from the a soap company because she could not handle both the petroleum dealer and the soap company accounts during the same year.
During the first month of the contract, the taxi fleet owner purchased substantial amounts of his gasoline from a supplier other than the petroleum dealer, and the petroleum dealer thereupon notified the wife that he would no longer place his advertising with her agency.
In an action against the petroleum dealer for breach of contract, the wife probably will
A. succeed, because she is a third-party beneficiary of the owner-dealer contract.
B. succeed, because the taxi fleet owner was acting as the wife's agent when he contracted with the petroleum dealer.
C. not succeed, because the failure of a constructive condition precedent excused the petroleum dealer's duty to place his advertising with the wife.
D. not succeed, because the wife did not provide any consideration to support the petroleum dealer's promise to place his advertising with her.
 
161. The owner of a fleet of taxis contracted with a dealer in petroleum products for the purchase and sale of the taxi fleet owner's total requirements of gasoline and oil for one year. As part of that agreement, the petroleum dealer also agreed with the taxi fleet owner that for one year the petroleum dealer would place all his advertising with the taxi fleet owner's wife who owned her own small advertising agency. When the wife was informed of the owner-dealer contract, she declined to accept an advertising account from the a soap company because she could not handle both the petroleum dealer and the soap company accounts during the same year.
The wife was an intended beneficiary under the owner-dealer contract. The taxi fleet owner performed his contract with the petroleum dealer for six months, and during that time the petroleum dealer placed his advertising with the wife. At the end of the six months, the taxi fleet owner and the wife were divorced, and the taxi fleet owner then told the petroleum dealer that he had no further obligation to place his advertising with the wife. The petroleum dealer thereupon notified the wife that he would no longer place his advertising with her.
In an action against the petroleum dealer for breach of contract, the wife will probably
A. succeed, because, on the facts of this case, the petroleum dealer and the taxi fleet owner could not, without the wife's consent, modify their contract so as to discharge the petroleum dealer's duties to the wife.
B. succeed, because the taxi fleet owner acted in bad faith in releasing the petroleum dealer from his duty with respect to the wife.
C. not succeed, because, absent a provision in the contract to the contrary, the promisor and promisee of a third-party beneficiary contract retain by law the right to modify or terminate the contract.
D. not succeed, because the agency relationship, if any, between the taxi fleet owner and the wife terminated upon their divorce.
 
162. A woman owns an exceptionally seaworthy boat that she charters for sport fishing at a $500 daily rate. The fee includes the use of the boat with the woman as the captain, and one other crew member, as well as fishing tackle and bait. On May 1, a father agreed with the woman that the father would have the full-day use of the boat on May 15 for himself and his family for $500. The father paid an advance deposit of $200 and signed an agreement that the deposit could be retained by the woman as liquidated damages in the event the father canceled or failed to appear.
At the time of contracting, the woman told the father to be at the dock at 5 a.m. on May 15. The father and his family, however, did not show up on May 15 until noon. In the meantime, the owner of the boat agreed at 10 a.m. to take a woman and her family out fishing for the rest of the day. The woman had happened to come by and inquire about the possibility of such an outing. In view of the late hour, the owner of the boat charged the woman $400 and stayed out two hours beyond the customary return time. The father's failure to appear until noon was due to the fact that he had been trying to charter another boat across the bay at a lower rate and had gotten lost after he was unsuccessful in getting such a charter.
Which of the following is an accurate statement concerning the rights of the parties?
A. The woman can retain the $200 paid by the father, because it would be difficult for the woman to establish her actual damages and the sum appears to have been a reasonable forecast in light of anticipated loss of profit from the charter.
B. The woman is entitled to retain only $50 (10% of the contract price) and must return $150 to the father.
C. The woman must return $100 to the father in order to avoid her own unjust enrichment at the father's expense.
D. The woman must return $100 to the father, because the liquidated-damage clause under the circumstances would operate as a penalty.
 
163. A woman owns an exceptionally seaworthy boat that she charters for sport fishing at a $500 daily rate. The fee includes the use of the boat with the woman as the captain, and one other crew member, as well as fishing tackle and bait. On May 1, a father agreed with the woman that the father would have the full-day use of the boat on May 15 for himself and his family for $500. The father paid an advance deposit of $200 and signed an agreement that the deposit could be retained by the woman as liquidated damages in the event the father canceled or failed to appear.
On May 15 at 1 a.m., the Coast Guard had issued offshore "heavy weather" warnings and prohibited all small vessels the size of the woman's from leaving the harbor. This prohibition remained in effect throughout the day. The father did not appear at all on May 15, because he had heard the weather warnings on his radio.

Which of the following is an accurate statement?
A. The contract is discharged because of impossibility, and the father is entitled to return of his deposit.
B. The contract is discharged because of mutual mistake concerning an essential fact, and the father is entitled to return of his deposit.
C. The contract is not discharged, because its performance was possible in view of the exceptional seaworthiness of the woman's boat, and the father is not entitled to return of his deposit.
D. The contract is not discharged and the father is not entitled to return of his deposit because the liquidated-damage clause in effect allocated the risk of bad weather to the father.
 
164. The manager of a state fair contracted with a renowned hog breeder to exhibit the breeder's world champion animal for the three weeks of the annual fair, at the conclusion of which the breeder would receive an honorarium of $300. Two days before the opening of the fair, the champion animal took sick with boarsitis, a communicable disease among swine, and, under the applicable state quarantine law, very probably could not be exhibited for at least a month.
Upon learning this, the manager can legally pursue which of the following courses of action with respect to his contract with the breeder?
A. Suspend his own performance, demand assurances from the breeder, and treat a failure by the breeder to give them as an actionable repudiation.
B. Suspend his own performance and recover damages from the breeder for breach of contract unless the breeder at once supplies an undiseased hog of exhibition quality as a substitute for the champion animal.
C. Terminate his own performance and treat the animal's illness as discharging all remaining duties under the contract.
D. Terminate the contract, but only if he (the manager) seeks promptly to obtain for the exhibit a suitable substitute for the champion animal from another hog owner.
 
165. X-- In a signed writing, a retired general contracted to purchase a 25-foot travel trailer from a trailer company for $15,000, cash on delivery no later than June 1. The general arrived at the trailer company's sales lot on Sunday, May 31, to pay for and take delivery of the trailer, but refused to do so when he discovered that the spare tire was missing.
The trailer company offered to install a spare tire on Monday when its service department would open, but the general replied that he did not want the trailer and would purchase another one elsewhere.
Which of the following is accurate?
A. The general had a right to reject the trailer, but the trailer company was entitled to a reasonable opportunity to cure the defect.
B. The general had a right to reject the trailer and terminate the contract under the perfect tender rule.
C. The general was required to accept the trailer, because the defect could be readily cured.
D. The general was required to accept the trailer, because the defect did not substantially impair its value.
 
166. X-- A buyer faxed the following signed message to his long-time widget supplier: "Urgently need blue widgets. Ship immediately three gross at your current list price of $600." Upon receipt of the fax, the supplier shipped three gross of red widgets to the buyer, and faxed to the buyer the following message: "Temporarily out of blue. In case red will help, am shipping three gross at the same price. Hope you can use them."
Upon the buyer's timely receipt of both the shipment and the supplier's fax, which of the following best describes the rights and duties of the buyer and the supplier?
A. The buyer may accept the shipment, in which case he must pay the supplier the list price, or he must reject the shipment and recover from the supplier for total breach of contract.
B. The buyer may accept the shipment, in which case he must pay the supplier the list price, or he may reject the shipment, in which case he has no further rights against the supplier.
C. The buyer may accept the shipment, in which case he must pay the supplier the list price, less any damages sustained because of the nonconforming shipment, or he may reject the shipment and recover from the supplier for total breach of contract, subject to the supplier's right to cure.
D. The buyer may accept the shipment, in which case he must pay the supplier the list price, less any damages sustained because of the nonconforming shipment, or he may reject the shipment provided that he promptly covers by obtaining conforming widgets from another supplier.
 
167. A flour wholesaler contracted to deliver to a producer of fine baked goods her flour requirements for a one-year period. Before delivery of the first scheduled installment, the flour wholesaler sold its business and "assigned" all of its sale contracts to Miller, Inc., another reputable and long-time flour wholesaler. The original flour wholesaler informed the baked goods producer of this transaction.
Assume that when Miller tendered the first installment to the baked goods producer in compliance with the flour wholesaler-baked goods contract, the baked goods producer refused to accept the goods.
Which of the following arguments, if any, legally support(s) the baked goods producer's rejection of the goods?
I. Executory requirements contracts are nonassignable.
II. Duties under an executory bilateral contract are assumable only by an express promise to perform on the part of the delegatee.
III. Language of "assignment" in the transfer for value of bilateral sale-of-goods contract affects only a transfer of rights, not a delegation of duties.
A. I only.
B. II and III only.
C. I and II and III.
D. Neither I nor II nor III.
 
168. X-- A flour wholesaler contracted to deliver to a producer of fine baked goods her flour requirements for a one-year period. Before delivery of the first scheduled installment, the flour wholesaler sold its business and "assigned" all of its sale contracts to Miller, Inc., another reputable and long-time flour wholesaler. The original flour wholesaler informed the baked goods producer of this transaction.
Assume that the baked goods producer accepted Miller's delivery of the first installment under the flour wholesaler-baked goods producer contract, but that the baked goods producer paid the contract price for that installment to the flour wholesaler and refused to pay anything to Miller.
In an action by Miller against the baked goods producer for the contractual amount of the first installment, which of the following, if any, will be an effective defense for the baked goods producer?
I. The baked goods producer had not expressly agreed to accept Miller as her flour supplier.
II. The baked goods producer's payment of the contractual installment to the flour wholesaler discharged her obligation.
III. The flour wholesaler remained obligated to the baked goods producer even though the flour wholesaler had assigned the contract to Miller.
A. I only.
B. II only.
C. I and III only.
D. Neither I nor II nor III.

169. A client consulted a lawyer about handling the sale of the client's building, and asked the lawyer what her legal fee would be. The lawyer replied that her usual charge was $100 per hour, and estimated that the legal work on behalf of the client would cost about $5,000 at that rate. The client said, "Okay, let's proceed with it," and the lawyer timely and successfully completed the work. Because of unexpected title problems, the lawyer reasonably spent 75 hours on the matter and shortly thereafter mailed the client a bill for $7,500, with a letter itemizing the work performed and time spent. The client responded by a letter expressing his good-faith belief that the lawyer had agreed to a total fee of no more than $5,000. The client enclosed a check in the amount of $5,000 payable to the lawyer and conspicuously marked, "Payment in full for legal service in connection with the sale of the client's building." Despite reading the "Payment in full. . ." language, the lawyer, without any notation of protest or reservation of rights, endorsed and deposited the check to her bank account. The check was duly paid by the client's bank. A few days later, the lawyer unsuccessfully demanded payment from the client of the $2,500 difference between the amount of her bill and the check, and now sues the client for that difference.
What, if anything, can the lawyer recover from the client?
A. Nothing, because the risk of unexpected title problems in a real-property transaction is properly allocatable to the seller's attorney and thus to the lawyer in this case.
B. Nothing, because the amount of the lawyer's fee was disputed in good faith by the client, and the lawyer impliedly agreed to an accord and satisfaction.
C. $2,500, because the client agreed to an hourly rate for as many hours as the work reasonably required, and the sum of $5,000 was merely an estimate.
D. The reasonable value of the lawyer's services in excess of $5,000, if any, because there was no specific agreement on the total amount of the lawyer's fee.
 
170. On November 1, an accountant and a lawyer contracted for the sale by the accountant to the lawyer of the law books the accountant had inherited from his father. The lawyer agreed to pay the purchase price of $10,000 when the accountant delivered the books on December 1.
On November 10, the lawyer received a signed letter from the accountant that stated: "I have decided to dispose of the book stacks containing the law books you have already purchased. If you want the stacks, I will deliver them to you along with the books on December 1 at no additional cost to you. Let me know before November 15 whether you want them. I will not sell them to anyone else before then." On November 14, the lawyer faxed and the accountant received the following message: "I accept your offer of the stacks." The accountant was not a merchant with respect to either law books or book stacks.
The accountant is contractually obligated to deliver the stacks because
A. The lawyer provided a new bargained-for exchange by agreeing to take the stacks.
B. The accountant's letter (received by the lawyer on November 10) and the lawyer's fax-message of November 14 constituted an effective modification of the original sale-of-books contract.
C. The lawyer's fax-message of November 14 operated to rescind unilaterally the original sale-of-books contract.
D. The accountant's letter (received by the lawyer on November 10) waived the bargained-for consideration that would otherwise be required.
 
171. X-- On November 1, an accountant and a lawyer contracted for the sale by the accountant to the lawyer of the law books the accountant had inherited from his father. The lawyer agreed to pay the purchase price of $10,000 when the accountant delivered the books on December 1.
On November 10, the lawyer received a signed letter from the accountant that stated: "I have decided to dispose of the book stacks containing the law books you have already purchased. If you want the stacks, I will deliver them to you along with the books on December 1 at no additional cost to you. Let me know before November 15 whether you want them. I will not sell them to anyone else before then." On November 14, the lawyer faxed and the accountant received the following message: "I accept your offer of the stacks." The accountant was not a merchant with respect to either law books or book stacks.
Assume that on November 12 the accountant told the lawyer that he had decided not to part with the stacks.
Will this communication operate as a legally effective revocation of his offer to deliver the stacks?
A. Yes, because the lawyer had a pre-existing obligation to pay $10,000 for the law books.
B. Yes, because the accountant was not a merchant with respect to book stacks.
C. No, because the accountant had given a signed assurance that the offer would be held open until November 15.
D. No, because by delaying his acceptance until November 14, the lawyer detrimentally relied on the accountant's promise not to sell the stacks to anyone else in the meantime.
 
172. On November 15, a contractor, in a signed writing, contracted with a homeowner for an agreed price to personally remodel the homeowner's kitchen according to specifications provided by the homeowner and to start work on December 1. The contractor agreed to provide all materials for the job in addition to all of the labor required.
Assume that on November 26 the contractor without legal excuse repudiated the contract and that the homeowner, after a reasonable and prolonged effort, could not find anyone to remodel his kitchen for a price approximating the price agreed to by the contractor.
If one year later the homeowner brings an action for specific performance against the contractor, which of the following will provide the contractor with the best defense?
A. An action for equitable relief not brought within a reasonable time is barred by laches.
B. Specific performance is generally not available as a remedy to enforce a contractual duty to perform personal services.
C. Specific performance is generally not available as a remedy in the case of an anticipatory repudiation.
D. Specific performance is not available as a remedy where even nominal damages could have been recovered as a remedy at law.
 

173. X-- On November 15, a contractor, in a signed writing, contracted with a homeowner for an agreed price to personally remodel the homeowner's kitchen according to specifications provided by the homeowner and to start work on December 1. The contractor agreed to provide all materials for the job in addition to all of the labor required.
On November 26, the homeowner without legal excuse repudiated the contract. Notwithstanding the homeowner's repudiation, however, the contractor subsequently purchased for $5,000 materials that could only be used in remodeling the homeowner's kitchen, and promptly notified the homeowner, "I will hold you to our contract." If allowed to perform, the contractor would have made a profit of $3,000 on the job.
If the homeowner refuses to retract his repudiation, and the contractor sues him for damages, what is the maximum that the contractor is entitled to recover?
A. Nothing, because he failed to mitigate his damages.
B. $3,000, his expectation damages.
C. $5,000, on a restitutionary theory.
D. $5,000, his reliance damages, plus $3,000, his expectation damages.
 
174. Which of the following fact patterns most clearly suggests an implied-in-fact contract?
A. A county tax assessor mistakenly bills a man for taxes on his neighbor's property, which the man, in good faith, pays.
B. A physician treated a rider without the rider's knowledge or consent, while the rider was unconscious as the result of a fall from his horse.
C. A contrator, thinking that he was paving the customer's driveway for which the contractor had an express contract, mistakenly paved the neighbor's driveway while the neighbor looked on without saying anything or raising any objection.
D. At her mother's request, an accountant filled out and filed her mother's "E-Z" income-tax form (a simple, short form).
 
175. X-- A beverage distribution company agreed in writing with Fizzy Cola Company to serve for three years as a distributor in a six-county area of Fizzy Cola, which contains a small amount of caffeine. The distribution company promised in the contract to "promote in good faith the sale of Fizzy Cola" in that area; but the contract said nothing about restrictions on the products that the distribution company could distribute.
Six months later, the distribution company agreed with the Cool Cola Company to distribute its caffeine-free cola beverages in the same six-county area. If Fizzy Cola Company sues the distribution company for breach of their distribution contract, which of the following facts, if established, would most strengthen Fizzy's case?
A. Cool Cola's national advertising campaign disparages the Fizzy Cola product by saying, "You don't need caffeine and neither does your cola."
B. Since the distribution company began to distribute Cool Cola, the sale of Fizzy Cola have dropped 3% in the six-county area.
C. Prior to signing the contract with Fizzy Cola Company, a representative of the distribution company said that the deal with Fizzy would be "an exclusive."
D. For many years in the soft-drink industry, it has been uniform practice for distibutors to handle only one brand of cola.
 

176. An amateur computer whiz agreed in writing to design three new games a year for a five-year period for a corporation that distributed TV game systems. The writing provided, in a clause separately signed by the computer whiz, that "No modifications shall be binding on the corporation unless made in writing and signed by the corporation's authorized representative."
Because of family problems, the computer whiz delivered and the corporation accepted only two game-designs a year for the first three years; but the games were a commercial success and the corporation made no objection. Accordingly, the computer whiz spent substantial sums on new computer equipment that would aid in speeding up future design work. In the first quarter of the fourth year, however, the corporation terminated the contract on the ground that the computer whiz had breached the annual-quantity term.
In the computer whiz's suit against the corporation for damages, the jury found that the contract had been modified by conduct and the trial court awarded the computer whiz substantial compensatory damages.
Is this result likely to be reversed on appeal?
A. Yes, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was not expressly waived by the corporation.
B. Yes, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was a material part of the agreed exchange and could not be avoided without new consideration.
C. No, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was unconscionable as against an amateur designer.
D. No, because the corporation by its conduct waived the annual-quantity term and the computer whiz materially changed his position in reasonable reliance on that waiver.
 
177. A U.S. manufacturer on the west coast gave a hardware retailer who was relocating to the east coast the following "letter of introduction" to a hardware wholesaler on the east coast.
This will introduce you to my good friend and former customer, a hardware retailer, who will be seeking to arrange the purchase of hardware inventory from you on credit. If you will let him have the goods, I will make good any loss up to $25,000 in the event of his /Signed/ manufacturer.
The hardware retailer presented the letter to the hardware wholesaler, who then sold and delivered $20,000 worth of hardware to the hardware retailer on credit. The hardware wholesaler promptly notified the manufacturer of this sale.
Which of the following is NOT an accurate statement concerning the arrangement between the manufacturer and the hardware wholesaler?
A. It was important to enforceability of the manufacturer's promise to the hardware wholesaler that it be embodied in a signed writing.
B. By extending the credit to the hardware retailer, the hardware wholesaler effectively accepted the manufacturer's offer for a unilateral contract.
C. Although the manufacturer received no consideration from the hardware retailer, the manufacturer's promise is enforceable by the hardware wholesaler.
D. The manufacturer's promise is enforceable by the hardware wholesaler whether or not the hardware wholesaler gave the manufacturer seasonable notice of the extension of credit to the hardware retailer.
 
178. X-- A broker needed a certain rare coin to complete a set that he had contracted to assemble and sell to a collector. On February 1, the broker obtained such a coin from a hoarder in exchange for $1,000 and the broker's signed, written promise to re-deliver to the hoarder "not later than December 31 this year" a comparable specimen of the same kind of coin without charge to the hoarder. On February 2, the broker consummated sale of the complete set to the collector.

On October 1, the market price of rare coins suddenly began a rapid, sustained rise; and on October 15 the hoarder wrote the broker for assurance that the latter would timely meet his coin-replacement commitment. The broker replied, "In view of the surprising market, it seems unfair that I should have to replace your coin within the next few weeks."
Having received the broker's message on October 17, the hoarder sued the broker on November 15 for the market value of a comparable replacement-coin as promised by the broker in February. The trial began on December 1.
If the broker moves to dismiss the hoarder's complaint, which of the following is the broker's best argument in support of the motion?
A. The broker did not repudiate the contract on October 17, and may still perform no later than the contract deadline of December 31.
B. Even if the broker repudiated on October 17, the hoarder's only action would be for specific performance because the coin is a unique chattel.
C. Under the doctrine of impossibility, which includes unusually burdensome and unforseen impracticability, the broker is temporarily excused by the market conditions from timely performance of his coin-replacement obligation.
D. Even if the broker repudiated on October 17, the hoarder has no remedy without first demanding in writing that the broker retract his repudiation.
 
179. A broker needed a certain rare coin to complete a set that he had contracted to assemble and sell to a collector. On February 1, the broker obtained such a coin from a hoarder in exchange for $1,000 and the broker's signed, written promise to re-deliver to the hoarder "not later than December 31 this year" a comparable specimen of the same kind of coin without charge to the hoarder. On February 2, the broker consummated sale of the complete set to the collector.
On October 1, the market price of rare coins suddenly began a rapid, sustained rise; on October 15 the hoarder wrote the broker for assurance that the latter would timely meet his coin-replacement commitment. The broker replied, "In view of the surprising market, it seems unfair that I should have to replace your coin within the next few weeks."
After receiving the broker's message on October 17, the hoarder telephoned the broker, who said, "I absolutely will not replace your coin until the market drops far below its present level." The hoarder then sued the broker on November 15 for the market value of a comparable replacement-coin as promised by the broker in February. The trial began on December 1.
If the broker moves to dismiss the hoarder's complaint, which of the following is the hoarder's best argument in opposing the motion.
A. The hoarder's implied duty of good faith and fair dealing in enforcement of the contract required her to mitigate her losses on the rising market by suing promptly, as she did, after becoming reasonably apprehensive of a prospective breach by the broker.
B. Although the doctrine of anticipatory breach is not applicable under the prevailing view if, at the time of repudiation, the repudiatee owes the repudiator no remaining duty of performance, the doctrine applies in this case because the hoarder, the repudiatee, remains potentially liable under an implied warranty that the coin advanced to the broker was genuine.
C. When either party to a sale-of-goods contract repudiates with respect to a performance not yet due, the loss of which will substantially impair the value of the contract to the other, the aggrieved party may in good faith resort to any appropriate remedy for breach.
D. Anticipatory repudiation, as a deliberate disruption without legal excuse of an ongoing contractual relationship between the parties, may be treated by the repudiatee at her election as a present tort, actionable at once.
 

180. A ski-shop operator, in a telephone conversation with a glove manufacturer, ordered 12 pairs of vortex-lined ski gloves at the glove manufacturer's list price of $600 per dozen "for delivery in 30 days." The glove manufacturer orally accepted the offer, and immediately faxed to the ski-shop operator this signed memo: "Confirming our agreement today for your purchase of a dozen pairs of vortex-lined ski gloves for $600, the shipment will be delivered in 30 days." Although the ski-shop operator received and read the glove manufacturer's message within minutes after its dispatch, she changed her mind three weeks later about the purchase and rejected the conforming shipment when it timely arrived.
On learning of the rejection, does the glove manufacturer have a cause of action against the ski-shop operator for breach of contract?
A. Yes, because the gloves were identified in the contract and tendered to the ski-shop operator.
B. Yes, because the glove manufacturer's faxed memo to the ski-shop operator was sufficient to make the agreement enforceable.
C. No, because the agreed price was $600 and the ski-shop operator never signed a writing evidencing a contract with the glove manufacturer.
D. No, because the ski-shop operator neither paid for nor accepted any of the goods tendered.
 
181. A burglar stole a collector's impressionist painting valued at $400,000. The collector, who had insured the painting for $300,000 with an insurance company, promised to pay $25,000 to a full-time investigator for the insurance company if he effected the return of the painting to her in good condition. By company rules, the insurance company permits its investigators to accept and retain rewards from policyholders for the recovery of insured property. The investigator, by long and skillful detective work, recovered the picture and returned it undamaged to the collector.
If the collector refuses to pay the investigator anything, and he sues her for $25,000, what is the probable result under the prevailing modern rule?
A. The collector wins, because the investigator owed the insurance company a preexisting duty to recover the picture if possible.
B. The collector wins, because the insurance company, the investigator's employer, had a preexisting duty to return the recovered painting to the collector.
C. The investigator wins, because the collector will benefit more from return of the $400,000 painting than from receiving the $300,000 policy proceeds.
D. The investigator wins, because the preexisting duty rule does not apply if the promisee's (the investigator's) duty was owed to a third person.
 
182. X-- A girl, who was a minor both in fact and appearance, bought on credit and took delivery of a telescope from 30-year-old seller for an agreed price of $100. Upon reaching the age of majority soon thereafter, the girl encountered the seller and said, "I am sorry for not having paid you that $100 for the telescope when the money was due, but I found out it was only worth $75. So I now promise to pay you $75." The girl subsequently repudiated this promise and refused to pay anything.
In an action for breach of contract by the seller against the girl, the seller's probable recovery is
A. nothing, because the girl was a minor at the time of the original transaction.
B. nothing, because there was no consideration for the promise made by the girl after reaching majority.
C. $75.
D. $100.
 
183. X-- A women bought on credit and took delivery of a telescope from a seller for an agreed price of $100. The woman promised to pay the seller, "as soon as I am able." The woman subsequently repudiated this promise and refused to pay the seller anything.
What effect does this quoted language have on enforceability of the promise?
A. None.
B. It makes the promise illusory.
C. It requires the woman to prove her inability to pay.
D. It requires the seller to prove the woman's ability to pay.
 
184. X-- A patient owed a physician $25,000 for professional services. The physician orally assigned this claim to her adult daughter as a wedding gift. Shortly thereafter, on suffering sudden, severe losses in the stock market, the physician assigned by a signed writing the same claim to her stockbroker in partial satisfaction of advances legally made by the stockbroker in the physician's previous stock-market transactions. Subsequently, the patient, without knowledge of either assignment, paid the physician the $25,000 then due, which the physician promptly lost at a horse track, although she remains solvent.
Assuming that Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code does NOT apply to either of the assignments in this situation, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties' rights and liabilities?
A. As the assignee prior in time, the daughter can recover $25,000 from the patient, who acted at her peril in paying the physician.
B. As the sole assignee for value, the stockbroker can recover $25,000 from the patient, who acted at her peril in paying the physician.
C. Neither the daughter nor the stockbroker can recover from the patient, but the daughter, though not the stockbroker, can recover $25,000 from the physician.
D. Neither the daughter nor the stockbroker can recover from the patient, but the stockbroker, though not the daughter, can recover $25,000 from the physician.
 
185. On July 15, in a writing signed by both parties, a fixture company agreed to deliver to a druggist on August 15 five storage cabinets from inventory for a total price of $5,000 to be paid on delivery. On August 1, the two parties orally agreed to postpone the delivery date to August 20. On August 20, the fixture company tendered the cabinets to the druggist, who refused to accept or pay for them on the ground that they were not tendered on August 15, even though they otherwise met the contract specifications.
Assuming that all appropriate defenses are seasonably raised, will the fixture company succeed in an action against the druggist for breach of contract?
A. Yes, because neither the July 15 agreement nor the August 1 agreement was required to be in writing.
B. Yes, because the August 1 agreement operated as a waiver of the August 15 delivery term.
C. No, because there was no consideration to support the August 1 agreement.
D. No, because the parol evidence rule will prevent proof of the August 1 agreement.
 
186. By the terms of a written contract signed by both parties on January 15, a computer store agreed to sell a specific ICB personal computer to a customer for $3,000, and the customer agreed to pick up and pay for the computer at the store on February 1. The customer unjustifiably repudiated on February 1. Without notifying the customer, the store subsequently sold at private sale the same specific computer to a different buyer, who paid the same price ($3,000) in cash. The ICB is a popular product. The computer store can buy from the manufacturer more units than it can sell at retail. If the store sues the customer for breach of contract, the store will probably recover
A. nothing, because it received a price on resale equal to the contract price that the customer had agreed to pay.
B. nothing, because the store failed to give the customer proper notice of the store's intention to resell.
C. the store's anticipated profit on the sale to the customer plus incidental damages, if any, because the store lost that sale.
D. $3,000 (the contract price), because the customer intentionally breached the contract by repudiation.
 
187. In a single writing, a painter contracted with a farmer to paint three identical barns on her rural estate for $2,000 each. The contract provided for the farmer's payment of $6,000 upon the painter's completion of the work on all three barns. The painter did not ask for any payment when the first barn was completely painted, but she demanded $4,000 after painting the second barn.
Is the farmer obligated to make the $4,000 payment?
A. No, because the farmer has no duty under the contract to pay anything to the painter until all three barns have been painted.
B. No, because the painter waived her right, if any, to payment on a per-barn basis by failing to demand $2,000 upon completion of the first barn.
C. Yes, because the contract is divisible.
D. Yes, because the painter has substantially performed the entire contract.
 
188. In a single writing, Painter contracted with Farmer to paint three identical barns on her rural estate for $2,000 each. The contract provided for Farmer's payment of $6,000 upon Painter's completion of the work on all three barns. Painter did not ask for any payment when the first barn was completely painted, but she demanded $4,000 after painting the second barn.
Assume that Farmer rightfully refused Painter's demand for payment. If Painter immediately terminates the contract without painting the third barn, what is Painter entitled to recover from Farmer?
A. Nothing, because payment was expressly conditioned on completion of all three barns.
B. Painter's expenditures plus anticipated "profit" in painting the first two barns, up to a maximum recovery of $4,000.
C. The reasonable value of Painter's services in painting the two barns, less Farmer's damages, if any, for Painter's failure to paint the third barn.
D. The amount that the combined value of the two painted barns has been increased by Painter's work.

189. X-- On December 15, a lawyer received from a retailer of supplies an offer consisting of its catalog and a signed letter stating, "We will supply you with as many of the items in the enclosed catalog as you order during the next calendar year. We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will remain firm throughout the coming year."
Assume that no other correspondence passed between the retailer and the lawyer until the following April 15 (four months later), when the retailer received from the lawyer a faxed order for "100 reams of your paper, catalog item #101."
Did the lawyer's April 15 fax constitute an effective acceptance of the retailer's offer at the prices specified in the catalog?
A. Yes, because the retailer had not revoked its offer before April 15.
B. Yes, because a one-year option contract had been created by the retailer's offer.
C. No, because under applicable law the irrevocability of the retailer's offer was limited to a period of three months.
D. No, because the lawyer did not accept the retailer's offer within a reasonable time.
 
190. X-- On December 15, a lawyer received from a retailer of supplies an offer consisting of its catalog and a signed letter stating, "We will supply you with as many of the items in the enclosed catalog as you order during the next calendar year. We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will remain firm throughout the coming year."
Assume that on January 15, having at that time received no reply from the lawyer, the retailer notified the lawyer that effective February 1, it was increasing the prices of certain specified items in its catalog.
Is the price increase effective with respect to catalog orders the retailer receives from the lawyer during the month of February?
A. No, because the retailer's original offer, including the price term, became irrevocable under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
B. No, because the retailer is a merchant with respect to office supplies; and its original offer, including the price term, was irrevocable throughout the month of February.
C. Yes, because the retailer received no consideration to support its assurance that it would not increase prices.
D. Yes, because the period for which the retailer gave assurance that it would not raise prices was longer than three months.

191. A buyer contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of XYZ Corporation's outstanding stock, to purchase all of her stock at a specified price per share. At the time this contract was executed, the buyer's contracting officer said to the shareholder, "Of course, our commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining approval of the contract from our parent company." The shareholder replied, "Fine. No problem."
Assume that the parent company orally approved the contract, but that the shareholder changed her mind and refused to consummate the sale on two grounds: (1) when the agreement was made there was no consideration for her promise to sell, and (2) the parent company's approval of the contract was invalid.
If the buyer sues the shareholder for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail?
A. Yes, because the buyer's promise to buy, bargained for and made in exchange for the shareholder's promise to sell, was good consideration even though it was expressly conditioned on an event that was not certain to occur.
B. Yes, because any possible lack of consideration for the shareholder's promise to sell was expressly waived by the shareholder when the agreement was made.
C. No, because mutuality of obligation between parties was lacking when the agreement was made.
D. No, because the condition of the parent company's approval of the contract was an essential part of the agreed exchange and was not in a signed writing.
 
192. A buyer contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of XYZ Corporation's outstanding stock, to purchase all of her stock at a specified price per share. At the time this contract was executed, the buyer's contracting officer said to the shareholder, "Of course, our commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining approval of the contract from our parent company." The shareholder replied, "Fine. No problem."
The shareholder subsequently refused to consummate the sale on the ground that the buyer had neglected to request the parent company's approval of the contract, which was true. The parent company's chief executive officer, however, is prepared to testify that the parent company would have routinely approved the contract if requested to do so. The buyer can also prove that he has made a substantial sale of other assets to finance the stock purchase, although he admittedly had not anticipated any such necessity when he entered into the stock purchase agreement.
If the buyer sues the shareholder for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail?
A. Yes, because the condition of the parent company's approval of the contract, being designed to protect only the buyer and the parent company, can be and has been waived by those entities.
B. Yes, because the buyer detrimentally relied on the shareholder's commitment by selling off other assets to finance the stock purchase.
C. No, because the express condition of the parent company's approval had not occurred prior to the lawsuit.
D. No, because obtaining the parent company's approval of the contract was an event within the buyer's control and the buyer's failure to obtain it was itself a material breach of contract.
 
193. A buyer contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of XYZ Corporation's outstanding stock, to purchase all of her stock at a specified price per share. At the time this contract was executed, the buyer's contracting officer said to the shareholder, "Of course, our commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining approval of the contract from our parent company." The shareholder replied, "Fine. No problem."
The shareholder is willing and ready to consummate the sale of her stock to the buyer, but the latter refuses to perform on the ground (which is true) that the parent company has firmly refused to approve the contract.
If the shareholder sues the buyer for breach of contract and seeks to exclude any evidence of the oral condition requiring the parent company's approval, the court will probably
A. admit the evidence as proof of a collateral agreement.
B. admit the evidence as proof of a condition to the existence of an enforceable obligation, and therefore not within the scope of the parol evidence rule.
C. exclude the evidence on the basis of a finding that the parties' written agreement was a complete integration of their contract.
D. exclude the evidence as contradicting the terms of the parties' written agreement, whether or not the writing was a complete integration of the contract.
 
194. A tenant rented a commercial building from a landlord, and operated a business in it. The building's large front window was smashed by vandals six months before expiration of the tenant-landlord lease. The tenant, who was obligated thereunder to effect and pay for repairs in such cases, promptly contracted with a window company to replace the window for $2,000, due 30 days after satisfactory completion of work. The landlord was then unaware of the tenant-window company contract. The window company was aware that the building was under lease, but dealt entirely with the tenant.
Sixty days after the window company's satisfactory completion of the window replacement, and prior to the expiration of the tenant's lease, the tenant, then insolvent, ceased doing business and vacated the building. In so doing, the tenant forfeited under the lease provisions its right to the return of a $2,000 security deposit with the landlord. The deposit had been required, however, for the express purpose (as stated in the lease) of covering any damage to the leased property except ordinary wear and tear. The only such damage occurring during the tenant's occupancy was the smashed window. The window company's $2,000 bill for the window replacement is wholly unpaid.
Assuming that the window company has no remedy quasi in rem under the relevant state mechanic's lien statute, which of the following would provide the window company's best chance of an effective remedy in personam against the landlord?
A. An action in quasi contract for the reasonable value of a benefit unofficiously and non-gratuitously conferred on the landlord.
B. An action based on promissory estoppel.
C. An action based on an implied-in-fact contract.
D. An action as third-party intended beneficiary of the tenant-landlord lease.
 
195. A tenant rented a commercial building from a landlord and operated a business in it. The building's large front window was smashed by vandals six months before expiration of the tenant-landlord lease. The tenant, who was obligated thereunder to effect and pay for repairs in such cases, promptly contracted with a window company to replace the window for $2,000, due 30 days after satisfactory completion of work. The landlord was then unaware of the tenant-window company contract. The window company was aware that the building was under lease, but dealt entirely with the tenant.
Sixty days after the window company's satisfactory completion of the window replacement, and prior to the expiration of the tenant's lease, the tenant, then insolvent, ceased doing business and vacated the building. In so doing, the tenant forfeited under the lease provisions its right to the return of a $2,000 security deposit with the landlord. The deposit had been required, however, for the express purpose (as stated in the lease) of covering any damage to the leased property except ordinary wear and tear. The only such damage occuring during the tenant's occupancy was the smashed window. The window company's $2,000 bill for the window replacement is wholly unpaid.
Upon vacating the building, the tenant mailed a $1,000 check to the window company bearing on its face the following conspicuous notation: "This check is in full and final satisfaction of your $2,000 window replacement bill." Without noticing this notation, the window company cashed the check and now sues the tenant for the $1,000 difference.
If the tenant's only defense is accord and satisfaction, is the tenant likely to prevail?
A. No, because the window company failed to notice the tenant's notation on the check.
B. No, because the amount owed by the tenant to the window company was liquidated and undisputed.
C. Yes, because by cashing the check the window company impliedly agreed to accept the $1,000 as full payment of its claim.
D. Yes, because the window company failed to write a reservation-of-rights notation on the check before cashing it.
 
196. X-- A potential buyer telegraphed a vendor on June 1, "At what price will you sell 100 of your QT-Model garbage-disposal units for delivery around June 10?" Thereafter, the following communications were exchanged:
1. Telegram from the vendor received by the potential buyer on June 2: "You're in luck. We have only 100 QT's, all on clearance at 50% off usual wholesale of $120 per unit, for delivery at our shipping platform on June 12."
2. Letter from the potential buyer received in U.S. mail by the vendor on June 5: "I accept. Would prefer to pay in full 30 days after invoice."
3. Telegram from the vendor received by the potential buyer on June 6: "You must pick up at our platform and pay C.O.D."
4 Letter from the potential buyer received in U.S. mail by the vendor on June 9: "I don't deal with people who can't accommodate our simple requests."
5. Telegram from the potential buyer received by the vendor on June 10, after the vendor has sold and delivered all of the QT's to another buyer earlier that day: "Okay. I'm over a barrel and will pick up the goods on your terms June 12."
The potential buyer now sues the vendor for breach of contract.
Which of the following arguments will best serve the vendor's defense?

A. The vendor's telegram received on June 2 was merely a price quotation, not an offer.
B. The potential buyer's letter received on June 5 was not an acceptance because it varied the terms of the vendor's initial telegram.
C. The potential buyer's use of the mail in response to the vendor's initial telegram was an ineffective method of acceptance.
D. The potential buyer's letter received on June 9 was an unequivocal refusal to perform that excused the vendor even if the parties had previously formed a contract.
 
197. A famous chef entered into a written agreement with his friend, a well-known interior decorator respected for his unique designs, in which the decorator agreed, for a fixed fee, to design the interior of the chef's new restaurant, and, upon the chef's approval of the design plan, to decorate and furnish the restaurant accordingly. The agreement was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Before beginning the work, the decorator sold his decorating business to Newman under an agreement in which the decorator assigned to Newman, and Newman agreed to complete, the chef-decorator contract. Newman, also an experienced decorator of excellent repute, advised the chef of the assignment, and supplied him with information confirming both Newman's financial responsibility and past commercial success.
Is the chef obligated to permit Newman to perform the chef-decorator agreement?
A. Yes, because the agreement contained no prohibition against assignment or delegation.
B. Yes, because the chef received adequate assurances of Newman's ability to complete the job.
C. No, because the decorator's duties were of a personal nature, involving his reputation, taste, and skill.
D. No, because the decorator's purported delegation to Newman of his obligations to the chef effected a novation.
 
198. A famous chef entered into a written agreement with his friend, a well-known interior decorator respected for his unique designs, in which the decorator agreed, for a fixed fee, to design the interior of the chef's new restaurant, and, upon the chef's approval of the design plan, to decorate and furnish the restaurant accordingly. The agreement was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Before beginning the work, the decorator sold his decorating business to Newman under an agreement in which the decorator assigned to Newman, and Newman agreed to complete, the chef-decorator contract. Newman, also an experienced decorator of excellent repute, advised the chef of the assignment, and supplied him with information confirming both Newman's financial responsibility and past commercial success.
If the chef allows Newman to perform and approves his design plan, but Newman fails without legal excuse to complete the decorating as agreed, against whom does the chef have an enforceable claim for breach of contract?
A. The decorator only, because the decorator's agreement with Newman did not discharge his duty to the chef, and Newman made no express promise to the chef.
B. Newman only, because the decorator's duty to the chef was discharged when the decorator obtained a skilled decorator (Newman) to perform the chef-decorator contract.
C. Newman only, because the chef was an intended beneficiary of the decorator-Newman agreement, and the decorator's duty to the chef was discharged when the chef permitted Newman to do the work and approved Newman's designs.
D. Either the decorator, because his agreement with Newman did not discharge his duty to the chef, or Newman, because the chef was an intended beneficiary of the decorator-Newman agreement.
 

199. A landholder was land-rich by inheritance but money-poor, having suffered severe losses on bad investments, but still owned several thousand acres of unencumbered timberland. He had a large family, and his normal, fixed personal expenses were high. Pressed for cash, he advertised a proposed sale of standing timber on a choice 2,000-acre tract. The only response was an offer by a logger, the owner of a large, integrated construction enterprise, after inspection of the advertised tract.
The logger offered to buy, sever, and remove the standing timber from the advertised tract at a cash price 70% lower than the regionally prevailing price for comparable timber rights. The landholder, by then in desperate financial straits and knowing little about timber values, signed and delivered to the logger a letter accepting the offer.
If, before the logger commences performance, the landholder's investment fortunes suddenly improve and he wishes to get out of the timber deal with the logger, which of the following legal concepts affords his best prospect of effective cancellation?
A. Bad faith.
B. Equitable estoppel.
C. Unconscionability.
D. Duress.
 
200. A landholder was land-rich by inheritance but money-poor, having suffered severe losses on bad investments, but still owned several thousand acres of unencumbered timberland. He had a large family, and his normal, fixed personal expenses were high. Pressed for cash, he advertised a proposed sale of standing timber on a choice 2,000-acre tract. The only response was an offer by a logger, the owner of a large, integrated construction enterprise, after inspection of the advertised tract.
The logger offered a fair price for the timber rights in question, and the landholder accepted the offer. The 2,000-acre tract was an abundant wild-game habitat and had been used for many years, with the landholder's permission, by area hunters. The logger's performance of the timber contract would destroy this habitat. Without legal excuse and over the landholder's strong objection, the logger repudiated the contract before commencing performance. The landholder could not afford to hire a lawyer and take legal action, and made no attempt to assign any cause of action he might have had against the logger.
If the logger is sued for breach of the contract by the landholder's next-door neighbor, whose view of a nearby lake is obscured by the standing timber, the neighbor will probably
A. lose, as only an incidental beneficiary, if any, of the logger-landholder contract.
B. lose, as a maintainer of nuisance litigation.
C. prevail, as a third-party intended beneficiary of the logger-landholder contract.
D. prevail, as a surrogate for the landholder in view of his inability to enforce the contract.
 
201. X-- A written construction contract began with the following recital: "This Agreement, between Land, Inc. (hereafter called 'Owner'), and Builder, Inc., and Boss, its President (hereafter called 'Contractor'), witnesseth: "The signatures to the contract appeared in the following format:

LAND, INC.
By /s/ Oscar Land

President
BUILDER, INC.
By /s/ George Mason
Vice President
/s/ Mary Boss, President
Mary Boss
Builder, Inc., became insolvent and defaulted. Land, Inc., sued Boss individually for the breach, and at the trial Boss proffered evidence from the pre-contract negotiations that only Builder, Inc., was to be legally responsible for performing the contract.
If the court finds the contract to be completely integrated, is Boss's proffered evidence admissible?
A. Yes, because the writing is ambiguous as to whether or not Boss was intended individually to be a contracting party.
B. Yes, because the evidence would contradict neither the recital nor the form of Boss's signature.
C. No, because the legal effect of Boss's signature cannot be altered by evidence of prior understandings.
D. No, because the application of the "four corners" rule, under which the meaning of a completely integrated contract must be ascertained solely from its own terms.
 
202. X-- A fixtures company, in a signed writing, contracted with an apartment complex for the sale to the apartment complex of 50 identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25 sets to be delivered on March 1, and the remaining 25 sets on April 1. The agreement did not specify the place of delivery, or the time or place of payment.
Which of the following statements is correct?
A. The fixtures company must tender 25 sets to the apartment complex at the apartment complex's place of business on March 1, but does not have to turn them over to the apartment complex until the complex pays the contract price for the 25 sets.
B. The fixtures company has no duty to deliver 25 sets on March 1 at the fixtures company's place of business unless the apartment complex tenders the contract price for the 25 sets on that date.
C. The fixtures company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, and the apartment complex must pay the contract price for the 25 sets within a reasonable time after their delivery.
D. The fixtures company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, but the apartment complex's payment is due only upon the delivery of all 50 sets.
 
203. X-- A fixtures company, in a signed writing, contracted with an apartment complex for the sale to the apartment complex of 50 identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25 sets to be delivered on March 1, and the remaining 25 sets on April 1. The agreement did not specify the place of delivery, or the time or place of payment.
On March 1, the fixtures company tendered 24 sets to the apartment complex and explained, "One of the 25 sets was damaged in transit from the manufacturer to us, but we will deliver a replacement within 5 days."
Which of the following statements is correct?
A. The apartment complex is entitled to accept any number of the 24 sets, reject the rest, and cancel the contract both as to any rejected sets and the lot due on April 1.
B. The apartment complex is entitled to accept any number of the 24 sets and to reject the rest, but is not entitled to cancel the contract as to any rejected sets or the lot due on April 1.
C. The apartment complex must accept the 24 sets but is entitled to cancel the rest of the contract.
D. The apartment complex must accept the 24 sets and is not entitled to cancel the rest of the contract.
 
204. XOn March 1, a mechanic contracted to repair a textile company's knitting machine and to complete the job by March 6. On March 2, the textile company contracted to manufacture and deliver specified cloth to a knitwear company on March 15. The textile company knew that it would have to use the machine then under repair to perform this contract. Because the knitwear company order was for a rush job, the knitwear company and the textile company included in their contract a liquidated damages clause, providing that the textile company would pay $5,000 for each day's delay in delivery after March 15.
The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine, and, as a result, the textile company was five days late in delivering the cloth to the knitwear company. The textile company paid $25,000 to the knitwear company as liquidated damages and now sues the mechanic for $25,000. Both the mechanic and the textile company knew when making their contract on March 1 that under ordinary circumstances the textile company would sustain little or no damages of any kind as a result of a five-day delay in the machine repair.
Assuming that the $5,000 liquidated damages clause in the knitwear-textile contract is valid, which of the following arguments will serve as the mechanic's best defense to the textile company's action?
A. Time was not of the essence in the mechanic-textile contract.
B. The mechanic had no reason to foresee on March 1 that the knitwear company would suffer consequential damages in the amount of $25,000.
C. By entering into the knitwear company contract while knowing that its knitting machine was being repaired, the textile company assumed the risk of any delay's loss to the knitwear company.
D. In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the textile company to the knitwear company are not the same amount as the actual damages sustained by the knitwear company in consequence of the textile company's late delivery of the cloth.
 
205. X-- A written construction contract, under which a contractor agreed to build a new house for an owner at a fixed price of $200,000, contained the following provision:
Prior to construction or during the course thereof, this contract may be modified by mutual agreement of the parties as to "extras" or other departures from the plans and specifications provided by the owner and attached hereto. Such modifications, however, may be authorized only in writing, signed by both parties.
During construction, the contractor incorporated into the structure overhanging gargoyles and other "extras" orally requested by the owner for orally agreed prices in addition to the contract price. The owner subsequently refused to pay anything for such extras, aggregating $30,000 at the agreed prices, solely on the ground that no written, signed authorization for them was ever effected.
If the contractor sues the owner on account of the "extras," which, if any, of the following will effectively support the owner's defense?
I. The parol evidence rule.
II. The preexisting duty rule.
III. Failure of an express condition.
IV. The statute of frauds.

A. I and III only.
B. I and IV only.
C. II and IV only.
D. Neither I, II, III, nor IV
 
206. X-- On April 1, an owner and a buyer signed a writing in which the owner, in consideration of $100 to be paid to the owner by the buyer, offered the buyer the right to purchase Greenacre for $100,000 within 30 days. The writing further provided, "This offer will become effective as an option only if and when the $100 consideration is in fact paid." On April 20, the owner, having received no payment or other communication from the buyer, sold and conveyed Greenacre to a citizen for $120,000. On April 21, the owner received a letter from the buyer enclosing a cashier's check for $100 payable to the owner and stating, "I am hereby exercising my option to purchase Greenacre and am prepared to close whenever you're ready."
Which of the following, if proved, best support the buyer's suit against the owner for breach of contract?
A. The buyer was unaware of the sale to the citizen when the owner received the letter and check from the buyer on April 21.
B. On April 15, the buyer decided to purchase Greenacre, and applied for and obtained a commitment from a bank for a $75,000 loan to help finance the purchase.
C. When the April 1 writing was signed, the owner said to the buyer, "Don't worry about the $100; the recital of '$100 to be paid' makes this deal binding."
D. The owner and the buyer are both professional dealers in real estate.
 
207. On April 1, an owner and a buyer signed a writing in which the owner, in consideration of $100 to be paid to the owner by the buyer, offered the buyer the right to purchase Greenacre for $100,000 within 30 days. The writing further provided, "This offer will become effective as an option only if and when the $100 consideration is in fact paid." On April 20, the owner, having received no payment or other communication from the buyer, sold and conveyed Greenacre to a citizen for $120,000. On April 21, the owner received a letter from the buyer enclosing a cashier's check for $100 payable to the owner and stating, "I am hereby exercising my option to purchase Greenacre and am prepared to close whenever you're ready."
Assume that, for whatever reason, the buyer prevails in the suit against the owner.
Which of the following is the buyer entitled to recover.
A. Nominal damages only, because the remedy of specific performance was not available to the buyer.
B. The fair market value, if any, of an assignable option to purchase Greenacre for $100,000.
C. $20,000, plus the amount, if any, by which the fair market value of Greenacre on the date of the owner's breach exceeded $120,000.
D. The amount, if any, by which the fair market value of Greenacre on the date of the owner's breach exceeded $100,000.
 
208. X-- On June 1, a seller and a buyer contracted in writing for the sale and purchase of the seller's cattle ranch (a large single tract) and to close the transaction on December 1. On October 1, the buyer told the seller, "I'm increasingly unhappy about our June 1 contract because of the current cattle market, and do not intend to buy your ranch unless I'm legally obligated to do so."
If the seller sues the buyer on October 15 for breach of contract, the seller will probably
A. win, because the buyer committed a total breach by anticipatory repudiation on October 1.
B. win, because the buyer's October 1 statement created reasonable grounds for the seller's insecurity with respect to the buyer's performance.
C. lose, because the parties contracted for the sale and conveyance of a single tract, and the seller cannot bring suit for breach of such a contract prior to the agreed closing date.
D. lose, because the buyer's October 1 statement to the seller was neither a repudiation nor a present breach of the June 1 contract.
 
209. On June 1, a seller and a buyer contracted in writing for the sale and purchase of the seller's cattle ranch (a large single tract) and to close the transaction on December 1.
The buyer unequivocally repudiated the contract on August 1. On August 15, the seller urged the buyer to change her mind and proceed with the scheduled closing on December 1. On October 1, having heard nothing further from the buyer, the seller sold and conveyed his ranch to a rancher without notice to the buyer. On December 1, the buyer attempted to close under the June 1 contract by tendering the full purchase price to the seller. The seller rejected the tender.
If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, the buyer will probably
A. win, because the seller failed to seasonably notify the buyer of any pending sale to the rancher.
B. win, because the seller waived the buyer's August 1 repudiation by urging her to retract it on August 15.
C. lose, because the buyer did not retract her repudiation before the seller materially changed his position in reliance thereon by selling the ranch to the rancher.
D. lose, because acceptance of the purchase price by the seller was a concurrent condition to the seller's obligation to convey the ranch to the buyer on December 1.
 
210. X-- A contractor agreed to build a power plant for a public utility. A subcontractor agreed with the contractor to lay the foundation for $200,000. The subcontractor supplied goods and services worth $150,000, for which the contractor made progess payments aggregating $100,000 as required by the subcontract. The subcontractor then breached by unjustifiably refusing to perform further. The contractor reasonably spent $120,000 to have the work completed by another subcontractor.
The subcontractor sues the contractor for the reasonable value of benefits conferred, and the contractor counterclaims for breach of contract.
Which of the following should be the court's decision?
A. The subcontractor recovers $50,000, the benefit conferred on the contractor for which the subcontractor has not been paid.
B. The subcontractor recovers $30,000, the benefit the subcontractor conferred on the contractor minus the $20,000 in damages incurred by the contractor.
C. The contractor recovers $20,000, the excess over the contract price that was paid by the contractor for the performance it had bargained to receive from the subcontractor.
D. Neither party recovers anything, because the subcontractor committed a material, unexcused breach and the contractor received a $50,000 benefit from the subcontractor for which the subcontractor has not been paid.
 

211. A computer company contracted in writing with a bank to sell and deliver to the bank a mainframe computer using a new type of magnetic memory, then under development but not perfected by the computer company, at a price substantially lower than that of a similar computer using current technology. The contract's delivery term was "F.O.B. the bank, on or before July 31."
Assume that the computer company tendered the computer to the bank on August 15, and that the bank rejected it because of delay.
If the computer company sues the bank for breach of contract, which of the following facts, if proved, will best support a recovery by the computer company?
A. The delay did not materially harm the bank.
B. The computer company believed, on the assumption that the bank was getting a "super deal" for its money, that the bank would not reject because of the late tender of delivery.
C. The computer company's delay in tender was caused by a truckers' strike.
D. A usage in the relevant trade allows computer sellers a 30-day leeway in a specified time of delivery, unless the usage is expressly negated by the contract.
 
212. X-- A computer company contracted in writing with a bank to sell and deliver to the bank a mainframe computer using a new type of magnetic memory, then under development but not perfected by the computer company, at a price substantially lower than that of a similar computer using current technology. The contract's delivery term was "F.O.B. the bank, on or before July 31."
After making the contract with the bank, the computer company discovered that the new technology it intended to use was unreliable and that no computer manufacturer could yet build a reliable computer using that technology. The computer company thereupon notified the bank that it was impossible for the computer company or anyone else to build the contracted-for computer "in the present state of the art."
If the bank sues the computer company for failure to perform its computer contract, the court will probably decide the case in favor of
A. the computer company, because its performance of the contract was objectively impossible.
B. the computer company, because a contract to build a machine using technology under development imposes only a duty on the builder to use its best efforts to achieve the result contracted for.
C. the bank, because the law of impossibility does not apply to merchants under the applicable law.
D. the bank, because the computer company assumed the risk, in the given circumstances, that the projected new technology would not work reliably.
 
213. A manager, aged 60, who had no plans for early retirement, had worked for an insurance company for 20 years as a managerial employee-at-will when he had a conversation with the company's president about the manager's post-retirement goal of extensive travel around the United States. A month later, the president handed the manager a written, signed resolution of the company's Board of Directors stating that when and if the manager should decide to retire, at his option, the company, in recognition of his past service, would pay him a $2,000-per-month lifetime pension. (The company had no regularized retirement plan for at-will employees.) Shortly thereafter, the manager retired and immediately bought a $30,000 recreational vehicle for his planned travels. After receiving the promised $2,000 monthly pension from the insurance company for six months, the manager, now unemployable elsewhere, received a letter from the insurance company, advising him that the pension would cease immediately because of recessionary budget constraints affecting in varying degrees all managerial salaries and retirement pensions.
In a suit against the insurance company for breach of contract, the manager will probably
A. win, because he retired from the company as bargained-for consideration for the Board's promise to him of a lifetime pension.
B. win, because he timed his decision to retire and to buy the recreational vehicle in reasonable reliance on the Board's promise to him of a lifetime pension.
C. lose, because the Board's promise to him of a lifetime pension was an unenforceable gift promise.
D. lose, because he had been an employee-at-will throughout his active service with the company.
 
214. In exchange for valid and sufficient consideration, a mother orally promised her son, who had no car and wanted a minivan, "to pay to anyone from whom you buy a minivan within the next six months the full purchase-price thereof." Two months later, the son bought a used minivan on credit from a car dealership for $8,000. At the time, the dealership was unaware of the mother's earlier promise to her son, but learned of it shortly after the sale.
Can the dealership enforce the mother's promise to her son?
A. Yes, under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
B. Yes, because the dealership is an intended beneficiary of the mother-son contract.
C. No, because the mother's promise to her son is unenforceable under the suretyship clause of the statute of frauds.
D. No, because the dealership was neither identified when the mother's promise was made nor aware of it when the minivan sale was made.
 
215. X--A breeder bought a two-month-old registered boar at auction from a seller for $800. No express warranty was made. Fifteen months later, tests by experts proved conclusively that the boar had been born incurably sterile. If this had been known at the time of the sale, the boar would have been worth no more than $100.
In an action by the breeder against the seller to avoid the contract and recover the price paid, the parties stipulate that, as both were and had been aware, the minimum age at which the fertility of a boar can be determined is about 12 months.
Which of the following will the court probably decide?
A. The breeder wins, because the parties were mutually mistaken as to the boar's fertility when they made the agreement.
B. The breeder wins, because the seller impliedly warranted that the boar was fit for breeding.
C. The seller wins, because the breeder assumed the risk of the boar's sterility.
D. The seller wins, because any mistake involved was unilateral, not mutual.
 
216. A chef purchased the front portion of the land needed for a restaurant he desired to build and operate, but the back portion was the subject of a will dispute between a sister and brother. The sister's attorney advised that her claim was doubtful. The chef, knowing only that the unresolved dispute existed, agreed in a signed writing to pay the sister $6,000, payable $1,000 annually, in exchange for a quitclaim deed (a deed containing no warranties) from the sister, who promptly executed such a deed to the chef and received the chef's first annual payment. Shortly thereafter, the probate court handed down a decision in the brother's favor, ruling that the sister had no interest in the land. This decision has become final. The chef subsequently defaulted when his second annual installment came due.
In an action against the chef for breach of contract, the sister will probably
A. lose, because she was aware at the time of the agreement with the chef that her claim to the property quitclaimed was doubtful.
B. lose, because she suffered no legal detriment in executing the quitclaim deed.
C. win, because the chef bargained for, and received in exchange, a quitclaim deed from the sister.
D. win, because the chef, by paying the first $1,000 installment, is estopped to deny that his agreement with the sister is an enforceable contract.
 
217. A buyer mailed a signed order to a seller that read: "Please ship us 10,000 widgets at your current price." The seller received the order on January 7 and that same day mailed to the buyer a properly stamped, addressed, and signed letter stating that the order was accepted at the seller's current price of $10 per widget. On January 8, before receipt of the seller's letter, the buyer telephoned the seller and said, "I hereby revoke my order." The seller protested to no avail. The buyer received the seller's letter on January 9. Because of the buyer's January 8 telephone message, the seller never shipped the goods.
Under the relevant and prevailing rules, is there a contract between the buyer and the seller as of January 10?
A. No, because the order was an offer that could be accepted only by shipping the goods; and the offer was effectively revoked before shipment.
B. No, because the buyer never effectively agreed to the $10 price term.
C. Yes, because the order was, for a reasonable time, an irrevocable offer.
D. Yes, because the order was an offer that seller effectively accepted before the buyer attempted to revoke it.
 
218. In January, a teacher contracted with a summer camp to serve as its head counselor at a salary of $10,000 for 10 weeks of service from the first of June to the middle of August. In March, the camp notified the teacher that it had hired someone else to act as head counselor and that the teacher's services would not be needed. In April, the teacher spent $200 traveling to interview at the only other nearby summer camp for a position as its head counselor. The teacher was not chosen for that job. The teacher then took a position teaching in a local summer school at a salary of $6,000 for the same 10-week period as the summer camp.
In a breach-of-contract action against the camp, to which of the following amounts, as damages, is the teacher entitled?
A. $4,000.
B. $4,200.
C. $10,000.
D. $10,200.
 
219. A lumber supplier agreed to sell and a furniture manufacturer agreed to buy all of the lumber that the manufacturer required over a two-year period. The sales contract provided that payment was due 60 days after delivery, but that a 3% discount would be allowed if the manufacturer paid within 10 days of delivery. During the first year of the contract, the manufacturer regularly paid within the 10-day period and received the 3% discount. Fifteen days after the supplier made its most recent lumber delivery to the manufacturer, the supplier had received no payment from the manufacturer. At this time, the supplier became aware of rumors from a credible source that the manufacturer's financial condition was precarious. The supplier wrote the manufacturer, demanding assurances regarding the manufacturer's financial status. The manufacturer immediately mailed its latest audited financial statements to the supplier, as well as a satisfactory credit report prepared by the manufacturer's banker. The rumors proved to be false. Nevertheless, the supplier refused to resume deliveries. The manufacturer sued the lumber supplier for breach of contract. 
Will the manufacturer prevail?
A. No, because the contract was unenforceable, since the manufacturer had not committed to purchase a definite quantity of lumber.
B. No, because the supplier had reasonable grounds for insecurity and was therefore entitled to cancel the contract and refuse to make any future deliveries.
C. Yes, because the credit report and audited financial statements provided adequate assurance of due performance under the contract.
D. Yes, because the supplier was not entitled to condition resumption of deliveries on the receipt of financial status information.
 
220. A landowner and a contractor entered into a written contract under which the contractor agreed to build a building and pave an adjacent sidewalk for the landowner at a price of $200,000. Later, while construction was proceeding, the landowner and the contractor entered into an oral modification under which the contractor was not obligated to pave the sidewalk but still would be entitled to $200,000 upon completion. The contractor completed the building. The landowner, after discussions with his landscaper, demanded that the contractor pave the adjacent sidewalk. The contractor refused. 
Has the contractor breached the contract?
A. No, because the oral modification was in good faith and therefore enforceable.
B. Yes, because a discharge of a contractual obligation must be in writing.
C. Yes, because the parol evidence rule bars proof of the oral modification.
D. Yes, because there was no consideration for the discharge of the contractor's duty to pave the sidewalk.
 
221. X-- During negotiations to purchase a used car, a buyer asked a dealer whether the car had ever been in an accident. The dealer replied: "It is a fine car and has been thoroughly inspected and comes with a certificate of assured quality. Feel free to have the car inspected by your own mechanic." In actuality, the car had been in an accident and the dealer had repaired and repainted the car, successfully concealing evidence of the accident. The buyer declined to have the car inspected by his own mechanic, explaining that he would rely on the dealer's certificate of assured quality. At no time did the dealer disclose that the car had previously been in an accident. The parties then signed a contract of sale. After the car was delivered and paid for, the buyer learned about the car's involvement in a major accident.
If the buyer sues the dealer to rescind the transaction, is the buyer likely to succeed?
A. No, because the buyer had the opportunity to have the car inspected by his own mechanic and declined to do so.
B. No, because the dealer did not affirmatively assert that the car had not been in an accident.
C. Yes, because the contract was unconscionable.
D. Yes, because the dealer's statement was intentionally misleading and the dealer had concealed evidence of the accident.
 
222. On January 5, a creditor lent $1,000 to a debtor under a contract calling for the debtor to repay the loan at the rate of $100 per month payable on the first day of each month. On February 1, at the debtor's request, the creditor agreed to permit payment on February 5. On March 1, the debtor requested a similar time extension and the creditor replied, "Don't bother me each month. Just change the date of payment to the fifth of the month. But you must now make the payments by cashier's check." The debtor said, "Okay," and made payments on March 5 and April 5. On April 6, the creditor sold the loan contract to a bank, but did not tell the bank about the agreement permitting payments on the fifth of the month. On April 6, the bank wrote to the debtor: "Your debt to [the creditor] has been assigned to us. We hereby inform you that all payments must be made on the first day of the month."
Can the debtor justifiably insist that the payment date for the rest of the installments is the fifth of each month?

A. No, because a contract modification is not binding on an assignee who had no knowledge of the modification.
B. No, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on the first of the month, the bank reinstated it.
C. Yes, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on the first of the month, the creditor could not assign to the bank his right to reinstate that condition.
D. Yes, because the creditor could assign to the bank only those rights the creditor had in the contract at the time of the assignment.
 
223. X-- A buyer entered into a written contract to purchase from a seller 1,000 sets of specially manufactured ball bearings of a nonstandard dimension for a price of $10 per set. The seller correctly calculated that it would cost $8 to manufacture each set. Delivery was scheduled for 60 days later. Fifty-five days later, after the seller had completed production of the 1,000 sets, the buyer abandoned the project requiring use of the specially manufactured ball bearings and repudiated the contract with the seller. After notifying the buyer of his intention to resell, the seller sold the 1,000 sets of ball bearings to a salvage company for $2 per set. The seller sued the buyer for damages.
What damages should the court award to the seller?
A. $2 per set, representing the difference between the cost of production and the price the buyer agreed to pay.
B. $6 per set, representing the difference between the cost of manufacture and the salvage price.
C. $8 per set, representing the lost profits plus the unrecovered cost of production.
D. Nominal damages, as the seller failed to resell the goods by public auction.
 
224. X-- A bakery offered a chef a permanent full-time job as a pastry chef at a salary of $2,000 per month. The chef agreed to take the position and to begin work in two weeks. In her employment application, the chef had indicated that she was seeking a permanent job. One week after the chef was hired by the bakery, a hotel offered the chef a position as a restaurant manager at a salary of $2,500 a month. The chef accepted and promptly notified the bakery that she would not report for work at the bakery.
Is the bakery likely to prevail in a lawsuit against the chef for breach of contract?
A. No, because a contract for permanent employment would be interpreted to mean the chef could leave at any time.
B. No, because the position the chef took with the hotel was not substantially comparable to the one she had agreed to take with the bakery.
C. Yes, because the chef's acceptance of a permanent position meant that she agreed to leave the bakery only after a reasonable time.
D. Yes, because the chef's failure to give the bakery a chance to match the salary offered by the hotel breached the implied right of first refusal.
 
225. X-- A debtor owed a lender $1,500. The statute of limitations barred recovery on the claim. The debtor wrote to the lender, stating, "I promise to pay you $500 if you will extinguish the debt." The lender agreed.
Is the debtor's promise to pay the lender $500 enforceable?
A. No, because the debtor made no promise not to plead the statute of limitations as a defense.
B. No, because there was no consideration for the debtor's promise.
C. Yes, because the debtor's promise provided a benefit to the lender.
D. Yes, because the debtor's promise to pay part of the barred antecedent debt is enforceable.
 
226. X-- A car dealer owed a bank $10,000, due on June 1. The car dealer subsequently sold an automobile to a buyer at a price of $10,000, payable at $1,000 per month beginning on June 1. The car dealer then asked the bank whether the bank would accept payments of $1,000 per month for 10 months beginning June 1, without interest, in payment of the debt. The bank agreed to that arrangement and the car dealer then directed the buyer to make the payments to the bank. When the buyer tendered the first payment to the bank, the bank refused the payment, asserting that it would accept payment only from the car dealer. On June 2, the bank demanded that the car dealer pay the debt in full immediately. The car dealer refused to pay and the bank sued the car dealer to recover the $10,000.
In this suit, which of the following arguments best supports the bank's claim for immediate payment?
A. The agreement to extend the time for payment was not in writing.
B. The car dealer could not delegate its duty to pay to the buyer.
C. The car dealer gave no consideration for the agreement to extend the time of payment.
D. The car dealer's conduct was an attempted novation that the bank could reject.
 
227. A bottling company sent a purchase order to a wholesaler that stated, "Ship 100,000 empty plastic bottles at the posted price." Two days after receipt of this purchase order, the wholesaler shipped the bottles and the bottling company accepted delivery of them. A week after the bottles were delivered, the bottling company received the wholesaler's acknowledgement form, which included a provision disclaiming consequential damages. After using the bottles for two months, the bottling company discovered a defect in the bottles that caused its products to leak from them. The bottling company recalled 10,000 of the bottles containing its product, incurring lost profits of $40,000.
Assuming all appropriate defenses are seasonably raised, will the bottling company succeed in recovering $40,000 in consequential damages from the wholesaler?
A. No, because buyers are generally not entitled to recover consequential damages.
B. No, because the bottling company's acceptance of the goods also constituted an acceptance of the terms included in the wholesaler's acknowledgement.
C. Yes, because the disclaimer of consequential damages is unconscionable.
D. Yes, because the wholesaler's acknowledgement did not alter the terms of an existing contract between the parties.
 
228. X-- A seller and a buyer have dealt with each other in hundreds of separate grain contracts over the last five years. In performing each contract, the seller delivered the grain to the buyer and, upon delivery, the buyer signed an invoice that showed an agreed upon price for that delivery. Each invoice was silent in regard to any discount from the price for prompt payment. The custom of the grain trade is to allow a 2% discount from the invoice price for payment within 10 days of delivery. In all of their prior transactions and without objection from the seller, the buyer took 15 days to pay and deducted 5% from the invoice price. The same delivery procedure and invoice were used in the present contract as had been used previously. The present contract called for a single delivery of wheat at a price of $300,000. The seller delivered the wheat and the buyer then signed the invoice. On the third day after delivery, the buyer received the following note from the seller: "Payment in full in accordance with signed invoice is due immediately. No discounts permitted." s/Seller.
Which of the following statements concerning these facts is most accurate?

A. The custom of the trade controls, and the buyer is entitled to take a 2% discount if he pays within 10 days.
B. The parties' course of dealing controls, and the buyer is entitled to take a 5% discount if he pays within 15 days.
C. The seller's retraction of his prior waiver controls, and the buyer is entitled to no discount.
D. The written contract controls, and the buyer is entitled to no discount because of the parol evidence rule.
 
229. X-- A mother, whose adult son was a law school graduate, contracted with a tutor to give the son a bar exam preparation course. "If my son passes the bar exam," the mother explained to the tutor, "he has been promised a job with a law firm that will pay $55,000 a year." The tutor agreed to do the work for $5,000, although the going rate was $6,000. Before the instruction was to begin, the tutor repudiated the contract. Although the mother or the son reasonably could have employed, for $6,000, an equally qualified instructor to replace the tutor, neither did so. The son failed the bar exam and the law firm refused to employ him. It can be shown that had the son received the instruction, he would have passed the bar exam.
If the mother and the son join as parties plaintiff and sue the tutor for breach of contract, how much, if anything, are they entitled to recover?
A. $1,000, because all other damages could have been avoided by employing another equally qualified instructor.
B. $55,000, because damages of that amount were within the contemplation of the parties at the time they contracted.
C. Nominal damages only, because the mother was not injured by the breach and the tutor made no promise to the son.
D. Nothing, because neither the mother nor the son took steps to avoid the consequences of the tutor's breach.
 
230. X-- A landowner entered into a single contract with a builder to have three different structures built on separate pieces of property owned by the landowner. Each structure was distinct from the other two and the parties agreed on a specific price for each. After completing the first structure in accordance with the terms of the contract, the builder demanded payment of the specified price for that structure. At the same time, the builder told the landowner that the builder was "tired of the construction business" and would not even begin the other two structures. The landowner refused to pay anything to the builder.
Is the builder likely to prevail in a suit for the agreed price of the first structure?
A. No, because substantial performance is a constructive condition to the landowner's duty to pay at the contract rate.
B. No, because the builder's cessation of performance without legal excuse is a willful breach of the contract.
C. Yes, because the contract is divisible, and the landowner will be required to bring a separate claim for the builder's failure to complete the other two structures.
D. Yes, because the contract is divisible, but the landowner will be able to deduct any recoverable damages caused by the builder's failure to complete the contract.
 
231. X-- In financial straits and needing $4,000 immediately, a nephew orally asked his uncle for a $4,000 loan. The uncle replied that he would lend the money to the nephew only if the nephew's mother "guaranteed" the loan. At the nephew's suggestion, the uncle then telephoned the nephew's mother, told her about the loan, and asked if she would "guarantee" it. She replied, "Surely. Lend my son the $4,000 and I'll repay it if he doesn't." The uncle then lent $4,000 to the nephew, an amount the nephew orally agreed to repay in six weeks. The next day, the nephew's mother wrote to him and concluded her letter with the words, "Son, I was happy to do you a favor by promising your uncle I would repay your six-week $4,000 loan if you don't. /s/ Mother." Neither the nephew nor his mother repaid the loan when it came due and the uncle sued the mother for breach of contract. In that action, the mother raised the statute of frauds as her only defense.
Will the mother's statute-of-frauds defense be successful?
A. No, because the amount of the loan was less than $5,000.
B. No, because the mother's letter satisfies the statute-of-frauds requirement.
C. Yes, because the mother's promise to the uncle was oral.
D. Yes, because the nephew's promise to the uncle was oral.
 
232. X-- On May 1, an uncle mailed a letter to his adult nephew that stated: "I am thinking of selling my pickup truck, which you have seen and ridden in. I would consider taking $7,000 for it." On May 3, the nephew mailed the following response: "I will buy your pickup for $7,000 cash." The uncle received this letter on May 5 and on May 6 mailed a note that stated: "It's a deal." On May 7, before the nephew had received the letter of May 6, he phoned his uncle to report that he no longer wanted to buy the pickup truck because his driver's license had been suspended.
Which of the following statements concerning this exchange is accurate?
A. There is a contract as of May 3.
B. There is a contract as of May 5.
C. There is a contract as of May 6.
D. There is no contract.
 
233. A seller and a buyer entered into a contract obligating the seller to convey title to a parcel of land to the buyer for $100,000. The agreement provided that the buyer's obligation to purchase the parcel was expressly conditioned upon the buyer's obtaining a loan at an interest rate no higher than 10%. The buyer was unable to do so, but did obtain a loan at an interest rate of 10.5% and timely tendered the purchase price. Because the value of the land had increased since the time of contracting, the seller refused to perform. The buyer sued the seller.
Will the buyer prevail?
A. No, because an express condition will only be excused to avoid forfeiture.
B. No, because the contract called for a loan at an interest rate not to exceed 10% and it could not be modified without the consent of the seller.
C. Yes, because the buyer detrimentally changed position in reliance on the seller's promise to convey.
D. Yes, because the buyer's obtaining a loan at an interest rate no higher than 10% was not a condition to the seller's duty to perform.
 
234. An innkeeper, who had no previous experience in the motel or commercial laundry business and who knew nothing about the trade usages of either business, bought a motel and signed an agreement with a laundry company for the motel's laundry services. The one-year agreement provided for "daily service at $500 a week." From their conversations during negotiation, the laundry company knew that the innkeeper expected laundry services seven days a week. When the laundry company refused to pick up the motel's laundry on two successive Sundays and indicated that it would not ever do so, the innkeeper canceled the agreement. The laundry company sued the innkeeper for breach of contract. At trial, clear evidence was introduced to show that in the commercial laundry business "daily service" did not include service on Sundays.

Will the laundry company succeed in its action?
A. No, because the laundry company knew the meaning the innkeeper attached to "daily service," and, therefore, the innkeeper's meaning will control.
B. No, because the parties attached materially different meanings to "daily service," and, therefore, no contract was formed.
C. Yes, because the parol evidence rule will not permit the innkeeper to prove the meaning she attached to "daily service."
D. Yes, because the trade usage will control the interpretation of "daily service."
 
235. A carpenter contracted with a homeowner to remodel the homeowner's home for $10,000, to be paid on completion of the work. On May 29, relying on his expectation that he would finish the work and have the homeowner's payment on June 1, the carpenter contracted to buy a car for "$10,000 in cash, if payment is made on June 1; if payment is made thereafter, the price is $12,000." The carpenter completed the work according to specifications on June 1 and demanded payment from the homeowner on that date. The homeowner, without any excuse, refused to pay. Thereupon, the carpenter became very excited, suffered a minor heart attack, and, as a result, incurred medical expenses of $1,000. The reasonable value of the carpenter's services in remodeling the homeowner's home was $13,000.
In an action by the carpenter against the homeowner, which of the following should be the carpenter's measure of recovery?
A. $10,000, the contract price.
B. $11,000, the contract price plus $1,000 for the medical expenses incurred because the homeowner refused to pay.
C. $12,000, the contract price plus $2,000, the bargain that was lost because the carpenter could not pay cash for the car on June 1.
D. $13,000, the amount the homeowner was enriched by the carpenter's services.
 
236. X-- A fugitive was wanted for murder. The authorities offered the following reward: "$20,000 to anyone who provides information leading to the arrest and conviction of this fugitive." A private detective knew of the reward, located the fugitive, and brought him to the authorities, who arrested him. The authorities then determined that while the fugitive had, in fact, committed the crime, he had been directed to commit the crime by his boss. The authorities and the fugitive then agreed that in exchange for the fugitive's testimony against his boss, all charges against the fugitive would be dropped. The fugitive testified and was released. The authorities refused to pay the reward to the private detective on the ground that the fugitive was never convicted.
Would the private detective be likely to prevail in a breach of contract action against the authorities?
A. No, because the private detective failed to notify the authorities that he had accepted the reward offer.
B. No, because the express conditions set out in the reward were not met.
C. Yes, because the authorities' agreement with the fugitive was against public policy.
D. Yes, because the authorities themselves prevented the conviction of the fugitive.
 
237. A buyer and a seller entered into a contract for the sale of 10,000 novelty bracelets. The seller had the bracelets in stock. The contract specified that the seller would ship the bracelets by a third-party carrier. However, the contract did not specify either who was to pay the costs of carriage or the place of tender for the bracelets.
On the above facts, when would the risk of loss of the bracelets pass to the buyer?

A. When the contract was made.
B. When the bracelets were identified to the contract by the seller, assuming the goods conformed to the contract.
C. When the bracelets were delivered to a carrier and a proper contract for their carriage was made.
D. When the bracelets were unloaded on the buyer's premises by the carrier.
 
238. In a written contract, an architect agreed to draw up the plans for and to supervise construction of a client's new house. In return, the client agreed to pay the architect a fee of $10,000 to be paid upon the house's completion. After completion, the client claimed erroneously but in good faith that the architect's plans were defective. The client orally offered to pay the architect $7,500 in full settlement of the claim for the fee. The architect orally accepted that offer despite the fact that the reasonable value of his services was in fact $10,000. The client paid the architect $7,500 pursuant to their agreement.
The architect subsequently sued the client for the remaining $2,500. In a preliminary finding, the trier of fact found that there were no defects in the architect's plans.
Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against the client for $2,500?
A. Yes, because payment of $7,500 cannot furnish consideration for the architect's promise to surrender his claim.
B. Yes, because the oral agreement to modify the written contract is not enforceable.
C. No, because the architect's promise to accept $7,500 became binding when the client made the payment.
D. No, because the architect's acceptance of partial payment constituted a novation.
 
239. On June 1, a seller agreed, in a writing signed by both the seller and the buyer, to sell an antique car to a buyer for $20,000. The car was at the time on display in a museum in a different city and was to be delivered to the buyer on August 1. On July 15, before the risk of loss had passed to the buyer, the car was destroyed by fire without fault of either party. Subsequent to the contract but before the fire, the car had increased in value to $30,000. The seller sued the buyer for the contract price of $20,000, and the buyer counterclaimed for $30,000.
Which of the following will the court conclude?

A. Both claims fail.
B. Only the seller's claim prevails.
C. Only the buyer's claim prevails.
D. Both claims prevail.
 
240. A homeowner and a contractor entered into a contract for the construction of a home for the price of $300,000. The contractor was to earn a profit of $10,000 for the job. After the contractor had spent $45,000 on labor and materials, including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed, the homeowner informed the contractor that the homeowner had lost his job and could not pay for any services. The homeowner told the contractor to stop working immediately. The reasonable market value of the labor and materials provided by the contractor at that point, including the oak flooring, was $40,000. The contractor used the $5,000 worth of oak flooring on another job.

In an action by the contractor against the homeowner for damages, which of the following would be the largest amount of damages recoverable by the contractor?
A. $40,000, the reasonable value of the services the contractor had provided.
B. $40,000, the contractor's construction costs.
C. $50,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit minus the $5,000 saved by reusing the oak flooring on another job.
D. $55,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit.
 
241. While waiting in line to open an account with a bank, a customer read a poster on the bank's wall that said, "New Customers! $25 FOR 5 MINUTES. If you stand in line for more than five minutes, we will pay you $25! We like happy customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)" The customer started timing his wait and just as five minutes was about to pass, the bank manager tore the poster down and announced, "The $25 stand-in-line promotion is over." The customer waited in line for 10 more minutes before being served.
In the customer's action against the bank for $25, will the customer prevail?
A. No, because the bank withdrew its offer before the customer completed the requested performance.
B. No, because the bank's statement was a nonbinding gift promise.
C. Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the customer had commenced performance.
D. Yes, because the customer's presence in line served as notice to the bank that he had accepted.
 
242. On June 1, a seller received a mail order from a buyer requesting prompt shipment of a specified computer model at the seller's current catalog price. On June 2, the seller mailed to the buyer a letter accepting the order and assuring the buyer that the computer would be shipped on June 3. On June 3, the seller realized that he was out of that computer model and shipped to the buyer a different computer model and a notice of accommodation. On June 5, the buyer received the seller's June 2 letter and the different computer model, but not the notice of accommodation.
At that juncture, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties' legal rights and duties?

A. The buyer can either accept or reject the different computer model and in either event recover damages, if any, for breach of contract.
B. The buyer can either accept or reject the different computer model, but if he rejects it, he will thereby waive any remedy for breach of contract.
C. The seller's prompt shipment of nonconforming goods constituted an acceptance of the buyer's offer, thereby creating a contract for sale of the replacement computer model.
D. The seller's notice of accommodation was timely mailed and his shipment of the different computer model constituted a counteroffer.
 

243. On May 1, a seller and a buyer entered into a written contract, signed by both parties, for the sale of a tract of land for $100,000. Delivery of the deed and payment of the purchase price were scheduled for July 1. On June 1, the buyer received a letter from the seller repudiating the contract. On June 5, the buyer bought a second tract of land at a higher price as a substitute for the first tract. On June 10, the seller communicated a retraction of the repudiation to the buyer.
The buyer did not tender the purchase price for the first tract on July 1, but subsequently sued the seller for breach of contract.
Will the buyer likely prevail?
A. No, because the seller retracted the repudiation prior to the agreed time for performance.
B. No, because the buyer's tender of the purchase price on July 1 was a constructive condition to the seller's duty to tender a conveyance.
C. Yes, because the seller's repudiation was nonretractable after it was communicated to the buyer.
D. Yes, because the buyer bought the second tract as a substitute for the first tract prior to the seller's retraction.
 
244. X--A debtor's liquidated and undisputed $1,000 debt to a creditor was due on March 1. On March 15, the creditor told the debtor that if the debtor promised to pay the $1,000 on or before December 1, then the creditor wouldn't sue to collect the debt. The debtor orally agreed. On April 1, the creditor sued the debtor to collect the debt that had become due on March 1. The debtor moved to dismiss the creditor's complaint.
Should the court grant the debtor's motion?
A. No, because there was no consideration to support the creditor's promise not to sue.
B. No, because there was no consideration to support the debtor's promise to pay $1,000 on December 1.
C. Yes, because a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past debt is enforceable without consideration.
D. Yes, because the debtor was bargaining for the creditor's forbearance.
 
245. On March 1, a homeowner contacted a builder about constructing an addition to the homeowner's house. The builder orally offered to perform the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected. The homeowner accepted the builder's terms and the builder then prepared a written contract that both parties signed. The contract did not refer to the builder's pending bid. One week later, upon learning that his pending bid on the other project had been accepted, the builder refused to perform any work for the homeowner.
Can the homeowner recover for the builder's nonperformance?
A. No, because efficiency principles justify the builder's services being directed to a higher-valued use.
B. No, because the builder's duty to perform was subject to a condition.
C. Yes, because the builder's attempt to condition his duty to perform rendered the contract illusory.
D. Yes, because the parol evidence rule would bar the builder from presenting evidence of oral understandings not included in the final writing.

246. A buyer ordered a new machine from a manufacturer. The machine arrived on time and conformed in all respects to the contract. The buyer, however, rejected the machine because he no longer needed it in his business and returned the machine to the manufacturer. The manufacturer sold many such machines each year and its factory was not operating at full capacity.
In an action by the manufacturer against the buyer for breach of contract, which of the following is NOT a proper measure of the manufacturer's damages?
A. The contract price of the machine.
B. The difference between the contract price and the market price of the machine.
C. The difference between the contract price and the price obtained from a proper resale of the machine.
D. The profit the manufacturer would have made on the sale of the machine to the buyer.
 
247. X-- An insurance company issued an insurance policy to a homeowner. The policy failed to contain certain coverage terms required by a state insurance statute. When the homeowner suffered a loss due to a theft that was within the policy's terms, the insurance company refused to pay, claiming that the contract was unenforceable because it violated the statute.
Will the homeowner succeed in an action against the insurance company to recover for the loss?
A. No, because the insurance policy is not a divisible contract.
B. No, because the insurance policy violated the statute.
C. Yes, because the homeowner belongs to the class of persons intended to be protected by the statute.
D. Yes, because the insurance policy would be strictly construed against the insurance company as the drafter.
 
248. Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct a garage for a homeowner for $10,000. Nothing was stated in the parties' negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of the work.
After completing 25 percent of the garage according to the homeowner's specifications, the builder demanded $2,000 as a reasonable progress payment. The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.
If each party sues the other for breach of contract, which of the following will the court decide?
A. Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from the other.
B. Only the builder is in breach and liable for the homeowner's damages, if any.
C. Only the homeowner is in breach and liable for the builder's damages, if any.
D. Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.
 
249. X-- A collector bought from a gallery a painting correctly described in the parties' signed contract as a "one-of-a-kind self-portrait" by a famous artist that had recently died. The contract price was $100,000 in cash, payable one month after a truck carrier delivered the painting to the collector.
The painting was damaged in transit. The collector timely rejected it after inspection and immediately notified the gallery of the rejection. The gallery then sold the painting to a third party. It informed the collector that it would pick up the painting within a couple of weeks. Two weeks later, before the gallery picked up the painting, the collector sold the painting to an art admirer for $120,000 cash, after notifying her about the damage.
If the collector's sale of the painting was NOT an acceptance of the goods, what is the maximum amount that the gallery is entitled to recover from the collector?
A. $120,000 (damages for conversion).
B. $100,000 (the collector-gallery contract price).
C. $20,000 (the excess of the market price over the contract price).
D. Only the allowance of lost profit to the gallery as a volume dealer.
 
250. X-- On March 1, an excavator entered into a contract with a contractor to perform excavation work on a large project. The contract expressly required that the excavator begin work on June 1 to enable other subcontractors to install utilities. On May 15, the excavator requested a 30-day delay in the start date for the excavation work because he was seriously behind schedule on another project. When the contractor refused to grant the delay, the excavator stated that he would try to begin the work for the contractor on June 1.
Does the contractor have valid legal grounds to cancel the contract with the excavator and hire a replacement?
A. Yes, because the excavator committed an anticipatory repudiation of the contract by causing the contractor to feel insecure about the performance.
B. Yes, because the excavator breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
C. No, because the excavator would be entitled to specific performance of the contract if he could begin by June 1.
D. No, because the excavator did not state unequivocally that he would delay the beginning of his work.
 
251. An accountant and a bookkeeper, as part of a contract dissolving their accounting business, agreed that each would contribute $100,000 to fund an annuity for a clerk who was a longtime employee of the business. The clerk's position would be terminated due to the dissolution, and he did not have a retirement plan. The accountant and the bookkeeper informed the clerk of their plan to fund an annuity for him. The clerk, confident about his financial future because of the promised annuity, purchased a retirement home. The accountant later contributed his $100,000 to fund the annuity, but the bookkeeper stated that he could afford to contribute only $50,000. The accountant agreed that the bookkeeper should contribute only $50,000.
Does the clerk have a valid basis for an action against the bookkeeper for the unpaid $50,000?
A. No, because the clerk was bound by the modification of the agreement made by the accountant and the bookkeeper.
B. No, because the clerk was only a donee beneficiary of the agreement between the accountant and the bookkeeper, and had no vested rights.
C. Yes, because the clerk's reliance on the promised retirement fund prevented the parties from changing the terms.
D. Yes, because the promises to establish the fund were made binding by consideration from the clerk's many years of employment.
 
252. On March 1, a mechanic contracted to repair a textile company's knitting machine by March 6. On March 2, the textile company contracted to manufacture and deliver specified cloth to a customer on March 15. The textile company knew that it would have to use the machine then under repair to perform this contract. Because the customer's order was for a rush job, the two parties included in their contract a liquidated damages clause, providing that the textile company would pay $5,000 for each day's delay in delivery after March 15.

The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine, and, as a result, the textile company was five days late in delivering the cloth to the customer. The textile company paid $25,000 to the customer as liquidated damages and then sued the mechanic for $25,000. Both the mechanic and the textile company knew when making their contract on March 1 that under ordinary circumstances the textile company would sustain few or no damages of any kind as a result of a five-day delay in the machine repair.
Assuming that the $5,000-per-day liquidated damages clause in the contract between the textile company and the customer is valid, which of the following arguments will serve as the mechanic's best defense to the textile company's action?
A. Time was not of the essence in the contract between the mechanic and the textile company.
B. The mechanic had no reason to foresee on March 1 that the customer would suffer consequential damages in the amount of $25,000.
C. By entering into the contract with the customer while knowing that its knitting machine was being repaired, the textile company assumed the risk of any delay loss to the customer.
D. In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the textile company to the customer are not the same amount as the actual damages sustained by the customer in consequence of the late delivery of the cloth.
 
253. X-- A seller and a buyer entered into a written agreement providing that the seller was to deliver 1,000 cases of candy bars to the buyer during the months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to make a selection by March 1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to be delivered under the contract. The buyer did not make the selection by March 1, and on March 2 the seller notified the buyer that because of the buyer's failure to select, the seller would not deliver the candy bars. The seller had all of the necessary candy bars on hand on March 1 and made no additional sales or purchases on March 1 or March 2. On March 2, after receiving the seller's notice that it would not perform, the buyer notified the seller of its selection and insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused.
If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail?
A. No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy bars, and the seller withdrew its offer before selection.
B. No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express condition to the seller's duty to perform.
C. Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a material effect on the seller.
D. Yes, because upon the buyer's failure to make a selection by March 1, the seller had a duty to make a reasonable selection.
 
254. X-- Before putting her home up for sale, a homeowner painted the living room ceiling to conceal major water damage caused by a leaking roof that had not yet been repaired. On the first day the home was offered for sale, the homeowner gave a buyer a personal tour. The homeowner made no statements at all regarding the water damage or the roof. Without discovering the water damage or the leaking roof and without consulting a lawyer, the buyer immediately agreed in writing to buy the home for $200,000.
Before the closing date, the buyer discovered the water damage and the leaking roof. The cost of repair was estimated at $22,000. The buyer has refused to go through with the purchase.
If the homeowner sues the buyer for breach of contract, is the homeowner likely to prevail?
A. No, because no contract was formed since the buyer did not have a real opportunity to understand the essential terms of the contract.
B. No, because the homeowner concealed evidence of the water damage and of the leaking roof.
C. Yes, because the homeowner made no affirmative statements of fact about the water damage or the leaking roof.
D. Yes, because the buyer acted unreasonably by failing to employ an inspector to conduct an independent inspection of the home.
255. X-- A wholesaler contracted in a signed writing to sell to a bakery 10,000 pounds of flour each week for 10 weeks, the flour to be delivered to the bakery on Mondays and payment to be made on Wednesdays of each week. The bakery did all of its weekly bread baking on Tuesdays. On Monday morning of the first week, the wholesaler tendered delivery of 8,000 pounds of flour to the bakery, and the bakery accepted it on the wholesaler's assurance that the remaining 2,000 pounds would be delivered later that evening, which it was. The bakery paid for both deliveries on Wednesday. On Monday of the second week, the wholesaler tendered delivery of 5,000 pounds of flour to the bakery and said that the remaining 5,000 pounds could not be delivered on Monday but would be delivered by Wednesday. The bakery rejected the tender.
Was the bakery legally justified in rejecting the tender of the 5,000 pounds of flour?
A. Yes, because the bakery was legally entitled to reject any tender that did not conform perfectly to the contract.
B. Yes, because the tender was a substantial impairment of that installment and could not be cured.
C. No, because the tender was not a substantial impairment of the entire contract, and the wholesaler had given assurance of a cure.
D. No, because by accepting the first 8,000 pounds on Monday of the first week, the bakery had waived the condition of perfect tender and had not reinstated it.

256. X--An engineer entered into a written contract with an owner to serve in the essential position of on-site supervisor for construction of an office building. The day after signing the contract, the engineer was injured while bicycling and was rendered physically incapable of performing as the on-site supervisor. The engineer offered to serve as an off-site consultant for the same pay as originally agreed to by the parties.
Is the owner likely to prevail in an action against the engineer for damages resulting from his failure to perform under the contract?
A. No, because the engineer offered a reasonable substitute by offering to serve as an off-site consultant.
B. No, because the engineer's physical ability to perform as on-site supervisor was a basic assumption of the contract.
C. Yes, because the engineer breached the contract by disappointing the owner's expectations.
D. Yes, because the engineer's duty to perform was personal and absolute.
 
257. An experienced rancher contracted to harvest his neighbor's wheat crop for $1,000 "when the crop [was] ripe." In early September, the neighbor told the rancher that the crop was ripe. The rancher delayed because he had other customers to attend to. The neighbor was concerned that the delay might cause the crop to be lost, for hailstorms were common in that part of the country in the fall. In fact, in early October, before the crop was harvested, it was destroyed by a hailstorm.
Is the rancher liable for the loss?
A. No, because no time for performance was established in the contract.
B. No, because the neighbor failed to tell the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm.
C. Yes, because at the time the contract was made, the rancher had reason to foresee the loss as a probable result of his breach.
D. Yes, because a party who undertakes a contractual obligation is liable for all the consequences that flow from his breach.
 
258. A niece had worked in her aunt's bookstore for many years. The bookstore business, which was housed in a building that the aunt leased, was independently appraised at $200,000. The aunt decided to retire. She wrote to the niece, expressing her affection for the niece and offering to sell her the bookstore business for $125,000 if the landlord would agree to a transfer of the lease. The letter also specified when the aunt would transfer the business. The niece wrote back accepting her aunt's offer. In a phone call to the niece, the aunt stated that the landlord had approved the transfer of the lease and that she would now ask her attorney to draft a written contract so that there would be a record of the terms. Before the attorney had finished drafting the document, the aunt changed her mind about selling the business and informed the niece of her decision.
In an action for breach of contract brought by the niece against her aunt, is the niece likely to prevail?
A. No, because the motivation for the transfer of the business was the aunt's affection for her niece, not the price.
B. No, because the promised consideration was inadequate in light of the market value of the business.
C. Yes, because the condition concerning the landlord's assent to the transfer of the lease was beyond the control of either party.
D. Yes, because the document being drafted by the attorney was merely a record of an agreement already made, not a condition to it.
 
259. An actor straight out of drama school and an agent entered into a one-year written contract that described the services the agent would provide. Because he was eager for work, the actor agreed, in the contract, to pay the agent 15% of his yearly earnings. At the end of the year, the actor was so pleased with his many roles that he gave the agent 20% of his earnings. After the first contract had expired, the actor and the agent decided to continue working together. They photocopied their old contract, changed the date, and signed it. At the end of the year, a dispute arose as to what percentage of earnings the actor owed. It is a trade practice in the acting profession for actors to pay their agents 10% of their yearly earnings, payable at the end of the year.
What percentage of the actor's earnings is a court most likely to award the agent?
A. 20%, because course of dealing is given greater weight than trade usage.
B. 15%, because it was an express term of the contract.
C. 10%, because trade usage is the applicable default rule.
D. Nothing, because the contract is too indefinite.
 
260. A bank agreed to lend a merchant $10,000 for one year at 8% interest. The loan proceeds were to be disbursed within two weeks. The merchant intended to use the loan proceeds to purchase a specific shipment of carpets for resale at an expected profit of $5,000 but said nothing about these plans to the bank. The bank failed to disburse the proceeds and refused to assure the merchant that it would do so. The merchant was able to secure a loan from another lender at 10% interest for one year. However, by the time the merchant started the application process for a substitute loan, it was too late to pursue the opportunity to buy the shipment of carpets.
In an action against the bank for breach of contract, which of the following amounts is the merchant likely to recover?
A. Nothing, because lost opportunities are not foreseeable.
B. Nothing, because the parties failed to tacitly agree that the merchant would be entitled to damages in the event of a breach by the bank.
C. The difference in cost over time between a loan at 10% and a loan at 8%.
D. $5,000, the merchant's foreseeable loss.
 
261. A buyer sent a seller an offer to buy 50 tons of cotton of a specified quality. The offer contained no terms except those specifying the amount and quality of the cotton. The seller then sent an acknowledgment by fax. The acknowledgment repeated the terms of the buyer's offer and stated that shipment would occur within five days. Among 12 printed terms on the acknowledgment was a statement that any dispute about the cotton's quality would be submitted to arbitration. Neither the buyer nor the seller said anything further about arbitration. The seller shipped the cotton, and it was accepted by the buyer. A dispute arose between the buyer and the seller as to the quality of the cotton, and the seller asserted that the dispute had to be submitted to arbitration. The buyer instead sued the seller in court.
In that suit, which of the following arguments best supports the seller's position that the buyer must submit the dispute to arbitration?
A. Arbitration is a more efficient method of resolving disputes than resolving them in court.
B. The provision for arbitration did not contradict any term in the buyer's offer.
C. The provision for arbitration did not materially alter the parties' contract.
D. The seller's acknowledgment containing a provision for arbitration constituted a counteroffer that was accepted by the buyer when it accepted delivery of the cotton.
 
262. A janitorial service contracted in writing with a hospital for a one-year term. Under the terms of the contract, the janitorial service agreed to clean the hospital daily in accordance with the hygiene standards of the city's health code. Because the janitorial service did not clean a patient's room in accordance with the required hygiene standards, the patient contracted an infection that required continued hospitalization. In addition to suing the hospital, the patient sued the janitorial service for breach of contract.
Which of the following statements is most accurate with respect to the breach of contract claim against the janitorial service?
A. The janitorial service is liable to the patient as a matter of public policy, because it violated the city's health code.
B. The patient is an intended third-party beneficiary under the contract, because the janitorial service's promise was intended to benefit all hospital patients.
C. The patient has no claim for breach of contract against the janitorial service, because she is an incidental beneficiary.
D. The patient cannot sue on the contract, because she was not named in the contract.
 
263. A lawn service company agreed in writing to purchase from a supplier all of its requirements for lawn care products during the next calendar year. In the writing, the supplier agreed to fulfill those requirements and to give the company a 10% discount off its published prices, but it reserved the right to increase the published prices during the year. After the parties had performed under the agreement for three months, the supplier notified the company that it would no longer give the company the 10%discount off the published prices.
Does the company have a viable claim against the supplier for breach of contract?
A. Yes, because part performance of the agreement by both parties made it enforceable for the full year.
B. Yes, because the company's agreement to buy all of its lawn care products from the supplier made the agreement enforceable.
C. No, because the supplier could, and did, revoke its offer with respect to future deliveries.
D. No, because the absence of a minimum quantity term rendered the company's promise illusory.
 
264. On June 1, a general contractor and a subcontractor entered into a contract under which the subcontractor agreed to deliver all of the steel joists that the general contractor required in the construction of a hospital building. The contract provided that delivery of the steel joists would begin on September 1. 
Although the general contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor's ability to perform, the general contractor wanted to be sure that the subcontractor was on track for delivery in September. He therefore wrote a letter on July 1 to the subcontractor demanding that the subcontractor provide assurance of its ability to meet the September 1 deadline. The subcontractor refused to provide such assurance. 
The general contractor then immediately obtained the steel joists from another supplier. 
If the subcontractor sues the general contractor for breach of contract, is the subcontractor likely to prevail?
A. No, because the subcontractor anticipatorily repudiated the contract when it failed to provide adequate assurance.
B. No, because the contract failed to specify a definite quantity.
C. Yes, because a demand for assurance constitutes a breach of contract when the contract does not expressly authorize a party to demand assurance.
D. Yes, because the subcontractor's failure to provide assurance was not a repudiation since there were no reasonable grounds for the general contractor's insecurity.
 
265. A seller entered into a contract to sell to a buyer a house for a price of $150,000. The contract contained the following clause: "This contract is conditional on the buyer's securing bank financing at an interest rate of 7% or below." The buyer did not make an application for bank financing and therefore did not secure it, and refused to proceed with the purchase. The seller sued the buyer for breach of contract. 
Is the seller likely to prevail?
A. No, because the buyer did not secure bank financing.
B. No, because the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer any obligation to apply for bank financing.
C. Yes, because a court will excuse the condition to avoid a disproportionate forfeiture.
D. Yes, because a court will imply a term imposing on the buyer a duty to use reasonable efforts to secure bank financing.
 
266. A computer retail outlet contracted to service a bank's computer equipment for one year at a fixed monthly fee under a contract that was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Three months later, the retail outlet sold the service portion of its business to an experienced and well-financed computer service company. The only provision in the agreement between the retail outlet and the computer service company relating to the outlet's contract with the bank stated that the outlet "hereby assigns all of its computer service contracts to [the computer service company]." 
The computer service company performed the monthly maintenance required under the service contract. Its performance was defective, however, and caused damage to the bank's operations. 
Whom can the bank sue for damages arising from the computer service company's defective performance?
A. The retail outlet only, because the computer service company made no promises to the bank.
B. Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because the bank has not released the outlet and the bank is an intended beneficiary of the outlet's agreement with the computer service company.
C. Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because since each has the right to enforce the bank's performance of its contract with the retail outlet, mutuality of remedy renders either potentially liable for the defective performance.
D. The computer service company only, because it is a qualified and a financially responsible supplier of computer services.
 

267. X--A farmer contracted to sell 100,000 bushels of wheat to a buyer. When the wheat arrived at the destination, the buyer discovered that the farmer had delivered only 96,000 bushels. The buyer sued the farmer for breach of contract. At the trial of the case, the court found that the written contract was intended as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement. The farmer offered to prove that in the wheat business, a promise to deliver a specified quantity is considered to be satisfied if the delivered quantity is within 5% of the specified quantity. The buyer objected to the offered evidence.
Is the court likely to admit the evidence offered by the farmer?
A. No, because the offered evidence is inconsistent with the express language of the agreement.
B. No, because the written contract was totally integrated.
C. Yes, because the offered evidence demonstrates that the farmer substantially performed the contract.
D. Yes, because the offered evidence explains or supplements the agreement by usage of trade.
 
268. X-- A borrower owed a lender $50,000 due on March 1. On January 10, the lender telephoned the borrower and said that he would discharge the debt if the borrower would promise to pay the lender $45,000 by January 15. The borrower responded, "I will attempt to get the money together." On January 11, the lender again telephoned the borrower and said that he had changed his mind and would expect the borrower to make full payment on March 1. On January 15, the borrower tendered $45,000 as full payment, which the lender refused to accept. On March 1, the borrower refused the lender's demand for $50,000, and the lender sued for that amount. 
Which of the following statements best supports the lender's position?
A. The borrower's January 10 statement was not a return promise, and therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer on January 11.
B. The January 10 telephone conversation between the lender and the borrower created an executory accord and therefore did not operate as a discharge of the $50,000 debt.
C. The lender's offer to discharge the debt was a gift promise and therefore was not binding on the lender.
D. The lender's promise to discharge the $50,000 debt was not enforceable because it was not in writing.
 
269. A seller entered into an agreement to sell a machine to a buyer for $5,000. At the time of the order, the buyer gave the seller a down payment of $1,000. The buyer then built a foundation for the machine at a cost of $250. The seller failed to deliver the machine. The buyer made reasonable efforts to find a similar machine and bought one for $5,500 that did not fit on the foundation. The buyer sued the seller for breach of contract. 
Which of these amounts claimed by the buyer, if any, could best be described as restitution?
A. The $250 cost of the foundation.
B. The $500 difference in price.
C. The $1,000 down payment.
D. None of the claimed amounts.
 

270. X-- Two salesmen, who lived in different suburbs twenty miles apart, were golfing acquaintances at the Interurban Country Club. Both were traveling salesmen--one for a pharmaceutical company and the other for a widget manufacturer. The pharmaceutical salesman wrote the widget salesman by United States mail on Friday, October 8:
I need a motorcycle for transportation to the country club and will buy your Sujocki for $1,200 upon your bringing it to my home address above [stated in the letterhead] on or before noon, November 12 next. This offer is not subject to countermand.
Sincerely,
 [signed] the pharmaceutical salesman
The widget salesman replied by mail the following day:
I accept your offer, and promise to deliver the bike as you specified.
Sincerely,
 [signed] the widget salesman

This letter, although properly addressed, was misdirected by the postal service and not received by the pharmaceutical salesman until November 10. The pharmaceutical salesman had bought another Sujocki bike from a different friend for $1,050 a few hours before.
The friend saw the widget salesman at the Interurban Country Club on November 11 and said: "I sold my Sujocki to the pharmaceutical salesman yesterday for $1,050. Would you consider selling me yours for $950?" The widget salesman replied: "I'll let you know in a few days."
On November 12, the widget salesman took his Sujocki to the pharmaceutical salesman's residence; he arrived at 11:15 a.m. The pharmaceutical salesman was asleep and did not answer the ringing doorbell until 12:15 p.m. The pharmaceutical salesman then rejected the widget salesman's bike on the ground that he had already bought someone else's bike.
In a lawsuit by the widget salesman against the pharmaceutical salesman for breach of contract, what would the court probably decide regarding the widget salesman's letter of October 9?
A. The letter bound both parties to a unilateral contract as soon as the widget salesman mailed it.
B. Mailing of the letter by the widget salesman did not, of itself, prevent a subsequent, effective revocation by the pharmaceutical salesman of his offer.
C. The letter bound both parties to a bilateral contract, but only when received by the pharmaceutical salesman on November 10.
D. Regardless of whether the pharmaceutical salesman's offer had proposed a unilateral or a bilateral contract, the letter was an effective acceptance upon receipt, if not upon dispatch.
 
271. X-- On May 1 a lot owner telegraphed a buyer, "Will sell you any or all of the lots in Grover subdivision at $5,000 each. Details will follow in letter." The letter contained all the necessary details concerning terms of payment, insurance, mortgages, etc., and provided, "This offer remains open until June 1."
On May 2, after he had received the telegram but before he had received the letter, the buyer telegraphed the owner, "Accept your offer with respect to lot 101." Both parties knew that there were fifty lots in the Grover subdivision and that they were numbered 101 through 150.

Assume that on May 6 the buyer telegraphed the owner, "Will take the rest of the lots," and that on May 8 the owner discovered that he did not have good title to the remaining lots. Which of the following would provide the best legal support to the owner's contention that he was not liable for breach of contract as to the remaining forty-nine lots?
A. Impossibility of performance
B. Unilateral mistake as to basic assumption
C. Termination of the offer by the buyer's having first contracted to buy lot 101
D. Excuse by failure of an implied condition precedent.
 
272. X-- On March 2, a landowner and a builder orally agreed that the builder would erect a boathouse on the landowner's lot and dig a channel from the boathouse, across a neighbor's lot, to a lake. The neighbor had already orally agreed with the landowner to permit the digging of the channel across the neighbor's lot. The builder agreed to begin work on the boathouse on March 15, and to complete all the work before June 1. The total price of $10,000 was to be paid by the landowner in three installments: $2,500 on March 15; $2,500 when the boathouse was completed; $5,000 when the builder finished the digging of the channel.
Assume that the landowner paid the $2,500 on March 15 and that the builder completed the boathouse according to specifications, but that the landowner then refused to pay the second installment and repudiated the contract. Assume further that the absence of a writing is not raised as a defense. Which of the following is (are) correct?
I. The builder has a cause of action against the landowner and his damages will be $2,500.
II. The builder can refuse to dig the channel and not be liable for breach of contract.
A. I only
B. II only
C. Both I and II
D. Neither I nor II
 
273. X--A father had made a legally binding promise to furnish his son and his son's fiance a house on their wedding day, planned for June 10, 2002. Pursuant to that promise, the father telephoned his old contractor-friend on May 1, 2001, and made the following oral agreement--each making full and accurate written notes thereof:
The contractor was to cut 30 trees into fireplace logs from a specified portion of a certain one-acre plot owned by the father, and the father was to pay therefore $20 per tree. The contractor agreed further to build a house on the plot conforming to the specifications of Plan OP5 published by Builders, Inc. for a construction price of $18,000. The father agreed to make payments of $2,000 on the first of every month for nine months beginning August 1, 2001, upon monthly presentation of certificate by Builders, Inc. that the specifications of Plan OP5 were being met.
The contractor delivered the cut logs to the father in July 2001, when he also began building the house. The father made three $2,000 payments for the work done in July, August, and September 2001, without requiring a certificate. The contractor worked through October, but no work was done from November 1, 2001, to the end of February 2002, because of bad weather, and the father made no payments during that period. The contractor did not object. On March 1, 2002, the contractor demanded payment of $2,000, but the father refused on the grounds that no construction work had been done for four months and Builders had issued no certificate. The contractor thereupon abandoned work and repudiated the agreement.
Assuming that the contractor committed a total breach on March 1, 2002, what would be the probable measure of the father's damages in an action against the contractor for breach of contract?

A. Restitution of the three monthly installments paid in August, September, and October
B. What it would cost to get the house completed by another contractor, minus installments not yet paid to the contractor
C. The difference between the market value of the partly built house, as of the time of the contractor's breach, and the market value of the house if completed according to specifications
D. In addition to other legally allowable damages, an allowance for the father's mental distress if the house cannot be completed in time for his son's wedding on June 10, 2002
 
274. X-- On November 1, the following notice was posted in a privately-operated law school:
The faculty, seeking to encourage legal research, offers to any student at this school who wins the current National Obscenity Law Competition the additional prize of $500. All competing papers must be submitted to the Dean's office before May 1.
A student read this notice on November 2, and thereupon intensified his effort to make his paper on obscenity law, which he started in October, a winner. The student also left on a counter in the Dean's office a signed note saying, "I accept the faculty's $500 Obscenity Competition offer." This note was inadvertently placed in the student's file and never reached the Dean or any faculty member personally. On the following April 1, the above notice was removed and the following substituted therefore:
The faculty regrets that our offer regarding the National Obscenity Law Competition must be withdrawn.
The student's paper was submitted through the Dean's office on April 15. On May 1, it was announced that the student had won the National Obscenity Law Competition and the prize of $500. The law faculty refused to pay anything.
As to the student, was the offer effectively revoked?
A. Yes, by the faculty's second notice.
B. No, because it became irrevocable after a reasonable time had elapsed.
C. No, because of the student's reliance, prior to April 1, on the offer.
D. No, unless the student became aware of the April 1 posting and removal before submitting the paper.
 
275. In a telephone call on March 1, an unemployed retired man said to a purchaser, "I will sell my automobile for $3,000 cash. I will hold this offer open through March 14." On March 12, the man called the purchaser and told her that he had sold the automobile to a friend. The man in fact had not sold the automobile to anyone. On March 14, the purchaser learned that the man still owned the automobile and on that date called the man and said, "I'm coming over to your place with $3,000." The man replied, "Don't bother, I won't deliver the automobile to you under any circumstances." The purchaser protested, but made no further attempt to pay for or take delivery of the automobile.
In an action by the purchaser against the man for breach of contract, the purchaser probably will
A. succeed, because the man had assured her that the offer would remain open through March 14.
B. succeed, because the man had not in fact sold the automobile to the friend.
C. not succeed, because the purchaser had not tendered the $3,000 to the man on or before March 14.
D. not succeed, because on March 12 the man had told the purchaser that he had sold the automobile to the friend.
 
276. A landowner owned Broadacres in fee simple. For a consideration of $5,000, the landowner gave his neighbor a written option to purchase Broadacres for $300,000. The option was assignable. For a consideration of $10,000, the neighbor subsequently gave an option to his friend to purchase Broadacres for $325,000. The friend exercised his option.
The neighbor thereupon exercised his option. The neighbor paid the agreed price of $300,000 and took title to Broadacres by deed from the landowner. Thereafter, the friend refused to consummate his purchase.
The neighbor brought an appropriate action against the friend for specific performance, or, if that should be denied, then for damages. The friend counterclaimed for return of the $10,000. In this action the court will

A. grant money damages only to the neighbor.
B. grant specific performance to the neighbor.
C. grant the neighbor only the right to retain the $10,000.
D. require the neighbor to refund the $10,000 to the friend.
 
277. A written contract was entered into between a financier-investor and a winery. The contract provided that the financier-investor would invest $1,000,000 in the winery for its capital expansion and, in return, that the winery, from grapes grown in it famous vineyards, would produce and market at least 500,000 bottles of wine each year for five years under a label with the financier's name on it.
The contract included provisions that the parties would share equally the profits and losses from the venture and that, if feasible, the wine would be distributed by the winery only through a wholesale distributor of fine wines. Neither the financier-investor nor the winery had previously dealt with this wholesale distributor. The wholesale distributor learned of the contract two days later from reading a trade newspaper. In reliance thereon, he immediately hired an additional sales executive and contracted for enlargement of his wine storage and display facility.
If the winery refuses to distribute the wine through the wholesale distributor and the wholesale distributor then sues the winery for breach of contract, is it likely that the wholesale distributor will prevail?
A. Yes, because the winery's performance was to run to the wholesale distributor rather than to the financier-investor.
B. Yes, because the financier-investor and the winery could reasonably foresee that the wholesale distributor would change his position in reliance on the contract.
C. No, because the financier-investor and the winery did not expressly agree that the wholesale distributor would have enforceable rights under their contract.
D. No, because the financier-investor and the winery, having no apparent motive to benefit the wholesale distributor, appeared in making the contract to have been protecting or serving only their own interests.
 
278. In March, when a teenager was 17, an electronics dealer delivered to the teenager a television set. At that time the teenager agreed in writing to pay $400 for the set on July 1 when he would reach his eighteenth birthday. Eighteen is the applicable statutory age of majority, and on that date the teenager was to receive the proceeds of a trust. On July 1, when the reasonable value of the television set was $250, the teenager sent the dealer a signed letter stating, "I'll only pay you $300; that is all the set is worth."
In an action against the teenager for money damages on July 2, what is the maximum amount that the dealer will be entitled to recover?

A. Nothing
B. $250, the reasonable value of the set
C. $300, the amount the teenager promised to pay in his letter of July 1
D. $400, the original sale price
 
279. On January 2, a landowner and a builder entered into a written contract in which the builder agreed to build on the landowner's lot a new house for the landowner, according to plans and specifications furnished by the landowner's architect at a contract price of $200,000. The contract provided for specified progress payments and a final payment of $40,000 upon the landowner's acceptance of the house and issuance of a certificate of final approval by the architect. Further, under a "liquidated damages" clause in the agreement, the builder promised to pay the landowner $500 for each day's delay in completing the house after the following October 1. The landowner, however, told the builder on January 2, before the contract was signed, that he would be on an around-the-world vacation trip most of the summer and fall and would not return to occupy the house until November 1.
The builder completed the house on October 14 and, when the landowner returned on November 1, requested the final payment of $40,000 and issuance of a certificate of final approval by the architect. The landowner, however, refused to pay any part of the final installment after the architect told him that the builder "did a great job and I find no defects worth mentioning; but the builder's contract price was at least $40,000 too high, especially in view of the big drop in housing values within the past ten months. I will withhold the final certificate, and you just hold on to your money."
If the builder sues the landowner for the $40,000 final payment after the architect's refusal to issue a final certificate, which of the following will the court probably decide?
A. The builder wins, because nonoccurrence of the condition requiring the architects's certificate of final approval was excused by the architects's bad-faith refusal to issue the certificate.
B. The builder wins, but, because all contractual conditions have not occurred, her recovery is limited to restitution of the benefit conferred on the landowner, minus progress payments already received.
C. The landowner wins, provided he can prove by clear and convincing evidence that the fair-market value of the completed house is $160,000 or less.
D. The landowner wins, provided he can prove by clear and convincing evidence that the total payment to the builder of $160,000 will yield a fair net profit.
 
280. On August 1, a geriatric company operating a "lifetime care" home for the elderly admitted an 84-year-old man for a trial period of two months. On September 25, the 84-year-old man and the geriatric company entered into a written lifetime care contract with an effective commencement date of October 1. The full contract price was $20,000, which, as required by the terms of the contract, the 84-year-old man prepaid to the geriatric company on September 25. The 84-year-old man died of a heart attack on October 2.
In a restitutionary action, can the administratrix of the 84-year-old man's estate, a surviving sister, recover on behalf of the estate either all or part of the $20,000 paid to the geriatric company on September 25?
A. Yes, because the geriatric company would otherwise be unjustly enriched at the 84-year-old man's expense.
B. Yes, under the doctrine of frustration of purpose.
C. No, because the 84-year-old man's life span and the duration of the geriatric company's commitment to him was a risk assumed by both parties.
D. No, but only if the geriatric company can show that between September 25 and the 84-year-old man's death it rejected, because of its commitment to the 84-year-old man, an application for lifetime care from another elderly person.
281. The aged mother of a sister and brother, both adults, wished to employ a live-in companion so that she might continue to live in her own home. Their mother, however, had only enough income to pay one-half of the companion's $2,000 monthly salary. Learning of their mother's plight, the siblings agreed with each other in a signed writing that on the last day of January and each succeeding month during their mother's lifetime, each would give their mother $500. Their mother then hired the companion.
The siblings made the agreed payments in January, February, and March. In April, however, the brother refused to make any payment and notified his sister and mother that he would make no further payments.
Will their mother succeed in an action for $500 brought against the brother after April 30?
A. Yes, because by making his first three payments, the brother confirmed his intent to contract.
B. Yes, because the mother is an intended beneficiary of a contract between the siblings.
C. No, because a parent cannot sue her child for breach of a promise for support.
D. No, because the siblings intended their payment to their mother to be gifts.
 
282. The aged mother of a sister and brother, both adults, wished to employ a live-in companion so that she might continue to live in her own home. The mother, however, had only enough income to pay one-half of the companion's $2,000 monthly salary. Learning of their mother's plight, the sister and brother agreed with each other in a signed writing that on the last day of January and each succeeding month during their mother's lifetime, each would give their mother $500. Their mother then hired the companion.
The siblings made the agreed payments in January, February, and March. In April, however, the brother refused to make any payment and notified his sister and their mother that he would make no further payments.
There is a valid contract between the siblings, but their mother has declined to sue the brother.
Will the sister succeed in an action against the brother in which she asks the court to order the brother to continue to make his payments to their mother under the terms of the the sibling's contract?
A. Yes, because the sister's remedy at law is inadequate.
B. Yes, because the sister's burden of supporting her mother will be increased if her brother does not contribute his share.
C. No, because a court will not grant specific performance of a promise to pay money.
D. No, because the brother's breach of contract has caused no economic harm to the sister.
 
283. X-- On March 1, an apartment complex received a letter from a retailer offering to sell the apartment complex 1,200 window air conditioners suitable for the apartments in the complex's buildings. The retailer's offer stated that it would remain open until March 20, but that the apartment complex's acceptance must be received on or before that date. On March 16, the apartment complex posted a letter of acceptance. On March 17, the retailer telegraphed the apartment complex to advise that it was revoking the offer. The telegram reached the apartment complex on March 17, but the apartment complex's letter did not arrive at the retailer's address until March 21.
As of March 22, which of the following is a correct statement?
A. The telegram revoking the offer was effective upon receipt.
B. The offer was revocable at any time for lack of consideration.
C. The mail was the only authorized means of revocation.
D. Under the terms of the retailer's offer, the apartment complex's attempted acceptance was ineffective.
284. X-- For several weeks, a wealthy, unemployed widow, and Nirvana Motors, Inc., negotiated unsuccessfully over the purchase price of a new Mark XX Rolls-Royce Sedan, which, as Nirvana knew, the widow wanted her son to have as a wedding gift. On April 27, Nirvana sent the widow a signed, dated memo saying, "If we can arrive at the same price within the next week, do we have a deal?" The widow wrote "Yes" and her signature at the bottom of his memo and delivered it back to Nirvana on April 29.
On May 1, the widow wrote Nirvana a signed letter offering to buy "one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan, with all available equipment, for $180,000 cash on delivery not later than June 1." By coincidence, Nirvana wrote the widow a signed letter on May 1 offering to sell her "one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan, with all available equipment, for $180,000 cash on delivery not later than June 1." These letters crossed in the mail and were respectively received and read by the widow and Nirvana on May 2.
If the widow subsequently asserts and Nirvana denies that the parties had a binding contract on May 3, which of the following most persuasively supports the widow's position?
A. A sale-of-goods contract may be made in any manner sufficient to show agreement, even though the moment of its making is undetermined.
B. A sale-of goods contract does not require that an acceptance be a mirror image of the offer.
C. With respect both to the making of an agreement and the requirement of consideration, identical cross-offers are functionally the same as an offer followed by a responsive acceptance.
D. Since Nirvana was a merchant in the transaction and the widow was not, Nirvana is estopped to deny that the parties' correspondence created a binding contract.
 
285. A dry goods retailer telephoned a towel manufacturer and offered to buy for $5 each a minimum of 500 and a maximum of 1,000 large bath towels, to be delivered in 30 days. The manufacturer orally accepted this offer and promptly sent the following letter to the retailer, which the retailer received two days later: "This confirms our agreement today by telephone to sell you 500 large bath towels for 30-day delivery. /s/ Manufacturer." Twenty-eight days later, the manufacturer tendered to the retailer 1,000 (not 500) conforming bath towels, all of which the retailer rejected because it had found a better price term from another supplier. Because of a glut in the towel market, the manufacturer cannot resell the towels except at a loss.
In a suit by the manufacturer against the retailer, which of the following will be the probable decision?
A. The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 1,000 towels, because the retailer ordered and the manufacturer tendered that quantity.
B. The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 500 towels, because the manufacturer's letter of confirmation stated that quantity term.
C. There is no enforceable agreement, because the retailer never signed a writing.
D. There is no enforceable agreement, because the manufacturer's letter of confirmation did not state a price term.
 
286. A developer contracted in writing to sell to a buyer a house on a one-acre lot for $100,000. The developer told the buyer that the lot abutted a national park and that the water for the house came from a natural artesian spring. The developer knew that both of these representations were important to the buyer and that both were false. The buyer moved into the house and eight months later learned that a private golf course was being constructed on the adjacent land and that the water for his house was piped in from the city reservoir. The buyer immediately sued the developer to avoid the contract. 
The construction of the golf course will probably increase the market value of the buyer's property, and the water from the city reservoir exceeds all established standards for drinking water. 
Is the buyer likely to prevail?
A. No, because eight months exceeds a reasonable time for contract avoidance.
B. No, because the developer's misstatements caused no economic harm to the buyer.
C. Yes, because the contract was void ab initio.
D. Yes, because the buyer retained the power to avoid the contract due to fraud.
 
287. X-- The mother of a son and a daughter was dying. The daughter visited her mother in a hospice facility and said, "You know that I have always been the good child, and my brother has always been the bad child. Even so, you have left your property in the will to us fifty-fifty. But it would be really nice if you would sell me the family home for $100,000." 
"I don't know," said the mother. "It is worth a lot more than that-at least $250,000." 
"That is true," said the daughter. "But I have always been good and visited you, and my brother has never visited you, so that ought to be worth something. And besides, if you won't sell me the house for that price, maybe I won' t visit you anymore, either." 
"Oh, I wouldn't want that," said the mother, and she signed a contract selling the house to her daughter for $100,000. 
Shortly thereafter, the mother died. When her son found out that the house had been sold and was not part of his mother's estate, he sued to have the contract avoided on behalf of the mother. 
On what ground would the contract most likely be avoided?
A. Duress.
B. Inadequate consideration.
C. Mistake.
D. Undue influence.

146. Answer D is correct. The general damages rule for measuring loss to an owner for breach of a construction contract is that owner is entitled to damages in an amount equivalent to the cost to complete the work as promised. An exception to the rule is where cost to complete damages would be grossly and unfairly out of proportion to the performance contracted for, in which case damages will be limited to the diminution in market value of the construction due to the defect. Although the fair market value of the warehouse and the defective driveway exceeds the contract price, the warehouse owner nonetheless is entitled to the cost to complete damages, because these damages fairly reflect his loss resulting from the defective construction. The warehouse owner therefore was justified in withholding $30,000 from the contract price paid to the construction company.
147. Answer A is correct. The parol evidence rule bars the introduction of evidence of a prior agreement that contradicts the terms of a final written contract. Notwithstanding the parol evidence rule, however, such evidence may be introduced to explain an ambiguity in the written contract. The written contract between the tire salesman and the county provided for the sale to the county of "all tires required by this agreement." It is not clear whether this language manifests an intent by the parties to enter into a requirements contract, which is a type of sales contract that obligates the buyer to purchase all of its requirements of a good from the seller. Because the written contract is ambiguous on this issue, the advertisement may be admitted to demonstrate that the county was not obligated to purchase tires exclusively from the tire salesman.
148. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, a contract for the sale of a good that measures the quantity by the requirements of the buyer for that good means such actual requirements that may occur in good faith. At a minimum this means that the buyer must purchase all of its requirements for the good exclusively from the seller. If the court concludes that the tire salesman-county contract is a requirements contract, then the fact that the county is buying some of its tires from a competitor would mean that the county has breached the requirements contract, entitling the tire salesman to damages. A is incorrect because the contracts clause is not at issue. C is incorrect because the UCC rules regarding requirements contracts make clear that such agreements impose binding obligations on both the buyer and the seller. D is incorrect because, although the quantity term in a requirements contract is flexible, it is sufficiently definite for a court to enforce.
149. Answer A is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by bargained-for consideration. Consideration is bargained for if it is sought by the promisor in exchange for the promise. The retailer's promise to give his daughter the car was supported by consideration because the promise was conditioned upon the daughter's promise to pay her father $3,000. Answer B is incorrect because moral obligation does not suffice as consideration. Answer C is incorrect because courts at law do not inquire into the adequacy of considerations exchanged. Answer D is incorrect because the fact that the car was sold to a third party does not discharge the retailer's contractual obligation to sell the car to his daughter, although the daughter may be limited to recovering monetary damages.
150. Answer D is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by bargained-for consideration. Consideration is bargained for if it is given by the promisee in exchange for the promise. It does not matter that the promisee may have benefited from the requested performance, or that her motives for furnishing the requested performance were different from the promisor's, so long as the promisee restrained her freedom of action in some way in reliance on the promise. Because the employee's right to collect the $100 is conditioned upon her running the mile in under six minutes, the business owner's promise is enforceable so long as the employee furnishes the requested act
151. Answer B is correct. Under the doctrine of constructive conditions, a party's contractual obligation is conditioned upon the other party's substantial performance. However, where one party's performance requires a period of time (such as the builder's obligation to construct the garage), that performance is due before the other party is obligated to perform, unless the contract specifies otherwise. Because the contract was silent with respect to progress payments, the homeowner was not obligated to pay any portion of the contract price until the builder had substantially performed his promise to build the garage. The builder therefore was not justified in abandoning the job, and his doing so after completing only 25% of the requested work was itself a material breach of the contract.
152. Answer C is correct. When contract rights are assigned, the assignee acquires a right against the obligor only to the extent that the obligor is under a duty to the assignor. In other words, the assignee acquires no greater rights against the obligor than the assignor had. When the builder (assignor) assigned his contract right to the bank (assignee), the bank's right to payment remained subject to any defense that the homeowner (obligor) could raise against the builder. Therefore, the builder's material breach of the construction contract is a defense that the homeowner can raise against the bank.
153. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, a written acceptance generally will operate as such even if it states additional or different terms. The additional or different terms, however, will not become part of the contract if they materially alter the contract, unless the offeror expressly agrees to such term. Although the wholesale company's form contained a limitation-on-liability clause, the acceptance, nonetheless, operated as an acceptance of the retailer's offer. Since the contract price was $10,000, the clause limiting wholesale company's liability to $100 proposes a material alteration to the contract and therefore will not become part of the contract, since the retailer did not expressly agree to it. A and B are incorrect, because the wholesale company's acceptance is effective notwithstanding the existence of a material additional term. C is incorrect because the liability-limitation clause proposes a material alteration and thus will not become part of the contract.
154. Answer B is correct. A promise may be enforceable even if not bargained-for where (i) the promisor should reasonably have expected the promise to induce reliance, (ii) there is reliance in fact, and (iii) enforcement of the promise is necessary to prevent injustice. Because the lender reviewed the plans for the project, the lender should reasonably have expected that its promise to lend would induce the developer to accept the bid and to tear down her old building. The substantial nature of the developer's reliance and the fact that she could not obtain financing elsewhere suggests that enforcement of the promise is necessary to avoid injustice.
155. Answer C is correct. When a promise is enforceable on a detrimental reliance theory, the remedy for breach of the promise may be limited as justice requires. A court may limit damages by awarding the injured party the amount necessary to remedy the loss incurred due to the reliance, rather than awarding plaintiff's expectation damages (i.e., damages equivalent to the value of full performance). When the lender breached its promise to make the loan, the developer was injured because she had already torn down the old building. The damages necessary to restore her to the status quo before the promise was made would include the cost of demolition, plus any loss that the developer incurred from the depreciation of the property resulting from the demolition. A and B are incorrect because a court need not award full expectation damages in an action based on detrimental reliance. D is incorrect because the developer's reliance damages can be ascertained with reasonable certainty.
156. Answer B is correct. A condition is an event that is not certain to occur, which must occur, unless excused, before performance under a contract becomes due. The man and the distributor agreed that each party's obligation under the contract of sale was expressly conditioned upon the man giving written notice of resale to the distributor on or before January 2. Since such notice was not given until January 26, any obligation that the distributor undertook under the contract of sale was excused due to the nonoccurrence of the condition.
157. Answer C is correct. A condition is an event that is not certain to occur, which must occur, unless excused, before performance under a contract becomes due. The man and the distributor's agreement was subject to an express condition. They agreed that the contract of sale would not come into effect unless the man provided written notice of resale on or before January 2; this condition in fact did not occur. Although nonoccurrence of the condition normally would excuse each party's obligation under the contract, in this case the distributor waived the nonoccurrence of the condition when she verbally agreed on December 16 to send the engine without written notice.
158. Answer B is correct. A person's nondisclosure of fact may be tantamount to a misrepresentation of fact sufficient to allow rescission of a contract where the person knows that disclosure of the fact would correct the other party's mistake with respect to a basic assumption of the contract, and where nondisclosure amounts to a failure to act in good faith. The fact that the horse earned $400,000 for the trainer soon after the sale (over 250 times the contract price) suggests that nondisclosure of the horse's true abilities related to a basic assumption of the contract relating to the horse's worth. If the son can establish that the trainer was aware that the horse was capable of running a race in record-setting time and that the son was ignorant of this fact, then the son has a plausible argument for rescission on grounds of nondisclosure. A and C are incorrect because neither the son's ignorance of the horse's expertise nor the son's inexperience with evaluating horses alone would be sufficient to establish a basis for rescission. D is incorrect because the son's anger is irrelevant to the enforceability of the contract for the horse's sale.
159. Answer A is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of mutual mistake where the mistake relates to a fundamental assumption of the contract that has a material effect on the exchange, and where the party seeking rescission is found by the court not to bear the risk of the mistake. If in his first race after the sale, the horse dropped dead of a rare, undiscoverable heart condition, the trainer could make a plausible argument that the contract be rescinded on grounds of mistake. The condition related to a fundamental assumption (the horse's suitability for racing) that destroyed the subject matter of the contract, and since the heart condition was not expected or discoverable, a court might find that the trainer should not bear the risk of the mistake. B and C are incorrect because neither of these factors relate to a fundamental assumption of the contract, since the facts suggest that the horse was purchased as a racehorse and not a breeder.
160. Answer C is correct. Under the doctrine of constructive conditions, a party's obligation to perform a contractual duty is excused if the other party to the contract commits a material breach. Implicit in a requirements contract for the purchase and sale of a good is buyer's obligation to purchase all of its requirements for the good exclusively from the seller for the duration of the contract. Because the taxi fleet owner agreed to purchase its total requirements for gasoline and oil from the petroleum dealer for one year, its purchase of substantial amounts of gasoline from a competitor amounted to a material breach, thereby justifying the petroleum dealer's repudiation of its obligation to place advertising with the wife.
161. Answer A is correct. The rights of a third party beneficiary to a contract may not be modified or discharged after the beneficiary's rights vest. The beneficiary's rights will vest if she relies on the promise or manifests assent to the promise at the request of the promisor or promisee. Because the wife declined to accept an advertising account from the soap company after hearing of the owner-dealer contract, she relied on the petroleum dealer's promise. The fact that the contract was performed for six months also suggests implicit acceptance of the petroleum dealer's promise. Therefore, the taxi fleet owner and the petroleum dealer cannot modify or discharge the petroleum dealer's obligation without the wife's consent.
162. Answer A is correct. A party in breach generally is entitled to restitution of any benefit that he has conferred in the way of part performance in excess of the loss resulting from the breach. Where the parties have agreed that the breaching party's performance is to be retained as liquidated damages, the breaching party is not entitled to restitution if the liquidated damages clause is reasonable in light of the anticipated or actual damages resulting from the breach and the difficulty of proving damages. Although the father may argue that the woman was unjustly enriched to the extent that the deposit exceeded her actual loss, the woman should be able to retain the $200 deposit. Damages representing the inconvenience to the woman resulting from the father's failure to appear are difficult to estimate, and $200 was a reasonable estimate of the anticipated opportunity cost to the woman of not taking other potential customers.
163. Answer A is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of supervening impossibility where a party's performance is made impossible without his fault due to the occurrence of an event, the non-occurrence of which was a basic assumption on which the contract was made. Where a contract has been rescinded on grounds of supervening impossibility, a party may obtain restitution of any benefit conferred by way of part performance of the contract. Because the Coast Guard prohibited vessels such as the woman's from leaving the harbor on the afternoon of May 15 as a consequence of bad weather, performance of the woman-father contract was rendered impossible, and the father should successfully obtain restitution of the $200 deposit.
164. Answer C is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of supervening impracticability where a party's performance is made impracticable without his fault due to the occurrence of an event, the non-occurrence of which was a basic assumption on which the contract was made. Such event may include the destruction or deterioration of a specific thing necessary for the performance of a duty or the necessity to comply with a governmental order. Because the breeder undertook to exhibit his world champion animal(and not any other hog), the animal's availability for exhibition is a basic assumption of the contract. The animal's illness, which requires him to be quarantined for a month under state law, renders the breeder's performance impracticable. Therefore the manager should treat both parties' obligations under the contract as discharged.
165. Answer A is correct. Under the UCC's perfect tender rule, when a delivery under a contract for the sale of goods fails to conform in any respect to the contract, the buyer has the right to reject the delivery. The seller, however, must be given an opportunity to cure the defective delivery if the time for performance has not yet expired. When the trailer company presented to the general a trailer that was missing a spare tire, the general was entitled to reject the trailer because of its nonconformity with the contract. The trailer company's offer to install a spare tire was a seasonable offer to cure the defect since the contract specified a June 1 delivery. B is incorrect because the buyer would not have the right to terminate if the seller seasonably cured the defect. C and D are incorrect because the perfect tender rule entitles the buyer to reject goods on the basis of material as well as immaterial defects.
166. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, an order of goods for prompt shipment may be construed as inviting acceptance by a shipment of conforming or non-conforming goods. However, if the seller indicates that the shipment of non-conforming goods is offered as an accommodation to the buyer, the shipment will not be construed as an acceptance. Because the seller's note makes clear that he shipped red widgets to accommodate the buyer, his shipment of red widgets was not an acceptance of the buyer's offer and therefore was also not a breach of contract. A, C and D are incorrect because, if the buyer rejects the shipment, there is no contract and the buyer has no right to recover damages against the supplier.
167. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, a party may perform his duty through a delegatee unless the other party has a substantial interest in having the original party perform the contract. Although assignment of a requirements contract may potentially affect the burden of the seller in certain cases (such as where the assignee has substantially different requirements than the assignor), courts will still uphold the assignment of such contracts because the UCC rules on requirements contracts impose reasonably objective standards of good faith in specifying requirements. In any event the flour wholesaler-Miller assignment will not have such an effect, because the party assigning its contract is the seller. Because Miller is comparable to the flour wholesaler in terms of reputation and experience, the baked goods producer should not have a particular interest in having the flour wholesaler perform the contract. Therefore A and C are incorrect. B is incorrect because under the UCC, general language of assignment of a contract will be construed as a delegation of performance as well as an assignment of rights.
168. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, a party may perform his duty through a delegatee unless the other party has a substantial interest in having the original party perform the contract. In other words, performance of the contract by the delegatee ordinarily does not require the assent of the other party to the contract. Because Miller is comparable to the flour wholesaler in terms of reputation and experience, the baked goods producer should not have a particular interest in having the flour wholesaler perform the contract. When the flour wholesaler sold its business and assigned its contracts of sale to Miller, the baked goods producer's agreement to the delegation was not necessary. Therefore A and C are incorrect. B is incorrect because, once the other party to the contract (the flour wholesaler) has received notice of an assignment of rights, the baked goods producer will discharge her obligation only upon payment to the assignee (Miller). Payment to the assignor will not discharge the obligation.
169. Answer B is correct. Under rules of accord and satisfaction, a debtor may make an offer to settle a dispute by offering a check marked "payment in full." If the notation was sufficiently plain that the creditor should have understood it, and if the amount owed to the creditor is an unliquidated sum, then cashing the check without protest amounts to an acceptance of the offer of an accord and satisfaction of the debt. Although mere payment of a lesser sum would not be sufficient consideration to support the accord, consideration is furnished where the amount owed to the creditor is genuinely in dispute. Even if the client lacked sufficient legal basis to prevail on his claim, his good-faith belief in the validity of the claim makes his promise to settle sufficient consideration to support the modification. Therefore, when the lawyer read the "payment in full" language on the client's $5,000 check and then cashed it without protest, the lawyer accepted the accord and satisfaction of the debt. A, C and D are incorrect because they fail to take into account the effect of the discharge of the client's debt through accord and satisfaction.
170. Answer B is correct. This is a contract for the sale of goods, thus governed by the UCC. Under the UCC, modification of a contract for the sale of goods needs no additional consideration to be binding. When the accountant proposed on November 10 to supply the book stacks along with the law books at no additional cost, his offer proposed a unilateral modification of the contract, which the lawyer accepted before the offer lapsed. Because the contract involves a sale of goods (books), the modification is enforceable notwithstanding the lack of consideration. A is incorrect because the modification was gratuitous. C is incorrect because the lawyer's November 14 communication was merely an acceptance of the modification and did not discharge the original obligation. D is incorrect because consideration is not required for modification of a sales contract.
171. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant contained in a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable notwithstanding lack of consideration for the time stated in the offer (if less than three months). Because the accountant is not a merchant of law books or stacks, his November 10 offer to deliver the book stacks does not fall under the UCC firm offer rule. Because the lawyer did not give consideration to support an option, the offer is revocable at any time prior to acceptance by the lawyer.
172. Answer B is correct. Specific performance will generally be awarded for breach of contract where monetary damages would be inadequate or impracticable. However, a court will not issue an affirmative injunction compelling a person to specifically perform a personal service contract (although a court might issue a negative injunction in certain circumstances). Because the contractor-homeowner contract obligates the contractor to personally remodel the homeowner's kitchen, it is a personal service contract that is not specifically enforceable.
173. Answer B is correct. When a contractor is injured due to an owner's breach of a construction contract, the contractor generally can recover as expectation damages his expected profit on the contract along with any labor and material expenses incurred up until the time that he learned of the owner's breach. The contractor may not recover for damages that he could have mitigated with reasonable effort. Therefore, the contractor may recover as damages his expected profit on his contract with the homeowner. He cannot, however, recover the $5,000 that he spent on materials because he incurred those expenses after being notified of the homeowner's repudiation of the contract.
174. Answer C is correct. Although based on tacit, and not express, promises, implied-in-fact contracts are enforceable. An implied-in-fact contract may be inferred from parties' conduct, such as where services are rendered by one person for another under circumstances where it may fairly be presumed that the parties understood that compensation would be paid. The contractor paving the neighbor's driveway while the neighbor looks on without raising objection gives rise to the presumption on an implied-in-fact contract theory that the neighbor will pay the contractor for the work.
175. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, any trade usage that is observed with sufficient regularity so as to justify an expectation that the parties contracted with reference to it can be introduced to interpret the parties' agreement, so long as the usage can be reasonably construed as being consistent with the express terms of the contract. The distribution contract between the distribution company and Fizzy required the distribution company to promote the sale of Fizzy Cola in good faith but did not specify whether the distribution company was restricted from distributing competing brands. Trade usage demonstrating that soft drink distributors uniformly handle only one brand of cola would strengthen Fizzy's argument because it is objective evidence that the agreement prohibits the distribution company from distributing competitors' brands of cola. A, B and C are incorrect because each of these facts, in and of itself, is only inconclusive evidence that the distribution company may have breached its obligation to promote Fizzy Cola in good faith.
176. Answer D is correct. A waiver is an excuse of the nonoccurrence or delay of a condition to a duty. Constructive conditions of exchange can be waived through conduct, by treating a breach as only a partial breach and continuing to perform the contract. Although a waiver may be retractable in certain situations, a waiver is not retractable once the non-waiving party has relied on the waiver. When the corporation accepted only two game-designs per year during the first three years of the contract, the corporation implicitly waived the computer whiz's breach of the annual-quantity term of the contract. The computer whiz relied on this waiver when he spent substantial sums on equipment for future design work. Therefore, it would be unjust to allow the corporation, without prior notice, to claim that the computer whiz breached the annual-quantity term in year four. A, B and C are incorrect because a no-oral-modification clause does not preclude implicit waiver of a constructive condition.
177. Answer D is correct. An offer for a unilateral contract seeks acceptance by performance and not a return promise. In order for the acceptance to be effective, however, the offeree must give seasonable notice of acceptance to the promisor where the offeree has reason to know that the offeror will not learn of the acceptance without notice. The manufacturer's offer to the hardware wholesaler is an offer to enter a unilateral contract because the manufacturer does not seek a return commitment from the hardware wholesaler but rather for the wholesaler to provide credit to the hardware retailer. Because the hardware wholesaler lives far from the manufacturer, however, he has reason to know that the manufacturer will not learn of his acceptance unless he gives notice, and therefore the hardware wholesaler must give notice of the extension of credit to the hardware retailer.
178. Answer A is correct. Under the UCC, where reasonable grounds for insecurity arise with respect to the other party's performance, a party may make a written demand for adequate assurance of due performance. Failure to provide such assurance within a reasonable time may be treated as repudiation of the contract. Although the hoarder made a request for assurances of performance which the broker failed to provide, the facts suggest that the hoarder's request for assurances was unreasonable. In order for a demand for assurances to be justified, the insecurity must relate either to the inability or unwillingness of the other party to perform. A mere shift in market price for rare coins does not impugn the broker's willingness or ability to perform the contract. Nor does the broker's October 17 reply manifest a repudiation of the contract. In order to amount to a repudiation, the communication must be an unequivocal statement of a party's inability or unwillingness to perform.
179. Answer C is correct. Under the UCC, when either party to a contract for the sale of goods repudiates the contract with respect to a future performance that will substantially affect the value of that performance, the non-repudiating party may resort to any appropriate remedy for breach. A repudiation is an unequivocal statement of inability or unwillingness to perform. The broker's October 17 statement that he absolutely will not replace the hoarder's coin until the market drops manifests such an intent; therefore the hoarder is entitled to treat his statement as a total breach of contract, even though performance is not due until December 31.
180. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, a contract for the sale of goods for $500 or more must be evidenced by a writing that is signed by the person against whom enforcement is sought. As an exception to the rule, a signed writing will not be required between merchants where a written confirmation of a contract of sale has been sent and the recipient fails to give notice of objection to the confirmation within ten days of its receipt. The contract between the ski-shop operator and the glove manufacturer falls within the UCC statute of frauds, since it is for $600. However, because the ski-shop operator and the glove manufacturer both appear to be merchants and becase the ski-shop operator failed to object to the writing within ten days of its receipt, it appears that the glove manufacturer's faxed memo is a written confirmation that falls within the exception. A and D are incorrect because they are not relevant to the issue raised in the problem. C is incorrect because, although the contract falls within the UCC statute of frauds provision, an exception to the rule applies.
181. Answer D is correct. Under the pre-existing duty rule, the performance of a legal duty owed to the promisor is not consideration, if the duty is not subject to serious dispute. Thus the rule does not apply where the pre-existing duty is one owed to a third party. Therefore the investigator's performance of effecting the return of the painting to the collector was sufficient consideration to support her promise to pay the investigator $25,000 because the pre-existing duty was owed to the insurance company and not to the collector.
182. Answer C is correct. Normally, promises made in recognition of a past benefit conferred (such as the girl's promise to pay the seller $75) are not enforceable because any benefit received by the girl was not bargained-for (the telescope was not given in exchange for the $75). As an exception to the rule, courts will enforce such a promise if the promise reaffirms a promise made pursuant to an earlier bargained-for exchange that was not enforceable at the time because of infancy. Although the girl's earlier promise to pay $100 for the telescope was not enforceable because the girl lacked capacity to contract, her later promise to pay $75 for the telescope is enforceable: first, because the girl no longer lacks capacity to contract; and second, because her subsequent promise falls within the exception to the rule and is enforceable notwithstanding the lack of consideration.
183. Answer D is correct. A promise is not consideration to support a return promise if by its terms, the promisor unconditionally reserves the right of alternative performances (e.g., "I'll buy it if I feel like it."). Such a promise is an illusory promise. The modern approach, however, is to construe a promise wherever possible so as not to be illusory. This can be done, for example, by reading into the promise an obligation to exercise discretion in good faith. So long as the promisor has limited her freedom of action in some way, the court will find consideration sufficient to enforce the return promise. When the woman promised to pay $100 "as soon as I am able," she limited her freedom of action in that she will become obligated to pay the purchase price when it can be demonstrated that she has the ability to pay.
184. Answer D is correct. When a contract right is assigned to a party gratuitously (i.e., without receiving anything in exchange), the assignor retains the power to revoke the assignment if done prior to receiving payment from the obligor, or before the assignee has relied on the assignment or brought suit to enforce it. Revocation may be effected by giving notice of revocation, obtaining performance from the obligor or assigning the same contract right to a different assignee. Until the obligor receives notice of an assignment, the obligor may discharge its contractual duty by rendering performance to the assignor.
185. Answer B is correct. A waiver is an excuse of the nonoccurrence or delay of a condition to fulfill a duty. A waiver does not require consideration unless the condition being waived is a material term of the agreement. When the fixture company and the druggist agreed to postpone their delivery date under the contract from August 15 to August 20, in effect the druggist waived a non-material term of the agreement, and therefore the waiver was enforceable even without consideration. The druggist, therefore, was not justified in refusing to accept or to pay for the cabinets.
186. Answer C is correct. Under the UCC, where the buyer has repudiated a contract the seller may, if resale is done in accordance with UCC rules (which among other things requires giving notice to buyer of any private resale), recover the difference between the contract price and the resale price, plus any incidental damages. In the alternative, the seller may recover the difference between the contract price and the market price at the time for tender. Where the market formula of damages is inadequate, the seller may recover its lost profit on the sale (plus incidental damages), if the seller can demonstrate that it could have profitably made the extra sale had the contract gone forward (i.e., that it is a "lost volume" seller). When the customer repudiated the contract to buy the computer from the store, the store resold the computer to a different buyer for the same contract price. Because the store did not give notice of resale to the customer, it may not rely on the resale formula in calculating damages, but this will have no effect on damages because the resale and the contract price are the same. But because the store can obtain more units than it can sell at retail, this suggests that the store is a "lost volume" seller and therefore can recover the profit it expected to earn on the contract, plus incidental damages.
187. Answer A is correct. Under the doctrine of constructive conditions, a party's contractual obligation is conditioned upon the other party's substantial performance. However, where one party's performance requires a period of time (such as the painter's obligation to paint the barns), that performance is due before the other party is obligated to perform, unless the contract specifies otherwise. In this case, the farmer-painter contract not only failed to provide for progress payments, but it expressly provided for payment only "upon the painter's completion of the work on all three barns." Thus the farmer was not obligated to pay any portion of the contract price until the painter had substantially completed painting the three barns.
188. Answer C is correct. A breaching party is entitled to recover in restitution for the reasonable value of the benefit conferred on the non-breaching party in the way of part performance, less any damages that the non-breaching party suffered due to the breach. Since Painter terminated the contract without justification, it is the breaching party. As a breaching plaintiff, Painter is entitled to recover damages equivalent to the reasonable value of its services in painting the two barns, minus any additional cost to Farmer (above what it would have paid under the contract) of having the third barn painted. A is incorrect because, even if Painter's right to payment was expressly conditioned upon completion, failure to satisfy the condition would not cut off Painter's right to recover in restitution. B is incorrect because a breaching party is not entitled to recover expectation damages (which would include lost profit). D is incorrect because it does not subtract from the restitution recovery any damages for the loss Farmer suffered due to the breach.
189. Answer A is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant for the sale of goods contained in a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable, notwithstanding lack of consideration, for the time stated in the offer (or if no time is stated, for a reasonable time), but in no case may the period of irrevocability exceed three months. If the three-month period lapses and no consideration is given to support an option, then the offer can be revoked at any time before acceptance (or before it lapses). Because the retailer's firm offer was not supported by consideration, it became revocable as of March 15. However, the lawyer accepted the offer before the retailer revoked it and before the offer lapsed (because the offer stated that it would be open for the entire year); therefore, the retailer is bound to a contract to supply the paper.
190. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant for the sale of goods contained in a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable, notwithstanding lack of consideration, for the time stated in the offer, but in no case may the period of irrevocability exceed three months. The retailer is a merchant, because it is a retailer of office supplies. The offer that it sent to the lawyer is a firm offer because it was made by a merchant, is contained in a signed writing, and provides the necessary assurances. The fact that the period of irrevocability exceeds three months does not invalidate the firm offer, but the offer will only be firm for a three-month period. Because, as of January 15, the three-month period had not yet elapsed, the offer is still firm and the retailer is not free to change the prices contained in the December 15 offer.
191.  Answer A is correct. A promise is not consideration to support a return promise if by its terms the promisor unconditionally reserves the right of alternative performances, such as reserving the right to cancel the contract. Such a promise is an illusory promise. However, where a promisor's obligation is conditioned upon the occurrence of an event that is outside of the promisor's control, the mere fact that the obligation is subject to a condition does not render the promise illusory. Because the buyer presumably does not control the actions of its parent company, the fact that the buyer's obligation is conditioned upon the parent company's approval does not render it illusory, since the buyer will be bound once the condition is satisfied, and the occurrence or nonoccurrence of the condition is for the most part outside of the buyer's control.
192. Answer A is correct. The nonoccurrence of an express condition will discharge the contractual obligation of a party who is subject to the condition, unless the nonoccurrence of the condition has been waived by that party. In other words, the effect of nonoccurrence of the condition will depend on whose obligation is subject to it. The express condition in the buyer-shareholder contract relating to the parent company's approval ("our commitment to buy is conditioned from the parent company") affects the buyer's but not the shareholder's obligation. Since the facts suggest that both the buyer and the parent company are ready and willing to consummate the sale, it appears that those parties waived the nonoccurrence of the condition.
193. Answer B is correct. The parol evidence rule bars extrinsic evidence of a prior agreement either where the prior agreement contradicts the terms of a final written agreement or where the prior agreement purports to add to a completely integrated agreement (i.e., one that is intended by the parties to be both the final and exclusive manifestation of the parties' understanding). An exception to the parol evidence rule applies where the extrinsic evidence is offered to prove that the written agreement is to take effect only upon the occurrence of a stated condition (even if the condition is for only one party's benefit). Because the buyer-shareholder agreement will only take effect upon approval by the parent company, extrinsic evidence of this oral understanding is admissible notwithstanding the parol evidence rule.
194. Answer A is correct. Generally, a party that has made a contract with another cannot later disregard the contract and bring suit in restitution against a third person, even if that third person has received a benefit from the contract. For example, where the window company has conferred a benefit (replaced the glass in the window) pursuant to its contract with the tenant, it normally would not be able to recover in restitution from the landlord. However, sometimes recovery in restitution is possible, especially where the third person (the landlord) has not already paid someone else for the work and the claimant's (the window company's) avenues to bring suit to enforce the contract have been exhausted. These and other factors suggest that restitution against the landlord would be just in this case: the tenant is insolvent, the landlord collected on a $2,000 deposit that the tenant forfeited because of the broken window, and the fact that the lease expressly contemplated the tenant fixing any damage to the property suggests that the landlord would have requested the work if given the opportunity.
195. Answer B is correct. Under rules of accord and satisfaction, a debtor may make an offer to settle a dispute by offering a check marked "payment in full." If the notation was sufficiently plain that the creditor should have understood it, then cashing the check without protest amounts to an acceptance of the offer of an accord and satisfaction of the debt. Mere payment of a lesser sum would not be sufficient consideration to support the modification, however, unless the amount owed to the creditor is not liquidated (i.e., genuinely in dispute). Although the tenant made an offer for an accord in satisfaction that the window company accepted when it cashed the check, it was not enforceable because it lacked consideration - the amount of and basis for the debt which the tenant owed to the window company was not in dispute.C and D are incorrect because an accord and satisfaction is not enforceable unless the debt is genuinely in dispute (in any event, cashing a check with a reservation-of-rights notation most likely would not help the window company).
196. Answer D is correct. The UCC rejects the common-law mirror image rule. Under the UCC, a written acceptance of a contract for the sale of goods generally will operate as such even if it states additional or different terms. The additional or different terms, however, will not become part of the contract if they materially alter the contract, unless the offeror expressly agrees to such term. The potential buyer's June 5th letter operated as an acceptance of the vendor's offer, but proposed a later payment date. Because the vendor expressly rejected this proposed term, it did not form part of the contract. Therefore, the potential buyer's June 9th communication operated as a repudiation of an existing agreement to buy 100 QT's.
197. Answer C is correct. Unless the contract provides otherwise, a contractual duty may be delegated to another unless the other party to the contract has a substantial interest in having the original obligor perform. Typically the other party will have such an interest where the contract is a personal services contract involving fancy, taste and judgment. Although the the chef-decorator contract was silent on the issue of assignability, the facts suggest that the chef would have a substantial interest in having the decorator and no other person design the interior of his new restaurant. Therefore, the decorator's delegation of the duty to Newman without the chef's consent amounts to a breach of contract.
198. Answer D is correct. Unless the other party to the contract (the obligee, or the chef) agrees otherwise (e.g., by executing a novation substituting the new obligor and releasing the original obligor of its duty), delegation of a contractual duty does not discharge the obligation of the delegating obligor (the decorator). Therefore, where a duty has been delegated (in this case, the duty to design the interior of the chef's new restaurant) and the delegatee (Newman) breaches the duty, the chef may enforce the contract either against the original obligor (the decorator), or against the delegatee (Newman). The chef may enforce Newman's promise because he is the intended beneficiary of the decorator-Newman contract (under which Newman undertook to design the interior of the chef's new restaurant).
199. Answer C is correct. Where a court finds a contract to be unconscionable at the time that the contract is made, it may refuse to enforce the contract or may enforce the remainder of the contract without the unconscionable term. Unconscionability has been defined as including both procedural and substantive elements: procedural unconscionablity refers to defects in the bargaining process that leave a party with no meaningful choice, and substantive unconscionability refers to contract terms that are unreasonably favorable to the other party.
200. Answer A is correct. A third party acquires standing to enforce a promise only if that party is an intended beneficiary of the promise. A party is an intended beneficiary of a promise if recognition of a right to performance in the beneficiary is appropriate to effectuate the intent of the parties, such as where the promisor knows that the promisee intended to confer a benefit on the beneficiary. The landholder's next-door neighbor lacks standing to enforce the logger-landholder contract because he is neither a party nor an assignee of the landholder's rights under the contract. He also lacks standing as a third party beneficiary because, although the logger's performance of the contract may have benefited the neighbor, the facts do not suggest that this was either party's intent when entering into the contract. Therefore the neighbor is merely an incidental beneficiary.
201. Answer A is correct. The parol evidence rule bars extrinsic evidence of statements made prior to the execution of a final written agreement where the statements contradict the terms of the final written agreement or where the statements purport to add to the agreement where the agreement is completely integrated (i.e., one that is intended by the parties to be both the final and exclusive manifestation of the parties' understanding). However, an exception to the parol evidence rule applies where the extrinsic evidence is offered to interpret an ambiguity in the final written agreement. Because the writing is ambiguous as to whether Boss signed the construction contract on her own behalf or only as representative of Builder, extrinsic evidence of the negotiations between Builder and Land is admissible to interpret the writing.
202. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, unless the contract specifies otherwise, a buyer's obligation to pay is conditioned upon tender of the goods by seller. Tender is effected when the seller makes conforming goods available for the buyer's disposition and gives the buyer notice sufficient to enable the buyer to take delivery. Unless the contract specifies otherwise, the place of delivery is the seller's place of business, and payment is due at the time and place where the buyer is to receive the goods. Because the fixtures company-apartment complex contract is silent with respect to the place of delivery, tender by the fixtures company does not require them to deliver the goods to the apartment complex's place of business, but only to make the goods available at the fixtures company's place of business for the apartment complex to take delivery.
203. Answer D is correct. The UCC defines an installment contract as one that provides for the delivery of goods in separate lots to be separately accepted. When an installment under such a contract is non-conforming, the buyer must accept that installment if the seller gives adequate assurance of the defect's cure, unless the non-conformity substantially impairs the value of the installment and cannot be cured. Because the fixtures company-apartment complex contract is an installment contract and because the fixtures company gave assurances that the defective shipment would be cured within five days, the apartment complex must accept the rest of the shipment and would not be justified in canceling the rest of the contract.
204. Answer B is correct. Damages for breach of contract may be recovered for loss that the breaching party had reason to foresee as a probable result of the breach at the time the contract was made. At the time that the mechanic-textile contract was made, neither party was aware of the textile company's prospective liability under its contract with the knitwear company. Indeed, under ordinary circumstances, the textile company would suffer little or no loss due to a delay in machine repair. Because the mechanic did not have reason to foresee the $25,000 loss the textile company sustained due to the mechanic's breach, the loss is not recoverable as an element of damages.
205. Answer D is correct. A provision in a written contract that specifies that any modification to the agreement is unenforceable unless made in writing and signed by both parties is referred to as a no-oral-modification clause. Such clauses are common in construction contracts (such as the owner-contractor agreement) and may be enforceable unless the contractor has relied on a verbal request for extras (as was done in this case).
206. Answer A is correct. An option promise, which makes an offer irrevocable during the time stated, requires consideration to be enforceable. Even if consideration is not furnished, however, the offer can be accepted by the offeree unless the offer lapses or the offeree receives notice of revocation by the offeror. Because the requested consideration had not been paid, the owner's April 1 letter was not effective as an option at the time that the owner conveyed Greenacre to the citizen. Because the offer was not set to lapse until April 30, the buyer was still free to accept the owner's offer on April 21, unless it could be shown that the buyer received notice that the owner conveyed Greenacre to a third party (which would have the effect of revoking the offer, because it demonstrates the owner's inability to enter into the contract).
207. Answer D is correct. Although breach of a contract for real estate typically would entitle the buyer to specific performance, specific performance is not possible in this case because the property has been sold to the citizen. As a substitute for specific performance, the buyer may recover expectation damages, or damages that are intended to give the injured party the value of the promise. Damages to an injured buyer in a contract for the sale of real estate are usually measured by the difference between the contract price and the market value of the property as of the time that the buyer learned of the breach, plus any incidental or consequential damages. So if the buyer prevails in her suit against the owner, she may recover damages equal to the excess of the market value of Greenacre over the contract price.
208. Answer D is correct. Under the doctrine of anticipatory repudiation, an unequivocal statement of unwillingness or inability to perform a future contractual obligation, if material, may be treated as a total breach of that obligation and give rise to a right to immediately recover damages for that breach. In order to amount to a repudiation, however, the statement must be unequivocal; a statement that merely expresses doubt over a party's ability or willingness to perform is not sufficient. The buyer's October 1 statement to the seller that he did not intend to buy the ranch unless legally obligated to do so may have given rise to insecurity over his willingness to perform the contract, but it was not a repudiation. Nor was it a breach, since performance was not due until December 1
209. Answer C is correct. If the effect of a repudiation is to deprive the non-repudiating party of a substantial part of the contract, it gives the non-repudiating party the right to terminate the contract and pursue remedies for total breach. The repudiating party, however, is still free to retract the repudiation and reinstate the contract if done before the non-repudiating party either materially relies on the repudiation or indicates that she considers the repudiation to be final. Although the buyer attempted to retract his repudiation on December 1, his repudiation was not timely because the seller had already materially relied on the repudiation on October 1 by conveying his ranch to the rancher.
210. Answer C is correct. A party in breach generally is entitled to restitution of any benefit that he has conferred in the way of part performance in excess of any loss to the non-breaching party resulting from the breach. In measuring restitution to the breaching party, the value of the benefit conferred should not exceed the contract price for such services. The subcontractor appears to have entered into a losing contract, since the value of the services rendered up to the time of breach ($150,000) exceeds the contract rate for such services ($100,000). But because the subcontractor was the breaching party, he is not entitled to recover the amount by which the reasonable value of his services exceeded the contract rate; rather he is limited to restitution of what he would have earned on the contract.
211. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, any trade usage that is observed with sufficient regularity in a place, vocation, or trade so as to justify an expectation that the parties contracted with reference to it can be introduced to interpret the parties' agreement, so long as the usage can be reasonably construed as being consistent with the express terms of the contract. Indeed, the UCC defines "agreement" as including the parties' express terms as well as those that are implied by applicable trade usage. Although the written contract between the computer company and the bank called for delivery "on or before July 31," the trade usage that the computer company seeks to introduce suggests that buyers should allow for up to 30-days' leeway beyond that date. If the contract were construed in light of this usage, then the August 15 delivery would not be a breach of the contract and the bank would be in breach for refusing to take delivery on that date. The fact that buyers and sellers typically negate the usage with express language if the delivery date is to be construed strictly suggests that the trade usage is fairly persuasive evidence of the parties' intent.
212. Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, delay or non-delivery by a seller is not a breach of a contract of sale where performance has been made impracticable by the occurrence of an event the non-occurrence of which was a basic assumption of the contract. Excuse on grounds of impracticability will not be available, however, if the event in question was sufficiently foreshadowed so as to fairly be viewed as part of the risks that the seller assumed when entering into the contract. At the time that it undertook to sell the mainframe computer, the computer company was aware that the new technology it was planning to utilize was not yet perfected. Therefore, the fact that this technology turned out to be unreliable is a risk that the computer company should bear, and therefore the computer company's failure to perform the contract should not be excused.
213. Answer B is correct. Under the theory of detrimental reliance, a gratuitous promise may be enforceable notwithstanding lack of consideration if the party making the promise has reason to expect the promise will induce reliance on the part of the promisee, where there has been reliance in fact, and where injustice may be avoided only by enforcement of the promise. The manager's conversation with the company's president gave the insurance company reason to expect that a promise of a lifetime pension would induce reliance on the part of the manager. The manager relied in fact by retiring and spending $30,000 on a trailer. Finally, justice requires enforcement because the manager is no longer eligible for employment.
214. Answer B is correct. A third party acquires standing to enforce a promise only if that party is an intended beneficiary of the promise. A party is an intended beneficiary of a promise if recognition of a right to performance in the beneficiary is appropriate to effectuate the intent of the parties, such as where the promisor knows that the promisee intended to confer a benefit on the beneficiary. The dealership is an intended beneficiary of the mother's promise to her son because both parties understood that the purpose of the contract between them was to confer a benefit on the future seller of the son's minivan. This purpose is clear from the terms of the mother's promise, which was to pay the purchase price "to anyone from whom you buy a minivan."
215. Answer C is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of mutual mistake of fact if the mistake relates to a fundamental assumption of the contract having a material effect on the exchange, unless the court determines that the party asserting mistake should bear the risk of the mistake. The effect of the mistake was material to the value of the exchange in this case, as it reduced the boar's value from $800 to $100. But the boar's fertility is not a fundamental assumption of the contract, because both parties knew that fertility could not yet be determined at the time of sale. In addition, although the breeder could not have investigated whether the boar was fertile at the time of sale, it seems likely that the court nonetheless would find that the breeder implicitly assumed the risk of the boar's infertility, since the breeder was aware of this possibility yet went forward with the purchase.
216. Answer C is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by consideration. Consideration is a return promise or performance which is bargained-for, i.e., sought by the promisor in exchange for the promise and given by the promisee in exchange for the promise. Courts at law do not inquire into the adequacy of consideration as long as the consideration was bargained-for; it is often said that "even a peppercorn will suffice" for consideration. In exchange for the chef's promise to pay the sister $6,000, the sister agreed to convey (and promptly conveyed) to the chef a quitclaim deed for a piece of property. Although the sister was aware that her claim to the property was doubtful, and although the deed contained no warranty of title, her promise to convey the quitclaim deed was sufficient consideration to support the chef's promise.
217. Answer D is correct. Unless the offer is an option, the offeror may revoke an offer at any time before the offer has been accepted. Under the mail box rule, unless the offer specifies otherwise, notice of acceptance is effective upon dispatch in the mail if a mailed acceptance is invited by the terms of the offer. Because the buyer's order was mailed, the seller's properly stamped and addressed letter was invited by the terms of the offer and was therefore effective upon its dispatch on January 7. Because the buyer did not attempt to revoke the offer until January 8, the seller's acceptance created a contract.
218. B is correct. The goal is to put the teacher in the position he or she would have occupied but for the breach. Mitigation expenses can be recovered, if reasonable, even if those particular expenses are not connected to a successful mitigation attempt. A is incorrect because it fails to provide for recovery of the $200 expense incurred in the reasonable, albeit unsuccessful, effort to mitigate damages by applying for the head counselor position at another nearby summer camp. B is correct because it accounts for recovery of the difference between the contract salary ($10,000) and the amount earned at the local summer school ($6,000), PLUS the reasonable expenses incurred in seeking to mitigate after the breach ($200 travel expenses). Both C and D are incorrect because an award of $10,000 or $10,200 would overcompensate the teacher, violating the principle of expectation damages.
219. Answer C is correct. A party to a contract with reasonable grounds to worry that the other party might not perform can request adequate assurances of performance, pursuant to Uniform Commercial Code  2-609. The supplier in this case did so, but the information provided by the manufacturer would be regarded as satisfying the request for an assurance of performance. Therefore the supplier's refusal to continue performance constituted a breach of contract for which the manufacturer is entitled to compensation.
220. D is correct. Because it is a contract for services, this contract is governed by the common law of contracts, and not the Uniform Commercial Code. The prevailing common law view is that a modification to a contract requires consideration to be valid. Here, there was no consideration for the elimination of the contractor's duty to pave the sidewalk. The contractor actually promised to do less than he was under a pre-existing duty to do, and so there was no enforceable modification of the contract. Thus, Answer D is correct.
221. Answer D is correct. When a seller induces a buyer into consenting to a contract by means of a material misrepresentation, the resulting contract is voidable at the election of the buyer. In this case, the buyer asked a direct question about whether the car had ever been in an accident, and the seller gave an answer that a reasonable buyer would take as an assurance that the seller at least had no knowledge of the car's involvement in an accident. The accident history of the car would be material to the buyer's decision. The seller's statement, taken in context, and in light of the seller's active steps to conceal evidence of the damage and repair, would be the legal equivalent of a statement that the car had not been in an accident. The seller actively concealed the damage and would not escape responsibility for misleading the buyer merely because the seller did not answer the question more directlyby saying, for example, "No, the car has never been in an accident."
222. Answer D is correct. An assignee succeeds to a contract as the contract stands at the time of the assignment. In this case, the parties had modified the contract as to the time payment was due. (Note that there was consideration for the promise to accept payments later; the consideration was the debtor's promise to make future payments by cashier's check.) Accordingly, the debtor can insist that the payments be due on the fifth of each month.
223. Answer C is correct. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. The seller is entitled to be put in the position it would have been in if the contract had been performed. The proper measure of damages here is set out in UCC  2-708(2), which provides that a seller is entitled to the profit the seller would have made ($2 per set), plus an allowance for costs reasonably incurred ($8 per set), minus payments received for resale of the goods ($2 per set)here, the salvage. Accordingly, the seller should recover $2 + $8 - $2 = $8 per set.
224. Answer A is correct. The issue here is the interpretation of the term "permanent employment" in the bakery-chef contract. It is well established that "permanent employment" means "employment-at-will" in this context. In an employment-at-will relationship, either party can terminate the agreement at any time, without the termination being considered a breach (unless the termination were to violate an important public policy  which is not the case here). Accordingly, the chef is not liable for breach of contract.
225. D is correct. A promise to pay a debt after the running of the statute of limitations, like the promise in this case, is enforceable without consideration. The enforcement of such a promise is a long-established exception to the requirement that there be consideration to support the enforcement of promises. Thus, answer D is correct and answer B is incorrect.
226. Answer C is correct. The bank had a right to insist on payment of the note, and promised to allow the car dealer to pay the debt in installments. There was no consideration for the bank's promise. There WOULD have been consideration if the dealer had assigned its right to receive payment from the retail buyer; the benefit to the bank would have been the addition of another obligor from whom it could expect payment. There was no assignment here, but rather an instruction to the retail buyer to redirect his payments. Accordingly, the bank may reinstate the due date despite its earlier waiver; it is not bound by the installment agreement and may demand full payment at once.
227. Answer D is correct. Under Uniform Commercial Code  2-206, an offer to buy goods for prompt shipment is accepted when the seller ships the goods. The contract was created in this case when the wholesaler shipped the bottles. The terms consisted of the negotiated terms plus UCC gap-fillers. The subsequent acknowledgment form was an ineffective effort to modify the terms, and these proposed modifications were not accepted by the buyer.
228. B is correct. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. UCC  2-202, which is the UCC embodiment of the parol evidence rule, explicitly provides that, while a final written expression of agreement may not be contradicted by any prior agreement, it may be explained or supplemented "by course of dealing or usage of trade or by course of performance." A course of dealing, when inconsistent with a usage of trade, controls. Therefore, the agreement in this case should be interpreted to embody the course of dealing of the parties, which provided for a 5% discount if payment was made within 15 days. Thus, answer B is correct, and answers A and D are incorrect.
229. Answer A is correct. The victim of a breach is entitled to recover only those damages which could not reasonably have been avoided. Failure to take reasonable steps to mitigate damages defeats only a claim for consequential damages. It does not deprive the victims of the breach of the opportunity to claim damages measured by the difference between contract and market price. Here, the mother and son could have paid just $1,000 more to hire a substitute teacher, and they are entitled to recover this amount  which is the amount necessary to put them in the position they would have been in had the contract been performed.
230. Answer D is correct. Contract law acknowledges the fact that parties sometimes embody obligations which are in most respects separable into a single document or agreement. The rules for damages permit the separable components to be treated separately, which is appropriate here, since the structures were to be built on separate pieces of land, and there were prices related to each distinct property. Another rationale for the divisibility of obligations is to avoid a forfeiture.
231. B is correct. The statute of frauds requires that promises to answer for the debt of another be made in writing. But the memorandum sufficient to satisfy the statute needn't be written at the time of the making of the promise, nor need it be a writing addressed to the promisee. In this case, the mother's letter to her son, the nephew, satisfies the requirement of the statute of frauds. Thus, answer B is correct, and answer C is incorrect.
232. Answer C is correct. The uncle's original letter was not an offer. It was merely a statement indicating a possible interest in selling the truck, and a suggestion as to a price that might be acceptable. It would be regarded, if anything, as a statement soliciting an offer. The nephew's letter, mailed on May 3, constituted an offer to buy the pickup. The uncle's note, mailed on May 6, constituted an acceptance of the nephew's offer, and was effective when mailed. Therefore a contract arose on May 6.
233. D is correct. A duty of performance becomes absolute when conditions to performance are either met or excused. Courts look beyond the words of a condition, and if it is clear that the purpose of the condition was to benefit or protect one of the parties, the language of the condition will be interpreted as if that intention had been embodied in the contract terms. If a condition has not been met, the party who was to have benefited by the condition may choose to either terminate his liability or waive the condition by proceeding under the contract. The party who was to benefit from the condition, however, is the only party who may elect to waive the condition; the performance of the other party is unaffected. In this case, it is clear that the condition was intended for the benefit of the buyer. Because the condition was not met  i.e. the buyer did not secure a loan at an interest rate of 10% or lower, and the condition was intended for the benefit of the buyer, the buyer may elect to either terminate his performance under the contract or continue with his obligation to purchase the parcel. Because the condition of obtaining a loan at an interest rate of 10% or lower was designed to benefit the buyer, not the seller, the seller is still obligated to convey title to the parcel of land.
234. Answer A is correct. When parties attach significantly different meanings to the same material term, the meaning that controls is that "attached by one of them if at the time the agreement was made . . . that party did not know of any different meaning attached by the other, and the other knew the meaning attached by the first party." Restatement (Second) of Contracts  201. In this case, the innkeeper did not know, at the time of contract formation, that the laundry company attached a different meaning to the term "daily service" than its apparent meaning of "every day." Conversely, the laundry company knew the innkeeper thought he was contracting for "every day" service. Accordingly, the innkeeper's understanding of the term will control.
235. Answer A is correct. The carpenter is entitled to the contract price for the work done--$10,000. The other items of damage are unrecoverable either because they were unforeseeable at the time the contract was made or because they were not caused by the breach. No unjust enrichment claim is viable on these facts, because an unjust enrichment claim cannot exceed the contract price when all of the work giving rise to the claim has been done and the only remaining obligation is the payment of the price. This limitation on unjust enrichment claims was recapitulated in the well known case of Oliver v. Campbell, 273 P.2d 15 (Cal. 1954), and represents the current rule in such cases.
236. Answer D is correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the condition occurs or its nonoccurrence is excused. The detective's entitlement to the award was subject to two conditions: the arrest and conviction of the fugitive. The first, the arrest, was satisfied when the detective delivered the fugitive to the authorities. The second, the conviction, did not occur. Its nonoccurrence is excused, however, under the doctrine of prevention, which requires that a party refrain from conduct that prevents or hinders the occurrence of a condition. Here, the authorities hindered the occurrence of the second condition by negotiating a deal with the fugitive and dropping the charges against him.
237. C is the correct answer. Under UCC  2-509(1), a contract that requires the seller to ship goods to the buyer by a third-party carrier is either a shipment or a destination contract. Comment 5 to UCC  2-503 provides that where the contract is otherwise silent, a shipment contract is presumed where the contract requires shipment by a third-party carrier. Since this is a shipment contract, the risk of loss would pass from the seller to the buyer when the seller duly delivered the goods to the third-party carrier.
238. Answer C is correct. An accord occurs when one party to a contract agrees to accept performance different from the performance promised in the original agreement. An accord generally requires consideration, which can be less than that called for in the original contract. Payment of a lesser amount than is due on a valid claim constitutes valid consideration if there is a bona fide dispute as to the amount owed, and the dispute is made in good faith. Satisfaction is the performance of the accord, and it discharges both the accord and the original debt. The architect's agreement to accept a payment for less than the amount due constituted an effective accord, supported by consideration, which was satisfied with the payment of $7,500. Consideration is present because of the good faith dispute as to the amount owed. By compromising, each party surrenders its respective claim as to how much is owed. 
239. Answer A is correct. UCC  2-613 provides that where goods, identified at the time the contract was made, are totally destroyed before the risk of their loss has passed to the buyer and without the fault of either party, the contract is avoided and each party is relieved of its respective obligation to perform. Under UCC  2-501, the goods were identified at the time of contract formation since the parties agreed to the delivery of a specific automobile. In addition, the facts state that the car was destroyed without the fault of either party and before the risk of loss had passed. Therefore the contract is avoided. The avoidance of the contract excused both parties' performance obligation. Since each party's performance is discharged, neither party can assert a valid claim against the other. Thus, Answer A is correct, and Answers B, C, and D are incorrect.
240. Answer C is correct. 
241. Answer C is correct. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  45 provides that where an offer invites acceptance by performance, the offeree's beginning of performance creates an option contract which precludes the offeror from revoking its offer. Here, the offer invited acceptance only by performance--by standing in line for five minutes. The customer had commenced waiting in line and was timing how long he had been standing in line. At that point, the customer had commenced performance, and the bank could not revoke its offer. Thus, Answer C is correct and Answer A is incorrect.

242. Answer A is correct. UCC  2-206(1)(b) provides that a seller's shipment of nonconforming goods with a notice of accommodation does not constitute an acceptance and breach, but rather a counteroffer, which the buyer is free to either accept or reject. Section 2-206(1)(b) also provides, however, that a contract calling for prompt shipment can be accepted by either a prompt promise to ship or by the prompt shipment of goods. The seller accepted the buyer's offer by a promise to ship when he mailed his June 2 letter. UCC  2-601 allows a buyer to accept or reject nonconforming goods and in either event recover damages. The buyer has an action for breach since the computer shipped on June 3 failed to conform to the contract formed on June 2 when the seller mailed his letter of acceptance.
243. Answer D is correct. The general rule is that a repudiating party may retract its repudiation. An attempted retraction is ineffective, however, if it occurs after the injured party has materially changed its position in reliance on the repudiation. The buyer's purchase of the second tract of land constituted such a change in position and thus terminated the seller's ability to retract his repudiation. Thus, Answer D is correct and Answer A is incorrect.
244. Answer A is correct. The law supports the settlement of debts and claims. However, consideration is required for a settlement to be enforceable. Under the pre-existing duty rule, the creditor's promise to forbear from suing to collect was not supported by consideration from the debtor since the amount due was liquidated and the debtor promised to do nothing more than he was already obligated to do. The creditor's promise here was not supported by consideration from the debtor since it allowed for payment of an undisputed amount, $1,000, after the time for payment of the debt had passed. Thus, Answer A is correct.
245. Answer B is correct. The homeowner cannot recover for the builder's nonperformance based on the oral condition to the contract. Normally, the parol evidence rule bars from evidence prior or contemporaneous negotiations and agreements that contradict, modify, or vary contractual terms if the contract is intended to be a complete and final expression of the parties' agreement. However, the condition exception to the parol evidence rule permits the admission of extrinsic evidence to establish an oral condition to the parties' performance under the contract. Here, the builder's acceptance of the contract was conditioned on the rejection of his bid on another project. This condition was not written in the contract. However, as explained above, this oral condition will be allowed into evidence as an exception to the parol evidence rule. Because the builder's bid was accepted on the other project, the condition in the contract did not occur, and the builder will not be in breach of the contract. Thus, Answer B is correct, and Answer D is incorrect.
246. Answer A is correct. The manufacturer does not have an action for the contract price, which is available under three circumstances, none of which is present here: (i) where the buyer has accepted the goods, (ii) the goods are lost or damaged within a commercially reasonable time after the risk of loss has passed to the buyer, or (iii) the seller is unable after reasonable efforts to resell the goods.
247. Answer C is correct. A contract that violates a state statute may be declared unenforceable on grounds of public policy. Where, however, the contract violates a policy that was intended for the benefit of a contracting party seeking relief, the contract may be enforceable in order to avoid frustrating the policy behind the statute. Accordingly, public policy would not prevent the enforcement of the contract by those within the class of persons, including the homeowner, that the statute was intended to protect. Thus, Answer C is correct.
248. Answer B is correct. Where one party's performance requires a period of time, that party must complete its performance before the other party is required to perform unless the language or circumstances indicate otherwise. Here the parties did not provide for progress payments. Therefore the builder was required to complete performance before the homeowner was obligated to pay for any of the work the builder had performed. The builder's abandonment of the job constituted a wrongful repudiation giving the homeowner an action for breach. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  234, 235. Thus, Answer B is correct.
249. Answer A is correct. The collector rightfully rejected the goods. However, the collector's exercise of ownership of the painting, after his original rejection, caused the gallery to otherwise dispose of the goods. Therefore, the collector's conduct in selling the painting was wrongful against the gallery and constituted conversion. The gallery should not be limited to the contract price for determining the value of the painting since the remedy for conversion is the fair market value of the goods at the time of the conversion. UCC  2-601 cmt. 2, 1-103. The collector's sale of the painting for $120,000 provides credible evidence of the painting's fair market value at the time of the conversion. In addition, the gallery is not a lost volume seller since the painting was a one-of-a-kind good, which means the gallery was operating at full capacity. Thus, Answer A is correct, and Answers B, C, and D are incorrect.
250. Answer D is correct. An anticipatory repudiation occurs when a party unequivocally manifests an intention not to perform or an inability to perform. Expressions of doubt as to a party's ability to perform or a mere request by a party (excavator) that the other party (contractor) consider modifying their agreement would not constitute an anticipatory repudiation. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  250 cmt. 
251. Answer C is correct. Generally, parties who make a contract for an intended beneficiary retain the right to modify the duty by a subsequent contract. The power to modify is terminated, however, when the intended beneficiary materially changes his position in reliance on the promise. The clerk was an intended beneficiary of the promise between the accountant and the bookkeeper since their promise clearly intended to benefit the clerk. The clerk materially changed his position in reliance on the promise when he purchased a retirement home. The clerk's material reliance terminated the ability of the accountant and the bookkeeper to modify their duty. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  302, 311. Thus, Answer C is correct, and Answers A and B are incorrect.
252. Answer B is correct. Assuming other requirements are met, an aggrieved party is entitled to recover consequential damages only if they were reasonably foreseeable to the breaching party. The textile company did not inform the mechanic of its contract with the customer, and thus the mechanic had no reason to know what impact his failure to timely perform would have on the textile company's relationship with its customer. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  351.
253. Answer C is correct. UCC  2-311 imposes a duty on a buyer to cooperate by specifying the assortment of goods where the contract fails to so provide. A seller can treat the buyer's failure to specify as a breach by failure to accept the contracted-for goods only if the buyer's failure to specify materially impacts the seller's performance. The seller had an available supply of candy bars and had entered into no new contracts. These facts support the conclusion that the buyer's failure to select did not materially impact the seller's performance. Therefore the seller unjustifiably refused to accept the buyer's selection of goods. UCC  2-311.
254. Answer B is correct. A misrepresentation of fact that induces assent provides a basis for avoidance of a contract. A misrepresentation is defined as a statement that is not in accord with the facts. Affirmative conduct that is "intended or known likely to prevent another from learning a fact is equivalent to an assertion that the fact does not exist" and constitutes a misrepresentation. The homeowner's painting over the water damage constituted affirmative conduct intended to prevent the buyer from learning of the water damage and the leaking roof. Therefore, the buyer's assent was induced by a misrepresentation, and the buyer can avoid the contract.
255. Answer B is correct. UCC  2-612(2) provides that a buyer may reject any installment that is nonconforming if the nonconformity substantially impairs the value of that installment and it cannot be cured. The delivery of less than the contracted-for amount constituted a nonconformity that substantially impaired the value of the installment since the wholesaler could not deliver the remaining 5,000 pounds until the day after the bakery needed the flour to fulfill its weekly baking needs, and the bakery was entitled to reject the tender.
256. Answer B is correct. The engineer is not in breach. The incapacity of a particular person to perform his or her duty under a contract renders the performance impracticable and operates as an excuse for nonperformance. The parties contracted for the engineer to personally provide on-site services. Therefore, the engineer's continued ability to perform those services was a basic assumption of the contract, and his nonperformance is excused.
257. Answer C is correct. The rules of contract law limit the recoverability of damages for a breach of contract. According to the Restatement (Second) of Contracts  351, a non-breaching party is entitled to recover damages that the party in breach "had reason to foresee as a probable result of the breach" when the parties entered into the contract. Reason to foresee can arise from circumstances that result in the breaching party having had actual or constructive knowledge of the loss that might result from the breach. Therefore, the neighbor's failure to specifically inform the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm does not determine whether the loss was foreseeable. Thus, Answer B is incorrect. In this case, the rancher's experience and the frequency of hailstorms in the fall combined to make the loss resulting from the rancher's breach foreseeable. Thus, Answer C is correct.
258. D is the correct answer. 
259. Answer B is correct. The parties' new contract adopted the terms of their previous contract, which included the 15% fee. Evidence of express terms is given greater weight than evidence of trade usage. Therefore the express term, the 15% fee, is controlling because a court would give it greater weight than the evidence of trade usage, the 10% fee.
260. Answer C is correct. The presumed wide availability of credit limits a borrower's recovery to the additional cost of obtaining a loan from another lender. In the typical case, a lender has no reason, at the time of contract formation, to foresee that the borrower will not be able to obtain a substitute loan. Therefore, the borrower's lost profit is considered unforeseeable at the time of contract formation. Here, the merchant is entitled to recover the difference in cost over time between a loan at 10% and one at 8%. Thus, Answer C is correct and Answer D is incorrect.
261. Answer C is correct. Because the buyer's offer was silent as to arbitration, the arbitration provision in the seller's acknowledgment should be characterized as an additional term. Under UCC  2-207(2), an additional term is considered a proposal for addition to the contract. Section 2-207(2) also provides that an additional term becomes a term of the parties' contract unless certain specified circumstances are present. One such circumstance is where an additional term materially alters the parties' contract. Because none of the other circumstances appear applicable here, the arbitration provision will be considered a term of the contract if the seller can successfully argue that the provision did not materially alter the parties' contract. Thus, Answer C is correct.
262. Answer C is correct. The patient cannot recover because she is an incidental beneficiary rather than an intended third-party beneficiary. In a typical third-party situation, X (the promissee) contracts with Y (the promisor) that Y will render some performance to Z (the third-party beneficiary). Only an intended beneficiary has contractual rights, not incidental beneficiaries. Factors to consider when determining if a party is an intended beneficiariary include: (i) whether the beneficiary is identified in the contract, (ii) whether the beneficiary receives performance directly from the promisor, or (iii) whether there is some relationship between the intended beneficiary and the promisee that indicates an intent to benefit the intended beneficiary. Here, the circumstances fail to indicate that the hospital intended to give the patient the benefit of the promised performance. Thus, Answer C is correct and Answer B is incorrect.
263. Answer B is correct. The parties entered into an enforceable requirements contract under UCC  2-306. Although the terms of the parties' agreement granted the supplier the discretion to increase the published prices during the year, the contract did not grant the supplier the right to discontinue the promised 10% discount off the published prices. The supplier's refusal to give the company the 10% discount was a breach of the contract's agreed-upon terms. Thus, Answer B is correct.
264. Answer D is correct. The adequate assurance doctrine requires that a party respond to a demand for adequate assurance only if the demand is reasonable and justified. A demand is justified if the party making the demand has reasonable grounds for insecurity with respect to the other party's potential performance. The facts in this case state that the general contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor's ability to perform. Therefore, the general contractor was unjustified in demanding adequate assurance, and the subcontractor properly refused to respond to the demand. See UCC  2-609. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect.
265. Answer D is correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the condition occurs or its nonoccurrence is excused. According to the Restatement (Second) of Contracts, the duty of good faith is implied inasmuch as "every contract imposes upon each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its enforcement." The duty of good faith imposed an obligation on the buyer to make reasonable efforts to secure bank financing. Accordingly, the failure of the condition (in this case, the bank financing commitment) to occur did not discharge the buyer's performance obligation. Thus, Answer D is correct.
266. Answer B is correct. The retail outlet effectively delegated to the computer service company the outlet's duty of performance owed to the bank. However, absent consent by the obligee (the bank) or performance by the delegatee (the computer service company), an effective delegation does not relieve the delegating party (the retail outlet) of its duty to the obligee. When the computer service company purchased the service contracts, the bank also became an intended beneficiary of the computer service company's promise to the retail outlet. The computer service company expressly agreed with the retail outlet to perform the outlet's obligation to the bank, making the bank an intended beneficiary of that obligation. Thus, both the retail outlet and the computer service company remain liable to the bank.
267. Answer D is correct. This transaction involves a sale of goods and is subject to UCC Article 2. Under Article 2, evidence of trade usage that can be construed as reasonably consistent with an agreement's express language is admissible to interpret or supplement an agreement. The majority rule provides that trade usage will be viewed as consistent with an agreement's express language unless the usage completely negates specific express language. The trade usage allowing for a variation of up to 5% does not completely negate but rather qualifies the express language calling for the delivery of 100,000 bushels of wheat. Thus, Answer D is correct and Answer A is incorrect. Answer B is incorrect because the rule stated above applies regardless of whether the written agreement is a complete integration.
268. Answer A is correct. The lender's offer requested that the borrower accept by making a return promise. The borrower's response to the lender's offer was a statement of intention, which was not sufficiently promissory to constitute acceptance of an offer and create a binding contract. The mutual assent required for an enforceable executory accord did not arise from the January 10 conversation between the lender and the borrower. Therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer on January 11. Thus, Answer A is correct and Answer B is incorrect.
269. Answer C is correct. The protection of the restitutionary interest restores to a party any benefit conferred to the other party. Restatement (Second) of Contracts  344(c). Under UCC  2-711(3), on a rightful rejection, a buyer is entitled to a return of any payments made on the goods. Thus Answer C is correct, and Answer D is incorrect.
270. Answer B is correct. The widget salesman's letter was not an appropriate method of acceptance because the pharmaceutical salesman's letter offer requested performance; thus, the mail box rule would not apply to make the acceptance effective upon dispatch, and the pharmaceutical salesman's offer remained freely revocable. A is incorrect because the letter could not be reasonably construed as the beginning of performance. C is incorrect because the offer called for a unilateral acceptance. D is also incorrect because the offer did not invite the widget salesman to choose between acceptance by promise and acceptance by performance.
271. Answer C is correct. When the buyer accepted the owner's offer to buy lot 101 on May 2, he implicitly rejected the offer to purchase the remaining lots, and his rejection terminated his power of acceptance as to the remaining lots. A is incorrect because at the time the contract was made on May 2, the owner either had reason to know that he did not have good title to the remaining lots or he was at fault in not knowing, and thus his performance would not be excused as impossible or impracticable. B is incorrect because both parties were mistaken as to the owner's interest in the property. D is incorrect because, although the law does imply a condition into the agreement that the owner convey marketable title, the owner's failure to do so allows the buyer to elect to either rescind or to take title with the defect and to pay the full purchase price.
272. Answer B is correct. Under the doctrine of anticipatory repudiation, an unequivocal statement of unwillingness or inability to perform a future contractual obligation, if material, may be treated as a total breach of that obligation. Once a repudiation occurs, the non-repudiating party is discharged from any further performance under the contract and may immediately recover damages for total breach. When a contractor is injured due to an owner's total breach of a construction contract, the contractor generally can recover his expected profit on the entire contract along with any labor and material expenses incurred up until the time that he learned of the owner's breach, minus any progress payments made by the owner. Although the landowner repudiated the agreement just after the second $2,500 progress payment became due, the builder would be entitled to obtain as damages not only the progress payment but also his expected profit on the entire contract. Because these damages likely would exceed $2,500, statement I is incorrect. The builder is also entitled to withhold his remaining performance under the contract. Therefore statement II is correct.
273. Answer B is correct. The father is entitled to damages representing the reasonable cost of completion, which is an amount equal to what another contractor would require to complete performance minus what the father would have paid to the contractor to complete performance.
274. Answer C is correct. Where an offer is for a unilateral contract (an offer that seeks only performance and does not seek a return promise) and the offeree begins the invited performance, the offeror may not revoke the promise. This rule is intended to protect the substantial reliance of the offeree that results when accepting an offer for a unilateral contract by performance over a period of time. Because the faculty's offer of $500 sought only performance (winning the competition) and did not seek a commitment to perform, it was an offer for a unilateral contract. Once the student commenced performance, the faculty was not free to revoke the offer, so its attempted revocation on April 1 was ineffective.
275. Answer D is correct. Unless an option contract is created, the offeror retains the power to revoke an offer at any time prior to acceptance. In order to create an option, the offeror must manifest an intent not to revoke the offer during the time stated, and the option promise must be supported by consideration. The promise that the man made to the purchaser on March 1 was not an option promise because it was not supported by consideration. The man's March 12 statement that the car had been sold was effective as a revocation, even though untrue, because it manifested the man's intention not to enter into the contract, and it was made prior to the purchaser's attempted acceptance.
276. Answer B is correct. An option promise is a promise not to revoke an offer to enter into a contract, and it requires separate consideration to be enforceable. When a party exercises an option, that party in effect accepts the offer and binds himself to the contract. The friend paid the neighbor $10,000 in exchange for the neighbor's promise not to revoke his offer to sell. When the friend exercised the option, he became obligated to purchase Broadacres for $325,000, and his failure to consummate his purchase entitled the neighbor to pursue remedies for breach of contract. Specific performance generally will be awarded for breach of contract where an award of monetary damages would be inadequate or impracticable. Contracts involving the sale of land historically have been regarded as unique, and therefore equitable relief traditionally has been allowed, even where the breaching party is the buyer. Because the obligation that the neighbor seeks to enforce is the friend's obligation to purchase Broadacres (a contract to purchase land), specific performance will be awarded.
277. Answer D is correct. Although the wholesale distributor is specifically named in the contract, there is no relationship with the wholesale distributor from which it could be inferred that the financier-investor and the winery had the wholesale distributor's interest in mind when they entered into their agreement. The language of the contract also expresses no intent to vest an independent right of enforcement in the wholesale distributor, "if feasible, the wine would be distributed ... only through the wholesale distributor."
278. Answer C is correct. Because the promises were exchanged when the teenager was a minor, he had voidable rights under the contract. His July 1 letter was written upon his eighteenth birthday, and because agreements cannot be partially disaffirmed, this letter amounted to a disaffirmance of the prior agreement. Thus, the only amount the dealer can receive is the amount now offered by the teenager.
279. Answer A is correct. The condition in the contract requiring a certificate of final approval was withheld in bad faith and will be excused. It was not withheld because the house did not meet specifications, but rather to induce the builder to lower her fee because the housing market had fallen during the ten-month period during which the builder was performing under the contract.
280. Answer C is correct. Restitution generally is not available to recover a benefit conferred pursuant to a valid and binding contract. When determining whether a contract may be unenforceable on grounds of unconscionability, the fairness of the exchange is determined as of the time that the contract was entered into. Although the price of $20,000 may seem unfair as of October 2, the risk that the 84-year-old man would die within a short period was one that he assumed when he entered into the contract on September 25.
281. B is correct. The mother was not a party to the contract between the sister and brother, so the only way for her to have contractual rights is if she was the intended beneficiary of the contract. To determine whether the mother was an intended beneficiary, she must satisfy three elements: 1) she must receive the performance directly, 2) she must be named in the contract, and 3) she must have some relationship with the parties to the contract. In this case, the contract between the sister and brother provided that they would each pay $500 to their mother each month. The mother was named, she directly receives the payments, and she has a relationship with the parties. The mother is an intended beneficiary and thus may prevail in a suit against the brother for April's $500 payment.
282. Answer A is correct. A court may grant specific performance of a contractual obligation where an award of monetary damages is inadequate - in other words, where damages would not be a just or reasonable substitute for performance of the promise, or where calculation of adequate damages would be impracticable. Because the brother promised to pay support to their mother and not to the sister, calculating damages to measure the sister's injury for breach of that promise would be impossible to ascertain.
283. Answer D is correct. Under the mail box rule, an acceptance is effective upon dispatch in the mail if a mailed acceptance is invited by the terms of the offer. However, if the offer specifies otherwise, the language of the offer controls. Although the retailer's offer stated that the apartment complex's acceptance must be received on or before March 20, the apartment complex's attempted acceptance did not arrive until the 21st and therefore it was ineffective.
284. Answer A is correct. Under the UCC, appropriate conduct between the parties may be sufficient to show agreement to a contract for the sale of goods, even if an exchange of correspondence between the parties makes the exact moment of contract formation indeterminate. Nirvana and the widow agreed to enter into a contract for the sale of one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan if they could reach agreement on a price within a week. Five days later, each party received a letter from the other proposing the exact same terms. Although it is unclear which communication was the offer and which was the acceptance, the exchange of correspondence proposing identical terms demonstrates that the condition was met and that the parties' conduct manifested agreement.
285. Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's Statute of Frauds, a contract for the sale of goods for $500 or more is not enforceable unless there is a writing sufficient to indicate that a contract has been made, which is signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. The writing need not contain all of the terms of the contract, but it is only enforceable to the extent of the quantity term stated in the writing. The contract between the manufacturer and the retailer falls within the UCC Statute of Frauds because it is for over $500. However, when dealing with two merchants, there is something called the Confirmatory Memo Rule. In contracts between merchants, if one party, within a reasonable time after an oral understanding has been reached, sends a written confirmation to the other party that binds the sender, it will satisfy the Statute of Frauds requirements against the recipient as well, if the recipient knew of the memo's contents and failed to object to the memo's contents in writing within 10 days of when the confirmatory memo was received.
286. Answer D is correct. A party may avoid a contract to which the party's assent was induced by fraud. The time period within which a party may avoid a contract due to misrepresentation does not begin to run until that party either knows or has reason to know of the misrepresentation. In this case, the buyer's eight-month delay will not preclude him from avoiding the contract because he did not learn of the misrepresentation until eight months after the parties entered into the contract; the buyer immediately sought to avoid the contract after learning of the misrepresentation. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect.
287. Answer D is correct. A contract is voidable if the elements of undue influence--undue susceptibility to pressure and excessive pressure--are established. The undue susceptibility element can be established either by the circumstances (e.g., the mother's illness) or the existence of a confidential relationship (such as a parent-child relationship). The following facts support a finding of excessive pressure: the daughter's statement that she might not visit her mother, the daughter pressuring her mother to sell the property while her mother was in a hospice facility, the mother assenting without obtaining independent advice, and the mother's susceptibility to pressure.
