National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 1 - Constitutional Law

A  federal  civil  statute  prohibited  fishing  in  any  body  of  water  that  was  located  within  a  national  park  and  contained  a
particular  endangered  species  of  fish.  The  statute  authorized  federal  district  courts  to  enjoin  knowing  violators  of  the
statute  from  the  use  of all  national  park  facilities  for  up to  two years. After  a  vacationer  was found  by a  federal  district
court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction against his use of all national park facilities for
two years. The vacationer appealed.

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly made the repeal
effective  retroactive  to  a  date  one  month  before  the  vacationer's  violation  of  the  statute.  The  law  also  directly  cited  the
vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions"
such as that rendered against the vacationer.

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against him. Counsel for
the  United  States  has  objected,  contending  that,  as  applied  to  the  specific  case  pending  in  the  appeals  court,  the  law  is
unconstitutional.

How should the appeals court rule?

(A) For  the  United  States,  because  Congress  defied  the  constitutional  prohibition  against  ex  post  facto  laws  by

retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.

(B) For  the  United  States,  because  the  law's  citation  to  the  vacationer's  case  demonstrates  that  Congress  intended  to
compel  the  appeals  court  to  reach  a  particular  result  and,  therefore,  sought  to  exercise  judicial  powers  vested
exclusively in the courts by Article III.

(C) For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal courts and to

require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.

(D) For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes and to direct

that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet been rendered.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 2 - Real Property

A  man  obtained  a  bank  loan  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  an  office  building  that  he  owned.  After  several  years,  the  man
conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the woman was not recorded.
The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage payments for several years.

Subsequently,  the  woman  stopped  making  payments  on  the  mortgage  loan,  and  the  bank  eventually  commenced
foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the foreclosure sale, a third party
purchased  the  building  for  less  than  the  outstanding  balance  on  the  mortgage  loan.  The  bank  then  sought  to  collect  the
deficiency from the woman.

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman?

(A) No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.

(B) No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.

(C) Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.

(D) Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 3 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides: "The sale of an alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 21 is a misdemeanor."

A woman who was 20 years old, but who looked older and who had a very convincing fake driver's license indicating that
she was 24, entered a convenience store, picked up a six-pack of beer, and placed the beer on the counter. The store clerk,
after examining the driver's license, rang up the purchase.

Both the clerk and the store owner have been charged with violating the state statute.

If the court finds both the clerk and the store owner guilty, what standard of liability must the court have interpreted  the
statute to impose?

(A) Strict liability only.

(B) Vicarious liability only.

(C) Both strict and vicarious liability.

(D) Either strict or vicarious liability.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 4 - Evidence

A businessman  was the target  of a grand jury investigation  into the alleged  bribery  of American  and foreign  officials  in
connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press conference that no bribes had
been  offered  or  taken  and  that  no  laws  of  any  kind  had  been  broken.  The  grand  jury  issued  a  subpoena  requiring  the
businessman  to  testify  before  it.  The  businessman  moved  to  quash  the  subpoena  on the  ground  that  his  testimony  could
tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled
statements  before  the  grand  jury  could  not  be  used  against  him  in  any  state  or  federal  prosecution).  The  businessman
responded that the grant of use immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.

Should the businessman be compelled to testify?

(A) No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.

(B) No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the bribery scheme.

(C) Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability  and therefore  his Fifth Amendment rights are not at

stake.

(D) Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 5 - Constitutional Law

The  United  States  had  long  recognized  the  ruling  faction  in  a  foreign  country  as  that  country's  government,  despite  an
ongoing civil  war.  Throughout  the civil  war,  the  ruling  faction  controlled  the  majority  of the  country's  territory,  and  the
United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the foreign country
and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States within 10 days. The ambassador
filed  an  action  in  federal  district  court  for  a  declaration  that  the  ruling  faction  was  the  true  government  of  the  foreign
country  and  for  an  injunction  against  enforcement  of  the  President's  order  that  she  leave  the  United  States.  The  United
States has moved to dismiss the action.

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.

(B) The action is not ripe.

(C) The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.

(D) The ambassador does not have standing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 6 - Torts

An  assistant  to  a  famous  writer  surreptitiously  observed  the  writer  as  the  writer  typed  her  private  password  into  her
personal computer in order to access her email. On several subsequent occasions in the writer's absence, the assistant read
the writer's email messages and printed out selections from them.

The assistant later quit his job and earned a considerable amount of money by leaking information to the media that he had
learned  from  reading  the  writer's  email  messages.  All  of  the  information  published  about  the  writer  as  a  result  of  the
assistant's conduct was true and concerned matters of public interest.

The  writer's  secretary  had  seen  the  assistant  reading  the  writer's  emails  and  printing  out  selections,  and  she  has  told  the
writer what she saw. The writer now wishes to sue the assistant for damages. At trial, the writer can show that the media
leaks could have come only from someone reading her email on her personal computer.

Can the writer recover damages from the assistant?

(A) No, because the assistant was an invitee on the premises.

(B) No, because the published information resulting from the assistant's conduct was true and concerned matters of public

interest.

(C) Yes, because the assistant invaded the writer's privacy.

(D) Yes, because the published information resulting from the assistant's conduct constituted publication of private facts

concerning the writer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 7 - Evidence

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television was a gift
from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the friend told her neighbor
that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible?

(A) No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the statement.

(C) Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.

(D) Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 8 - Contracts

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for $10,000. Two
days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition that you provide me with a
warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the supplier called the customer and stated
that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the freezer to another buyer for $11,000.

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.

(B) No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.

(C) Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of merchantability was

already implied in the sale.

(D) Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 9 - Real Property

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000 debt. A statute
in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing, be a lien on the real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered."

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed the remaining
$180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after the closing, the deed to the
man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated  judicial foreclosure  proceedings. After
receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its judgment lien declared to be the first
lien on the land.

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted?

(A) No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.

(B) No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.

(C) Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.

(D) Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 10 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman charged with murder has entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. At her trial, in which the questions of
guilt  and  sanity  are  being  tried  together,  the  evidence  shows that  the  woman  stalked  the  victim  for  several  hours  before
following him to an isolated hiking trail where she shot and killed him. Expert witnesses for the defense have testified that
the woman knew that killing was illegal and wrong, but that she suffered from a serious mental illness that left her in the
grip of a powerful and irresistible compulsion to kill the victim.

If  the  jury  believes  the  testimony  of  the  defense  experts,  under  what  circumstances  could  the  jury  properly  acquit  the
woman of murder?

(A) Only if the jurisdiction follows the M'Naghten test for insanity.

(B) Only if the jurisdiction follows the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity.

(C)

If the jurisdiction follows either the M'Naghten or the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity.

(D) Even if the jurisdiction has abolished the insanity defense.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 11 - Evidence

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The day after the
fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official police report. At trial,
the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement attributed to the eyewitness, who
is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."

Should the court admit the statement from the report?

(A) No, unless the entire report is introduced.

(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(C) Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.

(D) Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 12 - Torts

A man sued his neighbor for defamation based on the following facts:

The neighbor told a friend that the man had set fire to a house in the neighborhood. The friend, who knew the man well,
did not believe the neighbor's allegation, which was in fact false. The friend told the man about the neighbor's allegation.
The man was very upset by the allegation, but neither the man nor the neighbor nor the friend communicated the allegation
to anyone else.

Should the man prevail in his lawsuit?

(A) No, because the friend did not believe what the neighbor had said.

(B) No, because the man cannot prove that he suffered pecuniary loss.

(C) Yes, because the man was very upset at hearing what the neighbor had said.

(D) Yes,  because  the  neighbor  communicated  to  the  friend  the  false  accusation  that  the  man  had  committed  a  serious

crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 13 - Contracts

A seller sent an email to a potential buyer, offering to sell his house to her for $150,000. The buyer immediately responded
via email, asking whether the offer included the house's front porch swing. The seller emailed back: "No, it doesn't." The
buyer then ordered a front porch swing and emailed back to the seller: "I accept your offer." The seller refused to sell the
house to the buyer, claiming that the offer was no longer open.

Is there a contract for the sale of the house?

(A) No, because the buyer's initial email was a counteroffer.

(B) No, because the offer lapsed before the buyer accepted.

(C) Yes, because the buyer relied on the offer by ordering the swing.

(D) Yes, because the buyer's initial email merely asked for information.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 14 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A valid  warrant  was issued  for  a  woman's  arrest.  The police  learned  that  a  person  with  the  woman's  name  and  physical
description lived at a particular address. When police officers went to that address, the house appeared to be unoccupied:
the  windows  and  doors  were  boarded  up  with  plywood,  and  the  lawn  had  not  been  mowed  for  a  long  time.  A  neighbor
confirmed that the house belonged to the woman but said that the woman had not been there for several months.

The officers  knocked repeatedly on the front door and shouted, "Police! Open up!" Receiving no response, they tore the
plywood off the door, smashed through the door with a sledgehammer, and entered the house. They found no one inside,
but they did find an illegal sawed-off  shotgun. Upon her return to the house a few weeks later, the woman was charged
with unlawful possession of the shotgun.

The woman has moved to suppress the use of the shotgun as evidence at her trial.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the officers acted in good faith under the authority of a valid warrant.

(B) No,  because  the  officers  did  not  violate  any  legitimate  expectation  of  privacy  in  the  house  since  the  woman  had

abandoned it.

(C) Yes, because the officers entered the house by means of excessive force.

(D) Yes, because the officers had no reason to believe that the woman was in the house.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 15 - Constitutional Law

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the employee reside
and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for unpaid wages within 10 days
of filing.

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition in
federal  bankruptcy  court.  In  the  bankruptcy  proceeding,  the  employer  sought  to  stay  further  proceedings  in  the  unpaid
wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files a federal bankruptcy petition receives
an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and state courts. No other federal laws apply.

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the imposition of a stay
of the unpaid wages claim in the state court?

(A) Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.

(B) Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.

(C) Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.

(D) Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 16 - Real Property

A  husband  and  wife  acquired  land  as  common  law  joint  tenants  with  right  of  survivorship.  One  year  later,  without  his
wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband subsequently died.

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land?

(A) No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other joint tenant.

(B) No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.

(C) Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.

(D) Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 17 - Evidence

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant. The plaintiff was
unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in an ambulance.

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's husband if
he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two hours ago by a driver
who went right through the intersection without looking."

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible?

(A) No, because it relates an opinion.

(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(C) Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.

(D) Yes, as an excited utterance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 18 - Contracts

In a telephone conversation, a jewelry maker offered to buy 100 ounces of gold from a precious metals company if delivery
could be made within 10 days. The jewelry maker did not specify a price, but the market price for 100 ounces of gold at the
time of the conversation was approximately $65,000. Without otherwise responding, the company delivered the gold six
days later.

In  the  meantime,  the  project  for  which  the  jewelry  maker  planned  to  use  the  gold  was  canceled.  The  jewelry  maker
therefore refused to accept delivery of the gold or to pay the $65,000 demanded by the company.

Is there an enforceable contract between the jewelry maker and the company?

(A) No, because the parties did not agree on a price term.

(B) No, because the parties did not put their agreement in writing.

(C) Yes, because the absence of a price term does not defeat the formation of a valid contract for the sale of goods where

the parties otherwise intended to form a contract.

(D) Yes, because the company relied on an implied promise to pay when it delivered the gold.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 19 - Real Property

A  landlord  leased  a  building  to  a  tenant  for  a  10-year  term.  Two  years  after  the  term  began,  the  tenant  subleased  the
building  to  a  sublessee  for  a  5-year  term.  Under  the  terms  of  the  sublease,  the  sublessee  agreed  to  make  monthly  rent
payments to the tenant.

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those payments to the
landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the sublessee for the unpaid rent.

There is no applicable statute.

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.

(B) The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.

(C) The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.

(D) The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the landlord.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 20 - Torts

A  manufacturing  plant  emitted  a  faint  noise  even  though  the  owner  had  installed  state-of-the-art  sound  dampeners.  The
plant operated only on weekdays and only during daylight hours. A homeowner who lived near the plant worked a night
shift and could not sleep when he arrived home because of the noise from the plant. The other residents in the area did not
notice the noise.

Does the homeowner have a viable nuisance claim against the owner of the plant?

(A) No, because the homeowner is unusually sensitive to noise during the day.

(B) No, because the plant operates only during the day.

(C) Yes, because the noise is heard beyond the boundaries of the plant.

(D) Yes, because the operation of the plant interferes with the homeowner's quiet use and enjoyment of his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 21 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman was subpoenaed to appear before a grand jury. When she arrived, she was taken into the grand jury room to be
questioned. She answered preliminary questions about her name and address. She was then asked where she had been at a
certain  time  on  a  specified  night  when  a  murder  had  occurred.  Before  answering  the  question,  the  woman  said  that  she
wanted  to  consult  her  attorney,  who  was  waiting  outside  the  grand  jury  room,  and  she  was  allowed  to  do so.  When  she
returned to the grand jury room, she stated that she refused to answer the question because the answer might incriminate
her.

The prosecutor believes that the woman's nephew committed the murder. The nephew has said that he was with the woman
at  the  time  of  the  murder,  and  the  prosecutor  believes  that  this  alibi  is  false.  The  prosecutor  does  not  believe  that  the
woman is guilty of the murder, either as a principal or as an accomplice, although he does believe that the woman may be
guilty of other crimes. The prosecutor wants to compel the woman to answer the question by whatever means will result in
the least harm to the prosecution's case.

Which of the following steps should the prosecutor take to get the woman to answer the question?

(A) Request the grand jury to order the woman to answer the question.

(B) Ask the woman's attorney to explain to the woman that the rules of evidence do not apply in grand jury proceedings,

and to advise her that she cannot refuse to testify.

(C) Prepare  the  documents  necessary  to  grant  the  woman  immunity  from  any  future  use  against  her  of  her  grand  jury

testimony or any evidence derived from it.

(D) Prepare the documents necessary to grant the woman immunity from any future prosecution for any crime she might

disclose in the course of her testimony.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 22 - Constitutional Law

Congress  enacted  a  statute  directing  U.S.  ambassadors  to  send  formal  letters  to  the  governments  of  their  host  countries,
protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The President prefers to handle
violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed ambassadors not to comply with the statute.

Is the President's action constitutional?

(A) No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the President.

(B) No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute is binding on

the President.

(C) Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.

(D) Yes,  because  the  President  and  his  subordinates  are  the  exclusive  official  representatives  of  the  United  States  in

foreign affairs.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 23 - Real Property

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The language of the
deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is unmodified by statute in the
jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I intend you and your wife to have my
house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so
don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective at my death."

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge. Subsequently,
the son and the wife separated,  and  the wife, without telling  anyone, conveyed her  interest  in the house to a friend  who
immediately reconveyed it to the wife.

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed to the house.
The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a declaration that the woman was still
the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's deed and the subsequent deeds.

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation?

(A) The deed was not delivered.

(B) The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.

(C) The woman expressly reserved a life estate.

(D) The woman received no consideration for her deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 24 - Contracts

A man sent an email to a friend that stated: "Because you have been a great friend to me, I am going to give you a rare
book that I own." The friend replied by an email that said: "Thanks for the rare book. I am going to give you my butterfly
collection." The rare book was worth $10,000; the butterfly collection was worth $100. The friend delivered the butterfly
collection to the man, but the man refused to deliver the book.

If the friend sues the man to recover the value of the book, how should the court rule?

(A) For the man, because there was no bargained-for exchange to support his promise.

(B) For the man, because the consideration given for his promise was inadequate.

(C) For the friend, because she gave the butterfly collection to the man in reliance on receiving the book.

(D) For the friend, because she conferred a benefit on the man by delivering the butterfly collection.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 25 - Torts

Toxic materials being transported by truck from a manufacturer's plant to a warehouse leaked from the truck onto the street
a few miles from the plant. A driver lost control of his car when he hit the puddle of spilled toxic materials on the street,
and he was injured when his car hit a stop sign.

In an action for damages by the driver against the manufacturer based on strict liability, is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the driver's loss of control was an intervening cause.

(B) No, because the driver's injury did not result from the toxicity of the materials.

(C) Yes, because the manufacturer is strictly liable for leaks of its toxic materials.

(D) Yes, because the leak occurred near the manufacturer's plant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 26 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the United States in
liberating  a  particular  foreign  nation  during  World  War  II.  Another  statute  appropriated  $3  million  for  the  construction.
When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign nation, the President announced that he
was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason
for the President's decision was the trade dispute, the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the
federal deficit.

Assume that no other statutes apply.

Is the President's decision constitutional?

(A) No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.

(B) No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.

(C) Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.

(D) Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 27 - Real Property

A  woman  borrowed  $100,000  from  a  bank  and  executed  a  promissory  note  to  the  bank  in  that  amount.  As  security  for
repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely owned by him. The brother
did not sign the promissory note.

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure proceedings on the
brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land?

(A) No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.

(B) No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.

(C) Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.

(D) Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 28 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  validly  arrested  for  the  murder  of  a  store  clerk  and  was  taken  to  a  police  station  where  he  was  given
Miranda  warnings.  When  an  interrogator  asked  the  defendant,  "Do  you  understand  your  Miranda  rights,  and  are  you
willing  to  give  up  those  rights  and  talk  to  us?"  the  defendant  replied,  "Yes."  When  asked,  "Did  you  kill  the  clerk?"  the
defendant replied, "No." When asked, "Where were you on the day the clerk was killed?" the defendant replied, "Maybe I
should talk to a lawyer." The interrogator asked, "Are you sure?" and the defendant replied, "I'm not sure." The interrogator
then asked, "Why would you want to talk with a lawyer?" and the defendant replied, "Because I killed the clerk. It was an
accident,  and  I  think  I  need  a  lawyer  to  defend  me."  At  that  point  all  interrogation  ceased.  Later,  the  defendant  was
formally charged with murdering the clerk.

The defendant has moved to suppress evidence of his statement "I killed the clerk" on the ground that this statement was
elicited in violation of his Miranda rights.

Should the defendant's motion be granted?

(A) No, because although  the defendant  effectively  asserted  the right  to counsel,  the question  "Why would you want  to

talk with a lawyer?" did not constitute custodial interrogation.

(B) No, because the defendant did not effectively assert the right to counsel, and his conduct prior to making the statement

constituted a valid waiver of his Miranda rights.

(C) Yes, because  although  the  defendant  did  not  effectively  assert  the  right  to  counsel,  his  conduct  prior  to  making  the

statement did not constitute a valid waiver of his Miranda rights.

(D) Yes, because the defendant effectively  asserted the right to counsel, and the question "Why would you want to talk

with a lawyer?" constituted custodial interrogation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 29 - Evidence

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was trying to feed a
rat  that  was  part  of  the  defendant's  caged-rat  experiment  at  a  science  fair.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  offers  evidence  that
immediately  after  the incident  the defendant  said to  her, "I'd like  to give you this  $100 bill,  because  I  feel  so bad  about
this."

Is the defendant's statement admissible?

(A) No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.

(B) No, because it was an offer of compromise.

(C) Yes, as a present sense impression.

(D) Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 30 - Contracts

A farmer who wanted to sell her land received a letter from a developer that stated, "I will pay you $1,100 an acre for your
land." The farmer's letter of reply stated, "I accept your offer." Unbeknownst to the farmer, the developer had intended to
offer only $1,000 per acre but had mistakenly typed "$1,100." As both parties knew, comparable land in the vicinity had
been selling at prices between $1,000 and $1,200 per acre.

Which of the following states the probable legal consequences of the correspondence between the parties?

(A) There is no contract, because the parties attached materially different meanings to the price term.

(B) There is no enforceable contract, because the developer is entitled to rescission due to a mutual mistake as to a basic

assumption of the contract.

(C) There is a contract formed at a price of $1,000 per acre.

(D) There is a contract formed at a price of $1,100 per acre.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 31 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Two defendants were being tried together in federal court for bank robbery. The prosecutor sought to introduce testimony
from the first defendant's prison cellmate. The cellmate would testify that the first defendant had admitted to the cellmate
that he and the second defendant had robbed the bank. The prosecutor asked the court to instruct the jury that the cellmate's
testimony could be considered only against the first defendant.

Can the cellmate's testimony be admitted in a joint trial over the second defendant's objection?

(A) No, because the first defendant made the statement without Miranda warnings.

(B) No,  because  the  limiting  instruction  cannot  ensure  that  the  jury  will  not  consider  the  testimony  in  its  deliberations

regarding the second defendant.

(C) Yes, because the first defendant's statement was a declaration against penal interest.

(D) Yes, because the limiting instruction sufficiently protects the second defendant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 32 - Torts

A man and  his friend,  who were both  adults,  went to  a party. The man and  the friend  had  many drinks at  the party  and
became legally intoxicated. They decided to play a game of chance called "Russian roulette" using a gun loaded with one
bullet. As part of the game, the man pointed the gun at the friend and, on her command, pulled the trigger. The man shot
the friend in the shoulder.

The friend has brought a negligence action against the man. Traditional defenses based on plaintiff's conduct apply.

What is likely to be the dispositive issue in this case?

(A) Whether the game constituted a joint venture.

(B) Whether the friend could validly consent to the game.

(C) Whether the friend was also negligent.

(D) Whether the man was legally intoxicated when he began playing the game.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 33 - Real Property

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions. The friend
paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title search. The friend never
took possession of the land.

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused, because the
value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.

Is the friend likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.

(B) No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.

(C) Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

(D) Yes, because the deed was recorded.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 34 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A prosecutor presented to a federal grand jury the testimony of a witness in order to secure a defendant's indictment  for
theft of government property. The prosecutor did not disclose to the grand jury that the witness had been convicted four
years earlier of perjury. The grand jury returned an indictment, and the defendant pleaded not guilty.

Shortly thereafter, the prosecutor took the case to trial, calling the witness to testify before the jury. The prosecutor did not
disclose the witness's prior perjury conviction until the defense was preparing to rest. Defense counsel immediately moved
for  a  mistrial,  which  the  court  denied.  Instead,  the  court  allowed  the  defense  to  recall  the  witness  for  the  purpose  of
impeaching him with this conviction, but the witness could not be located. The court then allowed the defense to introduce
documentary evidence of the witness's criminal record to the jury before resting its case. The jury convicted the defendant.

The defendant has moved for a new trial, arguing that the prosecutor's failure to disclose the witness's prior conviction in a
timely manner violated the defendant's right to due process of law.

If the court grants the defendant's motion, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) The defendant was unable to cross-examine the witness about the conviction.

(B) The prosecutor failed to inform the grand jury of the witness's conviction.

(C) The  court  found  it  reasonably  probable  that  the  defendant  would  have  been  acquitted  had  the  defense  had  timely

access to the information about the witness's conviction.

(D) The court found that the prosecutor had deliberately delayed disclosing the witness's conviction to obtain a strategic

advantage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 35 - Constitutional Law

A motorist  who resided  in  State  A  was severely  injured  in  a  traffic  accident  that  occurred  in  State  B. The  other  vehicle
involved  in  the  accident  was  a  truck  owned  by  a  furniture  manufacturer  and  driven  by  one  of  its  employees.  The
manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it has no office, plant, or agent
for service of process there.

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer appeared specially to
contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the manufacturer by virtue of State A's
long-arm statute.

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a basis for
reducing  an  award  of  damages  but  not  for  denying  recovery  altogether.  Under  State  B  law,  contributory  negligence  is  a
complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its negligence was a cause of the motorist's
injuries.  It  also  found  that  the  motorist  was  negligent,  though  to  a  lesser  degree  than  the  manufacturer,  and  that  the
motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million
in damages.

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on jurisdiction and in
its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal constitutional claims pertinent to
these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied
the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.

The  motorist  has  brought  an  action  against  the  manufacturer  in  a  state  court  in  State  B  to  collect  on  the  judgment.  The
manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.

How should the State B court rule?

(A) For  the  manufacturer,  because  a  judgment  entered  by  a  court  that  lacks  jurisdiction  over  one  of  the  parties  is  not
entitled  to  full  faith  and  credit,  and  the  State  A  court  could  not  constitutionally  assert  jurisdiction  over  the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.

(B) For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State B law to

an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.

(C) For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State A court,

and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

(D) For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest court in State

A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 36 - Contracts

A buyer and a seller entered into a written contract for the sale of a copy machine, using the same form contract that they
had used a number of times in the past. The contract stated that payment was due 30 days after delivery and provided that
the writing contained the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement.

On  several  past  occasions,  the  buyer  had  taken  a  5%  discount  from  the  contract  price  when  paying  within  10  days  of
delivery, and the seller had not objected. On this occasion, when the buyer took a 5% discount for paying within 10 days,
the seller objected because his profit margin on this particular machine was smaller than on his other machines.

If the seller sues the buyer for breach of contract, may the buyer introduce evidence that the 5% discount was a term of the
agreement?

(A) No, because the seller timely objected to the buyer's proposal for different terms.

(B) No, because the writing contained the complete and exclusive agreement of the parties.

(C) Yes, because a modification made in good faith does not require consideration.

(D) Yes,  because  evidence  of  course  of  dealing  is  admissible  even  if  the  writing  contains  the  complete  and  exclusive

agreement of the parties.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 37 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was hit with a lead
pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has testified that the injuries to
the  victim's  forearms  appear  to  have  been  defensive  wounds.  The  victim  has  testified  that  he  cannot  remember  who
attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley,
and that he told the passerby that the defendant had hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant
objects to this proposed testimony, arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity
of the perpetrator.

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible?

(A) No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal knowledge of

the perpetrator's identity.

(B) No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively cross-examined.

(C) Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal knowledge.

(D) Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 38 - Constitutional Law

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers who had been
unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to fund loans made pursuant to
the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans.

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency officials promptly
reviewed her application and summarily denied it.

The  farmer  has  sued  the  agency  in  federal  district  court,  claiming  only  that  the  denial  of  her  application  without  the
opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that she could have
proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her farm.

Should the court uphold the agency's decision?

(A) No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual determination that

adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.

(B) No,  because  the  denial  of  a  loan  may  deprive  the  farmer  of  an  established  liberty  interest  to  pursue  her  chosen

occupation.

(C) Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.

(D) Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the distribution of

appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 39 - Torts

A woman signed up for a bowling class. Before allowing the woman to bowl, the instructor required her to sign a waiver
explicitly stating that she assumed all risk of injuries that she might suffer in connection with the class, including injuries
due to negligence or any other fault. After she signed the waiver, the woman was injured when the instructor negligently
dropped a bowling ball on the woman's foot.

The woman  brought  a  negligence  action  against  the  instructor.  The  instructor  has  filed  a  motion  for  summary  judgment
based on the waiver.

What is the woman's best argument in opposition to the instructor's motion?

(A) Bowling is an inherently dangerous activity.

(B)

In  circumstances  like  these,  it  is  against  public  policy  to  enforce  agreements  that  insulate  people  from  the
consequences of their own negligence.

(C)

It was unreasonable to require the woman to sign the waiver before she was allowed to bowl.

(D) When she signed the form, the woman could not foresee that the instructor would drop a bowling ball on her foot.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 40 - Constitutional Law

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who is a lawful
resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a state court. The woman's
name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a comprehensive list of local residents. She was
disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S. citizen.

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.

Who should prevail in this action?

(A) The  state,  because  a  state  may  limit  to  U.S.  citizens  functions  that  are  an  integral  part  of  the  process  of

self-government.

(B) The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected by the due

process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to aliens.

(D) The woman, because  the state  has not articulated  a legitimate  reason for prohibiting  resident aliens  from  serving  as

jurors in the state's courts.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 41 - Torts

A  pedestrian  was  crossing  a  street  in  a  crosswalk  when  a  woman  walking  just  ahead  of  him  was  hit  by  a  truck.  The
pedestrian, who had jumped out of the way of the truck, administered CPR to the woman, who was a stranger. The woman
bled profusely, and the pedestrian was covered in blood. The woman died in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. The
pedestrian  became  very  depressed  immediately  after  the  incident  and  developed  physical  symptoms  as  a  result  of  his
emotional distress.

The pedestrian  has  brought  an  action  against  the  driver  of  the  truck  for  negligent  infliction  of  emotional  distress.  In  her
defense,  the  driver  asserts  that  she  should  not  be  held  liable,  because  the  pedestrian's  emotional  distress  and  resulting
physical symptoms are not compensable.

What is the strongest argument that the pedestrian can make in response to the driver's defense?

(A) The pedestrian saw the driver hit the woman.

(B) The pedestrian was acting as a Good Samaritan.

(C) The  pedestrian  was  covered  in  the  woman's  blood  and  developed  physical  symptoms  as  a  result  of  his  emotional

distress.

(D) The pedestrian was in the zone of danger.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 42 - Contracts

A buyer purchased a new car from a dealer under a written contract that provided that the price of the car was $20,000 and
that  the  buyer  would  receive  a  "trade-in  allowance  of  $7,000  for  the  buyer's  old  car."  The  old  car  had  recently  been
damaged in an accident. The contract contained a merger clause stating: "This writing constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties, and there are no other understandings or agreements not set forth herein." When the buyer took possession of
the new car, she delivered the old car to the dealer. At that time, the dealer claimed that the trade-in allowance included an
assignment of the buyer's claim against her insurance company for damage to the old car. The buyer refused to provide the
assignment.

The dealer sued the buyer to recover the insurance payment. The dealer has offered evidence that the parties agreed during
their negotiations for the new car that the dealer was entitled to the insurance payment.

Should the court admit this evidence?

(A) No, because the dealer's acceptance of the old car bars any additional claim by the dealer.

(B) No, because the merger clause bars any evidence of the parties' prior discussions concerning the trade-in allowance.

(C) Yes, because a merger clause does not bar evidence of fraud.

(D) Yes, because the merger clause does not bar evidence to explain what the parties meant by "trade-in allowance."

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 43 - Real Property

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located in another
state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called the woman and asked
to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The man agreed, and the woman conveyed
the house to the man by a warranty deed.

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live next door. After
the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The man sued the woman for breach
of contract.

There are no applicable statutes.

How should the court rule?

(A) For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.

(B) For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."

(C) For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.

(D) For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 44 - Evidence

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a soccer match.

If  the  man  sues  the  neighbor  for  personal  injury  damages,  which  of  the  following  actions  must  the  trial  court  take  if
requested by the man?

(A) Prevent  the  neighbor's  principal  eyewitness  from  testifying,  upon  a  showing  that  six  years  ago  the  witness  was

convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.

(B) Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct examination of the

expert.

(C) Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.

(D) Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 45 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer, to post on the
Internet any information  concerning the employer."  The purpose of the statute was to prevent employees from  revealing
their employers' trade secrets.

Is the statute constitutional?

(A) No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.

(B) No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.

(C) Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.

(D) Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 46 - Real Property

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer owned a farm,
the  western  border  of  which  was  along  the  eastern  border  of  the  man's  land.  The  two  tracts  of  land  had  never  been  in
common ownership.

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion of the man's
land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use. Since then, the farmer has
invested  substantial  amounts  of  money  and  effort  each  year  to  develop  and  maintain  the  irrigation  facilities  within  the
two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to
writing.

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to the farmer or
the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he notified the farmer in writing,
"Your  license  to  use  the  two-acre  parcel  has  been  terminated."  The  notice  instructed  the  farmer  to  remove  her  facilities
from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the nephew's demand.

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to continue to use
the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling?

(A) The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as the man's

donee, from terminating the license.

(B) The nephew is merely a donee.

(C) The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.

(D) The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 47 - Torts

Upon the recommendation of her child's pediatrician, a mother purchased a vaporizer for her child, who had been suffering
from  respiratory  congestion.  The  vaporizer  consisted  of  a  gallon-size  glass  jar,  which  held  water  to  be  heated  until  it
became steam, and a metal heating unit into which the jar fit. The jar was covered by a plastic cap with an opening to allow
the steam to escape. At the time the vaporizer was manufactured and sold, there was no safer alternative design.

The booklet that accompanied the vaporizer read: "This product is safe, spillproof, and practically foolproof. It shuts off
automatically when the water is gone." The booklet had a picture of a vaporizer sending steam over a baby's crib.

The mother  used the vaporizer  whenever the child was suffering  from  congestion.  She placed the vaporizer  on the floor
near the child's bed.

One night, the child got out of bed to get a drink of water and tripped  over the cord of the vaporizer as she crossed  the
room.  The  top  of  the  vaporizer  separated  from  the  base,  and  boiling  water  from  the  jar  spilled  on  the  child  when  the
vaporizer tipped over. The child suffered serious burns as a consequence.

The  child's  representative  brought  an  action  for  damages  against  the  manufacturer  of  the  vaporizer.  The  manufacturer
moved to dismiss after the representative presented the evidence above.

Should the manufacturer's motion be granted?

(A) No, because a jury could find that the manufacturer expressly represented that the vaporizer was spillproof.

(B) No, because the vaporizer caused a serious injury to the child.

(C) Yes, because it should have been obvious to the mother that the water in the jar would become boiling hot.

(D) Yes, because there was no safer alternative design.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 48 - Contracts

A buyer agreed in writing to purchase a car from a seller for $15,000, with the price to be paid on a specified date at the
seller's  showroom.  The  contract  provided,  and  both  parties  intended,  that  time  was  of  the  essence.  Before  the  specified
date, however, the seller sold the car to a third party for $20,000. On the specified date, the buyer arrived at the showroom
but brought only $10,000. When the seller did not appear at the showroom, the buyer called the seller and asked whether
the seller would accept $10,000 for the car immediately and the remaining $5,000 in six weeks. The seller told the buyer
that he had sold the car to the third party.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, will the buyer be likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the contractual obligations were discharged on the ground of impossibility.

(B) No, because the buyer was not prepared to tender her performance on the specified date.

(C) Yes, because the buyer's breach was not material.

(D) Yes, because the seller anticipatorily repudiated the contract when he sold the car to the third party.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 49 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  state  statute  divides  murder  into  degrees  and  defines  murder  in  the  first  degree  as  murder  committed  willfully  with
premeditation  and deliberation.  The statute  defines  murder  in the second degree as all other murder at common law and
defines voluntary manslaughter as at common law.

A man hated one of his coworkers. Upon learning that the coworker was at a neighbor's house, the man grabbed his gun
and  went  to  the  neighbor's  house  hoping  to  provoke  the  coworker  into  attacking  him  so  that  he  could  then  shoot  the
coworker. After arriving at the house, the man insulted the coworker and bragged that he had had sexual relations with the
coworker's wife two weeks earlier. This statement was not true, but it enraged the coworker, who grabbed a knife from the
kitchen table and ran toward the man. The man then shot and killed the coworker.

What is the most serious homicide offense of which the man could properly be convicted?

(A) Murder in the first degree.

(B) Murder in the second degree.

(C) Voluntary manslaughter, because he provoked the coworker.

(D) No form of criminal homicide, because he acted in self-defense.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 50 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from accurate sources
establishing  that  the  bank  is  a  federally  insured  institution  and  that  this  fact  is  not  subject  to  reasonable  dispute.  The
prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.

How should the court proceed?

(A) The  court  must  take  judicial  notice  and  instruct  the  jury  that  it  is  required  to  accept  the  judicially  noticed  fact  as

conclusive.

(B) The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the judicially noticed

fact as conclusive.

(C) The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a criminal

case.

(D) The  court  must  refuse  to  take  judicial  notice,  because  whether  a  bank  is  federally  insured  would  not  be  generally

known within the court's jurisdiction.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 51 - Evidence

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of the policy. At
issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death. The decedent's primary care
physician  has  testified  at  trial  that  the  decedent  had  a  routine  checkup  on  February  15.  The  physician  then  identifies  a
photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I
broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while." The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.

Should the court admit the photocopy?

(A) No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.

(B) No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.

(C) Yes, as a business record.

(D) Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 52 - Real Property

Two friends  planned to  incorporate  a  business  together  and agreed  that they  would own all of  the corporation's  stock  in
equal proportion.

A  businesswoman  conveyed  land  by  a  warranty  deed  to  "the  corporation  and  its  successors  and  assigns."  The  deed  was
recorded.

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.

There is no applicable statute.

Who owns the land?

(A) The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.

(B) The businesswoman, because the deed was void.

(C) The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.

(D) The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 53 - Constitutional Law

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to their rates,
cash reserves, and financial practices.

A  privately  owned  insurance  company  operating  within  the  state  advertised  that  it  wanted  to  hire  a  new  data  processor.
After  reviewing  applications  for  that  position,  the  company  hired  a  woman  who  appeared  to  be  well  qualified.  The
company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman, because he was known to
have radical political views.

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of expression.

Is the man likely to prevail?

(A) No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.

(B) No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

(C) Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.

(D) Yes,  because  the  company  is  substantially  regulated  by  the  state,  and  thus  its  employment  decisions  may  fairly  be

attributed to the state.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 54 - Real Property

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds and was not
recorded.  During  the  lease  term,  the  tenant  sent  an  email  to  the  landlord  that  stated:  "I  hereby  offer  to  purchase  for
$250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The tenant's name was placed below the
word "signed" on the message.

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was placed below
the word "signed" on the reply message.

Sixty days later,  the landlord  refused to tender the deed to the building  when the tenant tendered  the $250,000 purchase
price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.

Who is likely to prevail?

(A) The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after the lease

term expired.

(B) The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute of frauds.

(C) The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.

(D) The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 55 - Torts

A man was admitted to a hospital after complaining of persistent severe headaches. While he was there, hospital staff failed
to diagnose his condition, and he was discharged. Two days later, the man died of a massive brain hemorrhage due to a
congenital defect in an artery.

The man's  wife  has  brought  a  wrongful  death  action  against  the  hospital.  The  wife  offers  expert  testimony  that  the  man
would have had a "reasonable chance" (not greater than 50%) of surviving the hemorrhage if he had been given appropriate
medical care at the hospital.

In what type of jurisdiction would the wife's suit most likely be successful?

(A) A jurisdiction that applies traditional common law rules concerning burden of proof.

(B) A jurisdiction that allows recovery based on strict liability.

(C) A jurisdiction that allows recovery for the loss of the chance of survival.

(D) A jurisdiction that recognizes loss of spousal consortium.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 56 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A wife decided to kill her husband because she was tired of his infidelity. She managed to obtain some cyanide, a deadly
poison. One evening, she poured wine laced with the cyanide into a glass, handed it to her husband, and proposed a loving
toast. The husband was so pleased with the toast that he set the glass of wine down on a table, grabbed his wife, and kissed
her passionately. After the kiss, the wife changed her mind about killing the husband. She hid the glass of wine behind a
lamp on the table, planning to leave it for the maid to clean up. The husband did not drink the wine.

The maid found the glass of wine while cleaning the next day. Rather than throw the wine away, the maid drank it. Shortly
thereafter, she fell into a coma and died from cyanide poisoning.

In a common law jurisdiction, of what crime(s), if any, could the wife be found guilty?

(A) Attempted murder of the husband and murder or manslaughter of the maid.

(B) Only attempted murder of the husband.

(C) Only murder or manslaughter of the maid.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 57 - Contracts

A mill and a bakery entered into a written contract that obligated the mill to deliver to the bakery 1,000 pounds of flour
every  Monday  for  26  weeks  at  a  specified  price  per  pound.  The  mill  delivered  the  proper  quantity  of  flour  in  a  timely
manner for the first 15 weeks. However, the 16th delivery was tendered on a Tuesday, and amounted to only 800 pounds.
The mill told the bakery that the 200-pound shortage would be made up on the delivery due the following Monday. The
late delivery and the 200-pound shortage will not significantly disrupt the bakery's operations.

How may the bakery legally respond to the nonconforming tender?

(A) Accept the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will cancel the contract if the exact amount is not

delivered on the following Monday.

(B) Accept the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will deduct from the price any damages for losses

due to the nonconforming tender.

(C) Reject the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will accept delivery the following Monday if it is

conforming.

(D) Reject the 800 pounds tendered, and notify the mill that the bakery is canceling the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 58 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has called a witness
who  has  testified  that  the  defendant  has  a  reputation  for  honesty.  On  cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  seeks  to  ask  the
witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for embezzlement?"

Should the court permit the question?

(A) No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.

(B) No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.

(C) Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.

(D) Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more likely.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 59 - Constitutional Law

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited all public high
school  students  from  wearing  in  school  shorts  cut  above  the  knee.  Because  female  students  at  the  school  considered  it
unfashionable  to  wear  shorts  cut  at  or  below  the  knee,  they  no  longer  wore  shorts  to  school.  On  the  other  hand,  male
students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because they considered such shorts to be fashionable.

Female  students  sued  to  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  the  dress  code  on  the  ground  that  it  denied  them  the  equal
protection of the laws.

Should the court uphold the dress code?

(A) No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

(B) No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.

(C) Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.

(D) Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 60 - Torts

A mother purchased an expensive television from an appliance store for her adult son. Two years after the purchase, a fire
started in the son's living room in the middle of the night. The fire department  concluded that the fire had started in the
television. No other facts are known.

The son sued the appliance store for negligence. The store has moved for summary judgment.

Should the court grant the store's motion?

(A) No, because televisions do not catch fire in the absence of negligence.

(B) No, because the store sold the television.

(C) Yes, because the son is not in privity with the store.

(D) Yes, because there is no evidence of negligence on the part of the store.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 61 - Contracts

A buyer agreed to purchase a seller's house for $250,000 "on condition that the buyer obtain mortgage financing within 30
days." Thirty days later, the buyer told the seller that the buyer would not purchase the house because the buyer had not
obtained mortgage financing. The seller asked the buyer where the buyer had tried to obtain mortgage financing, and the
buyer responded, "I was busy and didn't have time to seek mortgage financing."

If the seller sues the buyer for breach of contract, is the court likely to find the buyer in breach?

(A) No, because the buyer's performance was subject to a condition that did not occur.

(B) No, because the promise was illusory since the buyer was not obligated to do anything.

(C) Yes, because a promise was implied that the buyer had to make reasonable efforts to obtain mortgage financing.

(D) Yes, because a reasonable interpretation of the agreement is that the buyer had an obligation to purchase the house for

$250,000 in 30 days.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 62 - Criminal Law and Procedure

In a crowded football stadium, a man saw a wallet fall out of a spectator's purse. The man picked up the wallet and found
that it contained $100 in cash. Thinking that he could use the money and seeing no one watching, the man put the wallet in
the pocket of his coat. Just then, the spectator approached the man and asked if he had seen a missing wallet. The man said
no and went home with the wallet.

Of what crime, if any, is the man guilty?

(A) Embezzlement.

(B) False pretenses.

(C) Larceny.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 63 - Constitutional Law

A  company  owned  a  large  tract  of  land  that  contained  coal  deposits  that  the  company  intended  to  mine.  The  company
acquired  mining  equipment  and  began  to  plan  its  mining  operations.  Just  as  the  company  was  about  to  begin  mining,
Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and land-reclamation requirements on
all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the company's planned mining operations economically
infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover
its original investment in the land, it did not cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased
or the profits it had expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.

In  an  action  filed  against  the  appropriate  federal  official,  the  company  claims  that  the  statute  effected  a  taking  of  its
property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining equipment it purchased
and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action?

(A) The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.

(B) The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.

(C) The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.

(D) The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 64 - Real Property

A  tenant  leased  a  commercial  property  from  a  landlord  for  a  12-year  term.  The  property  included  a  large  store  and  a
parking  lot.  At  the  start  of  the  lease  period,  the  tenant  took  possession  and  with  the  landlord's  oral  consent  installed
counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease terms.

The  lease  is  set  to  expire  next  month.  Two  weeks  ago,  when  the  landlord  contacted  the  tenant  about  a  possible  lease
renewal, she learned that the tenant  had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant  planned to remove all of the
above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed that all the items had become part of the
real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted his right and intention to remove all the items.

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord consented and
the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the items.

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items.

How is the court likely to rule?

(A) For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.

(B) For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not attached to

the premises other than by weight.

(C) For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for the cost of

restoration.

(D) For  the  tenant,  because  all  of  the  items  may  be  removed  as  trade  fixtures  without  any  obligation  to  restore  the

premises.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 65 - Evidence

At  a  woman's  trial  for  bank  robbery,  the  prosecutor  has  called  a  private  security  guard  for  the  bank  who  has  testified,
without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and said, "Come quickly! My
sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the brother later told the witness, "I got
my sister  into trouble  by telling  a security  guard that  she was robbing the  bank, but  now I  realize  I  was mistaken."  The
brother is unavailable to testify.

Is the witness's testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.

(B) No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.

(C) Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.

(D) Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 66 - Contracts

A producer contracted to pay an inexperienced performer a specified salary to act in a small role in a play the producer was
taking on a six-week road tour. The contract was for the duration of the tour. On the third day of the tour, the performer
was hospitalized with a stomach disorder. The producer replaced her in the cast with an experienced actor. One week later,
the performer recovered, but the producer refused to allow her to resume her original role for the remainder of the tour.

In an action by the performer against the producer for breach of contract, which of the following, if proved, would be the
producer's best defense?

(A) The actor, by general acclaim, was much better in the role than the performer had been.

(B) The actor was the only replacement the producer could find, and the actor would accept nothing less than a contract

for the remainder of the six-week tour.

(C) The producer offered to employ the performer as the actor's understudy for the remainder of the six-week tour at the

performer's original salary, but the performer declined.

(D) Both the producer and the performer knew that a year earlier the performer had been incapacitated for a short period

of time by the same kind of stomach disorder.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 67 - Constitutional Law

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the possibility of
developing  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  as  the  result  of  the  accidents,  and  offering  psychotherapy  services.
Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.

Many accident  victims  in a  particular  state  who received  the  mailings  complained  that  the mailings  were  disturbing  and
were  an  invasion  of  their  privacy.  These  victims  also  reported  that  as  a  result  of  the  mailings,  their  regard  for
psychotherapists  and  for  psychotherapy  as  a  form  of  treatment  had  diminished.  In  response,  the  state  enacted  a  law
prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern of PTSD to any car accident victim
in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an effort to address the victims' complaints as well
as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of treatment.

Is this law constitutional?

(A) No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.

(B) No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.

(C) Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are misleading.

(D) Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy without being

substantially more restrictive than necessary.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 68 - Torts

A shopper was riding on an up escalator in a department store when the escalator stopped abruptly. The shopper lost her
balance and fell down the escalator steps, sustaining injuries. Although the escalator had been regularly maintained by an
independent contractor, the store's obligation to provide safe conditions for its invitees was nondelegable. The shopper has
brought an action against the store for damages, and the above facts are the only facts in evidence.

The store has moved for a directed verdict.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the finder of fact could infer that the escalator malfunction was due to negligence.

(B) No, because the store is strictly liable for the shopper's injuries.

(C) Yes, because an independent contractor maintained the escalator.

(D) Yes, because the shopper has not produced evidence of negligence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 69 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  woman  went  to  an  art  gallery  and  falsely  represented  that  she  was  an  agent  for  a  museum  and  wanted  to  purchase  a
painting that was hanging in the gallery. The woman and the gallery owner then agreed on a price for the painting to be
paid 10 days later, and the woman took the painting. When the gallery failed to receive the payment when due, the owner
called the museum and discovered that the woman did not work there. The owner then notified the police.

When interviewed by the police, the woman admitted making the false representation and acquiring the painting, but she
said she believed that the painting had been stolen from her by someone who worked in the gallery.

Is the woman guilty of obtaining property by false pretenses?

(A) No, because she believed that the painting belonged to her.

(B) No, because the gallery owner would have sold the painting to anyone who agreed to pay the price.

(C) Yes, because even if her representation was not material, she never intended to pay for the painting.

(D) Yes, because she knowingly made a false representation on which the gallery owner relied.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 70 - Real Property

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never physically occupied
the land.

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the farm caused
her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.

Three  years  ago,  when the  woman  was not  present,  a  neighbor  took  over  possession  of  the  farm.  The  neighbor  repaired
fences,  put  up  "no  trespassing"  signs,  and  did  some  plowing.  When  the  woman  returned,  she  found  the  neighbor  in
possession  of  the  farm.  The  neighbor  vigorously  rejected  the  woman's  claimed  right  to  possession  and  threatened  force.
The woman withdrew.

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the man that
she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The man thanked her.

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to convey the
farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.

Who now owns the farm?

(A) The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.

(B) The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of possession.

(C) The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.

(D) The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can convey the farm

to her son.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 71 - Contracts

An  art  collector  paid  a  gallery  $1,000  to  purchase  a  framed  drawing  from  the  gallery's  collection.  The  price  included
shipping by the gallery  to the collector's  home. The gallery's  owner used inadequate  materials  to wrap the drawing. The
frame broke during shipment and scratched the drawing, reducing the drawing's value to $300. The collector complained to
the gallery owner, who told the collector  to take the drawing to a specific art restorer  to have the drawing repaired. The
collector paid the restorer $400 to repair the drawing, but not all of the scratches could be fixed. The drawing, after being
repaired, was worth $700. The gallery  owner subsequently  refused  to pay either  for the repairs  or for the damage  to the
drawing.

In an action by the collector against the gallery owner for damages, which of the following awards is most likely?

(A) Nothing.

(B) $300.

(C) $400.

(D) $700.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 72 - Evidence

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance company, the
insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the nonpayment of her premium.
The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope containing
the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified that every afternoon at
closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance company later called its mail clerk to
testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the woman's premium payment.

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict?

(A) For  the  insurance  company,  because  neither  the  woman  nor  her  secretary  has  any  personal  knowledge  that  the

envelope was mailed.

(B) For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial evidence.

(C) For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was received by the

addressee.

(D) For  neither  the  woman  nor  the  insurance  company,  because  under  these  circumstances  the  jury  is  responsible  for

determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 73 - Torts

A  14-year-old  teenager  of  low  intelligence  received  her  parents'  permission  to  drive  their  car.  She  had  had  very  little
experience driving a car and did not have a driver's license. Although she did the best she could, she lost control of the car
and hit a pedestrian.

The pedestrian has brought a negligence action against the teenager.

Is the pedestrian likely to prevail?

(A) No, because only the teenager's parents are subject to liability.

(B) No, because the teenager was acting reasonably for a 14-year-old of low intelligence and little driving experience.

(C) Yes, because the teenager was engaging in an adult activity.

(D) Yes, because the teenager was not old enough to obtain a driver's license.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 74 - Constitutional Law

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His work in this
respect had always been satisfactory.

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had supported his
sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee solely because his support for
the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at
the pleasure of the mayor."

Is the mayor's action constitutional?

(A) No,  because  public  employees  have  a  property  interest  in  their  employment,  which  gives  them  a  right  to  a  hearing

prior to discharge.

(B) No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.

(C) Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds the job "at

the pleasure of the mayor."

(D) Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 75 - Real Property

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my niece and her
heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's daughter and her heirs and assigns
in fee simple."

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the jurisdiction.

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?

(A) The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.

(B) The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there can be no gift

over.

(C) The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years after the date

of the deed.

(D) The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 76 - Evidence

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself without the
defendant's  knowledge.  On  cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  asks  the  wife,  "Isn't  it  true  that  you  have  fled  your  home
several times in fear of your husband?"

Is this question proper?

(A) No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.

(B) No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.

(C) Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying against him.

(D) Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 77 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman broke off her engagement to a man but refused to return the engagement ring the man had given her. One night,
the man entered the woman's house after midnight to retrieve the ring. Although the woman was not at home, a neighbor
saw the man enter the house and called the police. The man unsuccessfully searched for the ring for 10 minutes. As he was
walking out the front door, the police arrived and immediately arrested him.

The man has been charged with burglary in a jurisdiction that follows the common law.

Which of the following, if proved, would serve as the man's best defense to the charge?

(A) The man knew that the woman kept a key under the doormat and he used the key to enter the house.

(B) The man incorrectly and unreasonably believed that he was legally entitled to the ring.

(C) The man knew that no one was at home when he entered the house.

(D) The man took nothing of value from the house.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 78 - Contracts

A businesswoman sold her business to a company for $25 million in cash pursuant to a written contract that was signed by
both parties. Under the contract, the company agreed to employ the businesswoman for two years as a vice president at a
salary of $150,000 per year. After six months, the company, without cause, fired the businesswoman.

Which of the following statements best describes the businesswoman's rights after the discharge?

(A) She can recover the promised salary for the remainder of the two years if she remains ready to work.

(B) She can recover the promised salary for the remainder of the two years if no comparable job is reasonably available

and she does not take another job.

(C) She can rescind the contract of sale and get back her business upon tender to the company of $25 million.

(D) She can get specific performance of her right to serve as a vice president of the company for two years.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 79 - Torts

A  firstborn  child  was  examined  as  an  infant  by  a  doctor  who  was  a  specialist  in  the  diagnosis  of  speech  and  hearing
impairments. Although the doctor should have concluded that the infant was totally deaf due to a hereditary condition, the
doctor  negligently  concluded  that  the  infant's  hearing  was  normal.  After  the  diagnosis,  but  before  they  learned  that  the
infant  was  in  fact  deaf,  the  parents  conceived  a  second  child  who  also  suffered  total  deafness  due  to  the  hereditary
condition.

The  parents  claim  that  they  would  not  have  conceived  the  second  child  had  they  known  of  the  high  probability  of  the
hereditary condition. They have sought the advice of their attorney regarding which negligence action against the doctor is
most likely to succeed.

What sort of action against the doctor should the attorney recommend?

(A) A medical malpractice action seeking damages on the second child's behalf for expenses due to his deafness, on the

ground that the doctor's negligence caused him to be born deaf.

(B) A  wrongful  birth  action  by  the  parents  for  expenses  they  have  incurred  due  to  the  second  child's  deafness,  on  the

ground that but for the doctor's negligence, they would not have conceived the second child.

(C) A wrongful life action by the parents for expenses for the entire period of the second child's life, on the ground that

but for the doctor's negligence, the second child would not have been born.

(D) A wrongful life action on the second child's behalf for expenses for the entire period of his life, on the ground that but

for the doctor's negligence, he would not have been born.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 80 - Constitutional Law

An  environmental  organization's  stated  mission  is  to  support  environmental  causes.  The  organization's  membership  is
generally  open  to  the  public,  but  its  bylaws  permit  its  officers  to  refuse  to  admit  anyone  to  membership  who  does  not
adhere to the organization's mission statement.

In  a  recent  state  administrative  proceeding,  the  organization  opposed  plans  to  begin  mining  operations  in  the  mountains
surrounding  a  small  town.  Its  opposition  prevented  the  mine  from  being  opened  on  schedule.  In  an  effort  to  force  the
organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of the organization and tried to
become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the organization, claiming that the refusal to
admit them was discriminatory  and violated a local ordinance that prohibits any organization from discriminating  on the
basis of an individual's political views. The organization responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its
membership decisions.

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim?

(A) No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.

(B) No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential members who do

not adhere to its mission statement.

(C) Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal protection of the

laws.

(D) Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 81 - Contracts

On  June  15,  a  teacher  accepted  a  contract  for  a  one-year  position  teaching  math  at  a  public  high  school  at  a  salary  of
$50,000,  starting  in  September.  On  June  22,  the  school  informed  the  teacher  that,  due  to  a  change  in  its  planned  math
curriculum, it no longer needed a full-time math teacher. The school offered instead to employ the teacher as a part-time
academic counselor at a salary of $20,000, starting in September. The teacher refused the school's offer. On June 29, the
teacher was offered a one-year position to teach math at a nearby private academy for $47,000, starting in September. The
teacher,  however,  decided  to  spend  the  year  completing  work  on  a  graduate  degree  in  mathematics  and  declined  the
academy's offer.

If the teacher sues the school for breach of contract, what is her most likely recovery?

(A) $50,000, the full contract amount.

(B) $30,000, the full contract amount less the amount the teacher could have earned in the counselor position offered by

the school.

(C) $3,000,  the  full  contract  amount  less  the  amount  the  teacher  could  have  earned  in  the  teaching  position  at  the

academy.

(D) Nothing, because the school notified the teacher of its decision before the teacher had acted in substantial reliance on

the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 82 - Torts

A boater, caught in a sudden storm and reasonably fearing that her boat would capsize, drove the boat up to a pier, exited
the boat, and tied the boat to the pier. The pier was clearly marked with "NO TRESPASSING" signs. The owner of the pier
ran up to the boater and told her that the boat could not remain tied to the pier. The boater offered to pay the owner for the
use of the pier. Regardless, over the boater's protest, the owner untied the boat and pushed it away from the pier. The boat
was lost at sea.

Is the boater likely to prevail in an action against the owner to recover the value of the boat?

(A) No, because the owner told the boater that she could not tie the boat to the pier.

(B) No, because there was a possibility that the boat would not be damaged by the storm.

(C) Yes, because the boater offered to pay the owner for the use of the pier.

(D) Yes, because the boater was privileged to enter the owner's property to save her boat.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 83 - Evidence

A  driver  sued  her  insurance  company  on  an  accident  insurance  policy  covering  personal  injuries  to  the  driver.  The
insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and therefore excluded
from the policy's coverage.

The  driver  testified  at  trial  that  she  had  inflicted  the  injuries,  as  her  negligence  had  caused  the  crash  in  which  she  was
injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating psychiatrist to give his opinion
that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the time of the crash.

Should the court admit the witness's opinion?

(A) No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.

(B) No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.

(C) No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.

(D) Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 84 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman wanted to kill a business competitor. She contacted a man who she believed was willing to commit murder for
hire and offered him $50,000 to kill the competitor. The man agreed to do so and accepted $25,000 as a down payment.
Unbeknownst to the woman, the man was an undercover police officer.

In  a  jurisdiction  that  has  adopted  the  unilateral  theory  of  conspiracy,  is  the  woman  guilty  of  conspiracy  to  murder  the
business competitor?

(A) No, because the man did not intend to kill the competitor.

(B) No, because it would have been impossible for the woman to kill the competitor by this method.

(C) Yes,  because  the  woman  believed  that  she  had  an  agreement  with  the  man  that  would  bring  about  the  competitor's

death.

(D) Yes,  because  the  woman  took  a  substantial  step  toward  bringing  about  the  competitor's  death  by  paying  the  man

$25,000.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 85 - Real Property

A  businessman  executed  a  promissory  note  for  $200,000  to  a  bank,  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  commercial  real  estate
owned by the businessman.  The promissory  note  stated  that  the businessman  was not personally  liable  for  the  mortgage
debt.

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the judgment in the
county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance company had no actual notice of
the bank's mortgage.

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance or mortgage
of  real  property  shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  and  without  notice  or  against  judgment  creditors
without notice."

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank intervened in the
action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its mortgage was a first lien.

Is the bank's contention correct?

(A) No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual notice of the

mortgage.

(B) No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was therefore void.

(C) Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.

(D) Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 86 - Contracts

A  produce  distributor  contracted  to  provide  a  grocer  with  eight  crates  of  lettuce  at  the  distributor's  listed  price.  The
distributor's shipping clerk mistakenly shipped only seven crates to the grocer. The grocer accepted delivery of the seven
crates  but  immediately  notified  the  distributor  that  the  delivery  did  not  conform  to  the  contract.  The  distributor's  listed
price for seven crates of lettuce was 7/8 of its listed price for eight crates. The distributor shipped no more lettuce to the
grocer, and the grocer has not yet paid for any of the lettuce.

How much, if anything, is the distributor entitled to collect from the grocer?

(A) Nothing, because the tender of all eight crates was a condition precedent to the grocer's duty to pay.

(B) The reasonable value of the seven crates of lettuce, minus the grocer's damages, if any, for the distributor's failure to

deliver the full order.

(C) The  listed  price  for  the  seven  crates  of  lettuce,  minus  the  grocer's  damages,  if  any,  for  the  distributor's  failure  to

deliver the full order.

(D) The listed price for the seven crates of lettuce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 87 - Contracts

A seller borrowed $5,000 from a bank. Soon thereafter the seller filed for bankruptcy, having paid nothing on his debt to
the bank.

Five  years  after  the  debt  had  been  discharged  in  bankruptcy,  the  seller  contracted  to  sell  certain  goods  to  a  buyer  for
$5,000. The contract provided that the buyer would pay the $5,000 to the bank "as payment of the $5,000 the seller owes
the bank." The only debt that the seller ever owed the bank is the $5,000 debt that was discharged in bankruptcy. The seller
delivered the goods to the buyer, who accepted them.

If the bank becomes aware of the contract between the seller and the buyer, and the buyer refuses to pay anything to the
bank, is the bank likely to succeed in an action against the buyer for $5,000?

(A) No, because the buyer's promise to pay the bank was not supported by consideration.

(B) No, because the seller's debt was discharged in bankruptcy.

(C) Yes, because the bank was an intended beneficiary of the contract between the buyer and the seller.

(D) Yes, because no consideration is required to support a promise to pay a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 88 - Constitutional Law

A  fatal  virus  recently  infected  poultry  in  several  nations.  Some  scientific  evidence  indicates  that  the  virus  can  be
transmitted from poultry to humans.

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law imposing a fee
of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose of the fee is to pay for a
state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is infected with the virus.

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the fee.

Is the fee constitutional?

(A) No,  because  although  it  attaches  only  to  intrastate  activity,  in  the  aggregate,  the  fee  substantially  affects  interstate

commerce.

(B) No,  because  it  places  an  undue  burden  on  interstate  commerce  in  violation  of  the  negative  implications  of  the

commerce clause.

(C) Yes,  because  it  applies  only  to  activities  that  take  place  wholly  within  the  state,  and  it  does  not  unduly  burden

interstate commerce.

(D) Yes,  because  it  was  enacted  pursuant  to  the  state's  police  power,  which  takes  precedence  over  the  negative

implications of the commerce clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 89 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  state  statute  provides  as  follows:  "The  maintenance  of  any  ongoing  enterprise  in  the  nature  of  a  betting  parlor  or
bookmaking organization is a felony."

A prosecutor has evidence that a woman has been renting an office to a man, that the man has been using the office as a
betting parlor within the meaning of the statute, and that the woman is aware of this use.

Which of the following additional pieces of evidence would be most useful to the prosecutor's effort to convict the woman
as an accomplice to the man's violation of the statute?

(A) The woman was previously convicted of running a betting parlor herself on the same premises.

(B) The woman charges the man considerably more in rent than she charged the preceding tenant, who used the office for

legitimate activities.

(C) The woman has personally placed bets with the man at the office location.

(D) The man has paid the woman the rent in bills that are traceable as the proceeds of gambling activity.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 90 - Real Property

A  seller  conveyed  residential  land  to  a  buyer  by  a  warranty  deed  that  contained  no  exceptions  and  recited  that  the  full
consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds from a bank. The
seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for the remaining 5%.

At  the  closing,  the  buyer  signed  a  promissory  note  to  the  seller  for  15%  of  the  purchase  price  but  did  not  execute  a
mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by the buyer to the seller.
The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80% advanced by the bank.

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.

There are no applicable statutes.

Which loan has priority?

(A) The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment land contract.

(B) The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.

(C) The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential property.

(D) The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 91 - Torts

Unaware that a lawyer was in the county courthouse library late on a Friday afternoon, when it was unusual for anyone to
be using the library, a clerk locked the library door and left. The lawyer found herself locked in when she tried to leave the
library at 7 p.m. It was midnight before the lawyer's family could find out where she was and get her out. The lawyer was
very annoyed by her detention but was not otherwise harmed by it.

Does the lawyer have a viable claim for false imprisonment against the clerk?

(A) No, because it was unusual for anyone to be using the library late on a Friday afternoon.

(B) No, because the clerk did not intend to confine the lawyer.

(C) Yes, because the clerk should have checked to make sure no one was in the library before the clerk locked the door.

(D) Yes, because the lawyer was aware of being confined.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 92 - Evidence

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle that the
plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims that a design defect
in  the  vehicle  caused  it  to  roll  over.  The  defendant  claims  that  the  cause  of  the  accident  was  the  decedent's  driving  at
excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given contradictory estimates about the vehicle's
speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the decedent was killed instantly.

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit?

(A) A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility vehicle of the
same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a dry test track at the
top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.

(B) A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes footage of

accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.

(C) Evidence  offered  by  the  defendant  that  the  decedent  had  received  two  citations  for  speeding  in  the  previous  three

years.

(D) Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical expert explain

to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 93 - Contracts

A builder  borrowed  $10,000  from  a  lender  to  finance  a  small  construction  job  under  a  contract  with  a  homeowner.  The
builder gave the lender a writing that stated, "Any money I receive from the homeowner will be paid immediately to the
lender,  regardless  of  any  demands  from  other  creditors."  The  builder  died  after  completing  the  job  but  before  the
homeowner paid. The lender demanded that the homeowner pay the $10,000 due to the builder directly to the lender. The
homeowner refused, saying that he would pay directly to the builder's estate everything that he owed the builder.

Is the lender likely to succeed in an action against the homeowner for $10,000?

(A) No, because the builder's death terminated the lender's right to receive payment directly from the homeowner.

(B) No, because the writing the builder gave to the lender did not transfer to the lender the right to receive payment from

the homeowner.

(C) Yes, because the builder had manifested an intent that the homeowner pay the $10,000 directly to the lender.

(D) Yes, because the lender is an intended beneficiary of the builder-homeowner contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 94 - Criminal Law and Procedure

After  a  defendant  was  indicted  on  federal  bank  fraud  charges  and  released  on  bail,  his  attorney  filed  notice  of  the
defendant's intent  to offer an insanity  defense. The prosecutor  then enlisted  the help of a forensic psychologist  who was
willing to participate  in an "undercover"  mental examination of the defendant. The psychologist contacted the defendant
and  pretended  to  represent  an  executive  personnel  agency.  She  told  the  defendant  about  an  attractive  employment
opportunity and invited him to a "preliminary screening interview" to determine his qualifications for the job. As part of
the purported screening process, the psychologist gave the defendant psychological tests that enabled her to form a reliable
opinion about his mental state at the time of the alleged offense.

What is the strongest basis for a defense objection to the psychologist's testimony regarding the defendant's mental state?

(A) The Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures.

(B) The Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination.

(C) The Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel.

(D) The federal common law privilege for confidential communications between psychotherapist and patient.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 95 - Torts

A  man  tied  his  dog  to  a  bike  rack  in  front  of  a  store  and  left  the  dog  there  while  he  went  inside  to  shop.  The  dog  was
usually friendly and placid.

A five-year-old child started to tease the dog by pulling gently on its ears and tail. When the man emerged from the store
and saw what the child was doing to the dog, he became extremely upset.

Does the man have a viable claim against the child for trespass to chattels?

(A) No, because the child did not injure the dog.

(B) No, because the child was too young to form the requisite intent.

(C) Yes, because the child touched the dog without the man's consent.

(D) Yes, because the child's acts caused the man extreme distress.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 96 - Evidence

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered to give the
prosecutor  information  about  facts  that  would  strengthen  the  prosecutor's  case  against  the  defendant  in  exchange  for
leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the information that
the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.

Is the attorney's testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.

(B) No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.

(C) Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.

(D) Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime would be a

statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 97 - Torts

A mother and her six-year-old child were on a walk when the mother stopped to talk with an elderly neighbor. Because the
child resented having his mother's attention diverted by the neighbor, the child angrily threw himself against the neighbor
and knocked her to the ground. The neighbor suffered a broken wrist as a result of the fall.

In an action for battery by the neighbor against the child, what is the strongest argument for liability?

(A) The child intended to throw himself against the neighbor.

(B) The child was old enough to appreciate that causing a fall could inflict serious injury.

(C) The child was old enough to appreciate the riskiness of his conduct.

(D) The child was not justified in his anger.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 98 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  is  charged  with  an  offense  under  a  statute  that  provides  as  follows:  "Any  person  who,  while  intoxicated,
appears  in  any  public  place  and  manifests  a  drunken  condition  by  obstreperous  or  indecent  conduct  is  guilty  of  a
misdemeanor."

At trial, the evidence shows that the defendant was intoxicated when police officers burst into his house and arrested him
pursuant to a valid warrant. It was a cold night, and the officers hustled the defendant out of his house without giving him
time to get his coat. The defendant became angry and obstreperous when the officers refused to let him go back into the
house to retrieve his coat. The officers left him handcuffed outside in the street, waiting for a special squad car to arrive.
The arrest warrant was later vacated.

Can the defendant properly be convicted of violating the statute?

(A) No, because the defendant's claim of mistreatment is valid.

(B) No, because the statute requires proof of a voluntary appearance in a public place.

(C) Yes, because the defendant voluntarily became intoxicated.

(D) Yes, because the defendant voluntarily behaved in an obstreperous manner.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 99 - Real Property

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the quality of title, but
the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without any exceptions.

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for her planned
commercial  use.  She  also  discovered  that  there  was  a  recorded  restrictive  covenant  limiting  the  use  of  the  land  to
residential use.

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.

Must the buyer purchase the land?

(A) No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.

(B) No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.

(C) Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.

(D) Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 100 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A police officer had a hunch, not amounting to probable cause or reasonable suspicion, that a man was a drug dealer. One
day while the officer was on highway patrol, her radar gun clocked the man's car at 68 mph in an area where the maximum
posted speed limit was 65 mph. The officer's usual practice was not to stop a car unless it was going at least 5 mph over the
posted  limit,  but  contrary  to  her  usual  practice,  she  decided  to  stop  the  man's  car  in  the  hope  that  she  might  discover
evidence of drug dealing. After she stopped the car and announced that she would be writing a speeding ticket, the officer
ordered the man and his passenger to step out of the car. When the passenger stepped out, the officer saw that the passenger
had been sitting on a clear bag of what the officer immediately recognized as marijuana. The officer arrested both the man
and the passenger for possession of marijuana.

At their joint trial, the man and the passenger claim that their Fourth Amendment rights were violated because the officer
improperly  (1)  stopped  the  car  for  speeding  as  a  pretext  for  investigating  a  hunch  rather  than  for  the  stated  purpose  of
issuing a traffic ticket and (2) ordered the passenger to step out of the car even though there was no reason to believe that
the passenger was a criminal or dangerous.

Are the man and the passenger correct?

(A) No, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

(B) No as to the stop of the car, but yes as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

(C) Yes as to the stop of the car, but no as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

(D) Yes, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 1 - Constitutional Law

A  federal  civil  statute  prohibited  fishing  in  any  body  of  water  that  was  located  within  a  national  park  and  contained  a
particular  endangered  species  of  fish.  The  statute  authorized  federal  district  courts  to  enjoin  knowing  violators  of  the
statute  from  the  use  of all  national  park  facilities  for  up to  two years. After  a  vacationer  was found  by a  federal  district
court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction against his use of all national park facilities for
two years. The vacationer appealed.

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly made the repeal
effective  retroactive  to  a  date  one  month  before  the  vacationer's  violation  of  the  statute.  The  law  also  directly  cited  the
vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions"
such as that rendered against the vacationer.

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against him. Counsel for
the  United  States  has  objected,  contending  that,  as  applied  to  the  specific  case  pending  in  the  appeals  court,  the  law  is
unconstitutional.

How should the appeals court rule?

(A) For  the  United  States,  because  Congress  defied  the  constitutional  prohibition  against  ex  post  facto  laws  by

retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.

(B) For  the  United  States,  because  the  law's  citation  to  the  vacationer's  case  demonstrates  that  Congress  intended  to
compel  the  appeals  court  to  reach  a  particular  result  and,  therefore,  sought  to  exercise  judicial  powers  vested
exclusively in the courts by Article III.

(C) For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal courts and to

require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.

(D) For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes and to direct

that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet been rendered.

Correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's
injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change
federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment
has not been rendered.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 2 - Real Property

A  man  obtained  a  bank  loan  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  an  office  building  that  he  owned.  After  several  years,  the  man
conveyed the office building to a woman, who took title subject to the mortgage. The deed to the woman was not recorded.
The woman took immediate possession of the building and made the mortgage payments for several years.

Subsequently,  the  woman  stopped  making  payments  on  the  mortgage  loan,  and  the  bank  eventually  commenced
foreclosure proceedings in which the man and the woman were both named parties. At the foreclosure sale, a third party
purchased  the  building  for  less  than  the  outstanding  balance  on  the  mortgage  loan.  The  bank  then  sought  to  collect  the
deficiency from the woman.

Is the bank entitled to collect the deficiency from the woman?

(A) No, because the woman did not record the deed from the man.

(B) No, because the woman is not personally liable on the loan.

Correct.  The woman took  title  to the office  building  subject  to  the mortgage  but did  not assume  the  mortgage
debt. The debt is to be satisfied out of the building. The building is the principal, and the man, as transferor, is
the  only  party  liable  for  any  deficiency.  This  situation  can  be  contrasted  with  one  in  which  a  buyer  expressly
assumes the mortgage debt. In that case, the buyer would be primarily liable for any deficiency and the seller,
absent a release by the mortgagee, would be secondarily liable.

(C) Yes, because the woman took immediate possession of the building when she bought it from the man.

(D) Yes, because the woman was a party to the foreclosure proceeding.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 3 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides: "The sale of an alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 21 is a misdemeanor."

A woman who was 20 years old, but who looked older and who had a very convincing fake driver's license indicating that
she was 24, entered a convenience store, picked up a six-pack of beer, and placed the beer on the counter. The store clerk,
after examining the driver's license, rang up the purchase.

Both the clerk and the store owner have been charged with violating the state statute.

If the court finds both the clerk and the store owner guilty, what standard of liability must the court have interpreted  the
statute to impose?

(A) Strict liability only.

(B) Vicarious liability only.

(C) Both strict and vicarious liability.

Correct.  The  court  must  have  applied  strict  liability  to  convict  the  clerk  (who  did  not  act  knowingly,  and
arguably not even negligently) and vicarious liability to convict the store owner for the sale by the clerk.

(D) Either strict or vicarious liability.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 4 - Evidence

A businessman  was the target  of a grand jury investigation  into the alleged  bribery  of American  and foreign  officials  in
connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press conference that no bribes had
been  offered  or  taken  and  that  no  laws  of  any  kind  had  been  broken.  The  grand  jury  issued  a  subpoena  requiring  the
businessman  to  testify  before  it.  The  businessman  moved  to  quash  the  subpoena  on the  ground  that  his  testimony  could
tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled
statements  before  the  grand  jury  could  not  be  used  against  him  in  any  state  or  federal  prosecution).  The  businessman
responded that the grant of use immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.

Should the businessman be compelled to testify?

(A) No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.

(B) No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the bribery scheme.

(C) Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability  and therefore  his Fifth Amendment rights are not at

stake.

(D) Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

Correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity, that
neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic prosecution, then
he  loses  his  right  to  refuse  to  testify  because  his  statements  cannot  tend  to  incriminate  him.  Because  the
businessman  has  been  protected  against  the  use  of  his  statements  in  a  domestic  prosecution,  his  statements
cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 5 - Constitutional Law

The  United  States  had  long  recognized  the  ruling  faction  in  a  foreign  country  as  that  country's  government,  despite  an
ongoing civil  war.  Throughout  the civil  war,  the  ruling  faction  controlled  the  majority  of the  country's  territory,  and  the
United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the foreign country
and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States within 10 days. The ambassador
filed  an  action  in  federal  district  court  for  a  declaration  that  the  ruling  faction  was  the  true  government  of  the  foreign
country  and  for  an  injunction  against  enforcement  of  the  President's  order  that  she  leave  the  United  States.  The  United
States has moved to dismiss the action.

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.

Correct.  The  action  likely  satisfies  the  political  question  doctrine  and  therefore  should  be  dismissed  as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable
commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II
provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's
decision  on  whether  to  recognize  a  foreign  government.  Finally,  because  the  action  involves  the  President's
administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the
court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

(B) The action is not ripe.

(C) The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.

(D) The ambassador does not have standing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 6 - Torts

An  assistant  to  a  famous  writer  surreptitiously  observed  the  writer  as  the  writer  typed  her  private  password  into  her
personal computer in order to access her email. On several subsequent occasions in the writer's absence, the assistant read
the writer's email messages and printed out selections from them.

The assistant later quit his job and earned a considerable amount of money by leaking information to the media that he had
learned  from  reading  the  writer's  email  messages.  All  of  the  information  published  about  the  writer  as  a  result  of  the
assistant's conduct was true and concerned matters of public interest.

The  writer's  secretary  had  seen  the  assistant  reading  the  writer's  emails  and  printing  out  selections,  and  she  has  told  the
writer what she saw. The writer now wishes to sue the assistant for damages. At trial, the writer can show that the media
leaks could have come only from someone reading her email on her personal computer.

Can the writer recover damages from the assistant?

(A) No, because the assistant was an invitee on the premises.

(B) No, because the published information resulting from the assistant's conduct was true and concerned matters of public

interest.

(C) Yes, because the assistant invaded the writer's privacy.

Correct. By accessing the writer's email, the assistant was intruding upon her privacy. "Intrusion upon seclusion"
is one category  of the tort  of invasion  of privacy  that is recognized  in many states.  The assistant  did not have
permission to access the emails, and the writer did not leave the emails exposed so that others might see them.

(D) Yes, because the published information resulting from the assistant's conduct constituted publication of private facts

concerning the writer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 7 - Evidence

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television was a gift
from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the friend told her neighbor
that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible?

(A) No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the statement.

(C) Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.

Correct. The defendant  is offering  the friend's statement  as evidence that the defendant thought that the friend
owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing possession
of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that the television
was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth of the statement.
Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.

(D) Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 8 - Contracts

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for $10,000. Two
days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition that you provide me with a
warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the supplier called the customer and stated
that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the freezer to another buyer for $11,000.

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.

(B) No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.

(C) Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of merchantability was

already implied in the sale.

Correct. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term additional to or
different  from  the  terms  contained  in  an  offer  is  a  counteroffer.  In  this  case,  however,  the  customer's  letter
constituted  an  acceptance  rather  than  a  counteroffer.  Under  UCC    2-314,  a  warranty  of  merchantability  is
implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to goods of that kind.
Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was already implied in the
sale.  A  contract  arose  when  the  customer  mailed  its  letter  accepting  the  offer.  Accordingly,  the  supplier's
attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the third party breached its contract
with the customer.

(D) Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 9 - Real Property

A credit card company obtained and properly filed a judgment against a man after he failed to pay a $10,000 debt. A statute
in the jurisdiction provides as follows: "Any judgment properly filed shall, for 10 years from filing, be a lien on the real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered."

Two years later, the man purchased land for $200,000. He made a down payment of $20,000 and borrowed the remaining
$180,000 from a bank. The bank loan was secured by a mortgage on the land. Immediately after the closing, the deed to the
man was recorded first, and the bank's mortgage was recorded second.

Five months later, the man defaulted on the mortgage loan and the bank initiated  judicial foreclosure  proceedings. After
receiving notice of the proceedings, the credit card company filed a motion to have its judgment lien declared to be the first
lien on the land.

Is the credit card company's motion likely to be granted?

(A) No, because the bank's mortgage secured a loan used to purchase the land.

Correct.  The bank's  mortgage  is  a  purchase-money  mortgage,  meaning  that  the  funds  the  bank  advanced  were
used  to  purchase  the  land.  A  purchase-money  mortgage  executed  at  the  same  time  as  the  purchase  of  the  real
property encumbered takes precedence over any other claim or lien, including a previously filed judgment lien.
Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes precedence over the credit card company's judgment lien.

(B) No, because the man's down payment exceeded the amount of his debt to the credit card company.

(C) Yes, because the bank had constructive notice of the judgment lien.

(D) Yes, because the bank is a third-party lender and not the seller of the land.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 10 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman charged with murder has entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. At her trial, in which the questions of
guilt  and  sanity  are  being  tried  together,  the  evidence  shows that  the  woman  stalked  the  victim  for  several  hours  before
following him to an isolated hiking trail where she shot and killed him. Expert witnesses for the defense have testified that
the woman knew that killing was illegal and wrong, but that she suffered from a serious mental illness that left her in the
grip of a powerful and irresistible compulsion to kill the victim.

If  the  jury  believes  the  testimony  of  the  defense  experts,  under  what  circumstances  could  the  jury  properly  acquit  the
woman of murder?

(A) Only if the jurisdiction follows the M'Naghten test for insanity.

(B) Only if the jurisdiction follows the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity.

Correct. The jury could find the woman to be legally insane under the ALI Model Penal Code test, because she
could not conform her conduct to the requirements of the law.

(C)

If the jurisdiction follows either the M'Naghten or the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity.

(D) Even if the jurisdiction has abolished the insanity defense.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 11 - Evidence

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The day after the
fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official police report. At trial,
the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement attributed to the eyewitness, who
is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."

Should the court admit the statement from the report?

(A) No, unless the entire report is introduced.

(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

Correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as
a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception
or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The
eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present sense impression, because it was
made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.

(C) Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.

(D) Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 12 - Torts

A man sued his neighbor for defamation based on the following facts:

The neighbor told a friend that the man had set fire to a house in the neighborhood. The friend, who knew the man well,
did not believe the neighbor's allegation, which was in fact false. The friend told the man about the neighbor's allegation.
The man was very upset by the allegation, but neither the man nor the neighbor nor the friend communicated the allegation
to anyone else.

Should the man prevail in his lawsuit?

(A) No, because the friend did not believe what the neighbor had said.

(B) No, because the man cannot prove that he suffered pecuniary loss.

(C) Yes, because the man was very upset at hearing what the neighbor had said.

(D) Yes,  because  the  neighbor  communicated  to  the  friend  the  false  accusation  that  the  man  had  committed  a  serious

crime.

Correct. The core of a defamation action is the communication of a defamatory statement about the plaintiff to a
third party. Here, the statement was spoken rather than written, so the rules of slander apply. Often an action in
slander requires that pecuniary loss be shown, but there is no such requirement where the statement accuses the
plaintiff of engaging in serious criminal conduct. Arson is a crime of moral turpitude, so the neighbor's statement
falls within the exception, and special harm need not be shown.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 13 - Contracts

A seller sent an email to a potential buyer, offering to sell his house to her for $150,000. The buyer immediately responded
via email, asking whether the offer included the house's front porch swing. The seller emailed back: "No, it doesn't." The
buyer then ordered a front porch swing and emailed back to the seller: "I accept your offer." The seller refused to sell the
house to the buyer, claiming that the offer was no longer open.

Is there a contract for the sale of the house?

(A) No, because the buyer's initial email was a counteroffer.

(B) No, because the offer lapsed before the buyer accepted.

(C) Yes, because the buyer relied on the offer by ordering the swing.

(D) Yes, because the buyer's initial email merely asked for information.

Correct.  A  reply  to  an  offer  that  merely  requests  information  regarding  the  offer  constitutes  an  inquiry  rather
than a counteroffer. The buyer's response asking whether the seller intended to include the front porch swing in
his  offer  was an  inquiry  rather  than  a  counteroffer.  The buyer's  subsequent  email  stating  "I  accept  your  offer"
was an acceptance that created a contract between the parties. Therefore, the seller's attempted revocation of his
offer was ineffective.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 14 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A valid  warrant  was issued  for  a  woman's  arrest.  The police  learned  that  a  person  with  the  woman's  name  and  physical
description lived at a particular address. When police officers went to that address, the house appeared to be unoccupied:
the  windows  and  doors  were  boarded  up  with  plywood,  and  the  lawn  had  not  been  mowed  for  a  long  time.  A  neighbor
confirmed that the house belonged to the woman but said that the woman had not been there for several months.

The officers  knocked repeatedly on the front door and shouted, "Police! Open up!" Receiving no response, they tore the
plywood off the door, smashed through the door with a sledgehammer, and entered the house. They found no one inside,
but they did find an illegal sawed-off  shotgun. Upon her return to the house a few weeks later, the woman was charged
with unlawful possession of the shotgun.

The woman has moved to suppress the use of the shotgun as evidence at her trial.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the officers acted in good faith under the authority of a valid warrant.

(B) No,  because  the  officers  did  not  violate  any  legitimate  expectation  of  privacy  in  the  house  since  the  woman  had

abandoned it.

(C) Yes, because the officers entered the house by means of excessive force.

(D) Yes, because the officers had no reason to believe that the woman was in the house.

Correct.  Under  the  Fourth  Amendment,  the  arrest  warrant  would  have  authorized  forcible  entry  only  if  the
officers had reason to believe that the woman was at home at the time of the entry. Here, the officers knew that
the woman was not at home.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 15 - Constitutional Law

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the employee reside
and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for unpaid wages within 10 days
of filing.

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition in
federal  bankruptcy  court.  In  the  bankruptcy  proceeding,  the  employer  sought  to  stay  further  proceedings  in  the  unpaid
wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files a federal bankruptcy petition receives
an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and state courts. No other federal laws apply.

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the imposition of a stay
of the unpaid wages claim in the state court?

(A) Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.

(B) Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.

Correct.  Congress's  power  to  provide  uniform  rules  of bankruptcy  offers  the  most  obvious  constitutional  basis
for  a  federal  statute  requiring  a  stay  of  court  proceedings  against  a  person  who  has  filed  a  federal  bankruptcy
petition.

(C) Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.

(D) Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 16 - Real Property

A  husband  and  wife  acquired  land  as  common  law  joint  tenants  with  right  of  survivorship.  One  year  later,  without  his
wife's knowledge, the husband executed a will devising the land to his best friend. The husband subsequently died.

Is the wife now the sole owner of the land?

(A) No, because a joint tenant has the unilateral right to end a joint tenancy without the consent of the other joint tenant.

(B) No, because the wife's interest in the husband's undivided 50% ownership in the land adeemed.

(C) Yes, because of the doctrine of after-acquired title.

(D) Yes, because the devise to the friend did not sever the joint tenancy.

Correct. Although as a general rule a joint tenant's interest is freely alienable during his or her lifetime without
the consent of the  other joint  tenant,  that  interest  cannot be  devised in a will.  In this  case, on the death of  the
husband, the wife's interest in the joint tenancy immediately swelled and she became the sole owner of the land
as the surviving joint tenant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 17 - Evidence

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant. The plaintiff was
unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in an ambulance.

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's husband if
he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two hours ago by a driver
who went right through the intersection without looking."

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible?

(A) No, because it relates an opinion.

(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

Correct.  The  statement  is  offered  to  prove  liability  for  the  accident.  As  such,  it  is  not  a  statement  made  for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is very
unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement
between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible
as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.

(C) Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.

(D) Yes, as an excited utterance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 18 - Contracts

In a telephone conversation, a jewelry maker offered to buy 100 ounces of gold from a precious metals company if delivery
could be made within 10 days. The jewelry maker did not specify a price, but the market price for 100 ounces of gold at the
time of the conversation was approximately $65,000. Without otherwise responding, the company delivered the gold six
days later.

In  the  meantime,  the  project  for  which  the  jewelry  maker  planned  to  use  the  gold  was  canceled.  The  jewelry  maker
therefore refused to accept delivery of the gold or to pay the $65,000 demanded by the company.

Is there an enforceable contract between the jewelry maker and the company?

(A) No, because the parties did not agree on a price term.

(B) No, because the parties did not put their agreement in writing.

Correct.  The  parties  failed  to  comply  with  the  writing  requirement  of  UCC    2-201(1).  Under  that  section,  a
contract for the sale of goods for a price of $500 or more is not enforceable unless there is a writing indicating a
contract of sale that is signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. In this case, the absence of such
a  writing  signed  by  the  jewelry  maker  renders  the  parties'  oral  agreement  unenforceable.  An  exception  to  the
writing  requirement  arises  when  a  seller  delivers  goods  that  are  accepted  by  the  buyer,  but  in  this  case,  the
jewelry maker did not accept the gold.

(C) Yes, because the absence of a price term does not defeat the formation of a valid contract for the sale of goods where

the parties otherwise intended to form a contract.

(D) Yes, because the company relied on an implied promise to pay when it delivered the gold.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 19 - Real Property

A  landlord  leased  a  building  to  a  tenant  for  a  10-year  term.  Two  years  after  the  term  began,  the  tenant  subleased  the
building  to  a  sublessee  for  a  5-year  term.  Under  the  terms  of  the  sublease,  the  sublessee  agreed  to  make  monthly  rent
payments to the tenant.

Although the sublessee made timely rent payments to the tenant, the tenant did not forward four of those payments to the
landlord. The tenant has left the jurisdiction and cannot be found. The landlord has sued the sublessee for the unpaid rent.

There is no applicable statute.

If the court rules that the sublessee is not liable to the landlord for the unpaid rent, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) A sublessee is responsible to the landlord only as a surety for unpaid rent owed by the tenant.

(B) The sublease constitutes a novation of the original lease.

(C) The sublessee is not in privity of estate or contract with the landlord.

Correct.  In  a  sublease,  the  tenant  transfers  a  right  of  possession  for  a  time  shorter  than  the  balance  of  the
leasehold.  Therefore,  the  sublessee  and  the  tenant  are  in  privity  of  estate  with  each  other,  but  only  the  tenant
remains in privity of estate with the landlord. There also is no privity of contract between the sublessee and the
landlord,  because  the  sublessee  made  no  promise,  either  to  the  landlord  or  to  the  tenant,  to  pay  rent  to  the
landlord.  Lacking  privity,  the  sublessee  is  not  liable  to  the  landlord  for  the  rent.  Although  privity  may  not  be
required under an equitable servitude theory, a finding for the sublessee would mean that the court did not use
such a theory.

(D) The sublessee's rent payments to the tenant fully discharged the sublessee's obligation to pay rent to the landlord.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 20 - Torts

A  manufacturing  plant  emitted  a  faint  noise  even  though  the  owner  had  installed  state-of-the-art  sound  dampeners.  The
plant operated only on weekdays and only during daylight hours. A homeowner who lived near the plant worked a night
shift and could not sleep when he arrived home because of the noise from the plant. The other residents in the area did not
notice the noise.

Does the homeowner have a viable nuisance claim against the owner of the plant?

(A) No, because the homeowner is unusually sensitive to noise during the day.

Correct.  A  landowner  is  liable  for  nuisance  only  when  his  invasion  of  another's  use  and  enjoyment  is  both
substantial  and  unreasonable.  Under  the  norms  of  the  area,  the  plant  owner  is  not  imposing  an  unreasonable
degree  of  noise  upon  his  neighbors.  An  unusually  noise-sensitive  neighbor  will  not  be  permitted  to  block  the
plant owner's use of his own land.

(B) No, because the plant operates only during the day.

(C) Yes, because the noise is heard beyond the boundaries of the plant.

(D) Yes, because the operation of the plant interferes with the homeowner's quiet use and enjoyment of his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 21 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman was subpoenaed to appear before a grand jury. When she arrived, she was taken into the grand jury room to be
questioned. She answered preliminary questions about her name and address. She was then asked where she had been at a
certain  time  on  a  specified  night  when  a  murder  had  occurred.  Before  answering  the  question,  the  woman  said  that  she
wanted  to  consult  her  attorney,  who  was  waiting  outside  the  grand  jury  room,  and  she  was  allowed  to  do so.  When  she
returned to the grand jury room, she stated that she refused to answer the question because the answer might incriminate
her.

The prosecutor believes that the woman's nephew committed the murder. The nephew has said that he was with the woman
at  the  time  of  the  murder,  and  the  prosecutor  believes  that  this  alibi  is  false.  The  prosecutor  does  not  believe  that  the
woman is guilty of the murder, either as a principal or as an accomplice, although he does believe that the woman may be
guilty of other crimes. The prosecutor wants to compel the woman to answer the question by whatever means will result in
the least harm to the prosecution's case.

Which of the following steps should the prosecutor take to get the woman to answer the question?

(A) Request the grand jury to order the woman to answer the question.

(B) Ask the woman's attorney to explain to the woman that the rules of evidence do not apply in grand jury proceedings,

and to advise her that she cannot refuse to testify.

(C) Prepare  the  documents  necessary  to  grant  the  woman  immunity  from  any  future  use  against  her  of  her  grand  jury

testimony or any evidence derived from it.

Correct.  A  witness  cannot  be  compelled  to  provide  potentially  incriminating  testimony  unless  the  witness  is
granted use and derivative-use immunity.

(D) Prepare the documents necessary to grant the woman immunity from any future prosecution for any crime she might

disclose in the course of her testimony.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 22 - Constitutional Law

Congress  enacted  a  statute  directing  U.S.  ambassadors  to  send  formal  letters  to  the  governments  of  their  host  countries,
protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The President prefers to handle
violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed ambassadors not to comply with the statute.

Is the President's action constitutional?

(A) No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the President.

(B) No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute is binding on

the President.

(C) Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.

(D) Yes,  because  the  President  and  his  subordinates  are  the  exclusive  official  representatives  of  the  United  States  in

foreign affairs.

Correct.  The  President's  action  is  constitutional,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  ruled  that  the  President
alone  has  the  authority  to  represent  the  United  States  in  foreign  affairs.  Because  the  statute  intrudes  on  the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 23 - Real Property

A woman who owned a house executed a deed purporting to convey the house to her son and his wife. The language of the
deed was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is unmodified by statute in the
jurisdiction. The woman mailed the deed to the son with a letter saying: "Because I intend you and your wife to have my
house after my death, I am enclosing a deed to the house. However, I intend to live in the house for the rest of my life, so
don't record the deed until I die. The deed will be effective at my death."

The son put the deed in his desk. The wife discovered the deed and recorded it without the son's knowledge. Subsequently,
the son and the wife separated,  and  the wife, without telling  anyone, conveyed her  interest  in the house to a friend  who
immediately reconveyed it to the wife.

The woman learned that the son and the wife had separated and also learned what had happened to the deed to the house.
The woman then brought an appropriate action against the son and the wife to obtain a declaration that the woman was still
the owner of the house and an order canceling of record the woman's deed and the subsequent deeds.

If the court determines that the woman owns the house in fee simple, what will be the likely explanation?

(A) The deed was not delivered.

Correct.  To  be  valid,  a  deed  must  be  properly  executed  and  delivered.  Delivery  is  a  question  of  the  grantor's
intent. In this case, the woman did not intend the deed to be effective until her death. An intent to have a transfer
be  effective  at  the  grantor's  death  is  valid  in  a  will  but  not  in  a  deed  unless  the  deed  expressly  reserves  a  life
estate, which this deed did not do. The woman remained in possession of the house and intended to retain title to
the house until her death. The deed was not delivered, so she owns the house in fee simple.

(B) The wife's conduct entitles the woman to equitable relief.

(C) The woman expressly reserved a life estate.

(D) The woman received no consideration for her deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 24 - Contracts

A man sent an email to a friend that stated: "Because you have been a great friend to me, I am going to give you a rare
book that I own." The friend replied by an email that said: "Thanks for the rare book. I am going to give you my butterfly
collection." The rare book was worth $10,000; the butterfly collection was worth $100. The friend delivered the butterfly
collection to the man, but the man refused to deliver the book.

If the friend sues the man to recover the value of the book, how should the court rule?

(A) For the man, because there was no bargained-for exchange to support his promise.

Correct. To constitute consideration, a return promise must be bargained for. A return promise is bargained for
when it is sought by the promisor in exchange for his promise and is given by the promisee in exchange for that
promise.  Because  the  man's  promise  to  give  the  rare  book  to  the  friend  did  not  seek  a  return  promise  or
performance, the friend's promise to give the man her butterfly collection did not constitute consideration for the
man's promise. Accordingly, no contract arose between the parties, and the court should rule in favor of the man.

(B) For the man, because the consideration given for his promise was inadequate.

(C) For the friend, because she gave the butterfly collection to the man in reliance on receiving the book.

(D) For the friend, because she conferred a benefit on the man by delivering the butterfly collection.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 25 - Torts

Toxic materials being transported by truck from a manufacturer's plant to a warehouse leaked from the truck onto the street
a few miles from the plant. A driver lost control of his car when he hit the puddle of spilled toxic materials on the street,
and he was injured when his car hit a stop sign.

In an action for damages by the driver against the manufacturer based on strict liability, is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the driver's loss of control was an intervening cause.

(B) No, because the driver's injury did not result from the toxicity of the materials.

Correct.  Strict  liability  in  this  situation  would  be  based  on  the  abnormally  dangerous  nature  of  the  toxic
materials. But a successful strict liability action requires that the risk that materializes be the same risk that led
courts to label the activity "abnormally dangerous" in the first place. Here, the toxicity of the materials did not
contribute to the driver's injury, so his only cause of action would be in negligence.

(C) Yes, because the manufacturer is strictly liable for leaks of its toxic materials.

(D) Yes, because the leak occurred near the manufacturer's plant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 26 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the United States in
liberating  a  particular  foreign  nation  during  World  War  II.  Another  statute  appropriated  $3  million  for  the  construction.
When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign nation, the President announced that he
was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason
for the President's decision was the trade dispute, the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the
federal deficit.

Assume that no other statutes apply.

Is the President's decision constitutional?

(A) No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.

(B) No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.

Correct.  The  President's  decision  is  unconstitutional,  because  Article  II  of  the  Constitution  obligates  the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid exercise
of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.

(C) Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.

(D) Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 27 - Real Property

A  woman  borrowed  $100,000  from  a  bank  and  executed  a  promissory  note  to  the  bank  in  that  amount.  As  security  for
repayment of the loan, the woman's brother gave the bank a mortgage on a tract of land solely owned by him. The brother
did not sign the promissory note.

The woman subsequently defaulted on the loan, and after acceleration, the bank instituted foreclosure proceedings on the
brother's land. The brother filed a timely objection to the foreclosure.

Will the bank succeed in foreclosing on the tract of land?

(A) No, because the bank has an equitable mortgage rather than a legal mortgage.

(B) No, because a mortgage from the brother is invalid without a mortgage debt owed by him.

(C) Yes, because the bank has a valid mortgage.

Correct. A mortgage is security for the performance of an act. The performance may be by the mortgagor or by
some other person. The mortgage granted by the brother to secure the debt of the woman is valid even though the
woman also has personal liability on the debt.

(D) Yes, because the bank is a surety for the brother's mortgage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 28 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  validly  arrested  for  the  murder  of  a  store  clerk  and  was  taken  to  a  police  station  where  he  was  given
Miranda  warnings.  When  an  interrogator  asked  the  defendant,  "Do  you  understand  your  Miranda  rights,  and  are  you
willing  to  give  up  those  rights  and  talk  to  us?"  the  defendant  replied,  "Yes."  When  asked,  "Did  you  kill  the  clerk?"  the
defendant replied, "No." When asked, "Where were you on the day the clerk was killed?" the defendant replied, "Maybe I
should talk to a lawyer." The interrogator asked, "Are you sure?" and the defendant replied, "I'm not sure." The interrogator
then asked, "Why would you want to talk with a lawyer?" and the defendant replied, "Because I killed the clerk. It was an
accident,  and  I  think  I  need  a  lawyer  to  defend  me."  At  that  point  all  interrogation  ceased.  Later,  the  defendant  was
formally charged with murdering the clerk.

The defendant has moved to suppress evidence of his statement "I killed the clerk" on the ground that this statement was
elicited in violation of his Miranda rights.

Should the defendant's motion be granted?

(A) No, because although  the defendant  effectively  asserted  the right  to counsel,  the question  "Why would you want  to

talk with a lawyer?" did not constitute custodial interrogation.

(B) No, because the defendant did not effectively assert the right to counsel, and his conduct prior to making the statement

constituted a valid waiver of his Miranda rights.

Correct.  The  defendant  did  not  effectively  assert  his  right  to  counsel,  because  such  an  assertion  must  be
unambiguous. The defendant's  statement  "Maybe I should talk to a lawyer"  is not an unambiguous request  for
counsel. In addition, the defendant had unequivocally waived his Miranda rights prior to making this statement.

(C) Yes, because  although  the  defendant  did  not  effectively  assert  the  right  to  counsel,  his  conduct  prior  to  making  the

statement did not constitute a valid waiver of his Miranda rights.

(D) Yes, because the defendant effectively  asserted the right to counsel, and the question "Why would you want to talk

with a lawyer?" constituted custodial interrogation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 29 - Evidence

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was trying to feed a
rat  that  was  part  of  the  defendant's  caged-rat  experiment  at  a  science  fair.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  offers  evidence  that
immediately  after  the incident  the defendant  said to  her, "I'd like  to give you this  $100 bill,  because  I  feel  so bad  about
this."

Is the defendant's statement admissible?

(A) No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.

(B) No, because it was an offer of compromise.

(C) Yes, as a present sense impression.

(D) Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

Correct.  An  out-of-court  statement  by  a  party  that  is  relevant  to  his  or  her  liability  is  admissible  under  the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements  of a party-opponent.  One might think that the statement  would be
excluded  because  of  Rule  408,  which  excludes  statements  that  are  made  to  settle  a  claim.  But  that  rule  is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time  the  defendant  made  the  statement,  he  was  not  contesting  that  he  was  at  fault.  Therefore,  there  was  no
disputed claim.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 30 - Contracts

A farmer who wanted to sell her land received a letter from a developer that stated, "I will pay you $1,100 an acre for your
land." The farmer's letter of reply stated, "I accept your offer." Unbeknownst to the farmer, the developer had intended to
offer only $1,000 per acre but had mistakenly typed "$1,100." As both parties knew, comparable land in the vicinity had
been selling at prices between $1,000 and $1,200 per acre.

Which of the following states the probable legal consequences of the correspondence between the parties?

(A) There is no contract, because the parties attached materially different meanings to the price term.

(B) There is no enforceable contract, because the developer is entitled to rescission due to a mutual mistake as to a basic

assumption of the contract.

(C) There is a contract formed at a price of $1,000 per acre.

(D) There is a contract formed at a price of $1,100 per acre.

Correct.  An  enforceable  contract  requires  mutual  assent  as  determined  by  the  parties'  objective,  rather  than
subjective,  manifestations  of  assent.  Given  the  parties'  knowledge  of  the  price  of  comparable  land,  the
developer's offer created a reasonable understanding that the developer would purchase the land for $1,100 per
acre. Moreover, because the farmer neither knew nor had reason to know that the developer intended to purchase
the land for only $1,000 per acre, the developer will be bound to purchase it for $1,100 per acre. Accordingly,
the parties' conduct gave rise to a contract formed at $1,100 per acre when the farmer accepted the developer's
offer.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 31 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Two defendants were being tried together in federal court for bank robbery. The prosecutor sought to introduce testimony
from the first defendant's prison cellmate. The cellmate would testify that the first defendant had admitted to the cellmate
that he and the second defendant had robbed the bank. The prosecutor asked the court to instruct the jury that the cellmate's
testimony could be considered only against the first defendant.

Can the cellmate's testimony be admitted in a joint trial over the second defendant's objection?

(A) No, because the first defendant made the statement without Miranda warnings.

(B) No,  because  the  limiting  instruction  cannot  ensure  that  the  jury  will  not  consider  the  testimony  in  its  deliberations

regarding the second defendant.

Correct. The limiting  instruction  is constitutionally  insufficient  to avoid the risk that the jury will consider the
incriminating  statement  against  the  second  defendant,  who  has  no  opportunity  at  trial  to  confront  the  first
defendant.

(C) Yes, because the first defendant's statement was a declaration against penal interest.

(D) Yes, because the limiting instruction sufficiently protects the second defendant.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 32 - Torts

A man and  his friend,  who were both  adults,  went to  a party. The man and  the friend  had  many drinks at  the party  and
became legally intoxicated. They decided to play a game of chance called "Russian roulette" using a gun loaded with one
bullet. As part of the game, the man pointed the gun at the friend and, on her command, pulled the trigger. The man shot
the friend in the shoulder.

The friend has brought a negligence action against the man. Traditional defenses based on plaintiff's conduct apply.

What is likely to be the dispositive issue in this case?

(A) Whether the game constituted a joint venture.

(B) Whether the friend could validly consent to the game.

(C) Whether the friend was also negligent.

Correct. Contributory negligence is an appropriate defense to a negligence action, and here both parties seem to
have been acting unreasonably in exactly the same way. Whether the argument is put in the form of the friend's
carelessness  in  engaging  in  the  activity  or  in  her  unreasonable  assumption  of  risk,  many  states  would  now
evaluate the defense under comparative negligence principles.

(D) Whether the man was legally intoxicated when he began playing the game.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 33 - Real Property

A mother executed a will devising vacant land to her son. The mother showed the will to her son.

Thereafter, the son purported to convey the land to a friend by a warranty deed that contained no exceptions. The friend
paid value for the land and promptly recorded the deed without having first conducted any title search. The friend never
took possession of the land.

The mother later died, and the will devising the land to her son was duly admitted to probate.

Thereafter, the friend conducted a title search for the land and asked the son for a new deed. The son refused, because the
value of the land had doubled, but he offered to refund the purchase price to the friend.

The friend has sued to quiet title to the land.

Is the friend likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the friend failed to conduct a title search before purchasing the land.

(B) No, because the son had no interest in the land at the time of conveyance.

(C) Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

Correct. The doctrine of estoppel by deed (sometimes referred to as after-acquired title) provides that even if the
grantor has no title to the land at the time the deed is delivered, the title automatically passes to the grantee when
title is so acquired, provided that the grantor asserts the quality of title conveyed in the deed. In this case, the son
conveyed to the friend by a warranty deed with no exceptions.

(D) Yes, because the deed was recorded.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 34 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A prosecutor presented to a federal grand jury the testimony of a witness in order to secure a defendant's indictment  for
theft of government property. The prosecutor did not disclose to the grand jury that the witness had been convicted four
years earlier of perjury. The grand jury returned an indictment, and the defendant pleaded not guilty.

Shortly thereafter, the prosecutor took the case to trial, calling the witness to testify before the jury. The prosecutor did not
disclose the witness's prior perjury conviction until the defense was preparing to rest. Defense counsel immediately moved
for  a  mistrial,  which  the  court  denied.  Instead,  the  court  allowed  the  defense  to  recall  the  witness  for  the  purpose  of
impeaching him with this conviction, but the witness could not be located. The court then allowed the defense to introduce
documentary evidence of the witness's criminal record to the jury before resting its case. The jury convicted the defendant.

The defendant has moved for a new trial, arguing that the prosecutor's failure to disclose the witness's prior conviction in a
timely manner violated the defendant's right to due process of law.

If the court grants the defendant's motion, what will be the most likely reason?

(A) The defendant was unable to cross-examine the witness about the conviction.

(B) The prosecutor failed to inform the grand jury of the witness's conviction.

(C) The  court  found  it  reasonably  probable  that  the  defendant  would  have  been  acquitted  had  the  defense  had  timely

access to the information about the witness's conviction.

Correct.  The  untimely  disclosure  of  evidence  favorable  to  the  defense  (including  impeachment  information)
violates the Constitution if the evidence would have created a reasonable probability of a different outcome had
it been disclosed earlier.

(D) The court found that the prosecutor had deliberately delayed disclosing the witness's conviction to obtain a strategic

advantage.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 35 - Constitutional Law

A motorist  who resided  in  State  A  was severely  injured  in  a  traffic  accident  that  occurred  in  State  B. The  other  vehicle
involved  in  the  accident  was  a  truck  owned  by  a  furniture  manufacturer  and  driven  by  one  of  its  employees.  The
manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it has no office, plant, or agent
for service of process there.

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer appeared specially to
contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the manufacturer by virtue of State A's
long-arm statute.

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a basis for
reducing  an  award  of  damages  but  not  for  denying  recovery  altogether.  Under  State  B  law,  contributory  negligence  is  a
complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its negligence was a cause of the motorist's
injuries.  It  also  found  that  the  motorist  was  negligent,  though  to  a  lesser  degree  than  the  manufacturer,  and  that  the
motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million
in damages.

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on jurisdiction and in
its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal constitutional claims pertinent to
these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied
the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.

The  motorist  has  brought  an  action  against  the  manufacturer  in  a  state  court  in  State  B  to  collect  on  the  judgment.  The
manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.

How should the State B court rule?

(A) For  the  manufacturer,  because  a  judgment  entered  by  a  court  that  lacks  jurisdiction  over  one  of  the  parties  is  not
entitled  to  full  faith  and  credit,  and  the  State  A  court  could  not  constitutionally  assert  jurisdiction  over  the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.

(B) For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State B law to

an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.

(C) For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State A court,

and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

Correct. The State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the
judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

(D) For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest court in State

A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 36 - Contracts

A buyer and a seller entered into a written contract for the sale of a copy machine, using the same form contract that they
had used a number of times in the past. The contract stated that payment was due 30 days after delivery and provided that
the writing contained the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement.

On  several  past  occasions,  the  buyer  had  taken  a  5%  discount  from  the  contract  price  when  paying  within  10  days  of
delivery, and the seller had not objected. On this occasion, when the buyer took a 5% discount for paying within 10 days,
the seller objected because his profit margin on this particular machine was smaller than on his other machines.

If the seller sues the buyer for breach of contract, may the buyer introduce evidence that the 5% discount was a term of the
agreement?

(A) No, because the seller timely objected to the buyer's proposal for different terms.

(B) No, because the writing contained the complete and exclusive agreement of the parties.

(C) Yes, because a modification made in good faith does not require consideration.

(D) Yes,  because  evidence  of  course  of  dealing  is  admissible  even  if  the  writing  contains  the  complete  and  exclusive

agreement of the parties.

Correct.  Under  UCC    1-303(b),  course  of  dealing  is  defined  as  "a  sequence  of  conduct  concerning  previous
transactions between the parties to a particular transaction . . . ." In this case, on several past occasions the buyer
had  taken  a  5%  discount  without  objection  from  the  seller,  thus  establishing  a  course  of  dealing.  Under  the
UCC's  parol  evidence  rule,  course-of-dealing  evidence  is  admissible  to  explain  or  supplement  a  final  written
agreement  even  if  the  parties  intended  the  agreement  to  be  complete  and  exclusive.  Accordingly,  the
course-of-dealing evidence is admissible.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 37 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was hit with a lead
pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has testified that the injuries to
the  victim's  forearms  appear  to  have  been  defensive  wounds.  The  victim  has  testified  that  he  cannot  remember  who
attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley,
and that he told the passerby that the defendant had hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant
objects to this proposed testimony, arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity
of the perpetrator.

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible?

(A) No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal knowledge of

the perpetrator's identity.

(B) No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively cross-examined.

(C) Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal knowledge.

Correct.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  held  in  United  States  v.  Owens  that  a  declarant-witness  is  subject  to
cross-examination within the meaning of the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness lacks
all memory of the prior identification. As to personal knowledge, the evidence of defensive wounds is more than
sufficient to persuade a reasonable juror that the victim saw his attacker.

(D) Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 38 - Constitutional Law

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers who had been
unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to fund loans made pursuant to
the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans.

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency officials promptly
reviewed her application and summarily denied it.

The  farmer  has  sued  the  agency  in  federal  district  court,  claiming  only  that  the  denial  of  her  application  without  the
opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that she could have
proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her farm.

Should the court uphold the agency's decision?

(A) No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual determination that

adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.

(B) No,  because  the  denial  of  a  loan  may  deprive  the  farmer  of  an  established  liberty  interest  to  pursue  her  chosen

occupation.

(C) Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.

Correct.  The  court  should  uphold  the  agency's  decision,  because  the  due  process  clause  does  not  require  the
government  to  provide  the  farmer  an  opportunity  for  an  administrative  hearing  on  her  loan  application.  The
farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the agency discretion to decide
which  applicants  were  to  receive  the  loans.  The  agency's  denial  of  the  farmer's  application  therefore  did  not
deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process clause.

(D) Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the distribution of

appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 39 - Torts

A woman signed up for a bowling class. Before allowing the woman to bowl, the instructor required her to sign a waiver
explicitly stating that she assumed all risk of injuries that she might suffer in connection with the class, including injuries
due to negligence or any other fault. After she signed the waiver, the woman was injured when the instructor negligently
dropped a bowling ball on the woman's foot.

The woman  brought  a  negligence  action  against  the  instructor.  The  instructor  has  filed  a  motion  for  summary  judgment
based on the waiver.

What is the woman's best argument in opposition to the instructor's motion?

(A) Bowling is an inherently dangerous activity.

(B)

In  circumstances  like  these,  it  is  against  public  policy  to  enforce  agreements  that  insulate  people  from  the
consequences of their own negligence.

Correct.  Waivers  are  most  easily  justified  when  an  activity  poses  inherent  risks  that  are  familiar  to  the
participants  and  cannot  be  entirely  eliminated  without  removing  the  pleasure  from  the  activity.  The  risk  that
materialized here is not inherent to bowling but could arise whenever someone is careless while holding a heavy
object.  A  court  might  find  that  it  is  against  public  policy  to  permit  individuals  or  businesses  to  insulate
themselves from the deterrent incentives provided by the threat of negligence liability. For that reason, the court
might find that the waiver did not present the woman with a fair choice and could hold the waiver ineffective.

(C)

It was unreasonable to require the woman to sign the waiver before she was allowed to bowl.

(D) When she signed the form, the woman could not foresee that the instructor would drop a bowling ball on her foot.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 40 - Constitutional Law

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who is a lawful
resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a state court. The woman's
name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a comprehensive list of local residents. She was
disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S. citizen.

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.

Who should prevail in this action?

(A) The  state,  because  a  state  may  limit  to  U.S.  citizens  functions  that  are  an  integral  part  of  the  process  of

self-government.

Correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the
state's  legitimate  interest  in  ensuring  that  only  citizens  perform  functions  that  are  central  to  self-government.
Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is
appropriate  when  alienage  classifications  restrict  the  right  to  participate  in  functions  that  are  central  to
self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

(B) The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected by the due

process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to aliens.

(D) The woman, because  the state  has not articulated  a legitimate  reason for prohibiting  resident aliens  from  serving  as

jurors in the state's courts.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 41 - Torts

A  pedestrian  was  crossing  a  street  in  a  crosswalk  when  a  woman  walking  just  ahead  of  him  was  hit  by  a  truck.  The
pedestrian, who had jumped out of the way of the truck, administered CPR to the woman, who was a stranger. The woman
bled profusely, and the pedestrian was covered in blood. The woman died in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. The
pedestrian  became  very  depressed  immediately  after  the  incident  and  developed  physical  symptoms  as  a  result  of  his
emotional distress.

The pedestrian  has  brought  an  action  against  the  driver  of  the  truck  for  negligent  infliction  of  emotional  distress.  In  her
defense,  the  driver  asserts  that  she  should  not  be  held  liable,  because  the  pedestrian's  emotional  distress  and  resulting
physical symptoms are not compensable.

What is the strongest argument that the pedestrian can make in response to the driver's defense?

(A) The pedestrian saw the driver hit the woman.

(B) The pedestrian was acting as a Good Samaritan.

(C) The  pedestrian  was  covered  in  the  woman's  blood  and  developed  physical  symptoms  as  a  result  of  his  emotional

distress.

(D) The pedestrian was in the zone of danger.

Correct.  Because  the  pedestrian  was  in  the  path  of  the  truck,  he  was  under  a  direct  physical  threat  from  the
driver's negligence. He could recover for the emotional distress that he suffered as a result of his fear for his own
safety,  and  many  courts  would  also  allow  him  to  recover  for  all  other  emotional  distress  that  he  suffered  in
connection with the event.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 42 - Contracts

A buyer purchased a new car from a dealer under a written contract that provided that the price of the car was $20,000 and
that  the  buyer  would  receive  a  "trade-in  allowance  of  $7,000  for  the  buyer's  old  car."  The  old  car  had  recently  been
damaged in an accident. The contract contained a merger clause stating: "This writing constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties, and there are no other understandings or agreements not set forth herein." When the buyer took possession of
the new car, she delivered the old car to the dealer. At that time, the dealer claimed that the trade-in allowance included an
assignment of the buyer's claim against her insurance company for damage to the old car. The buyer refused to provide the
assignment.

The dealer sued the buyer to recover the insurance payment. The dealer has offered evidence that the parties agreed during
their negotiations for the new car that the dealer was entitled to the insurance payment.

Should the court admit this evidence?

(A) No, because the dealer's acceptance of the old car bars any additional claim by the dealer.

(B) No, because the merger clause bars any evidence of the parties' prior discussions concerning the trade-in allowance.

(C) Yes, because a merger clause does not bar evidence of fraud.

(D) Yes, because the merger clause does not bar evidence to explain what the parties meant by "trade-in allowance."

Correct. Under the UCC's parol evidence rule, a merger clause does not conclusively establish that an agreement
is completely integrated. Moreover, a finding that an agreement is completely integrated does not necessarily bar
the admission of extrinsic evidence. Although extrinsic evidence is inadmissible to supplement or contradict the
express  terms  of  a  completely  integrated  agreement,  such  evidence  is  admissible  to  explain  the  terms  of  an
agreement.  In  this  case,  evidence  of  the  parties'  discussions  during  their  negotiations  is  admissible  to  aid  in
explaining whether they intended "trade-in- allowance" to include an assignment of the buyer's claim against her
insurance company.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 43 - Real Property

A woman inherited a house from a distant relative. The woman had never visited the house, which was located in another
state, and did not want to own it. Upon learning this, a man who lived next door to the house called the woman and asked
to buy the house. The woman agreed, provided that the house was sold "as is." The man agreed, and the woman conveyed
the house to the man by a warranty deed.

The man had purchased the house for investment purposes, intending to rent it out while continuing to live next door. After
the sale, the man started to renovate the house and discovered serious termite damage. The man sued the woman for breach
of contract.

There are no applicable statutes.

How should the court rule?

(A) For the woman, because the man planned to change the use of the house for investment purposes.

(B) For the woman, because she sold the house "as is."

Correct. A seller may disclaim any duty to disclose defects if the disclaimer is sufficiently clear and specific. In
this  case,  the  contract  specifically  noted  that  the  house  was  being  sold  "as  is."  The  woman  made  no
misrepresentations  regarding  the  condition  of  the  house.  There  are  no  statutes  that  might  require  an
owner-occupier to disclose known defects, and in any case the woman inherited the house and had never visited
or lived in it. In addition, this is not the sale of a new house by a builder/seller, which may impose a warranty of
habitability.

(C) For the man, because of the doctrine of caveat emptor.

(D) For the man, because he received a warranty deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 44 - Evidence

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a soccer match.

If  the  man  sues  the  neighbor  for  personal  injury  damages,  which  of  the  following  actions  must  the  trial  court  take  if
requested by the man?

(A) Prevent  the  neighbor's  principal  eyewitness  from  testifying,  upon  a  showing  that  six  years  ago  the  witness  was

convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.

(B) Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct examination of the

expert.

(C) Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.

Correct. Rule 615 provides that if a party moves to exclude prospective witnesses before they testify, "the court
must order witnesses excluded so they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony."

(D) Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 45 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer, to post on the
Internet any information  concerning the employer."  The purpose of the statute was to prevent employees from  revealing
their employers' trade secrets.

Is the statute constitutional?

(A) No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.

Correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets speech
based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information  concerning the employer"
on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny.
Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to
further  a  compelling  government  interest.  Even  if  the  government's  interest  in  preventing  employees  from
revealing  trade  secrets  were  deemed  compelling,
 legislation  utilizing  less
speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

 Congress  could  enact

(B) No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.

(C) Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.

(D) Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 46 - Real Property

A man owned a large tract of land. The eastern portion of the land was undeveloped and unused. A farmer owned a farm,
the  western  border  of  which  was  along  the  eastern  border  of  the  man's  land.  The  two  tracts  of  land  had  never  been  in
common ownership.

Five years ago, the farmer asked the man for permission to use a designated two acres of the eastern portion of the man's
land to enlarge her farm's irrigation facilities. The man orally gave his permission for such use. Since then, the farmer has
invested  substantial  amounts  of  money  and  effort  each  year  to  develop  and  maintain  the  irrigation  facilities  within  the
two-acre parcel. The man has been fully aware of the farmer's actions. Nothing regarding this matter was ever reduced to
writing.

Last year, the man gave the entire tract of land as a gift to his nephew. The deed of gift made no reference to the farmer or
the two-acre parcel. When the nephew had the land surveyed and discovered the facts, he notified the farmer in writing,
"Your  license  to  use  the  two-acre  parcel  has  been  terminated."  The  notice  instructed  the  farmer  to  remove  her  facilities
from the two-acre parcel immediately. The farmer refused the nephew's demand.

In an appropriate action between the nephew and the farmer to determine whether the farmer had a right to continue to use
the two-acre parcel, the court ruled in favor of the farmer.

What is the most likely reason for the court's ruling?

(A) The investments and efforts by the farmer in reliance on the license estop the man, and now the nephew as the man's

donee, from terminating the license.

Correct. In most jurisdictions, the farmer may acquire the unconditional right to use the land following the oral
license, provided that the farmer expended money and labor in reliance on the license. The farmer has acquired
what is known as an irrevocable license or an equitable easement.

(B) The nephew is merely a donee.

(C) The farmer has acquired an easement based on prior use.

(D) The farmer received a license coupled with an interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 47 - Torts

Upon the recommendation of her child's pediatrician, a mother purchased a vaporizer for her child, who had been suffering
from  respiratory  congestion.  The  vaporizer  consisted  of  a  gallon-size  glass  jar,  which  held  water  to  be  heated  until  it
became steam, and a metal heating unit into which the jar fit. The jar was covered by a plastic cap with an opening to allow
the steam to escape. At the time the vaporizer was manufactured and sold, there was no safer alternative design.

The booklet that accompanied the vaporizer read: "This product is safe, spillproof, and practically foolproof. It shuts off
automatically when the water is gone." The booklet had a picture of a vaporizer sending steam over a baby's crib.

The mother  used the vaporizer  whenever the child was suffering  from  congestion.  She placed the vaporizer  on the floor
near the child's bed.

One night, the child got out of bed to get a drink of water and tripped  over the cord of the vaporizer as she crossed  the
room.  The  top  of  the  vaporizer  separated  from  the  base,  and  boiling  water  from  the  jar  spilled  on  the  child  when  the
vaporizer tipped over. The child suffered serious burns as a consequence.

The  child's  representative  brought  an  action  for  damages  against  the  manufacturer  of  the  vaporizer.  The  manufacturer
moved to dismiss after the representative presented the evidence above.

Should the manufacturer's motion be granted?

(A) No, because a jury could find that the manufacturer expressly represented that the vaporizer was spillproof.

Correct. The vaporizer may not have been "defective," in that there was no reasonable alternative design, but the
express  promise  by  the  manufacturer  that  it  was  "safe"  and  "spillproof,"  especially  when  combined  with  the
manufacturer's picture suggesting that it was safe to place the vaporizer near a child's bed, could be the basis of
recovery on the ground of misrepresentation.

(B) No, because the vaporizer caused a serious injury to the child.

(C) Yes, because it should have been obvious to the mother that the water in the jar would become boiling hot.

(D) Yes, because there was no safer alternative design.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 48 - Contracts

A buyer agreed in writing to purchase a car from a seller for $15,000, with the price to be paid on a specified date at the
seller's  showroom.  The  contract  provided,  and  both  parties  intended,  that  time  was  of  the  essence.  Before  the  specified
date, however, the seller sold the car to a third party for $20,000. On the specified date, the buyer arrived at the showroom
but brought only $10,000. When the seller did not appear at the showroom, the buyer called the seller and asked whether
the seller would accept $10,000 for the car immediately and the remaining $5,000 in six weeks. The seller told the buyer
that he had sold the car to the third party.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, will the buyer be likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the contractual obligations were discharged on the ground of impossibility.

(B) No, because the buyer was not prepared to tender her performance on the specified date.

Correct.  Even  though  the  facts  demonstrate  that  the  seller  repudiated  the  contract  by  selling  the  car  to  a  third
party,  the  seller  did  not  end  up  breaching  the  contract.  Under  UCC  Article  2,  a  seller's  tender  of  delivery  of
goods and a buyer's tender of payment are concurrent conditions of exchange. Therefore, the buyer and the seller
were  obligated  to  simultaneously  tender  their  respective  performances.  Because  neither  party  was  prepared  to
tender performance at the time or in the manner stipulated in the contract, each party's performance obligation
was discharged. Accordingly, neither the buyer nor the seller has a claim for breach of contract.

(C) Yes, because the buyer's breach was not material.

(D) Yes, because the seller anticipatorily repudiated the contract when he sold the car to the third party.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 49 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  state  statute  divides  murder  into  degrees  and  defines  murder  in  the  first  degree  as  murder  committed  willfully  with
premeditation  and deliberation.  The statute  defines  murder  in the second degree as all other murder at common law and
defines voluntary manslaughter as at common law.

A man hated one of his coworkers. Upon learning that the coworker was at a neighbor's house, the man grabbed his gun
and  went  to  the  neighbor's  house  hoping  to  provoke  the  coworker  into  attacking  him  so  that  he  could  then  shoot  the
coworker. After arriving at the house, the man insulted the coworker and bragged that he had had sexual relations with the
coworker's wife two weeks earlier. This statement was not true, but it enraged the coworker, who grabbed a knife from the
kitchen table and ran toward the man. The man then shot and killed the coworker.

What is the most serious homicide offense of which the man could properly be convicted?

(A) Murder in the first degree.

Correct. The killing was committed willfully with premeditation and deliberation. The killing cannot be justified
as  having  been  in  self-defense,  because  the  man  was  the  clear  aggressor  who  intentionally  provoked  the
coworker so that he could shoot and kill him.

(B) Murder in the second degree.

(C) Voluntary manslaughter, because he provoked the coworker.

(D) No form of criminal homicide, because he acted in self-defense.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 50 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from accurate sources
establishing  that  the  bank  is  a  federally  insured  institution  and  that  this  fact  is  not  subject  to  reasonable  dispute.  The
prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.

How should the court proceed?

(A) The  court  must  take  judicial  notice  and  instruct  the  jury  that  it  is  required  to  accept  the  judicially  noticed  fact  as

conclusive.

(B) The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the judicially noticed

fact as conclusive.

Correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to
indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court
must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

(C) The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a criminal

case.

(D) The  court  must  refuse  to  take  judicial  notice,  because  whether  a  bank  is  federally  insured  would  not  be  generally

known within the court's jurisdiction.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 51 - Evidence

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of the policy. At
issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death. The decedent's primary care
physician  has  testified  at  trial  that  the  decedent  had  a  routine  checkup  on  February  15.  The  physician  then  identifies  a
photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I
broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while." The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.

Should the court admit the photocopy?

(A) No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.

(B) No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.

(C) Yes, as a business record.

(D) Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

Correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and treatment,
and  it  is  clearly  pertinent  to  the  physician's  diagnosis  and  treatment.  Therefore,  it  is  admissible  under  Rule
803(4).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 52 - Real Property

Two friends  planned to  incorporate  a  business  together  and agreed  that they  would own all of  the corporation's  stock  in
equal proportion.

A  businesswoman  conveyed  land  by  a  warranty  deed  to  "the  corporation  and  its  successors  and  assigns."  The  deed  was
recorded.

Thereafter, the friends had a disagreement. No papers were ever filed to incorporate the business.

There is no applicable statute.

Who owns the land?

(A) The businesswoman, because the deed was a warranty deed.

(B) The businesswoman, because the deed was void.

Correct. To be valid, a deed must be properly executed and delivered. A deed to a nonexistent grantee, such as a
corporation that has not yet been legally formed, is void. At the time the businesswoman attempted to convey the
land to the corporation, the corporation had not yet been legally formed, so the deed was void.

(C) The two friends as tenants in common, because they intended to own the corporation's stock in equal proportion.

(D) The two friends as tenants in common, because they were the intended sole shareholders.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 53 - Constitutional Law

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to their rates,
cash reserves, and financial practices.

A  privately  owned  insurance  company  operating  within  the  state  advertised  that  it  wanted  to  hire  a  new  data  processor.
After  reviewing  applications  for  that  position,  the  company  hired  a  woman  who  appeared  to  be  well  qualified.  The
company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman, because he was known to
have radical political views.

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of expression.

Is the man likely to prevail?

(A) No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.

(B) No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

Correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to
the actions of governments  and government officials,  not to the actions of privately owned companies such as
the insurance company.

(C) Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.

(D) Yes,  because  the  company  is  substantially  regulated  by  the  state,  and  thus  its  employment  decisions  may  fairly  be

attributed to the state.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 54 - Real Property

A landlord leased a building to a tenant for a term of six years. The lease complied with the statute of frauds and was not
recorded.  During  the  lease  term,  the  tenant  sent  an  email  to  the  landlord  that  stated:  "I  hereby  offer  to  purchase  for
$250,000 the building that I am now occupying under a six-year lease with you." The tenant's name was placed below the
word "signed" on the message.

In response, the landlord emailed the tenant: "That's fine. We'll close in 60 days." The landlord's name was placed below
the word "signed" on the reply message.

Sixty days later,  the landlord  refused to tender the deed to the building  when the tenant tendered  the $250,000 purchase
price. The tenant has sued for specific performance.

Who is likely to prevail?

(A) The landlord, because formation of an enforceable contract to convey the building could not occur until after the lease

term expired.

(B) The landlord, because the landlord's email response did not contain a sufficient signature under the statute of frauds.

(C) The tenant, because the email messages constitute an insufficient attornment of the lease.

(D) The tenant, because the email messages constitute a sufficient memorandum under the statute of frauds.

Correct. The statute of frauds requires a contract for the sale of land to identify the parties, contain a description
of the land, evidence an intent to buy and sell, recite (usually) a price term, and be signed by the party against
whom enforcement  is sought.  The email  messages  here  fulfill  those  requirements.  Courts  are liberal  regarding
the  nature  of  a  signature;  it  need  only  reflect  an  intent  to  authenticate  the  writing.  Both  the  tenant's  and  the
landlord's names were placed below the word "signed," which adequately reflected their desire to be bound.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 55 - Torts

A man was admitted to a hospital after complaining of persistent severe headaches. While he was there, hospital staff failed
to diagnose his condition, and he was discharged. Two days later, the man died of a massive brain hemorrhage due to a
congenital defect in an artery.

The man's  wife  has  brought  a  wrongful  death  action  against  the  hospital.  The  wife  offers  expert  testimony  that  the  man
would have had a "reasonable chance" (not greater than 50%) of surviving the hemorrhage if he had been given appropriate
medical care at the hospital.

In what type of jurisdiction would the wife's suit most likely be successful?

(A) A jurisdiction that applies traditional common law rules concerning burden of proof.

(B) A jurisdiction that allows recovery based on strict liability.

(C) A jurisdiction that allows recovery for the loss of the chance of survival.

Correct. Jurisdictions that allow recovery for the loss of the chance of survival have created an exception to the
traditional  common  law  rules  for  establishing  cause  in  fact.  Under  the  traditional  rules,  the  wife  would  be
required to prove that reasonable action on the part of the hospital (presumably a correct diagnosis) would, more
likely  than  not,  have  led  to  the  man's  survival.  Here,  the  wife  cannot  establish  that  the  chances  of  the  man's
survival would have been greater than 50% even if he had been given appropriate medical care. A jurisdiction
that  allows  recovery  for  loss  of  the  chance  of  survival,  however,  would  allow  the  wife  to  recover  for  the
reduction in her husband's chance of surviving that was caused by the failure to properly diagnose.

(D) A jurisdiction that recognizes loss of spousal consortium.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 56 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A wife decided to kill her husband because she was tired of his infidelity. She managed to obtain some cyanide, a deadly
poison. One evening, she poured wine laced with the cyanide into a glass, handed it to her husband, and proposed a loving
toast. The husband was so pleased with the toast that he set the glass of wine down on a table, grabbed his wife, and kissed
her passionately. After the kiss, the wife changed her mind about killing the husband. She hid the glass of wine behind a
lamp on the table, planning to leave it for the maid to clean up. The husband did not drink the wine.

The maid found the glass of wine while cleaning the next day. Rather than throw the wine away, the maid drank it. Shortly
thereafter, she fell into a coma and died from cyanide poisoning.

In a common law jurisdiction, of what crime(s), if any, could the wife be found guilty?

(A) Attempted murder of the husband and murder or manslaughter of the maid.

Correct. As to the husband, the wife intended to murder him and took a substantial step to carry out that murder;
the husband would have been killed had he drunk the wine. As to the maid, a trier of fact could view the wife's
conduct as depraved-heart recklessness (which would make her guilty of murder) or at the very least as criminal
negligence (which would make her guilty of manslaughter).

(B) Only attempted murder of the husband.

(C) Only murder or manslaughter of the maid.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 57 - Contracts

A mill and a bakery entered into a written contract that obligated the mill to deliver to the bakery 1,000 pounds of flour
every  Monday  for  26  weeks  at  a  specified  price  per  pound.  The  mill  delivered  the  proper  quantity  of  flour  in  a  timely
manner for the first 15 weeks. However, the 16th delivery was tendered on a Tuesday, and amounted to only 800 pounds.
The mill told the bakery that the 200-pound shortage would be made up on the delivery due the following Monday. The
late delivery and the 200-pound shortage will not significantly disrupt the bakery's operations.

How may the bakery legally respond to the nonconforming tender?

(A) Accept the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will cancel the contract if the exact amount is not

delivered on the following Monday.

(B) Accept the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will deduct from the price any damages for losses

due to the nonconforming tender.

Correct.  Because  the  contract  authorizes  the  delivery  of  flour  in  separate  lots  to  be  separately  accepted,  the
parties  entered  into  an  installment  contract.  UCC    2-612  adopts  a  "substantial  impairment"  standard  for
determining whether a buyer can reject a particular installment or cancel the entire contract. A buyer can reject
an installment if a nonconformity substantially impairs that installment and the nonconformity cannot be cured.
Here  the  mill's  tender  of  less  than  the  contracted-for  quantity  did  not  amount  to  a  nonconformity  that
substantially  impaired  either the value of the 16th installment  or the whole contract. The mill's proposed cure,
the delivery of the remaining 200 pounds on the following Monday, is sufficient given that the late delivery and
the shortage will not significantly disrupt the bakery's business. Accordingly, the bakery must accept the delivery
of the tendered 800 pounds of flour but may deduct from the price any damages for losses resulting from the late
delivery.

(C) Reject the 800 pounds tendered, but notify the mill that the bakery will accept delivery the following Monday if it is

conforming.

(D) Reject the 800 pounds tendered, and notify the mill that the bakery is canceling the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 58 - Evidence

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has called a witness
who  has  testified  that  the  defendant  has  a  reputation  for  honesty.  On  cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  seeks  to  ask  the
witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for embezzlement?"

Should the court permit the question?

(A) No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.

(B) No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.

(C) Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.

Correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the right to
test  the  basis  and  adequacy  of  that  knowledge,  as  well  as  the  nature  of  the  community  itself.  If  the  witness
answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very knowledgeable
about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a negative effect on
that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference could be raised about
the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.

(D) Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more likely.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 59 - Constitutional Law

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited all public high
school  students  from  wearing  in  school  shorts  cut  above  the  knee.  Because  female  students  at  the  school  considered  it
unfashionable  to  wear  shorts  cut  at  or  below  the  knee,  they  no  longer  wore  shorts  to  school.  On  the  other  hand,  male
students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because they considered such shorts to be fashionable.

Female  students  sued  to  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  the  dress  code  on  the  ground  that  it  denied  them  the  equal
protection of the laws.

Should the court uphold the dress code?

(A) No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

(B) No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.

(C) Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.

(D) Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

Correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's legitimate
interest  in  fostering  a  proper  educational  environment.  The  dress  code  should  not  trigger  heightened  judicial
scrutiny,  because  there  are  no  facts  to  suggest  that  the  purpose  of  the  code  is  to  discriminate  against  female
students.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 60 - Torts

A mother purchased an expensive television from an appliance store for her adult son. Two years after the purchase, a fire
started in the son's living room in the middle of the night. The fire department  concluded that the fire had started in the
television. No other facts are known.

The son sued the appliance store for negligence. The store has moved for summary judgment.

Should the court grant the store's motion?

(A) No, because televisions do not catch fire in the absence of negligence.

(B) No, because the store sold the television.

(C) Yes, because the son is not in privity with the store.

(D) Yes, because there is no evidence of negligence on the part of the store.

Correct. The son is suing in negligence, not in strict liability. To make out a prima facie case in negligence, the
son  must  introduce  evidence  that  the  store  was  negligent.  However,  the  son  has  not  pointed  to  any  negligent
action or omission by the store. This is not an appropriate case for res ipsa loquitur, because the manufacturer,
rather than the store, may have been negligent or the negligence may have occurred after the sale (for example,
during a repair or while the television was being used by the son).

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 61 - Contracts

A buyer agreed to purchase a seller's house for $250,000 "on condition that the buyer obtain mortgage financing within 30
days." Thirty days later, the buyer told the seller that the buyer would not purchase the house because the buyer had not
obtained mortgage financing. The seller asked the buyer where the buyer had tried to obtain mortgage financing, and the
buyer responded, "I was busy and didn't have time to seek mortgage financing."

If the seller sues the buyer for breach of contract, is the court likely to find the buyer in breach?

(A) No, because the buyer's performance was subject to a condition that did not occur.

(B) No, because the promise was illusory since the buyer was not obligated to do anything.

(C) Yes, because a promise was implied that the buyer had to make reasonable efforts to obtain mortgage financing.

Correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the condition occurs or
its non-occurrence is excused. However, the duty of good faith, which is implied in every contract, imposed an
obligation  on  the  buyer  to  make  reasonable  efforts  to  secure  mortgage  financing.  Because  the  buyer  made  no
such  efforts,  the  non-occurrence  of  the  condition  to  the  buyer's  obligation  to  purchase  the  house--the  buyer's
securing financing--was excused. Accordingly, the court is likely to find that the buyer is in breach.

(D) Yes, because a reasonable interpretation of the agreement is that the buyer had an obligation to purchase the house for

$250,000 in 30 days.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 62 - Criminal Law and Procedure

In a crowded football stadium, a man saw a wallet fall out of a spectator's purse. The man picked up the wallet and found
that it contained $100 in cash. Thinking that he could use the money and seeing no one watching, the man put the wallet in
the pocket of his coat. Just then, the spectator approached the man and asked if he had seen a missing wallet. The man said
no and went home with the wallet.

Of what crime, if any, is the man guilty?

(A) Embezzlement.

(B) False pretenses.

(C) Larceny.

Correct.  The  initial  taking  of  the  wallet  was  a  trespass,  because  the  man  knew  that  the  wallet  belonged  to  the
spectator and he intended to convert the wallet to his own use in permanent deprivation of the spectator's right.
Accordingly, the man is guilty of larceny.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 63 - Constitutional Law

A  company  owned  a  large  tract  of  land  that  contained  coal  deposits  that  the  company  intended  to  mine.  The  company
acquired  mining  equipment  and  began  to  plan  its  mining  operations.  Just  as  the  company  was  about  to  begin  mining,
Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and land-reclamation requirements on
all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the company's planned mining operations economically
infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover
its original investment in the land, it did not cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased
or the profits it had expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.

In  an  action  filed  against  the  appropriate  federal  official,  the  company  claims  that  the  statute  effected  a  taking  of  its
property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining equipment it purchased
and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action?

(A) The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.

(B) The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.

(C) The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.

(D) The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

Correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did not
effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny all
economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it to
the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or use
it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do not
constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 64 - Real Property

A  tenant  leased  a  commercial  property  from  a  landlord  for  a  12-year  term.  The  property  included  a  large  store  and  a
parking  lot.  At  the  start  of  the  lease  period,  the  tenant  took  possession  and  with  the  landlord's  oral  consent  installed
counters, display cases, shelving, and special lighting. Both parties complied with all lease terms.

The  lease  is  set  to  expire  next  month.  Two  weeks  ago,  when  the  landlord  contacted  the  tenant  about  a  possible  lease
renewal, she learned that the tenant  had decided not to renew the lease, and that the tenant  planned to remove all of the
above-listed items on or before the lease termination date. The landlord claimed that all the items had become part of the
real estate and had to remain on the premises. The tenant asserted his right and intention to remove all the items.

Both the lease and the statutes of the jurisdiction are silent on the matter in dispute. At the time the landlord consented and
the tenant installed the items, nothing was said about the tenant's right to retain or remove the items.

The landlord has sued the tenant to enjoin his removal of the items.

How is the court likely to rule?

(A) For the landlord, because the items have become part of the landlord's real estate.

(B) For the landlord as to items bolted or otherwise attached to the premises, and for the tenant as to items not attached to

the premises other than by weight.

(C) For the tenant, provided that the tenant reasonably restores the premises to the prior condition or pays for the cost of

restoration.

Correct. This is a commercial lease, and the tenant has been using the items in his business. Therefore, the items
are  trade  fixtures,  and  the  tenant  may  remove  them  before  the  end  of  the  lease  term  unless  very  substantial
damage  would  be  done  by  the  removal.  It  is  unlikely  that  the  removal  of  these  items  will  cause  substantial
damage; if so, however, the tenant must either restore the premises or pay the cost of restoration.

(D) For  the  tenant,  because  all  of  the  items  may  be  removed  as  trade  fixtures  without  any  obligation  to  restore  the

premises.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 65 - Evidence

At  a  woman's  trial  for  bank  robbery,  the  prosecutor  has  called  a  private  security  guard  for  the  bank  who  has  testified,
without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and said, "Come quickly! My
sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the brother later told the witness, "I got
my sister  into trouble  by telling  a security  guard that  she was robbing the  bank, but  now I  realize  I  was mistaken."  The
brother is unavailable to testify.

Is the witness's testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.

(B) No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.

(C) Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.

(D) Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

Correct.  It  is  ordinarily  true  that  a  witness  impeached  with  a  prior  inconsistent  statement  must  be  given  an
opportunity  to  explain  or  deny  the  statement.  That  is  not  possible,  however,  when  a  hearsay  declarant  is  not
produced at trial. Therefore Rule 806 provides that the ordinary requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or
deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being impeached with prior inconsistent statements.  The
inconsistent statement is probative of the brother's credibility, and Rule 806 permits such impeachment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 66 - Contracts

A producer contracted to pay an inexperienced performer a specified salary to act in a small role in a play the producer was
taking on a six-week road tour. The contract was for the duration of the tour. On the third day of the tour, the performer
was hospitalized with a stomach disorder. The producer replaced her in the cast with an experienced actor. One week later,
the performer recovered, but the producer refused to allow her to resume her original role for the remainder of the tour.

In an action by the performer against the producer for breach of contract, which of the following, if proved, would be the
producer's best defense?

(A) The actor, by general acclaim, was much better in the role than the performer had been.

(B) The actor was the only replacement the producer could find, and the actor would accept nothing less than a contract

for the remainder of the six-week tour.

Correct.  After  the  performer  became  ill,  the  temporary  impracticability  doctrine  excused  the  performer's
contractual  obligation  and  also  gave  the  producer  the  right  to  suspend  his  performance  obligation  during  the
period that the performer's illness prevented her from acting. The critical issue here is whether the producer also
had the right to cancel the contract. Circumstances that would give the producer the right to cancel the contract
include the degree of uncertainty relating to the nature and duration of the performer's illness and the extent to
which a delay in making substitute arrangements would have prevented the producer from continuing the tour.
The unwillingness of the actor, the only replacement available, to take a contract for less than the remainder of
the  six-week  tour  and  the  uncertainty  surrounding  when  the  performer  might  return  to  work  would  have
discharged  the  producer's  performance  obligations  and  justified  his  cancellation  of  the  contract  with  the
performer.

(C) The producer offered to employ the performer as the actor's understudy for the remainder of the six-week tour at the

performer's original salary, but the performer declined.

(D) Both the producer and the performer knew that a year earlier the performer had been incapacitated for a short period

of time by the same kind of stomach disorder.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 67 - Constitutional Law

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the possibility of
developing  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  as  the  result  of  the  accidents,  and  offering  psychotherapy  services.
Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.

Many accident  victims  in a  particular  state  who received  the  mailings  complained  that  the mailings  were  disturbing  and
were  an  invasion  of  their  privacy.  These  victims  also  reported  that  as  a  result  of  the  mailings,  their  regard  for
psychotherapists  and  for  psychotherapy  as  a  form  of  treatment  had  diminished.  In  response,  the  state  enacted  a  law
prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern of PTSD to any car accident victim
in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an effort to address the victims' complaints as well
as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of treatment.

Is this law constitutional?

(A) No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.

(B) No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.

(C) Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are misleading.

(D) Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy without being

substantially more restrictive than necessary.

Correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions
on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by the
psychotherapists.  A  restriction  on  commercial  speech  is  subject  to  a  form  of  intermediate  judicial  scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and that
the restriction  is not substantially  more extensive than necessary to protect that interest.  The law here satisfies
that  standard;  the  30-day  waiting  period  for  the  psychotherapists'  mailings  narrowly  serves  the  government's
substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 68 - Torts

A shopper was riding on an up escalator in a department store when the escalator stopped abruptly. The shopper lost her
balance and fell down the escalator steps, sustaining injuries. Although the escalator had been regularly maintained by an
independent contractor, the store's obligation to provide safe conditions for its invitees was nondelegable. The shopper has
brought an action against the store for damages, and the above facts are the only facts in evidence.

The store has moved for a directed verdict.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the finder of fact could infer that the escalator malfunction was due to negligence.

Correct.  There  is  enough  evidence  here  to  support  an  inference  of  negligence  on  the  part  of  the  store.  A  jury
could find that the malfunction was due to the negligent installation, maintenance, or operation of the escalator;
the store would be responsible for all these possible causes under the nondelegable duty doctrine.

(B) No, because the store is strictly liable for the shopper's injuries.

(C) Yes, because an independent contractor maintained the escalator.

(D) Yes, because the shopper has not produced evidence of negligence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 69 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  woman  went  to  an  art  gallery  and  falsely  represented  that  she  was  an  agent  for  a  museum  and  wanted  to  purchase  a
painting that was hanging in the gallery. The woman and the gallery owner then agreed on a price for the painting to be
paid 10 days later, and the woman took the painting. When the gallery failed to receive the payment when due, the owner
called the museum and discovered that the woman did not work there. The owner then notified the police.

When interviewed by the police, the woman admitted making the false representation and acquiring the painting, but she
said she believed that the painting had been stolen from her by someone who worked in the gallery.

Is the woman guilty of obtaining property by false pretenses?

(A) No, because she believed that the painting belonged to her.

Correct.  The  crime  of  false  pretenses,  like  other  theft  crimes,  requires  the  intent  to  steal.  The  woman  cannot
properly  be  found  guilty  of  obtaining  property  by  false  pretenses,  because  she  made  the  false  statements  to
obtain property that she subjectively believed belonged to her.

(B) No, because the gallery owner would have sold the painting to anyone who agreed to pay the price.

(C) Yes, because even if her representation was not material, she never intended to pay for the painting.

(D) Yes, because she knowingly made a false representation on which the gallery owner relied.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 70 - Real Property

For 22 years, the land records have shown a man as the owner of an 80-acre farm. The man has never physically occupied
the land.

Nineteen years ago, a woman entered the farm. The character and duration of the woman's possession of the farm caused
her to become the owner of the farm under the adverse possession law of the jurisdiction.

Three  years  ago,  when the  woman  was not  present,  a  neighbor  took  over  possession  of  the  farm.  The  neighbor  repaired
fences,  put  up  "no  trespassing"  signs,  and  did  some  plowing.  When  the  woman  returned,  she  found  the  neighbor  in
possession  of  the  farm.  The  neighbor  vigorously  rejected  the  woman's  claimed  right  to  possession  and  threatened  force.
The woman withdrew.

The woman then went to the man and told him of the history of activity on the farm. The woman orally told the man that
she had been wrong to try to take his farm. She expressly waived any claim she had to the land. The man thanked her.

Last month, unsure of the effect of her conversation with the man, the woman executed a deed purporting to convey the
farm to her son. The son promptly recorded the deed.

The period of time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years.

Who now owns the farm?

(A) The man, because the woman's later words and actions released title to the man.

(B) The neighbor, because the neighbor succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of possession.

(C) The son, because he succeeded to the woman's adverse possession title by privity of conveyance.

Correct. The woman acquired title to the farm by adverse possession. The woman's title was an original title and
did not derive from the man's title. The statute of frauds requires that the conveyance of the farm be in writing.
Therefore,  the  woman's  oral  statement  was  insufficient  to  release  the  title  to  the  man,  and  the  woman  validly
conveyed the farm to her son.

(D) The woman, because she must bring a quiet title action to establish her title to the farm before she can convey the farm

to her son.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 71 - Contracts

An  art  collector  paid  a  gallery  $1,000  to  purchase  a  framed  drawing  from  the  gallery's  collection.  The  price  included
shipping by the gallery  to the collector's  home. The gallery's  owner used inadequate  materials  to wrap the drawing. The
frame broke during shipment and scratched the drawing, reducing the drawing's value to $300. The collector complained to
the gallery owner, who told the collector  to take the drawing to a specific art restorer  to have the drawing repaired. The
collector paid the restorer $400 to repair the drawing, but not all of the scratches could be fixed. The drawing, after being
repaired, was worth $700. The gallery  owner subsequently  refused  to pay either  for the repairs  or for the damage  to the
drawing.

In an action by the collector against the gallery owner for damages, which of the following awards is most likely?

(A) Nothing.

(B) $300.

(C) $400.

(D) $700.

Correct.  The  gallery's  use  of  inadequate  materials  to  wrap  the  drawing  constituted  a  breach  of  warranty.
Therefore, the collector is entitled to be placed in the position he would have been in but for the gallery's breach.
Under UCC  2-714(2), the generally applicable standard for measuring the collector's resulting damages would
be the difference  between the value  of the drawing  as accepted  and  the value of  the drawing if  it had been  as
warranted. Repair costs often are used to determine this difference in value, but when repairs fail to restore the
goods to their value as warranted, a further adjustment is required. Here the repairs failed to restore the drawing
to its value as warranted. Therefore, the collector is entitled to recover the repair costs ($400) plus the difference
between  the  value  of  the  drawing  if  it  had  been  as  warranted  and  its  value  after  the  repairs  ($1,000  -  $700  =
$300). Accordingly, the collector should recover $700.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 72 - Evidence

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance company, the
insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the nonpayment of her premium.
The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope containing
the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified that every afternoon at
closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance company later called its mail clerk to
testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the woman's premium payment.

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict?

(A) For  the  insurance  company,  because  neither  the  woman  nor  her  secretary  has  any  personal  knowledge  that  the

envelope was mailed.

(B) For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial evidence.

(C) For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was received by the

addressee.

(D) For  neither  the  woman  nor  the  insurance  company,  because  under  these  circumstances  the  jury  is  responsible  for

determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

Correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was received.
The  insurance  company  has  presented  sufficient  evidence  to  rebut  that  presumption.  Consequently,  the
presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company
received  the  payment.  Therefore,  it  would  be  error  to  grant  a  directed  verdict  for  either  the  woman  or  the
insurance company.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 73 - Torts

A  14-year-old  teenager  of  low  intelligence  received  her  parents'  permission  to  drive  their  car.  She  had  had  very  little
experience driving a car and did not have a driver's license. Although she did the best she could, she lost control of the car
and hit a pedestrian.

The pedestrian has brought a negligence action against the teenager.

Is the pedestrian likely to prevail?

(A) No, because only the teenager's parents are subject to liability.

(B) No, because the teenager was acting reasonably for a 14-year-old of low intelligence and little driving experience.

(C) Yes, because the teenager was engaging in an adult activity.

Correct.  The  teenager  was engaging  in  a  dangerous  adult  activity,  so  she  will  be  held  to  the  adult  standard  of
care. No adjustment will be made to that standard to reflect her low intelligence and lack of experience. Her lack
of  intelligence  and  her  inexperience  put  others  at  risk,  and  she  will  be  held  to  the  standard  of  a  reasonably
prudent driver even if she is not capable of reasonable prudence.

(D) Yes, because the teenager was not old enough to obtain a driver's license.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 74 - Constitutional Law

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His work in this
respect had always been satisfactory.

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had supported his
sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee solely because his support for
the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at
the pleasure of the mayor."

Is the mayor's action constitutional?

(A) No,  because  public  employees  have  a  property  interest  in  their  employment,  which  gives  them  a  right  to  a  hearing

prior to discharge.

(B) No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.

Correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression
and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may
not  fire  an  employee  because  of  the  employee's  political  views  or  affiliations  unless  certain  political  views  or
affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of
a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may
not be fired because of them.

(C) Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds the job "at

the pleasure of the mayor."

(D) Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 75 - Real Property

In the most recent deed in the chain of title to a tract of land, a man conveyed the land as follows: "To my niece and her
heirs and assigns in fee simple until my niece's daughter marries, and then to my niece's daughter and her heirs and assigns
in fee simple."

There is no applicable statute, and the common law Rule Against Perpetuities has not been modified in the jurisdiction.

Which of the following is the most accurate statement concerning the title to the land?

(A) The niece has a life estate and the daughter has a contingent remainder.

(B) The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because after the grant of a fee simple there can be no gift

over.

(C) The niece has a fee simple and the daughter has no interest, because she might not marry within 21 years after the date

of the deed.

(D) The niece has a defeasible fee simple determinable and the daughter has an executory interest.

Correct. The niece has a defeasible fee simple because of the limitation placed on the estate by the words "until
my niece's daughter marries." If the niece's daughter marries, the estate in the niece will end automatically and
will pass to the holder  of the future  interest  (the  niece's daughter).  The future interest  given to the daughter, a
grantee,  is  an  executory  interest.  The  executory  interest  in  this  case  does  not  violate  the  common  law  Rule
Against  Perpetuities,  because  it  will  be  known  within  the  lifetime  of  the  validating  lives--the  niece  and  the
niece's daughter--whether the condition of marriage has occurred.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 76 - Evidence

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself without the
defendant's  knowledge.  On  cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  asks  the  wife,  "Isn't  it  true  that  you  have  fled  your  home
several times in fear of your husband?"

Is this question proper?

(A) No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.

(B) No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.

(C) Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying against him.

(D) Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

Correct.  A  cross-examiner  is  entitled  to  question  in  such  a  way  as  to  raise  inferences  about  the  motive  of  a
witness  to  testify  falsely.  Here,  the  question  raises  an  inference  that  the  wife  is  in  fear  of  her  husband  and  is
therefore taking the blame for her husband's crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 77 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman broke off her engagement to a man but refused to return the engagement ring the man had given her. One night,
the man entered the woman's house after midnight to retrieve the ring. Although the woman was not at home, a neighbor
saw the man enter the house and called the police. The man unsuccessfully searched for the ring for 10 minutes. As he was
walking out the front door, the police arrived and immediately arrested him.

The man has been charged with burglary in a jurisdiction that follows the common law.

Which of the following, if proved, would serve as the man's best defense to the charge?

(A) The man knew that the woman kept a key under the doormat and he used the key to enter the house.

(B) The man incorrectly and unreasonably believed that he was legally entitled to the ring.

Correct. The crime of burglary requires that the breaking and entering of the dwelling have been done with the
intent to commit an underlying felony (in most cases, larceny). The man's subjective belief that he was entitled to
the ring (even if that belief was incorrect and unreasonable) negates the intent required for the underlying felony
of larceny.

(C) The man knew that no one was at home when he entered the house.

(D) The man took nothing of value from the house.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 78 - Contracts

A businesswoman sold her business to a company for $25 million in cash pursuant to a written contract that was signed by
both parties. Under the contract, the company agreed to employ the businesswoman for two years as a vice president at a
salary of $150,000 per year. After six months, the company, without cause, fired the businesswoman.

Which of the following statements best describes the businesswoman's rights after the discharge?

(A) She can recover the promised salary for the remainder of the two years if she remains ready to work.

(B) She can recover the promised salary for the remainder of the two years if no comparable job is reasonably available

and she does not take another job.

Correct.  The  company's  unjustified  termination  of  the  businesswoman's  employment  constituted  a  breach  of
contract  entitling  the  businesswoman  to  recover  monetary  damages.  A  wrongfully  discharged  employee  is
expected  to  mitigate  damages  by  making  reasonable  efforts  to  seek  comparable  employment.  However,  if  no
comparable  employment  is  reasonably  available  and  the  businesswoman  does  not  take  another  job,  the
businesswoman is entitled to recover the promised salary for the remainder of the two years.

(C) She can rescind the contract of sale and get back her business upon tender to the company of $25 million.

(D) She can get specific performance of her right to serve as a vice president of the company for two years.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 79 - Torts

A  firstborn  child  was  examined  as  an  infant  by  a  doctor  who  was  a  specialist  in  the  diagnosis  of  speech  and  hearing
impairments. Although the doctor should have concluded that the infant was totally deaf due to a hereditary condition, the
doctor  negligently  concluded  that  the  infant's  hearing  was  normal.  After  the  diagnosis,  but  before  they  learned  that  the
infant  was  in  fact  deaf,  the  parents  conceived  a  second  child  who  also  suffered  total  deafness  due  to  the  hereditary
condition.

The  parents  claim  that  they  would  not  have  conceived  the  second  child  had  they  known  of  the  high  probability  of  the
hereditary condition. They have sought the advice of their attorney regarding which negligence action against the doctor is
most likely to succeed.

What sort of action against the doctor should the attorney recommend?

(A) A medical malpractice action seeking damages on the second child's behalf for expenses due to his deafness, on the

ground that the doctor's negligence caused him to be born deaf.

(B) A  wrongful  birth  action  by  the  parents  for  expenses  they  have  incurred  due  to  the  second  child's  deafness,  on  the

ground that but for the doctor's negligence, they would not have conceived the second child.

Correct. This cause of action will be permitted in many states. The parents sought an accurate assessment of their
first  child,  which  the  doctor  failed  to  provide.  Unaware  of  the  hereditary  condition,  the  parents  conceived  a
second child and incurred unexpected expenses that could have been avoided had the doctor acted properly.

(C) A wrongful life action by the parents for expenses for the entire period of the second child's life, on the ground that

but for the doctor's negligence, the second child would not have been born.

(D) A wrongful life action on the second child's behalf for expenses for the entire period of his life, on the ground that but

for the doctor's negligence, he would not have been born.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 80 - Constitutional Law

An  environmental  organization's  stated  mission  is  to  support  environmental  causes.  The  organization's  membership  is
generally  open  to  the  public,  but  its  bylaws  permit  its  officers  to  refuse  to  admit  anyone  to  membership  who  does  not
adhere to the organization's mission statement.

In  a  recent  state  administrative  proceeding,  the  organization  opposed  plans  to  begin  mining  operations  in  the  mountains
surrounding  a  small  town.  Its  opposition  prevented  the  mine  from  being  opened  on  schedule.  In  an  effort  to  force  the
organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of the organization and tried to
become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the organization, claiming that the refusal to
admit them was discriminatory  and violated a local ordinance that prohibits any organization from discriminating  on the
basis of an individual's political views. The organization responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its
membership decisions.

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim?

(A) No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.

(B) No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential members who do

not adhere to its mission statement.

Correct.  The  residents  are  not  likely  to  prevail  in  their  claim,  because  it  would  violate  the  environmental
organization's  First  Amendment  right  to  freedom  of  association  if  the  state  were  to  force  the  organization  to
accept  the  residents  as  members.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the  forced  inclusion  of  an  unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to  refuse  membership  to  the  residents,  because  admitting  them  would  effect  a  change  in  the  organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.

(C) Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal protection of the

laws.

(D) Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 81 - Contracts

On  June  15,  a  teacher  accepted  a  contract  for  a  one-year  position  teaching  math  at  a  public  high  school  at  a  salary  of
$50,000,  starting  in  September.  On  June  22,  the  school  informed  the  teacher  that,  due  to  a  change  in  its  planned  math
curriculum, it no longer needed a full-time math teacher. The school offered instead to employ the teacher as a part-time
academic counselor at a salary of $20,000, starting in September. The teacher refused the school's offer. On June 29, the
teacher was offered a one-year position to teach math at a nearby private academy for $47,000, starting in September. The
teacher,  however,  decided  to  spend  the  year  completing  work  on  a  graduate  degree  in  mathematics  and  declined  the
academy's offer.

If the teacher sues the school for breach of contract, what is her most likely recovery?

(A) $50,000, the full contract amount.

(B) $30,000, the full contract amount less the amount the teacher could have earned in the counselor position offered by

the school.

(C) $3,000,  the  full  contract  amount  less  the  amount  the  teacher  could  have  earned  in  the  teaching  position  at  the

academy.

Correct. The teacher is entitled to recover damages that will place her in the position she would have been in but
for  the  school's  breach.  However,  an  injured  party  is  expected  to  make  reasonable  efforts  to  mitigate  the  loss
resulting  from  the  other  party's  breach.  In  the  case  of  a  wrongfully  discharged  employee,  the  employee  is
expected to accept an offer of comparable employment. If the employee fails or refuses to do so, the employee's
recovery is reduced by the amount of the loss that the employee  could have avoided by accepting  comparable
employment. Here, the teacher's damages of $50,000 should be reduced by the $47,000 she would have earned if
she had accepted the comparable teaching position at the private academy. Therefore, the teacher is entitled to
recover $3,000 from the school.

(D) Nothing, because the school notified the teacher of its decision before the teacher had acted in substantial reliance on

the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 82 - Torts

A boater, caught in a sudden storm and reasonably fearing that her boat would capsize, drove the boat up to a pier, exited
the boat, and tied the boat to the pier. The pier was clearly marked with "NO TRESPASSING" signs. The owner of the pier
ran up to the boater and told her that the boat could not remain tied to the pier. The boater offered to pay the owner for the
use of the pier. Regardless, over the boater's protest, the owner untied the boat and pushed it away from the pier. The boat
was lost at sea.

Is the boater likely to prevail in an action against the owner to recover the value of the boat?

(A) No, because the owner told the boater that she could not tie the boat to the pier.

(B) No, because there was a possibility that the boat would not be damaged by the storm.

(C) Yes, because the boater offered to pay the owner for the use of the pier.

(D) Yes, because the boater was privileged to enter the owner's property to save her boat.

Correct.  The boater  was privileged  to  trespass  on the owner's property  under the doctrine  of private  necessity,
because the boater's property was at risk. Because the boater's intrusion onto the pier was privileged, the owner
had  no  right  to  exclude  her  or  her  boat  from  the  pier.  When  the  owner  untied  the  boat,  he  committed  an
unprivileged trespass upon the boater's property, so the owner must pay for the loss of the boat.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 83 - Evidence

A  driver  sued  her  insurance  company  on  an  accident  insurance  policy  covering  personal  injuries  to  the  driver.  The
insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and therefore excluded
from the policy's coverage.

The  driver  testified  at  trial  that  she  had  inflicted  the  injuries,  as  her  negligence  had  caused  the  crash  in  which  she  was
injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating psychiatrist to give his opinion
that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the time of the crash.

Should the court admit the witness's opinion?

(A) No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.

(B) No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.

(C) No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.

(D) Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

Correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for qualification of
an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 84 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman wanted to kill a business competitor. She contacted a man who she believed was willing to commit murder for
hire and offered him $50,000 to kill the competitor. The man agreed to do so and accepted $25,000 as a down payment.
Unbeknownst to the woman, the man was an undercover police officer.

In  a  jurisdiction  that  has  adopted  the  unilateral  theory  of  conspiracy,  is  the  woman  guilty  of  conspiracy  to  murder  the
business competitor?

(A) No, because the man did not intend to kill the competitor.

(B) No, because it would have been impossible for the woman to kill the competitor by this method.

(C) Yes,  because  the  woman  believed  that  she  had  an  agreement  with  the  man  that  would  bring  about  the  competitor's

death.

Correct.  In  jurisdictions  that  recognize  unilateral  conspiracies,  it  is  enough  that  one  person  agree  with  another
person  to  commit  a  crime  (and  in  some  jurisdictions,  that  an  overt  act  in  furtherance  of  that  agreement  be
committed). It is no defense to unilateral conspiracy that the other person was feigning agreement or acting in an
undercover capacity. Here, the woman agreed to commit a crime and she committed an overt act in furtherance
of  that  agreement  when  she  paid  the  man  $25,000.  She  therefore  is  guilty  of  conspiracy  in  a  jurisdiction  that
recognizes unilateral conspiracies.

(D) Yes,  because  the  woman  took  a  substantial  step  toward  bringing  about  the  competitor's  death  by  paying  the  man

$25,000.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 85 - Real Property

A  businessman  executed  a  promissory  note  for  $200,000  to  a  bank,  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  commercial  real  estate
owned by the businessman.  The promissory  note  stated  that  the businessman  was not personally  liable  for  the  mortgage
debt.

One week later, a finance company obtained a judgment against the businessman for $50,000 and filed the judgment in the
county where the real estate was located. At the time the judgment was filed, the finance company had no actual notice of
the bank's mortgage.

Two weeks after that filing, the bank recorded its mortgage on the businessman's real estate.

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: "Unless the same be recorded according to law, no conveyance or mortgage
of  real  property  shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  and  without  notice  or  against  judgment  creditors
without notice."

The finance company sued to enforce its judgment lien against the businessman's real estate. The bank intervened in the
action, contending that the judgment lien was a second lien on the real estate and that its mortgage was a first lien.

Is the bank's contention correct?

(A) No, because the judgment lien was recorded before the mortgage, and the finance company had no actual notice of the

mortgage.

Correct. The judgment lien was recorded first in a jurisdiction that expressly protects judgment creditors without
notice. The finance company had no actual  notice of the mortgage  and had no constructive  notice because the
mortgage  was  not  recorded  until  two  weeks  after  the  judgment  was  filed.  The  bank's  mortgage  was  not  a
purchase-money mortgage, which would have given it priority.

(B) No, because the businessman was not personally liable for the mortgage debt, and the mortgage was therefore void.

(C) Yes, because a mortgage prior in time has priority over a subsequent judgment lien.

(D) Yes, because the recording of a mortgage relates back to the date of execution of the mortgage note.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 86 - Contracts

A  produce  distributor  contracted  to  provide  a  grocer  with  eight  crates  of  lettuce  at  the  distributor's  listed  price.  The
distributor's shipping clerk mistakenly shipped only seven crates to the grocer. The grocer accepted delivery of the seven
crates  but  immediately  notified  the  distributor  that  the  delivery  did  not  conform  to  the  contract.  The  distributor's  listed
price for seven crates of lettuce was 7/8 of its listed price for eight crates. The distributor shipped no more lettuce to the
grocer, and the grocer has not yet paid for any of the lettuce.

How much, if anything, is the distributor entitled to collect from the grocer?

(A) Nothing, because the tender of all eight crates was a condition precedent to the grocer's duty to pay.

(B) The reasonable value of the seven crates of lettuce, minus the grocer's damages, if any, for the distributor's failure to

deliver the full order.

(C) The  listed  price  for  the  seven  crates  of  lettuce,  minus  the  grocer's  damages,  if  any,  for  the  distributor's  failure  to

deliver the full order.

Correct.  The  distributor's  nonconforming  shipment  constituted  both  an  acceptance  of  the  grocer's  offer  to
purchase and a breach of the parties' contract. With respect to a nonconforming tender, UCC  2-601 allows a
buyer to accept the whole, reject the whole, or partially accept or reject commercial units. A buyer who accepts a
tender of goods, whether conforming or nonconforming, becomes obligated to pay the seller the contract price of
the  goods.  Accordingly,  the  grocer's  acceptance  of  the  nonconforming  shipment  obligated  it  to  pay  the
distributor's  listed  price  for  the  seven  crates,  reduced  by  any  damages  for  losses  resulting  from  the
nonconforming shipment.

(D) The listed price for the seven crates of lettuce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 87 - Contracts

A seller borrowed $5,000 from a bank. Soon thereafter the seller filed for bankruptcy, having paid nothing on his debt to
the bank.

Five  years  after  the  debt  had  been  discharged  in  bankruptcy,  the  seller  contracted  to  sell  certain  goods  to  a  buyer  for
$5,000. The contract provided that the buyer would pay the $5,000 to the bank "as payment of the $5,000 the seller owes
the bank." The only debt that the seller ever owed the bank is the $5,000 debt that was discharged in bankruptcy. The seller
delivered the goods to the buyer, who accepted them.

If the bank becomes aware of the contract between the seller and the buyer, and the buyer refuses to pay anything to the
bank, is the bank likely to succeed in an action against the buyer for $5,000?

(A) No, because the buyer's promise to pay the bank was not supported by consideration.

(B) No, because the seller's debt was discharged in bankruptcy.

(C) Yes, because the bank was an intended beneficiary of the contract between the buyer and the seller.

Correct.  The  buyer  and  the  seller  entered  into  a  bargained-for  exchange  for  the  sale  and  purchase  of  goods.
Because their agreement provided that the buyer would pay to the bank the $5,000 that the buyer had promised
to pay for the goods, the bank was an intended beneficiary of the enforceable agreement between the seller and
the buyer, and the buyer is obligated to pay the bank.

(D) Yes, because no consideration is required to support a promise to pay a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 88 - Constitutional Law

A  fatal  virus  recently  infected  poultry  in  several  nations.  Some  scientific  evidence  indicates  that  the  virus  can  be
transmitted from poultry to humans.

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law imposing a fee
of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose of the fee is to pay for a
state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is infected with the virus.

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the fee.

Is the fee constitutional?

(A) No,  because  although  it  attaches  only  to  intrastate  activity,  in  the  aggregate,  the  fee  substantially  affects  interstate

commerce.

(B) No,  because  it  places  an  undue  burden  on  interstate  commerce  in  violation  of  the  negative  implications  of  the

commerce clause.

(C) Yes,  because  it  applies  only  to  activities  that  take  place  wholly  within  the  state,  and  it  does  not  unduly  burden

interstate commerce.

Correct.  The  fee  does  not  violate  the  negative  implications  of  the  commerce  clause,  because  it  does  not
discriminate  against  interstate  commerce,  and  its  burden  on  interstate  commerce  is  not  clearly  excessive  in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.

(D) Yes,  because  it  was  enacted  pursuant  to  the  state's  police  power,  which  takes  precedence  over  the  negative

implications of the commerce clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 89 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  state  statute  provides  as  follows:  "The  maintenance  of  any  ongoing  enterprise  in  the  nature  of  a  betting  parlor  or
bookmaking organization is a felony."

A prosecutor has evidence that a woman has been renting an office to a man, that the man has been using the office as a
betting parlor within the meaning of the statute, and that the woman is aware of this use.

Which of the following additional pieces of evidence would be most useful to the prosecutor's effort to convict the woman
as an accomplice to the man's violation of the statute?

(A) The woman was previously convicted of running a betting parlor herself on the same premises.

(B) The woman charges the man considerably more in rent than she charged the preceding tenant, who used the office for

legitimate activities.

Correct. Showing that the woman benefits from the gambling would indicate her personal stake in the continuing
success of the man's criminal venture (and thus her intent to aid in that venture).

(C) The woman has personally placed bets with the man at the office location.

(D) The man has paid the woman the rent in bills that are traceable as the proceeds of gambling activity.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 90 - Real Property

A  seller  conveyed  residential  land  to  a  buyer  by  a  warranty  deed  that  contained  no  exceptions  and  recited  that  the  full
consideration had been paid. To finance the purchase, the buyer borrowed 80% of the necessary funds from a bank. The
seller agreed to finance 15% of the purchase price, and the buyer agreed to provide cash for the remaining 5%.

At  the  closing,  the  buyer  signed  a  promissory  note  to  the  seller  for  15%  of  the  purchase  price  but  did  not  execute  a
mortgage. The bank knew of the loan made by the seller and of the promissory note executed by the buyer to the seller.
The buyer also signed a note to the bank, secured by a mortgage, for the 80% advanced by the bank.

The buyer has now defaulted on both loans.

There are no applicable statutes.

Which loan has priority?

(A) The bank's loan, because the seller can finance a part of the purchase price only by use of an installment land contract.

(B) The bank's loan, because it was secured by a purchase-money mortgage.

Correct. The bank has a purchase-money  mortgage,  because the loan proceeds  were used to help purchase  the
land. A purchase-money mortgage, executed at the same time as the deed to the land, takes precedence over any
other  lien  that  attaches  to  the  property.  The  seller's  loan  could  also  have  been  secured  by  a  purchase-money
mortgage,  but  it  was  not;  the  buyer  signed  an  unsecured  note  to  the  seller.  The  seller  also  may  have  had  an
equitable  vendor's  lien for  the unpaid  purchase  price,  but  the deed  recites  that the  full  consideration  was  paid.
Therefore, the bank's purchase-money mortgage takes priority over the seller's unsecured loan and any implied
equitable vendor's lien even if the bank knew of the vendor's lien.

(C) The seller's loan, because a promissory note to a seller has priority over a bank loan for residential property.

(D) The seller's loan, because the bank knew that the seller had an equitable vendor's lien.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 91 - Torts

Unaware that a lawyer was in the county courthouse library late on a Friday afternoon, when it was unusual for anyone to
be using the library, a clerk locked the library door and left. The lawyer found herself locked in when she tried to leave the
library at 7 p.m. It was midnight before the lawyer's family could find out where she was and get her out. The lawyer was
very annoyed by her detention but was not otherwise harmed by it.

Does the lawyer have a viable claim for false imprisonment against the clerk?

(A) No, because it was unusual for anyone to be using the library late on a Friday afternoon.

(B) No, because the clerk did not intend to confine the lawyer.

Correct.  Intent  to  confine  the  claimant  (or  to  commit  some  other  intentional  tort)  is  essential  to  establishing
liability for false imprisonment. There is no evidence that the clerk had such an intent.

(C) Yes, because the clerk should have checked to make sure no one was in the library before the clerk locked the door.

(D) Yes, because the lawyer was aware of being confined.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 92 - Evidence

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle that the
plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims that a design defect
in  the  vehicle  caused  it  to  roll  over.  The  defendant  claims  that  the  cause  of  the  accident  was  the  decedent's  driving  at
excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given contradictory estimates about the vehicle's
speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the decedent was killed instantly.

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit?

(A) A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility vehicle of the
same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a dry test track at the
top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.

(B) A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes footage of

accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.

(C) Evidence  offered  by  the  defendant  that  the  decedent  had  received  two  citations  for  speeding  in  the  previous  three

years.

(D) Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical expert explain

to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

Correct.  This  evidence  is  most  likely  to  be  admitted.  If  these  photographs  are  offered  to  illustrate  the  expert's
testimony, the jury can be instructed to use the evidence only for that purpose. Moreover, this evidence is not as
prejudicial  or  potentially  confusing  to  the  jury  as  the  evidence  in  options  (A)  and  (B),  while  the  evidence  in
option (C) is inadmissible.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 93 - Contracts

A builder  borrowed  $10,000  from  a  lender  to  finance  a  small  construction  job  under  a  contract  with  a  homeowner.  The
builder gave the lender a writing that stated, "Any money I receive from the homeowner will be paid immediately to the
lender,  regardless  of  any  demands  from  other  creditors."  The  builder  died  after  completing  the  job  but  before  the
homeowner paid. The lender demanded that the homeowner pay the $10,000 due to the builder directly to the lender. The
homeowner refused, saying that he would pay directly to the builder's estate everything that he owed the builder.

Is the lender likely to succeed in an action against the homeowner for $10,000?

(A) No, because the builder's death terminated the lender's right to receive payment directly from the homeowner.

(B) No, because the writing the builder gave to the lender did not transfer to the lender the right to receive payment from

the homeowner.

Correct.  An  assignment  arises  when  the  holder  of  a  right,  an  obligee,  manifests  the  intent  to  make  a  present
transfer  of  that  right  to  another,  the  assignee.  Upon  an  assignment,  the  assignor's  rights  are  extinguished  and
transferred to the assignee. An assignment is to be distinguished from a promise to do something in the future,
such as the payment of money. Here, the writing in which the builder promised to pay the lender the $10,000 he
received  from  the  homeowner  did  not  transfer  to  the  lender  the  right  to  receive  payment  directly  from  the
homeowner, and thus it did not create an assignment.

(C) Yes, because the builder had manifested an intent that the homeowner pay the $10,000 directly to the lender.

(D) Yes, because the lender is an intended beneficiary of the builder-homeowner contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 94 - Criminal Law and Procedure

After  a  defendant  was  indicted  on  federal  bank  fraud  charges  and  released  on  bail,  his  attorney  filed  notice  of  the
defendant's intent  to offer an insanity  defense. The prosecutor  then enlisted  the help of a forensic psychologist  who was
willing to participate  in an "undercover"  mental examination of the defendant. The psychologist contacted the defendant
and  pretended  to  represent  an  executive  personnel  agency.  She  told  the  defendant  about  an  attractive  employment
opportunity and invited him to a "preliminary screening interview" to determine his qualifications for the job. As part of
the purported screening process, the psychologist gave the defendant psychological tests that enabled her to form a reliable
opinion about his mental state at the time of the alleged offense.

What is the strongest basis for a defense objection to the psychologist's testimony regarding the defendant's mental state?

(A) The Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures.

(B) The Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination.

(C) The Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel.

Correct.  After  a  defendant  is  indicted,  the  right  to  counsel  attaches,  and  authorities  may  not  use  deception  to
deliberately elicit statements related to the crime from the defendant without the representation of counsel.

(D) The federal common law privilege for confidential communications between psychotherapist and patient.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 95 - Torts

A  man  tied  his  dog  to  a  bike  rack  in  front  of  a  store  and  left  the  dog  there  while  he  went  inside  to  shop.  The  dog  was
usually friendly and placid.

A five-year-old child started to tease the dog by pulling gently on its ears and tail. When the man emerged from the store
and saw what the child was doing to the dog, he became extremely upset.

Does the man have a viable claim against the child for trespass to chattels?

(A) No, because the child did not injure the dog.

Correct. Trespass to chattels requires that the plaintiff show actual harm to or deprivation of the use of the chattel
for a substantial  time. Here the child's  acts caused emotional distress to the man, but the acts did not result in
harm to the man's material interest in the dog.

(B) No, because the child was too young to form the requisite intent.

(C) Yes, because the child touched the dog without the man's consent.

(D) Yes, because the child's acts caused the man extreme distress.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 96 - Evidence

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered to give the
prosecutor  information  about  facts  that  would  strengthen  the  prosecutor's  case  against  the  defendant  in  exchange  for
leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the information that
the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.

Is the attorney's testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.

Correct.  The  prosecutor  is  asking  for  confidential  communications  between  the  codefendant  and  her  attorney,
which  is  privileged  information.  If  the  codefendant  had  actually  provided  information  to  the  prosecutor,  the
privilege  would  have  been  waived  as  to  any  communications  previously  made  to  her  attorney.  However,  the
codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications.

(B) No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.

(C) Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.

(D) Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime would be a

statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 97 - Torts

A mother and her six-year-old child were on a walk when the mother stopped to talk with an elderly neighbor. Because the
child resented having his mother's attention diverted by the neighbor, the child angrily threw himself against the neighbor
and knocked her to the ground. The neighbor suffered a broken wrist as a result of the fall.

In an action for battery by the neighbor against the child, what is the strongest argument for liability?

(A) The child intended to throw himself against the neighbor.

Correct.  To  recover  on  a  claim  for  battery,  it  is  sufficient  for  the  neighbor  to  show  that  the  child  intended  to
touch the neighbor in a way that would be considered harmful or offensive, even though the child may have been
too young to understand that what he was doing was wrong or to appreciate that the neighbor might be unusually
vulnerable to injury.

(B) The child was old enough to appreciate that causing a fall could inflict serious injury.

(C) The child was old enough to appreciate the riskiness of his conduct.

(D) The child was not justified in his anger.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 98 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  is  charged  with  an  offense  under  a  statute  that  provides  as  follows:  "Any  person  who,  while  intoxicated,
appears  in  any  public  place  and  manifests  a  drunken  condition  by  obstreperous  or  indecent  conduct  is  guilty  of  a
misdemeanor."

At trial, the evidence shows that the defendant was intoxicated when police officers burst into his house and arrested him
pursuant to a valid warrant. It was a cold night, and the officers hustled the defendant out of his house without giving him
time to get his coat. The defendant became angry and obstreperous when the officers refused to let him go back into the
house to retrieve his coat. The officers left him handcuffed outside in the street, waiting for a special squad car to arrive.
The arrest warrant was later vacated.

Can the defendant properly be convicted of violating the statute?

(A) No, because the defendant's claim of mistreatment is valid.

(B) No, because the statute requires proof of a voluntary appearance in a public place.

Correct. The general legal rule is that a person is not guilty of a crime unless the act constituting the crime was
committed voluntarily. This rule precludes the defendant's conviction, because he did not voluntarily appear in a
public place.

(C) Yes, because the defendant voluntarily became intoxicated.

(D) Yes, because the defendant voluntarily behaved in an obstreperous manner.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 99 - Real Property

A seller and a buyer signed a contract for the sale of vacant land. The contract was silent concerning the quality of title, but
the seller agreed in the contract to convey the land to the buyer by a warranty deed without any exceptions.

When the buyer conducted a title search for the land, she learned that the applicable zoning did not allow for her planned
commercial  use.  She  also  discovered  that  there  was  a  recorded  restrictive  covenant  limiting  the  use  of  the  land  to
residential use.

The buyer no longer wants to purchase the land.

Must the buyer purchase the land?

(A) No, because the restrictive covenant renders the title unmarketable.

Correct.  Unless  the  contract  provides  to  the  contrary,  the  law  will  imply  that  the  seller  will  provide  the  buyer
with a marketable  title on the date of closing. A marketable  title is not a perfect title but is a title a court will
force  an  unwilling  buyer  to  purchase.  A  right  held  in  the  land  by  a  third  party,  such  as  the  right  to  enforce  a
restrictive covenant, renders the title unmarketable, and the buyer need not purchase the land.

(B) No, because the zoning places a cloud on the title.

(C) Yes, because the buyer would receive a warranty deed without any exceptions.

(D) Yes, because the contract was silent regarding the quality of the title.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 4

Question # 100 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A police officer had a hunch, not amounting to probable cause or reasonable suspicion, that a man was a drug dealer. One
day while the officer was on highway patrol, her radar gun clocked the man's car at 68 mph in an area where the maximum
posted speed limit was 65 mph. The officer's usual practice was not to stop a car unless it was going at least 5 mph over the
posted  limit,  but  contrary  to  her  usual  practice,  she  decided  to  stop  the  man's  car  in  the  hope  that  she  might  discover
evidence of drug dealing. After she stopped the car and announced that she would be writing a speeding ticket, the officer
ordered the man and his passenger to step out of the car. When the passenger stepped out, the officer saw that the passenger
had been sitting on a clear bag of what the officer immediately recognized as marijuana. The officer arrested both the man
and the passenger for possession of marijuana.

At their joint trial, the man and the passenger claim that their Fourth Amendment rights were violated because the officer
improperly  (1)  stopped  the  car  for  speeding  as  a  pretext  for  investigating  a  hunch  rather  than  for  the  stated  purpose  of
issuing a traffic ticket and (2) ordered the passenger to step out of the car even though there was no reason to believe that
the passenger was a criminal or dangerous.

Are the man and the passenger correct?

(A) No, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

Correct. The stop of the car was constitutional, because it was objectively justifiable (regardless of the officer's
subjective  motivation),  and  both  the  driver  and  any  passengers  may  be  ordered  to  step  out  of  a  car  during  a
lawful traffic stop.

(B) No as to the stop of the car, but yes as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

(C) Yes as to the stop of the car, but no as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

(D) Yes, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car.

