National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 1 - Torts

A homeowner was using a six-foot stepladder to clean the furnace in his home. The homeowner broke his arm when he
slipped and fell from the ladder. The furnace had no warnings or instructions on how it was to be cleaned.

In a suit by the homeowner against the manufacturer of the furnace to recover for his injury, is the homeowner likely to
prevail?

(A) No, because the danger of falling from a ladder is obvious.

(B) No, because the homeowner should have hired a professional to clean the furnace.

(C) Yes, because the furnace did not have a ladder attached to it for cleaning purposes.

(D) Yes, because the lack of warnings or instructions for how to clean the furnace made the furnace defective.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 2 - Real Property

A landlord and a tenant orally agreed to a commercial tenancy for a term of six months beginning on July 1. Rent was to be
paid by the first day of each month, and the tenant paid the first month’s rent at the time of the agreement.

When the tenant arrived at the leased premises on July 1, the tenant learned that the previous tenant had not vacated the
premises  at  the  end  of  her  lease  term  on  May  31  and  did  not  intend  to  vacate.  The  tenant  then  successfully  sued  the
previous tenant for possession. The tenant did not inform the landlord of the eviction action until after the tenant received
possession.

The tenant then sued the landlord, claiming damages for that portion of the lease period during which the tenant was not in
possession.

If the court finds for the landlord, what will be the most likely explanation?

(A) By suing the previous tenant for possession, the tenant elected that remedy in lieu of a suit against the landlord.

(B) The landlord had delivered the legal right of possession to the tenant.

(C) The tenant failed to timely vacate as required to sue for constructive eviction.

(D) The tenant had not notified the landlord before bringing the eviction action.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 3 - Constitutional Law

A  state  law  provides  that  a  person  who  has  been  divorced  may  not  marry  again  unless  he  or  she  is  current  on  all
child-support  payments.  A  woman  who  was  refused  a  marriage  license  pursuant  to  this  law  sued  the  appropriate  state
officials.

What standard should the court apply in reviewing the constitutionality of this law?

(A) The state must show that the law is necessary to serve a compelling government interest.

(B) The state must show that the law is substantially related to an important government interest.

(C) The woman must show that the law serves no important public purpose.

(D) The woman must show that the legislature did not have a rational basis for enacting the law.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 4 - Contracts

Before putting her home up for sale, a homeowner painted the living room ceiling to conceal major water damage caused
by a leaking  roof that had  not yet been repaired.  On the  first  day the home was offered  for sale,  the homeowner gave  a
buyer  a  personal  tour.  The  homeowner  made  no  statements  at  all  regarding  the  water  damage  or  the  roof.  Without
discovering the water damage or the leaking roof and without consulting a lawyer, the buyer immediately agreed in writing
to buy the home for $200,000.

Before the closing date, the buyer discovered the water damage and the leaking roof. The cost of repair was estimated at
$22,000. The buyer has refused to go through with the purchase.

If the homeowner sues the buyer for breach of contract, is the homeowner likely to prevail?

(A) No, because no contract was formed since the buyer did not have a real opportunity to understand the essential terms

of the contract.

(B) No, because the homeowner concealed evidence of the water damage and of the leaking roof.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner made no affirmative statements of fact about the water damage or the leaking roof.

(D) Yes, because the buyer acted unreasonably by failing to employ an inspector to conduct an independent inspection of

the home.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 5 - Evidence

A defendant is being tried for the murder of a woman who disappeared 10 years ago and has not been heard from since.
Her body has never been found. The prosecutor has presented strong circumstantial evidence that she was murdered by the
defendant. To help establish the fact of her death, the prosecutor has requested that the judge give the following instruction,
based on a recognized presumption in the jurisdiction: “A person missing and not heard from in the last seven years shall
be presumed to be deceased.”

Is the instruction proper?

(A) No, because the fact that someone has not been heard from in seven years does not necessarily lead to a conclusion

that the person is dead.

(B) No,  because  mandatory  presumptions  are  not  allowed  against  a  criminal  defendant  on  an  element  of  the  charged

crime.

(C) Yes, because it expresses a rational conclusion that the jury should be required to accept.

(D) Yes, because the defendant has a chance to rebut the presumption by offering evidence that the woman is alive or has

been heard from in the last seven years.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 6 - Criminal Law and Procedure

An executive of an accounting firm was fired and told to immediately leave the building where she worked. The executive
went  home,  but  she  returned  that  night  to  retrieve  personal  items  from  her  office.  When  she  discovered  that  her  key  no
longer opened a door to the building, she forced the door open and went to her former office. To avoid attracting attention,
she did not turn on any lights. In the dark, she knew that she was taking some items that were not hers; she planned to sort
these out later and return them.

Upon arriving home, she found that she had taken a record book and some financial papers that belonged to the firm. After
thinking it over and becoming angrier over being fired, she burned the book and papers in her fireplace.

The jurisdiction has expanded the crime of burglary to include all buildings.

What crime(s) has the executive committed?

(A) Burglary and larceny.

(B) Burglary, but not larceny.

(C) Larceny, but not burglary.

(D) Neither larceny nor burglary.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 7 - Contracts

A wholesaler contracted in a signed writing to sell to a bakery 10,000 pounds of flour each week for 10 weeks, the flour to
be delivered to the bakery on Mondays and payment to be made on Wednesdays of each week. The bakery did all of its
weekly  bread  baking  on  Tuesdays.  On  Monday  morning  of  the  first  week,  the  wholesaler  tendered  delivery  of  8,000
pounds of flour to the bakery, and the bakery accepted it on the wholesaler’s assurance that the remaining 2,000 pounds
would be delivered later that evening, which it was. The bakery paid for both deliveries on Wednesday. On Monday of the
second week, the wholesaler  tendered  delivery  of 5,000 pounds of flour  to the bakery and said that the remaining  5,000
pounds could not be delivered on Monday but would be delivered by Wednesday. The bakery rejected the tender.

Was the bakery legally justified in rejecting the tender of the 5,000 pounds of flour?

(A) Yes, because the bakery was legally entitled to reject any tender that did not conform perfectly to the contract.

(B) Yes, because the tender was a substantial impairment of that installment and could not be cured.

(C) No, because the tender was not a substantial impairment of the entire contract, and the wholesaler had given assurance

of a cure.

(D) No, because by accepting the first 8,000 pounds on Monday of the first week, the bakery had waived the condition of

perfect tender and had not reinstated it.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 8 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute prohibiting discrimination in the rental of residential property anywhere in the United States on
the basis of sexual orientation or preference by any person or entity, public or private.

Which of the following provisions provides the strongest basis for Congress’s authority to enact this statute?

(A) The enforcement clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.

(C) The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.

(D) The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 9 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman and her sister took a trip to the Caribbean. When they passed through U.S. Customs inspection upon their return,
the customs officials found liquid cocaine in several bottles each of them was carrying. They were arrested. Upon separate
questioning by customs officers, the woman broke down and cried, “I told my sister there were too many officers at this
airport.” The sister did not give a statement.

The woman and her sister were indicted for conspiracy to import cocaine. They were tried separately. At the woman’s trial,
after the government introduced the above evidence and rested its case, her lawyer moved for a judgment of acquittal on
grounds of insufficient evidence.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister agreed to import cocaine.

(B) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister possessed cocaine.

(C) Yes, because the evidence shows only that the woman and her sister committed separate crimes of cocaine possession.

(D) Yes, because the evidence shows that the woman effectively withdrew from the conspiracy when she cooperated by

giving a statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 10 - Evidence

Several  defendants,  senior  executives  of  a  corporation,  were  charged  with  securities  fraud.  The  government  called  as  a
witness  another  executive  of  the  corporation,  who  had  not  been  charged  and  who  had  been  given  immunity  from
prosecution, to authenticate handwritten notes that she had made after meetings of the corporation’s management team at
which the alleged fraud was discussed. The witness testified that she had prepared the notes on her own initiative to help
her remember what had happened at the meetings. After this testimony, the government offered the notes into evidence to
establish what had happened at the meetings.

Should the witness’s notes be admitted?

(A) No, because the notes are hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No,  because  the  witness’s  immunity  agreement  with  the  government  makes  her  notes  untrustworthy  and  thus

substantially more prejudicial than probative.

(C) Yes, because they are business records.

(D) Yes, because they are past recollections recorded.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 11 - Torts

A college student was asleep in his bed in a college dormitory when his roommate, in a drunken fury, entered their room
intending to attack the student with an ice pick while he slept. Fortunately, the phone rang and awakened the student. The
roommate retreated quickly and threw the ice pick under his own bed in the same room. The next day, the student heard
from friends about the roommate’s murderous plans and later found the ice pick under the roommate’s bed. Even though
the college expelled his roommate, the student remained extremely upset and afraid to sleep.

In a suit against the roommate for assault, will the student prevail?

(A) No, because the roommate did not touch the student.

(B) No,  because  the  student  was  not  awake  when  the  roommate  entered  the  room  and  was  unaware  until  later  that  the

roommate was intending to attack him.

(C) Yes, because it was reasonable for the student to feel afraid of sleeping in his room afterward.

(D) Yes, because the roommate intended to inflict serious harm.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 12 - Real Property

Six  months  ago,  a  man  told  his  cousin  that  he  would  give  her  his  farm  as  a  gift  on  her  next  birthday.  The  cousin  then
entered  into  a  valid  written  contract  to  sell  the  farm  to  an  investor  with  the  closing  to  take  place  “one  week  after  [the
cousin’s] next birthday.”

The man failed  to convey the  farm  to  the cousin on her birthday.  One week after  the cousin’s  birthday,  on the intended
closing  date,  the  investor  first  learned  of  the  cousin’s  inability  to  convey  the  farm  because  the  man  had  breached  his
promise.  The investor  considered  suing the cousin but  realized  that she could  not compel  the cousin  to convey the  farm
because it was still owned by the man.

Two weeks after the cousin’s birthday, the man died. Under his valid will, the man devised the farm to the cousin. Within a
week, the executor of the man’s estate gave the cousin an executor’s deed to the farm in compliance with state law. The
investor promptly learned of this transfer and demanded that the cousin convey the farm to her. The cousin refused.

The investor sued the cousin for specific performance.

Who will likely prevail?

(A) The cousin, because the contract to convey was not signed by the legal owner of the farm as of the date of the contract

and was therefore void.

(B) The cousin, because she received title by devise rather than by conveyance.

(C) The investor, because the contract to convey merged into the executor’s deed to the cousin.

(D) The investor, because the contract to convey remained enforceable by her within a reasonable period of time after the

proposed closing date.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 13 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a defendant, alleging that she was seriously injured when the defendant ran a red light and struck her while
she was walking in a crosswalk. During the defendant’s case, a witness testified that the plaintiff had told him that she was
“barely touched” by the defendant’s car.

On cross-examination, should the court allow the plaintiff to elicit from the witness the fact that he is an adjuster for the
defendant’s insurance company?

(A) No, because testimony about liability insurance is barred by the rules of evidence.

(B) No, because the reference to insurance raises a collateral issue.

(C) Yes, for both substantive and impeachment purposes.

(D) Yes, for impeachment purposes only.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 14 - Contracts

An  engineer  entered  into  a  written  contract  with  an  owner  to  serve  in  the  essential  position  of  on-site  supervisor  for
construction  of  an  office  building.  The  day  after  signing  the  contract,  the  engineer  was  injured  while  bicycling  and  was
rendered  physically  incapable  of  performing  as  the  on-site  supervisor.  The  engineer  offered  to  serve  as  an  off-site
consultant for the same pay as originally agreed to by the parties.

Is the owner likely to prevail in an action against the engineer for damages resulting from his failure to perform under the
contract?

(A) No, because the engineer offered a reasonable substitute by offering to serve as an off-site consultant.

(B) No, because the engineer’s physical ability to perform as on-site supervisor was a basic assumption of the contract.

(C) Yes, because the engineer breached the contract by disappointing the owner’s expectations.

(D) Yes, because the engineer’s duty to perform was personal and absolute.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 15 - Constitutional Law

A state law made it a criminal offense for any state employee to “knowingly provide educational services or extend welfare
benefits” to a foreign national who was in the United States in violation of U.S. immigration laws. The principal of a public
elementary school was prosecuted under the law for enrolling and providing education to several foreign nationals he knew
to be in the country illegally. All of these actions took place before the new law was adopted. No federal statute applied to
the principal’s actions.

What constitutional provision would be most helpful to the principal’s defense?

(A) The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) The ex post facto clause of Article I, Section 10.

(D) The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 16 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  store  owner  whose  jewelry  store  had  recently  been  robbed  was  shown  by  a  police  detective  a  photograph  of  the
defendant, who previously had committed other similar crimes. The store owner examined the photograph and then asked
the  detective  whether  the  police  believed  that  the  man  pictured  was  the  robber.  After  the  detective  said,  “We’re  pretty
sure,” the store owner stated that the man in the photograph was the one who had robbed her.

The  defendant  was  indicted  for  the  robbery.  His  counsel  moved  to  suppress  any  trial  testimony  by  the  store  owner
identifying the defendant as the robber.

Should the court grant the motion and suppress the store owner’s trial testimony identifying the defendant as the robber?

(A) No, because suppression of in-court testimony is not a proper remedy, even though the out-of-court identification was

improper.

(B) No, because the out-of-court identification was not improper.

(C) Yes, because the improper out-of-court identification has necessarily tainted any in-court identification.

(D) Yes, unless the prosecution demonstrates that the in-court identification is reliable.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 17 - Real Property

A mother who died testate devised her farm to her son and her daughter as “joint tenants with right of survivorship.” The
language of the will was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is unmodified
by statute in the jurisdiction. After the mother’s death and with the daughter’s permission, the son took sole possession of
the farm and agreed to pay the daughter a stipulated monthly rent.

Several years later, the son defaulted on a personal loan, and his creditor obtained a judgment against him for $30,000. The
creditor promptly and properly filed the judgment.

A statute  of the jurisdiction  provides:  “Any judgment  properly  filed  shall,  for 10 years  from  filing,  be a lien on the  real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered.”

Six months later, the son died.

There are no other applicable statutes.

Is the creditor entitled to enforce its judgment lien against the farm?

(A) No, because the daughter became sole owner of the farm free and clear of the creditor’s judgment lien when the son

died.

(B) No, because the son’s interest was severed from the daughter’s interest upon the filing of the lien.

(C) Yes, because a joint  tenancy cannot be created  by devise, and the son died owning a 50% undivided interest  in the

farm as a tenant in common.

(D) Yes, because the son died owning a 50% undivided interest in the farm as a joint tenant with the daughter.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 18 - Contracts

An experienced  rancher  contracted to harvest  his neighbor’s  wheat crop for $1,000 “when the crop [was] ripe.”  In early
September, the neighbor told the rancher that the crop was ripe. The rancher delayed because he had other customers to
attend to. The neighbor was concerned that the delay might cause the crop to be lost, for hailstorms were common in that
part of the country in the fall. In fact, in early October, before the crop was harvested, it was destroyed by a hailstorm.

Is the rancher liable for the loss?

(A) No, because no time for performance was established in the contract.

(B) No, because the neighbor failed to tell the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm.

(C) Yes, because at the time the contract was made, the rancher had reason to foresee the loss as a probable result of his

breach.

(D) Yes,  because  a  party  who  undertakes  a  contractual  obligation  is  liable  for  all  the  consequences  that  flow  from  his

breach.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 19 - Torts

When a tire of a motorist’s car suffered a blowout, the car rolled over and the motorist was badly injured. Vehicles made
by the manufacturer of the motorist’s car have been found to be negligently designed, making them dangerously prone to
rolling over when they suffer blowouts. A truck driver who was driving behind the motorist when the accident occurred
stopped to help. Rescue vehicles promptly arrived, and the truck driver walked along the side of the road to return to his
truck. As he approached his truck, he was struck and injured by a speeding car. The truck driver has sued the manufacturer
of the injured motorist’s car.

Is the truck driver likely to prevail in a suit against the car manufacturer?

(A) No, because the car manufacturer’s negligence was not the proximate cause of the truck driver’s injuries.

(B) No, because the truck driver assumed the risk of injury when he undertook to help the motorist.

(C) Yes, because it is foreseeable that injuries can result from rollovers.

(D) Yes,  because  the  car  manufacturer’s  negligence  caused  the  dangerous  situation  that  invited  the  rescue  by  the  truck

driver.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 20 - Constitutional Law

An  unconstrued  state  law  prohibited  the  distribution  within  the  state  of  “seditious  propaganda.”  The  state  prosecuted
United States Post Office letter carriers under this law for delivering propaganda from a foreign country to state residents.

Which of the following statements is an INACCURATE description of the state’s law as applied to the letter carriers?

(A)

It is an unconstitutional bill of attainder.

(B)

It is void for vagueness.

(C)

It  may  not  be  applied  to  the  letter  carriers,  because  they  are  employees  of  a  federal  instrumentality  carrying  out  an
authorized function.

(D)

It unconstitutionally abridges rights protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 21 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with the crime of defrauding the federal agency where he worked as an accountant. At trial, the
court allowed the defendant to call his supervisor at the large corporation where he had previously worked, who testified
about the  defendant’s  good reputation  in  the  community  for honesty.  Over  objection,  the  defendant  then  sought  to  elicit
testimony from his former supervisor that on several occasions the corporation had, without incident, entrusted him with
large sums of money.

Should the testimony be admitted?

(A) No, because the testimony is extrinsic evidence on a collateral matter.

(B) No, because good character cannot be proved by specific instances of conduct unless character is an essential element

of the charge or defense.

(C) Yes, because it is evidence of a pertinent character trait offered by an accused.

(D) Yes, because it is relevant to whether the defendant was likely to have taken money as charged in this case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 22 - Contracts

A niece had worked in her aunt’s bookstore for many years. The bookstore business, which was housed in a building that
the aunt leased, was independently appraised at $200,000. The aunt decided to retire. She wrote to the niece, expressing her
affection for the niece and offering to sell her the bookstore business for $125,000 if the landlord would agree to a transfer
of the lease. The letter also specified when the aunt would transfer the business. The niece wrote back accepting her aunt’s
offer. In a phone call to the niece, the aunt stated that the landlord had approved the transfer of the lease and that she would
now  ask  her  attorney  to  draft  a  written  contract  so  that  there  would  be  a  record  of  the  terms.  Before  the  attorney  had
finished  drafting  the  document,  the  aunt  changed  her  mind  about  selling  the  business  and  informed  the  niece  of  her
decision.

In an action for breach of contract brought by the niece against her aunt, is the niece likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the motivation for the transfer of the business was the aunt’s affection for her niece, not the price.

(B) No, because the promised consideration was inadequate in light of the market value of the business.

(C) Yes,  because  the  condition  concerning  the  landlord’s  assent  to  the  transfer  of  the  lease  was  beyond  the  control  of

either party.

(D) Yes, because the document being drafted by the attorney  was merely  a record  of an agreement already  made, not a

condition to it.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 23 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man and his friend were watching a televised football game at the man’s home. Upset by a penalty called by the referee,
the friend threw a bottle of beer at the man’s television, breaking the screen. Enraged, the man picked up a nearby hammer
and hit the friend on the head with it. The friend died from the blow.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

In a jurisdiction that follows common law principles, what is the most serious crime of which the man could properly be
convicted?

(A) Murder.

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C)

Involuntary manslaughter.

(D) Assault.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 24 - Constitutional Law

A protester entered an IRS office during business hours. He denounced the income tax and set fire to pages from his copy
of the Internal Revenue Code. The fire was extinguished before it caused any other damage. The protester was arrested and
charged with violating a state law that prohibited igniting a fire in a public building. He claimed that his prosecution was
unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

May the protester constitutionally be convicted?

(A) No, because he was exercising his right to freedom of speech by burning a copy of the code.

(B) No, because the copy of the code belonged to him, and thus burning it did not infringe upon a legitimate government

interest.

(C) Yes, because the burning of the code was conduct rather than speech.

(D) Yes,  because  the  state  law  is  narrowly  drawn  to  further  a  substantial  government  interest  in  prohibiting  the

noncommunicative aspects of the act in question.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 25 - Torts

A gas company built a large refining facility that conformed to zoning requirements on land near a landowner’s property.
The landowner had his own home and a mini-golf business on his property.

In a nuisance action against the gas company, the landowner established that the refinery emitted fumes that made many
people feel quite sick when they were outside on his property for longer than a few minutes. The landowner’s mini-golf
business had greatly declined as a consequence, and the value of his property had gone down markedly.

Is the landowner likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the landowner has offered no evidence demonstrating that the gas company was negligent.

(B) No, because the refinery conforms to the zoning requirements.

(C) Yes, because the refinery has substantially and unreasonably interfered with the landowner’s use and enjoyment of his

property.

(D) Yes, because the value of the landowner’s property has declined.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 26 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with attempted murder. At the preliminary hearing, the presiding judge heard the testimony of
four  prosecution  witnesses  and  found  that  the  prosecution  had  failed  to  establish  probable  cause  that  the  defendant  had
committed any offense. Accordingly, he dismissed the charge.

The prosecutor  then  called  the  same  four  witnesses  before  a grand  jury.  The grand  jury  indicted  the  same  defendant  for
attempted murder.

The defendant has moved to quash the indictment on the ground of double jeopardy.

How should the court proceed?

(A) Grant the motion, because the dismissal of the first charge on the merits, whether correct or incorrect, bars any further

prosecution.

(B) Grant the motion, unless the prosecution has evidence that was not presented in the first case.

(C) Deny the motion, because the defendant has not yet been in jeopardy of conviction on the attempted murder charge.

(D) Deny the motion, because the protection of the double jeopardy clause does not come into play until there has been a

conviction or an acquittal.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 27 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the proceeds of a casualty insurance policy covering his 60-foot yacht, claiming
that the yacht was destroyed by an accidental fire. The company denied liability, claiming that the plaintiff hired his friend
to set the fire. In the hospital the day after the fire, the friend, who had been badly burned in the fire, said to his wife, in the
presence of an attending nurse, “I was paid to set the fire.” Two weeks later, the friend died of an infection resulting from
the burns. At trial, the insurance company called the wife to testify to the friend’s statement.

Is the wife’s testimony admissible over the plaintiff’s objection?

(A) No, because the marital privilege survives the communicating spouse’s death.

(B) No, because the statement was made after the conspiracy ended.

(C) Yes, because it is a statement against interest.

(D) Yes, because it is a statement by a co-conspirator.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 28 - Torts

A  fire  that  started  in  the  defendant’s  warehouse  spread  to  the  plaintiff’s  adjacent  warehouse.  The  defendant  did  not
intentionally start the fire, and the plaintiff can produce no evidence as to how the fire started. However, the defendant had
failed to install a sprinkler system, which was required by a criminal statute. The plaintiff can produce evidence that had
the sprinkler system been installed, it could have extinguished the fire before it spread.

In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover for the fire damage, is it possible for the plaintiff to prevail?

(A) No, because the statute provides only for criminal penalties.

(B) No, because there is no evidence that the defendant negligently caused the fire to start.

(C) Yes, because a landowner is strictly liable for harm to others caused by the spread of fire from his premises under the

doctrine of Rylands v. Fletcher.

(D) Yes, because the plaintiff  was harmed as a result  of the defendant’s  violation of a statute  that was meant to protect

against this type of occurrence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 29 - Constitutional Law

A private university is owned and operated by a religious organization. The university is accredited by the department of
education  of  the  state  in  which  it  is  located.  This  accreditation  certifies  that  the  university  meets  prescribed  educational
standards. Because it is accredited, the university qualifies for state funding for certain of its operating expenses. Under this
funding program, 25 percent of the university’s total operating budget comes from state funds.

A  professor  at  the  university  was  a  part-time  columnist  for  the  local  newspaper.  In  one  of  her  published  columns,  the
professor  argued  that  “religion  has  become  a  negative  force  in  society.”  The  university  subsequently  discharged  the
professor, giving as its sole reason for the dismissal her authorship and publication of this column.

The professor sued the university, claiming only that her discharge violated her constitutional right to freedom of speech.

The  university  moved  to  dismiss  the  professor’s  lawsuit  on  the  ground  that  the  U.S.  Constitution  does  not  provide  the
professor with a cause of action in this case.

Should the court grant the university’s motion to dismiss?

(A) Yes, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments protect the right of the university to employ only individuals who

share and communicate its views.

(B) Yes, because the action of the university in discharging the professor is not attributable to the state for purposes of the

Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) No, because the accreditation and partial funding of the university by the state are sufficient to justify the conclusion

that the state was an active participant in the discharge of the professor.

(D) No,  because  the  U.S.  Constitution  provides  a  cause  of  action  against  any  state-accredited  institution  that  restricts

freedom of speech as a condition of employment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 30 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  with  intent  to  distribute.  On  direct  examination,  the  defendant
testified that he worked with disadvantaged children as a drug counselor, that he hated drugs, that he would “never possess
or  distribute  drugs,”  and  that  he  had  never  used  drugs  and  would  not  touch  them.  The  government  offered  as  a  rebuttal
witness a police officer who would testify that, three years earlier, he saw the defendant buy cocaine from a street dealer.
The defendant objected.

Is the testimony of the police officer about the prior drug transaction admissible to impeach the defendant?

(A) No, because the bad act of buying drugs is not sufficiently probative of a witness’s character for truthfulness.

(B) No, because it is contradiction on a collateral matter.

(C) Yes, because it is proper contradiction.

(D) Yes, because the bad act shows a disregard for the law and makes it less likely that the defendant would respect the

oath of truthfulness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 31 - Real Property

A landowner borrowed $100,000 from a lender and executed a valid mortgage on a commercial tract of land to secure the
debt. The lender promptly recorded the mortgage.

A year later, the landowner conveyed the same tract to a developer by a deed that expressly stated that the conveyance was
subject to the mortgage to the lender and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as
part of the consideration  for the purchase.  The mortgage  was  properly  described  in the deed, and the deed was properly
executed by the landowner; however, because there was no provision or place in the deed for the developer to sign, he did
not do so. The developer promptly recorded the deed.

The developer made the monthly mortgage payments of principal and interest for six payments but then stopped payments
and  defaulted  on  the  mortgage  obligation.  The  lender  properly  instituted  foreclosure  procedures  in  accordance  with  the
governing law. After the foreclosure  sale, there was a $10,000 deficiency  due to the lender. Both the landowner and the
developer had sufficient assets to pay the deficiency.

There is no applicable statute in the jurisdiction other than the statute relating to foreclosure proceedings.

At  the  appropriate  stage  of  the  foreclosure  action,  which  party  will  the  court  decide  is  responsible  for  payment  of  the
deficiency?

(A) The developer, because he accepted delivery of the deed from the landowner and in so doing accepted the terms and

conditions of the deed.

(B) The developer, because he is estopped by his having made six monthly payments to the lender.

(C) The landowner, because the developer was not a signatory to the deed.

(D) The landowner, because he was the maker of the note and the mortgage, and at most the developer is liable only as a

guarantor of the landowner’s obligation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 32 - Contracts

An actor straight out of drama school and an agent entered into a one-year written contract that described the services the
agent would provide. Because he was eager for work, the actor agreed, in the contract, to pay the agent 15% of his yearly
earnings. At the end of the year, the actor was so pleased with his many roles that he gave the agent 20% of his earnings.
After the first contract had expired, the actor and the agent decided to continue working together. They photocopied their
old contract, changed the date, and signed it. At the end of the year, a dispute arose as to what percentage of earnings the
actor owed. It is a trade practice in the acting profession for actors to pay their agents 10% of their yearly earnings, payable
at the end of the year.

What percentage of the actor’s earnings is a court most likely to award the agent?

(A) 20%, because course of dealing is given greater weight than trade usage.

(B) 15%, because it was an express term of the contract.

(C) 10%, because trade usage is the applicable default rule.

(D) Nothing, because the contract is too indefinite.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 33 - Torts

A schizophrenic patient who was institutionalized in a psychiatric facility pushed a nurse down a stairwell at the facility.
The nurse, a paid employee of the facility who was trained to care for schizophrenic patients, was injured. The patient is an
indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

The jurisdiction  generally follows the rule that a person with a mental deficiency is held to the standard of a reasonable
person.  In  a  negligence  action  brought  by  the  nurse  against  the  patient,  the  patient’s  lawyer  will  argue  that  the  patient
should not be held responsible for the nurse’s injury.

Which of the following facts will be LEAST helpful to the patient’s lawyer’s argument?

(A) The nurse was a professional caregiver.

(B) The nurse was trained to care for patients with schizophrenia.

(C) At the time she pushed the nurse, the patient thought she was being attacked by an elephant.

(D) The patient is an indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 34 - Real Property

Seven years ago, a man, his sister, and his cousin became equal owners, as tenants in common, of a house. Until a year ago,
the man lived in the house alone. The sister and the cousin are longtime residents of another state.

One year ago, the man moved to an apartment and rented the house to a tenant for three years under a lease that the man
and the tenant both signed. The tenant has since paid the rent each month to the man.

Recently, the sister and the cousin learned about the rental. They brought an appropriate action against the tenant to have
the lease declared void and to have the tenant evicted. The tenant raised all available defenses.

What will the court likely decide?

(A) The lease is void, and the tenant is evicted.

(B) The lease is valid, and the tenant retains exclusive occupancy rights for the balance of the term.

(C) The lease is valid, but the tenant is evicted because one-third of the lease term has expired and the man had only a

one-third interest to transfer.

(D) The lease is valid, and the tenant is not evicted but must share possession with the sister and the cousin.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 35 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man had spent the evening drinking at a local bar and was weaving down the street on his way home, singing. Suddenly,
a  person  wearing  a  cartoon  character  mask  jumped  out  from  an  alley,  pointed  his  gun  at  the  man,  and  snarled,  “This  is
loaded, buddy, and I don’t mind using it. Hand over your cash pronto.” The man was so drunk that he failed to understand
what was going on and started to howl with laughter at the sight of the cartoon mask. Surprised and rattled by the man’s
reaction, the masked gunman fled. The man soon recovered his composure and staggered home safely.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime of which the masked gunman may properly be charged and convicted?

(A) Attempted robbery.

(B) Attempted battery.

(C) Attempted larceny.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 36 - Contracts

A bank agreed to lend a merchant $10,000 for one year at 8% interest. The loan proceeds were to be disbursed within two
weeks. The merchant intended to use the loan proceeds to purchase a specific shipment of carpets for resale at an expected
profit  of  $5,000 but  said  nothing  about  these  plans  to  the bank.  The bank  failed  to  disburse  the  proceeds  and  refused  to
assure the merchant that it would do so. The merchant was able to secure a loan from another lender at 10% interest for one
year. However, by the time the merchant started the application process for a substitute loan, it was too late to pursue the
opportunity to buy the shipment of carpets.

In an action against the bank for breach of contract, which of the following amounts is the merchant likely to recover?

(A) Nothing, because lost opportunities are not foreseeable.

(B) Nothing, because the parties failed to tacitly agree that the merchant would be entitled to damages in the event of a

breach by the bank.

(C) The difference in cost over time between a loan at 10% and a loan at 8%.

(D) $5,000, the merchant’s foreseeable loss.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 37 - Torts

A farmer kept antiques in an uninhabited farmhouse on his property. The farmhouse had been broken into several times in
the past, and some of the farmer’s goods had been stolen. Instead of posting “No Trespassing” signs, the farmer decided to
install an alarm system to deter intruders.

While the farmer was in the farmhouse installing the alarm system, he heard a window open in the adjoining room. The
farmer crept very quietly to the door of the room, threw the door open, and found an intruder, a young child. The farmer
immediately struck the child, a 10-year-old girl, very hard in the face, breaking her nose.

In an action on behalf of the child against the farmer to recover for the injury to her nose, is the child likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the farmer did not use deadly force.

(B) No, because the farmer had probable cause to believe that the child was a thief.

(C) Yes, because the farmer should have posted a “No Trespassing” sign.

(D) Yes, because the farmer used excessive force.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 38 - Constitutional Law

A state law that restricted abortion was challenged in state court as a violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and as a violation of a similar due process provision of the state constitution. The case
made its way to the state’s highest court, which ruled that the law violated the due process provisions of both the U.S. and
the state constitutions.

If petitioned to do so, may the U.S. Supreme Court exercise jurisdiction to review the state court decision?

(A) No, because the state court’s decision in this case rests on adequate and independent state law grounds.

(B) No,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  appellate  jurisdiction  only  over  state  court  decisions  that  determine  the

constitutionality of federal laws.

(C) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over any ruling of a state’s highest court based on an

interpretation of federal law.

(D) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over decisions that find state laws in violation of the

federal Constitution.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 39 - Torts

A mining company that operated a copper mine in a remote location kept dynamite in a storage facility at the mine. The
storage  facility  was  designed  and  operated  in  conformity  with  state-of-the-art  safety  standards.  In  the  jurisdiction,  the
storage of dynamite is deemed an abnormally dangerous activity.

Dynamite  that  was  stored  in  the  mining  company’s  storage  facility  and  that  had  been  manufactured  by  an  explosives
manufacturer exploded due to an unknown cause. The explosion injured a state employee who was at the mine performing
a safety audit. The employee brought an action in strict liability against the mining company.

What would be the mining company’s best defense?

(A) The mine was in a remote location.

(B) The mining company did not manufacture the dynamite.

(C) The state employee assumed the risk of injury inherent in the job.

(D) The storage facility conformed to state-of-the-art safety standards.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 40 - Evidence

A woman sued her friend for injuries she received as a passenger in the friend’s  car. On direct examination,  the woman
testified that the friend had been speeding and ran a red light. On cross-examination,  the woman was asked whether she
was under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident. The woman invoked the privilege against self-incrimination.

How should the court treat the woman’s claim of privilege?

(A) Deny it, because the woman waived the privilege by voluntarily testifying.

(B) Deny it, because evidence of the woman’s drug intoxication is essential to assessing the accuracy of her observations.

(C) Uphold it, because the privilege applies in both civil and criminal cases.

(D) Uphold it, because the woman’s credibility cannot be impeached by a crime for which she has not been convicted.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 41 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Police, who had probable cause to arrest a man for a series of armed robberies, obtained a warrant to arrest him. At 6 a.m.
they surreptitiously entered the man’s house and, with guns drawn, went to the man’s bedroom, where they awakened him.
Startled, the man asked, “What’s  going on?” and an officer  replied,  “We’ve got you now.” Another officer  immediately
asked the man if he had committed a particular robbery, and the man said that he had. The police then informed him that he
was under arrest and ordered him to get dressed.

Charged with robbery, the man has moved to suppress the use of his statement as evidence.

What is the man’s best argument for granting his motion?

(A) The police did not give him the required Miranda warnings.

(B) The statement was not voluntary.

(C) He was not informed that he was under arrest until after he made the statement.

(D) The police did not have a search warrant authorizing entry into the house.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 42 - Real Property

A man decided to give his farm to his nephew. The man took a deed to his attorney and told the attorney to deliver the deed
to the nephew upon the man’s death. The man also told the attorney to return the deed to him if he asked. None of these
instructions to the attorney were in writing, and the deed was not recorded. The man then e-mailed the nephew informing
him of the arrangement.

Shortly thereafter,  the nephew died testate.  In his will, he devised the farm  to his daughter.  Several  years later,  the  man
died intestate,  survived  by two sons. The nephew’s daughter  immediately  claimed ownership of the farm  and demanded
that the attorney deliver the deed to her.

Must the attorney deliver the deed to the daughter?

(A) No, because a gratuitous death escrow is void unless supported by a written contract.

(B) No, because the man never placed the deed beyond his control.

(C) Yes, because the death of the nephew rendered the gratuitous death escrow irrevocable by the man.

(D) Yes, because the deed to the nephew was legally delivered when the man took it to his attorney.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 43 - Contracts

A buyer sent a seller an offer to buy 50 tons of cotton of a specified quality. The offer contained no terms except those
specifying  the  amount  and  quality  of  the  cotton.  The  seller  then  sent  an  acknowledgment  by  fax.  The  acknowledgment
repeated the terms of the buyer’s offer and stated that shipment would occur within five days. Among 12 printed terms on
the acknowledgment was a statement that any dispute about the cotton’s quality would be submitted to arbitration. Neither
the buyer nor the seller said anything further about arbitration. The seller shipped the cotton, and it was accepted by the
buyer.  A  dispute  arose  between  the  buyer  and  the  seller  as  to  the  quality  of  the  cotton,  and  the  seller  asserted  that  the
dispute had to be submitted to arbitration. The buyer instead sued the seller in court.

In that suit, which of the following arguments best supports the seller’s position that the buyer must submit the dispute to
arbitration?

(A) Arbitration is a more efficient method of resolving disputes than resolving them in court.

(B) The provision for arbitration did not contradict any term in the buyer’s offer.

(C) The provision for arbitration did not materially alter the parties’ contract.

(D) The seller’s acknowledgment containing a provision for arbitration constituted a counteroffer that was accepted by the

buyer when it accepted delivery of the cotton.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 44 - Constitutional Law

A  recently  enacted  federal  statute  requires  the  President  to  make  each  appointment  of  a  United  States  ambassador  to  a
foreign country from a list of three individuals. The list is to be compiled by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and
approved  by  the  full  Senate  in  advance  of  the  appointment.  The  statute  also  provides  that  Senate  confirmation  of  the
appointment is deemed to occur automatically 30 days after the time the President names an appointee from the list, unless
the full Senate determines otherwise within the 30-day period.

Is this statute constitutional?

(A) No,  because  the  statute  violates  the  constitutional  requirements  for  appointment  of  principal  officers  of  the  United

States.

(B) No, because the statute impermissibly restricts the plenary foreign affairs powers of the President.

(C) Yes,  because  the  statute  is  consistent  with  the  constitutional  requirement  that  the  presidential  appointment  of

ambassadors be with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(D) Yes, because the statute is a necessary and proper measure in furtherance of Congress’s power to regulate commerce

with foreign states.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 45 - Contracts

A janitorial service contracted in writing with a hospital for a one-year term. Under the terms of the contract, the janitorial
service agreed to clean the hospital daily in accordance with the hygiene standards of the city’s health code. Because the
janitorial service did not clean a patient’s room in accordance with the required hygiene standards, the patient contracted an
infection that required continued hospitalization. In addition to suing the hospital, the patient sued the janitorial service for
breach of contract.

Which  of  the  following  statements  is  most  accurate  with  respect  to  the  breach  of  contract  claim  against  the  janitorial
service?

(A) The janitorial service is liable to the patient as a matter of public policy, because it violated the city’s health code.

(B) The  patient  is  an  intended  third-party  beneficiary  under  the  contract,  because  the  janitorial  service’s  promise  was

intended to benefit all hospital patients.

(C) The patient has no claim for breach of contract against the janitorial service, because she is an incidental beneficiary.

(D) The patient cannot sue on the contract, because she was not named in the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 46 - Torts

A driver negligently ran into a pedestrian who was walking along a road. The pedestrian sustained an injury to his knee,
causing it to buckle from time to time. Several months later, the pedestrian  sustained  an injury to his shoulder when his
knee buckled, causing him to fall down a flight of stairs. The pedestrian then brought an action against the driver for the
injuries to his knee and shoulder.

In his action against the driver, for which of his injuries may the pedestrian recover damages?

(A) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, because the driver takes the victim as he finds him.

(B) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, if the jury finds that the pedestrian’s fall down a flight of stairs was a normal

consequence of his original injury.

(C) For the injury to his knee only, because the injury to the pedestrian’s shoulder is separable.

(D) For the injury to his knee only, if the jury finds that the driver could not have foreseen that his negligent driving would

cause the pedestrian to fall down a flight of stairs.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 47 - Evidence

A  consumer  has  sued  the  manufacturer  of  a  microwave  oven  for  burn  injuries  allegedly  caused  by  the  manufacturer’s
negligent  failure  to  warn  purchasers  of  the  dangers  of  heating  foods  in  certain  types  of  containers.  The  consumer  has
offered into evidence three letters, all received by the manufacturer before the oven was shipped to the consumer, in which
customers had complained of serious burns under circumstances similar to those in the consumer’s case. The manufacturer
has objected to the letters on the grounds of hearsay and, in the alternative, has asked for a limiting instruction directing
that the letters be considered not for the truth of the assertions contained in them but only regarding the issue of notice.

How should the court respond?

(A) The court should sustain the objection and treat the request for a limiting instruction as moot.

(B) The court should overrule the objection and deny the request for a limiting instruction.

(C) The court should overrule the objection and give the limiting instruction.

(D) The court should overrule the objection but allow only that the letters be read to the jury, not received as exhibits.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 48 - Torts

A rancher and his neighbor were involved in a boundary dispute. In order to resolve their differences, each drove his truck
to an open pasture area on his land where the two properties were separated by a fence. The rancher was accompanied by
four friends, and the neighbor was alone.

The neighbor got out of his truck and walked toward the fence. The rancher got out but simply stood by his truck. When
the neighbor came over the fence, the rancher shot him, inflicting serious injury.

In a battery action brought by the neighbor against the rancher, the rancher testified that he actually thought his neighbor
was armed, although he could point to nothing that would have reasonably justified this belief.

Is the neighbor likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the rancher was standing on his own property and had no obligation to retreat.

(B) No, because the rancher suspected that the neighbor was armed.

(C) Yes, because deadly force is never appropriate in a property dispute.

(D) Yes, because it was unreasonable for the rancher to consider the use of a gun necessary for self-defense.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 49 - Real Property

A  businesswoman  owned  two  adjoining  tracts  of  land,  one  that  was  improved  with  a  commercial  rental  building  and
another that was vacant and abutted a river.

Twenty years ago, the businesswoman conveyed the vacant tract to a grantee by a warranty deed that the businesswoman
signed but the grantee did not. The deed contained a covenant by the grantee as owner of the vacant tract that neither he nor
his  heirs  or  assigns  would  “erect  any  building”  on  the  vacant  tract,  in  order  to  preserve  the  view  of  the  river  from  the
commercial building on the improved tract. The grantee intended to use the vacant tract as a nature preserve. The grantee
promptly and properly recorded the deed.

Last year, the businesswoman conveyed the improved tract to a businessman. A month later, the grantee died, devising all
of his property, including the vacant land, to his cousin.

Six weeks ago, the cousin began construction of a building on the vacant tract.

The businessman objected and sued to enjoin construction of the building.

Who is likely to prevail?

(A) The businessman, because the commercial building was constructed before the cousin began his construction project.

(B) The businessman, because the cousin is bound by the covenant made by the grantee.

(C) The cousin, because an equitable servitude does not survive the death of the promisor.

(D) The cousin, because the grantee did not sign the deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 50 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with battery, defined as at common law. At trial, an expert witness testified for the defense that
the defendant, an athlete, was under the influence of a performance-enhancing drug at the time he committed the battery
and that he would not have done so had he not been so influenced. The defendant asked for an instruction to the effect that
if the jury believed that he was influenced by the drug at the time of the crime and would not have committed it otherwise,
it had to acquit him.

Which of the following circumstances would most aid the defendant’s argument in favor of such an instruction?

(A) Evidence that the defendant is addicted to this drug and has an overwhelming urge to consume it.

(B) Evidence that the defendant’s coach, who gave him the drug, told him it was only an aspirin.

(C) Evidence that the victim of the assault taunted the defendant about his use of the drug immediately before the assault.

(D) Expert testimony that a reasonable person, on consuming this drug, may experience uncontrollable rages.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 51 - Constitutional Law

Under a state law, a drug company that makes a false factual claim about a prescription drug is strictly liable in tort to any
user of the drug.

In an advertisement promoting sales of a particular drug, a drug company claimed that the drug was safe for children. Suit
was filed against the company on behalf of a child who allegedly was harmed as a result of taking the drug. At the time the
child took the drug, the available medical studies supported the company’s claim that the drug was safe for children, but
later research proved that the drug actually was harmful to children. The company has moved to dismiss the suit on First
Amendment grounds.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because false or misleading commercial speech is not constitutionally protected.

(B) No, because the drug business is subject to extensive health and safety regulation.

(C) Yes, because liability cannot be imposed for false statements without a showing of actual malice.

(D) Yes, because the company’s claims about the drug were a matter of public concern.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 52 - Contracts

A developer contracted in writing to sell to a buyer a house on a one-acre lot for $100,000. The developer told the buyer
that  the  lot  abutted  a  national  park  and  that  the  water  for  the  house  came  from  a  natural  artesian  spring.  The  developer
knew that both of these representations  were important  to the buyer and that both were false.  The buyer moved into the
house  and  eight  months  later  learned  that  a  private  golf  course  was  being  constructed  on  the  adjacent  land  and  that  the
water for his house was piped in from the city reservoir. The buyer immediately sued the developer to avoid the contract.

The construction of the golf course will probably increase the market value of the buyer’s property, and the water from the
city reservoir exceeds all established standards for drinking water.

Is the buyer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because eight months exceeds a reasonable time for contract avoidance.

(B) No, because the developer’s misstatements caused no economic harm to the buyer.

(C) Yes, because the contract was void ab initio.

(D) Yes, because the buyer retained the power to avoid the contract due to fraud.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 53 - Real Property

A seller owns a 400-acre tract of land with 5,000 feet of frontage on a county highway. The seller and a buyer entered into
a written agreement for the sale of a portion of the tract identified only as “a parcel of land, containing not less than 100
acres and having not less than 1,000 feet of frontage on the county highway, whose exact location and dimensions are to be
determined by the parties hereto, at a price of $8,000 per acre.”

Shortly after the execution of the agreement, the parties met to stake out the parcel of land to be sold, but they could not
agree. The disagreement intensified, and the seller repudiated the contract.

The buyer has sued the seller for specific performance. The seller has asserted all available defenses.

Is the buyer entitled to specific performance of the contract?

(A) No, because a contract for the sale of real property that requires further agreement on an essential element cannot be

specifically enforced.

(B) No, because the purchase price was not fixed by, nor determinable under, the contract terms.

(C) Yes, because the contract bound the parties to act in good faith and to agree upon the specific land to be conveyed.

(D) Yes, because the equity powers of the court enable the court to appoint a master, or to take other appropriate action, to

identify the land to be conveyed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 54 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued for injuries arising from a car accident, claiming a back injury. At trial, she wishes to testify that prior to
the accident she had never had any problems with her back.

Is the plaintiff’s proposed testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the plaintiff has not been qualified as an expert.

(B) No, because the plaintiff’s pain could have been caused by factors arising after the accident, such as an injury at work.

(C) Yes, because it is probative evidence of the plaintiff’s injury.

(D) Yes, because the testimony of parties is not subject to the lay opinion rule.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 55 - Constitutional Law

A state owned a large natural gas field and took bids for its exploitation. The highest bid came from an interstate pipeline
company that distributed natural gas to providers throughout the country. A local gas company submitted the next highest
bid, which included the commitment that it would pass along to local customers any savings if it was awarded the contract.
The state awarded the contract to the local company. The interstate company sued to overturn this decision.

Should the interstate company prevail?

(A) No, because the state has a compelling interest in reducing the cost of gas for state citizens.

(B) No, because the state acted as a market participant.

(C) Yes, because the state acted irrationally by not choosing the highest bidder and thus denied the interstate company due

process of law.

(D) Yes, because the state discriminated against interstate commerce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 56 - Real Property

A woman died, devising land that she owned in another state to her daughter, who was then 17 years old.

A neighbor who owned the property immediately adjacent to the land wrongfully began to possess the land at that time.
For  24  of  the  next  25  years,  the  neighbor  planted  and  harvested  crops  on  the  land,  hunted  on  it,  and  parked  cars  on  it.
However,  in  the  sixth  year  after  he  first  took  possession  of  the  land,  the  neighbor  neither  planted  crops  nor  hunted  nor
parked cars on the land because he spent that entire year living in Europe. The neighbor built a small gardening shed on the
land, but he never built a residence on it.

When the daughter was 28, she was declared mentally incompetent and had a conservator appointed to oversee her affairs.
Since then, she has continuously resided in a care facility.

The applicable statute of limitations provides as follows: “An ejectment action shall be brought within 21 years after the
cause of action accrues, but if the person entitled to bring the cause of action is under age 18 or mentally incompetent at the
time the cause of action accrues, it may be brought by such person within 10 years after attaining age 18 or after the person
becomes competent.”

If the daughter’s conservator wins an ejectment action against the neighbor, what will be the most likely explanation?

(A) The daughter was age 17 when the neighbor first took possession of the land.

(B) Because the daughter is mentally incompetent, the statute of limitations has been tolled.

(C) The neighbor never built a residence on the land.

(D) The neighbor was not in continuous possession of the land for 21 years.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 57 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  common  law  jurisdiction  defines  first-degree  murder  as  any  murder  that  is  (1)  committed  by  means  of  poison  or  (2)
premeditated. All other murder is second-degree murder, and manslaughter is defined as at common law.

An  employee  was  angry  with  her  boss  for  denying  her  a  raise.  Intending  to  cause  her  boss  discomfort,  the  employee
secretly  dropped  into  his  coffee  three  over-the-counter  laxative  pills.  The  boss  drank  the  coffee  containing  the  pills.
Although  the  pills  would  not  have  been  dangerous  to  an  ordinary  person,  because  the  boss  was  already  taking  other
medication, he suffered a seizure and died.

If the employee is charged with murder in the first degree, should she be convicted?

(A) Yes, only because she used poison.

(B) Yes, only because she acted with premeditation.

(C) Yes, both because she used poison and because she acted with premeditation.

(D) No.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 58 - Contracts

A lawn service company agreed in writing to purchase from a supplier all of its requirements for lawn care products during
the  next  calendar  year.  In  the  writing,  the  supplier  agreed  to  fulfill  those  requirements  and  to  give  the  company  a  10%
discount off its published prices, but it reserved the right to increase the published prices during the year. After the parties
had performed under the agreement for three months, the supplier notified the company that it would no longer give the
company the 10% discount off the published prices.

Does the company have a viable claim against the supplier for breach of contract?

(A) Yes, because part performance of the agreement by both parties made it enforceable for the full year.

(B) Yes,  because  the  company’s  agreement  to  buy  all  of  its  lawn  care  products  from  the  supplier  made  the  agreement

enforceable.

(C) No, because the supplier could, and did, revoke its offer with respect to future deliveries.

(D) No, because the absence of a minimum quantity term rendered the company’s promise illusory.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 59 - Torts

A driver was traveling along a highway during an unusually heavy rainstorm when the roadway began to flood. To protect
his  car  from  water  damage,  the  driver  pulled  his  car  up  a  steep,  unmarked  driveway  abutting  the  highway  that  led  to  a
homeowner’s  residence.  The  driver  left  his  car  parked  in  the  driveway  and  walked  home,  intending  to  return  when  the
floodwater had subsided. Shortly after the driver started to walk home, the homeowner carefully rolled the car back down
his driveway and parked it on the highway shoulder. The floodwater continued to rise and caused damage to the driver’s
car.

If the driver sues the homeowner to recover for damage to the car, is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) Yes, because the driver was privileged to park his car on the homeowner’s property.

(B) Yes, because there were no “no trespassing” signs posted.

(C) No, because the driver intentionally drove his car onto the homeowner’s property.

(D) No, because the homeowner was privileged to remove the car from his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 60 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Federal  agents  had  a  hunch  that  a  local  man  was  engaged  in  illegal  gambling  activities.  An  agent  decided  to  enter  the
man’s house while he was not at home and see what he could find. The agent discovered an envelope containing $5,000 in
cash and an executive’s business card. Returning the envelope to its place, the agent located and interviewed the executive,
who admitted that he had paid the man $5,000 to settle a gambling debt; the executive also disclosed that the man regularly
took illegal bets from the executive and several of his acquaintances. The agent then interviewed the acquaintances, who
confirmed what the executive had told him. The agent then arranged to be introduced to the man at a local bar. After a few
drinks, the man, unaware of the agent’s identity, boasted that he was one of the biggest bookmakers in the state.

The agent testified  to all of his investigation’s  discoveries  before  a grand jury, which returned  an indictment  against  the
man  for  illegal  gambling  activities,  based  solely  on  the  agent’s  testimony.  The  man’s  attorney  then  filed  a  motion  to
dismiss the indictment, claiming that it rested on violations of the man’s constitutional rights.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because dismissal of the indictment is not the appropriate remedy.

(B) Yes, because much of the agent’s testimony before the grand jury was inadmissible hearsay.

(C) Yes, because of the agent’s unlawful search of the man’s home.

(D) Yes, because of the agent’s violation of the man’s right to counsel.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 61 - Evidence

A  plaintiff,  who  had  been  injured  in  an  automobile  collision  with  the  defendant,  sued  the  defendant  for  damages.  The
defendant  denied  negligence  and  denied  that  the  plaintiff’s  injuries  were  severe.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  has  offered  in
evidence  a  color  photograph  of  himself  made  from  a  videotape  taken  by  a  television  news  crew  at  the  scene  of  the
collision.  The plaintiff  has  demonstrated  that  the  videotape  has  since  been  routinely  reused  by the  television  station  and
that  the  footage  of  the  plaintiff  was  erased.  The  photograph  shows  the  plaintiff  moments  after  the  collision,  with  his
bloodied head protruding at a grotesque angle through the broken windshield of his car.

Should the photograph be admitted over the defendant’s objection?

(A) No, because the plaintiff has failed to establish that a duplicate could not be found.

(B) No, because the plaintiff has failed to produce the original videotape or a duplicate.

(C) Yes, because it tends to prove a controverted fact.

(D) Yes, because a photograph that establishes a disputed fact cannot be excluded as prejudicial.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 62 - Real Property

Ten years ago, a seller sold land to a buyer, who financed the purchase price with a loan from a bank that was secured by a
mortgage  on the land. The buyer purchased  a title  insurance  policy running to both the buyer and the bank, showing  no
liens on the property other than the buyer’s mortgage to the bank. Eight years ago, the buyer paid the mortgage in full.

Seven years ago, the buyer sold the land to an investor by a full covenant and warranty deed without exceptions.

Six years ago, the investor gave the land to a donee by a quitclaim deed.

Last year, the donee discovered an outstanding mortgage on the land that predated all of these conveyances. As a result of a
title examiner’s negligence, this mortgage was not disclosed in the title insurance policy issued to the buyer and the bank.

Following this discovery, the donee successfully sued the buyer to recover the amount of the outstanding mortgage.

If the buyer sues the title insurance company to recover the amount he paid to the donee, is he likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the buyer conveyed the land to an investor.

(B) No, because the title insurance policy lapsed when the buyer paid off the bank’s mortgage.

(C) Yes, because the buyer is protected by the title insurance policy even though he no longer owns the land.

(D) Yes, because the buyer was successfully sued by a donee and not by a bona fide purchaser for value.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 63 - Contracts

On June 1, a general contractor and a subcontractor entered into a contract under which the subcontractor agreed to deliver
all of the steel joists that the general contractor required in the construction of a hospital building. The contract provided
that delivery of the steel joists would begin on September 1.

Although  the  general  contractor  had  no  reason  to  doubt  the  subcontractor’s  ability  to  perform,  the  general  contractor
wanted to be sure that the subcontractor was on track for delivery in September. He therefore wrote a letter on July 1 to the
subcontractor  demanding  that  the  subcontractor  provide  assurance  of  its  ability  to  meet  the  September  1  deadline.  The
subcontractor refused to provide such assurance.

The general contractor then immediately obtained the steel joists from another supplier.

If the subcontractor sues the general contractor for breach of contract, is the subcontractor likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the subcontractor anticipatorily repudiated the contract when it failed to provide adequate assurance.

(B) No, because the contract failed to specify a definite quantity.

(C) Yes, because a demand for assurance constitutes a breach of contract when the contract does not expressly authorize a

party to demand assurance.

(D) Yes,  because  the  subcontractor’s  failure  to  provide  assurance  was  not  a  repudiation  since  there  were  no  reasonable

grounds for the general contractor’s insecurity.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 64 - Torts

A hotel employed a carefully selected independent contractor to rebuild its swimming pool. The hotel continued to operate
while the pool was being rebuilt. The contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to indemnify the
hotel for any liability arising from the contractor’s negligent acts. A guest of the hotel fell into the excavation, which the
contractor had negligently left unguarded.

In an action by the guest against the hotel to recover for his injuries, what would be the most likely outcome?

(A) Liability, because the hotel had a nondelegable duty to the guest to keep a safe premises.

(B) Liability, because the contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to indemnify the hotel for

any liability arising from the contractor’s negligent acts.

(C) No liability, because the contractor was the actively negligent party.

(D) No liability, because the hotel exercised reasonable care in employing the contractor.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 65 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man asked his girlfriend to lend him something he could use to break into his neighbor’s padlocked storage shed in order
to steal a lawn mower. She handed him a crowbar. He took the crowbar but then found a bolt cutter that the neighbor had
left outside the shed. Using the bolt cutter, he cut the padlock on the shed and took the mower, which he then used to mow
his girlfriend’s lawn. She was surprised and pleased by this gesture.

Burglary in the jurisdiction applies to any structure or building, and there is no nighttime element.

The girlfriend has been charged as an accomplice to burglary and larceny.

Of which crimes, if any, is she guilty?

(A) Burglary and larceny.

(B) Burglary, but not larceny, because she intended to assist only in the breaking.

(C) Larceny, but not burglary, because she provided no actual assistance to the breaking but received a benefit from the

larceny.

(D) Neither burglary nor larceny, because she provided no actual assistance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 66 - Constitutional Law

Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the  denial  of  all  federal  funding  to  public  school  districts  in  which  a  specified
percentage of the students enrolled in the public schools fail to pass a national achievement test. According to the terms of
the federal statute, the first national achievement test was scheduled for administration five years from the effective date of
the statute.

After  reviewing  then-current  levels  of  public  school  student  performance,  the  officials  of  a  state  became  concerned  that
several  of  its  public  school  districts  would  lose  their  federal  funding  after  the  administration  of  the  first  national
achievement test. Then-current levels of private school student performance were substantially higher.

In order to improve the chances of those school districts retaining their federal funding, the state recently enacted a law that
requires all children of elementary and secondary school age to attend the schools operated by their respective local public
school districts. The law is to take effect at the beginning of the next school year.

Parents of children enrolled in private schools within the state have filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of this state
law.

Should the court uphold the law?

(A) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(B) Yes, because it is necessary to further a compelling state interest.

(C) No, because it is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(D) No, because it is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 67 - Torts

A newspaper published an editorial in which an editor asserted that a candidate for high political office was a user of illegal
drugs. The accusation was untrue. The editor acted unreasonably in not investigating the accusation before publishing it;
however, the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.

The candidate sued the editor for defamation.

Is the candidate entitled to recover?

(A) No, because the accusation appeared in an editorial and was, therefore, merely an opinion.

(B) No, because the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.

(C) Yes, because calling someone an illegal drug user is defamatory per se.

(D) Yes, because the accusation was false and was injurious to the candidate’s reputation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 68 - Real Property

A woman owned a house on a lot abutting a public street. Six months ago, the city validly revised its zoning ordinances
and  placed  the  woman’s  lot  and  the  surrounding  lots  abutting  the  public  street  from  the  north  in  a  zone  limited  to
residential use; the lots abutting the public street on the south side were zoned for both residential and light business use.

The woman  asked  the  city’s  zoning  appeals  board  to  approve her  proposal  to  operate  a  court-reporting  service  from  her
house. This type of use would be permitted on the south side of the public street and, in fact, one such business has existed
there for several years.

The board approved the woman’s proposal.

Why?

(A) A variance was granted.

(B) The doctrine of amortization applied.

(C) The doctrine of change of circumstances applied.

(D) The woman’s use of her house was a nonconforming use.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 69 - Evidence

A  cyclist  sued  a  defendant  corporation  for  injuries  sustained  when  she  was  hit  by  a  truck  owned  by  the  defendant  and
driven by its employee, who was making deliveries for the defendant. The day after the accident, the employee visited the
cyclist in the hospital and said, “I’m sorry for what I did.” At trial, the employee testified that he had exercised due care.

Why is the cyclist’s testimony relating what the defendant’s employee said at the hospital admissible to prove negligence?

(A)

It is a prior inconsistent statement.

(B)

It is a statement against interest.

(C)

It is a statement by a party-opponent’s agent.

(D)

It is a statement of then-existing state of mind.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 70 - Torts

An elderly neighbor hired a 17-year-old boy with a reputation for reckless driving to drive the neighbor on errands once a
week. One day the teenager, driving the neighbor’s car, took the neighbor to the grocery store. While the neighbor was in
the store, the teenager drove out of the parking lot and headed for a party on the other side of town.

While on his way to the party, the teenager negligently turned in front of a moving car and caused a collision. The other
driver was injured in the collision.

The injured driver has brought an action for damages against the neighbor, based on negligent entrustment, and against the
teenager.

The  jury  has  found  that  the  injured  driver’s  damages  were  $100,000,  that  the  injured  driver  was  10%  at  fault,  that  the
teenager was 60% at fault, and that the neighbor was 30% at fault for entrusting his car to the teenager.

Based on these  damage  and responsibility  amounts,  what  is  the maximum  that  the  injured  driver  could  recover  from  the
neighbor?

(A) $100,000.

(B) $90,000.

(C) $60,000.

(D) $30,000.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 71 - Contracts

A seller  entered  into  a  contract  to  sell  to  a  buyer  a  house  for  a  price  of  $150,000.  The contract  contained  the  following
clause: “This contract is conditional on the buyer’s securing bank financing at an interest rate of 7% or below.” The buyer
did not make an application for bank financing and therefore did not secure it, and refused to proceed with the purchase.
The seller sued the buyer for breach of contract.

Is the seller likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the buyer did not secure bank financing.

(B) No, because the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer any obligation to apply for bank financing.

(C) Yes, because a court will excuse the condition to avoid a disproportionate forfeiture.

(D) Yes,  because  a  court  will  imply  a  term  imposing  on  the  buyer  a  duty  to  use  reasonable  efforts  to  secure  bank

financing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 72 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with the capital offense of first-degree murder, for which the only available penalties were death
or  life  in  prison  without  parole.  During  jury  selection,  the  trial  court,  over  the  defendant’s  objection,  granted  the
prosecution’s  for-cause  challenge  of  five  prospective  jurors  who  indicated  upon  questioning  by  both  parties  that  they
personally were opposed to the death penalty and were unsure if they could ever vote to impose it. The jury convicted the
defendant and, following a separate sentencing hearing, sentenced him to death.

On appeal, the defendant’s only argument was that excusing the prospective jurors violated his federal constitutional right
to be tried by a jury chosen from a fair cross section of the community.

How should the court of appeals rule on the conviction and the death sentence?

(A) Affirm both.

(B) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for a new sentencing hearing before a different jury.

(C) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for resentencing to life in prison.

(D) Reverse both.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 73 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute establishing a program to protect areas in the United States that are rich in biological diversity.
The program is consistent with the terms of an environmental treaty that the President objected to and did not sign.

The statute creates an executive agency and authorizes it to designate parts of federal lands for inclusion in the program in
accordance with criteria taken from the treaty. In an inseverable provision, the statute further provides that the agency must
report  each  designation  to  a  committee  of  Congress  and  that  the  committee  may  overturn  the  agency’s  designation  by  a
majority vote.

Why is the statute unconstitutional?

(A)

It constitutes an invalid delegation of legislative authority to an executive agency.

(B)

It interferes with the exercise of the President’s paramount authority in foreign affairs.

(C)

It requires an executive agency to report its decisions to Congress.

(D)

It authorizes a committee of Congress to overturn an executive decision.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 74 - Torts

A patient received anesthesia while giving birth. Upon awakening from the anesthesia, she discovered a severe burn on the
inner  portion  of  her  right  knee.  The  patient  has  brought  a  medical  malpractice  action  in  which  she  has  joined  all  of  the
physicians  and  nurses  who  exercised  control  over  her  person,  the  delivery  room,  the  medical  procedures,  and  the
equipment used during the period in which she was unconscious.

The  defendants  have  jointly  moved  for  summary  judgment.  The  patient  has  produced  affidavits  that  establish  that  the
applicable professional standard of care was violated.

What would be the patient’s best argument against the motion?

(A) At least one of the defendants had control over whatever agency or instrumentality caused the patient’s injury.

(B) The defendants were acting in concert.

(C) The patient has produced affidavits that establish that the applicable professional standard of care was violated.

(D) The patient was in no way responsible for her injury.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 75 - Evidence

A  defendant  is  on  trial  for  bank  robbery.  Evidence  at  the  trial  has  included  testimony  by  a  bank  teller  who  was  present
during the robbery. The teller testified for the prosecution after having refreshed her memory by looking at an FBI agent’s
investigative report that was created shortly after the robbery. The defendant has asked to examine the report.

How should the court respond?

(A) The court may allow the examination if the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory before testifying, and

must allow it if she used it during her testimony.

(B) The court must allow the examination, but only to the extent that the report contains the teller’s own statement to the

FBI agent.

(C) The court should not allow the examination, unless the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory while on

the witness stand.

(D) The court should not allow the examination, because the report was not shown to have been read and approved by the

teller while the matter was fresh in her mind.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 76 - Real Property

A woman died testate. In her will, she devised a farm she owned to her husband for life, remainder to her niece. Her will
did not specify the duties of the husband and the niece with regard to maintenance and expenses related to the farm. The
husband took sole possession of the farm, did not farm the land, and did not rent the land to a third person, although the fair
rental value was substantial.

For two years in a row after the woman died, the county assessor sent the tax bills to the niece, but the niece did not pay the
bills, because she and the husband could not agree on who should pay them. Finally, the niece paid the taxes to avoid a tax
foreclosure sale.

The niece then sued the husband for reimbursement for the two years’ worth of property taxes.

There is no applicable statute.

Is the niece likely to prevail?

(A) No, because remaindermen are solely responsible for the payment of property taxes.

(B) No, because the county assessor sent the bills to the niece.

(C) No, because the woman’s will was silent on responsibility for payment of property taxes.

(D) Yes, because the niece paid an obligation that was the sole responsibility of the husband.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 77 - Contracts

A computer  retail  outlet  contracted  to  service  a bank’s  computer  equipment  for  one year at  a fixed monthly  fee under  a
contract that was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Three months later, the retail outlet sold the service
portion  of  its  business  to  an  experienced  and  well-financed  computer  service  company.  The  only  provision  in  the
agreement between the retail outlet and the computer service company relating to the outlet’s contract with the bank stated
that the outlet “hereby assigns all of its computer service contracts to [the computer service company].”

The computer service company performed the monthly maintenance required under the service contract. Its performance
was defective, however, and caused damage to the bank’s operations.

Whom can the bank sue for damages arising from the computer service company’s defective performance?

(A) The retail outlet only, because the computer service company made no promises to the bank.

(B) Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because the bank has not released the outlet and the bank is

an intended beneficiary of the outlet’s agreement with the computer service company.

(C) Either  the  retail  outlet  or  the  computer  service  company,  because  since  each  has  the  right  to  enforce  the  bank’s
performance of its contract with the retail outlet, mutuality of remedy renders either potentially liable for the defective
performance.

(D) The  computer  service  company  only,  because  it  is  a  qualified  and  a  financially  responsible  supplier  of  computer

services.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 78 - Constitutional Law

A  city  ordinance  prohibited  individuals  from  picketing  in  residential  neighborhoods  unless  the  picketing  related  to  the
neighborhood zoning requirements. This exception to the ordinance was adopted in response to local citizens’ strong views
about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods.

A group that wished to picket in front of a business owner’s home because of the business owner’s employment practices
challenged the ordinance as unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

Will the group’s challenge likely prevail?

(A) No, because the ordinance is a content-neutral regulation of speech.

(B) No, because the ordinance regulates conduct rather than speech.

(C) Yes, because the ordinance irrationally discriminates between different types of protesters.

(D) Yes, because the ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 79 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  tried  for  armed  robbery.  The  state  introduced  evidence  that  a  man,  identified  by  witnesses  as  the
defendant, entered a convenience store at 11 p.m. on March 5, threatened the clerk with a gun, and took $75 from the cash
register.

The defendant did not testify, but his sister did. She testified that on March 5, at the time of the robbery, the defendant was
with  her  in  a  city  300  miles  away.  On  cross-examination,  the  sister  admitted  having  given  a  statement  to  the  police  in
which  she  had  said  that  the  defendant  was  not  with  her  on  March  5,  but  she  claimed  that  the  earlier  statement  was
mistaken.

The court instructed the jury that in order to convict the defendant, they had to find all of the elements of the crime beyond
a reasonable doubt.

As to the defendant’s claim of alibi, which of the following additional instructions would be proper?

(A) Alibi is a matter of defense and so must be established by the defendant; however, the burden of persuasion is by a

preponderance of the evidence, not beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B) Before you may consider the defendant’s claim of alibi, you must decide whether he has produced sufficient evidence

to raise the issue.

(C)

If you have a reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant was present at the convenience store at about 11 p.m. on
March 5, you must find him not guilty.

(D)

If the defendant’s evidence has caused you to have a reasonable doubt as to whether he was the robber, you must find
him not guilty.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 80 - Real Property

A  woman  acquired  title  to  a  four-acre  lot.  Several  years  later,  she  executed  a  mortgage  on  the  lot  to  a  bank  to  secure
repayment  of  a  $100,000  loan.  Subsequently,  the  woman  executed  a  mortgage  on  the  same  four-acre  lot  to  a  finance
company to secure repayment of a $50,000 loan. Both mortgages were promptly recorded.

The woman recently defaulted on both loans. The bank promptly initiated foreclosure proceedings and sent proper notice to
all necessary parties. The current fair market value of the four-acre lot is $250,000.

The finance company has filed a timely motion in the foreclosure proceeding asking the court to require the bank to first
foreclose  on  two  of  the  four  acres  in  the  four-acre  lot.  The  bank  opposes  this  motion  and  insists  that  it  has  the  right  to
subject the entire four-acre lot to the foreclosure sale.

Will the court grant the finance company’s motion?

(A) No, because the bank holds a purchase-money mortgage.

(B) No, because the entire four-acre lot is subject to the bank’s senior mortgage.

(C) Yes, because a pro rata foreclosure of the lot will not prejudice the rights of the bank.

(D) Yes, because of the “two funds” rule of marshalling.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 81 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides: “Aggravated robbery of the elderly consists of robbery committed against a victim who is 65 years
of age or older.” Another state statute provides that when a criminal statute does not designate a necessary mental state, the
mental state required is recklessness. A third state statute provides that a person acts recklessly if the person “consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustified risk that the material element exists or will result from the person’s conduct.”

The evidence at a criminal trial showed that the defendant robbed a 66-year-old man outside a senior citizens’ center. The
defendant testified truthfully that the robbery had occurred on a dark night, that she had had no idea how old the victim was
and had not cared how old the victim was, and that she had intended to rob whomever she encountered.

Could the defendant properly be convicted of aggravated robbery of the elderly?

(A) No, because the only evidence on the issue showed that the defendant did not know, nor could she reasonably have

known, the victim’s age.

(B) No, because there was no evidence of a substantial risk that the victim was age 65 or older.

(C) Yes, because the evidence was clear that the victim was 66 years old, and the statute is designed to protect the elderly.

(D) Yes, because the jury could find that there was no justification for the defendant’s conduct and that she was willing to

take the risk that the victim was age 65 or older.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 82 - Contracts

A  farmer  contracted  to  sell  100,000  bushels  of  wheat  to  a  buyer.  When  the  wheat  arrived  at  the  destination,  the  buyer
discovered that the farmer had delivered only 96,000 bushels. The buyer sued the farmer for breach of contract. At the trial
of the case, the court found that the written contract was intended as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the
agreement. The farmer offered to prove that in the wheat business, a promise to deliver a specified quantity is considered to
be satisfied if the delivered quantity is within 5% of the specified quantity. The buyer objected to the offered evidence.

Is the court likely to admit the evidence offered by the farmer?

(A) No, because the offered evidence is inconsistent with the express language of the agreement.

(B) No, because the written contract was totally integrated.

(C) Yes, because the offered evidence demonstrates that the farmer substantially performed the contract.

(D) Yes, because the offered evidence explains or supplements the agreement by usage of trade.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 83 - Constitutional Law

A state law prohibits the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within the state for use in another state. The express
purpose of the law is to safeguard the supply of water for state citizens. Adoption of this state law followed enactment of a
federal  statute  providing  that  “the  transport  of  groundwater  from  one  state  to  another  may  be  restricted  or  prohibited  in
accordance with the laws of the state in which the water originates.”

An  association  of  water  users  in  a  neighboring  state  has  filed  suit  to  have  the  state  law  declared  unconstitutional  and
enjoined on the ground that it violates the negative implications of the commerce clause.

Which of the following is the best argument supporting a motion to dismiss the lawsuit?

(A) The law promotes a compelling state interest that outweighs any burden on interstate commercial activity that might

result from this state regulation of its groundwater.

(B) Groundwater located within a state is not itself an article of interstate commerce, and therefore state regulation of the

withdrawal of such groundwater does not implicate the commerce clause.

(C) The  Tenth  Amendment  reserves  to  the  states  plenary  authority  over  the  regulation  of  the  natural  resources  located

within their respective borders.

(D) The federal statute explicitly consents to a state’s regulation of its groundwater in a way that would otherwise violate

the negative implications of the commerce clause.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 84 - Torts

A customer pledged a stock certificate  to a bank as security for a loan. A year later, when the customer fully repaid  the
loan, the bank refused the customer’s demand to return the stock certificate because the officer dealing with the loan had
the mistaken belief that there was still a balance due. No one at the bank reviewed the records until two months later, at
which time the error was discovered. The bank then offered to return the stock certificate. However, the customer refused
to accept it.

At the time the customer pledged the certificate, the shares were worth $10,000; at the time the customer repaid the loan,
the shares were worth $20,000; and at the time the bank offered to return the certificate, the shares were worth $5,000.

If  the  customer  brings  an  action  against  the  bank  based  on  conversion,  how  much,  if  anything,  should  the  customer
recover?

(A) Nothing, because the bank lawfully came into possession of the certificate.

(B) $5,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer refused to accept the certificate back.

(C) $10,000, because that was the value of the shares when the bank came into possession of the certificate.

(D) $20,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer was entitled to the return of the certificate.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 85 - Evidence

A  patient  sued  a  hospital  for  medical  negligence,  claiming  that  a  nurse  employed  by  the  hospital  failed  to  administer
critical medication prescribed by the patient’s treating physician during the plaintiff’s hospitalization. To prove the nurse’s
failure  to  administer  the  prescribed  medication,  the  patient  called  the  medical  records  librarian,  who  authenticated  the
hospital’s  record  of  the  patient’s  treatment,  which  contained  no  entry  showing  that  the  medication  in  question  had  been
administered.

Is the hospital record admissible?

(A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the nurse’s testimony would be the best evidence of her actions in treating the plaintiff.

(C) Yes, although hearsay, because it is a statement against interest by agents of the hospital.

(D) Yes, because it is within the hearsay exception covering the absence of entries in business records.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 86 - Contracts

The mother of a son and a daughter was dying. The daughter visited her mother in a hospice facility and said, “You know
that I have always been the good child, and my brother has always been the bad child. Even so, you have left your property
in the will to us fifty-fifty. But it would be really nice if you would sell me the family home for $100,000.”

“I don’t know,” said the mother. “It is worth a lot more than that—at least $250,000.”

“That is true,” said the daughter. “But I have always been good and visited you, and my brother has never visited you, so
that  ought  to  be  worth  something.  And  besides,  if  you  won’t  sell  me  the  house  for  that  price,  maybe  I  won’t  visit  you
anymore, either.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t want that,” said the mother, and she signed a contract selling the house to her daughter for $100,000.

Shortly thereafter, the mother died. When her son found out that the house had been sold and was not part of his mother’s
estate, he sued to have the contract avoided on behalf of the mother.

On what ground would the contract most likely be avoided?

(A) Duress.

(B)

Inadequate consideration.

(C) Mistake.

(D) Undue influence.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 87 - Real Property

Under the terms of his duly probated will, a testator devised his house to his “grandchildren in fee simple” and the residue
of  his  estate  to  his  brother.  The  testator  had  had  two  children,  a  son  and  a  daughter,  but  only  the  daughter  survived  the
testator. At the time of the testator’s death, the daughter was 30 years old and had two minor children (grandchildren of the
testator) who also survived the testator.

A third  grandchild  of  the  testator,  who was  the  child  of  the  testator’s  predeceased  son,  had  been  alive  when the  testator
executed  the  will,  but  had  predeceased  the  testator.  Under  the  applicable  intestate  succession  laws,  the  deceased
grandchild’s sole heir was his mother.

A statute of the jurisdiction provides as follows: “If a devisee, including a devisee of a class gift, who is a grandparent or a
lineal descendant of a grandparent of the testator is dead at the time of execution of the will or fails to survive the testator,
the issue of such deceased devisee shall take the deceased’s share under the will, unless the will expressly provides that this
statute shall not apply. For this purpose, words of survivorship, such as ‘if he survives me,’ are a sufficient expression that
the statute shall not apply.”

Who now owns the house?

(A) The testator’s brother.

(B) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren.

(C) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren and all other grandchildren who are born to the testator’s daughter.

(D) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren and the deceased grandchild’s mother.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 88 - Criminal Law and Procedure

While on their way home from a ball game, a driver and his passenger stopped at an all-night gas station. The passenger
offered to pay for the gas. While the passenger pumped gas, he was surprised to see the driver enter the station, take money
from the unattended cash drawer, and get back in the car. The passenger paid the attendant for the gas, and the driver drove
off. The driver offered to reimburse  the passenger for the gas, but the passenger declined. After discovering the missing
cash, the gas station attendant called the police, and the driver was later stopped. The driver escaped with the stolen money,
however, and was never prosecuted.

If the passenger is prosecuted for theft as an accomplice, should he be convicted?

(A) No, because he had no intent to promote the commission of the offense.

(B) No, because the driver, the principal, was never prosecuted.

(C) Yes, because he facilitated commission of the offense by failing to make any effort to stop it.

(D) Yes, because he paid the attendant while he knew the driver was holding the stolen money.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 89 - Real Property

Last year, a buyer and a seller entered into a valid contract for the sale of a parcel of real property. The contract contained
no contingencies. The seller was killed in a car accident before the parcel was conveyed, but the closing eventually took
place with the conveyance by a deed from the personal representative of the seller’s estate.

The personal representative of the seller’s estate wants to distribute the proceeds of the real property sale. The seller’s will
was  executed  many  years  ago  and  was  duly  admitted  to  probate.  Paragraph  5  of  his  will  leaves  all  of  the  seller’s  real
property to his son, and Paragraph 6 leaves the residue of the estate to the seller’s daughter. No other provisions of the will
are pertinent to the question regarding to whom the proceeds of the sale should be distributed.

What will determine who receives the proceeds?

(A) Whether  Paragraph  5  refers  specifically  to  the  parcel  of  real  property  that  was  sold  or  simply  to  “all  of  my  real

property.”

(B) Whether the closing date originally specified in the contract was a date before or after the seller’s death.

(C) Whether the jurisdiction has adopted the doctrine of equitable conversion.

(D) Whether the sale was completed in accordance with a court order.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 90 - Evidence

A  college  student  sued  an  amusement  company  for  injuries  he  sustained  when  the  amusement  company’s  roller  coaster
allegedly malfunctioned so that the student fell out. At trial, after the student presented his case, the amusement company
called a witness who testified that just before the accident he heard a bystander say to the bystander’s companion, “That
crazy fool is standing up in the car.”

The student then offered the testimony of another witness who would testify that the day after the accident she was with the
same bystander, and that in describing the accident, the bystander told her that the car jerked suddenly and “just threw the
guy out of his seat.”

How should the court rule with respect to this offered testimony?

(A) Rule it admissible only to impeach the bystander’s credibility.

(B) Rule it admissible to impeach the bystander’s credibility and to prove the amusement company’s negligence.

(C) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander was given no opportunity to deny or explain her apparently inconsistent

statement.

(D) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander herself was not called as a witness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 91 - Constitutional Law

Congress passed a statute providing that parties could no longer seek review in the U.S. Supreme Court of final judgments
in criminal matters made by the highest court in each state.

What is the best argument supporting the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) Congress has the power to make exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

(B) Criminal matters are traditionally governed by state law.

(C) The proper means of federal judicial review of state criminal matters is by habeas corpus.

(D) The review of state court judgments is not within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 92 - Contracts

A borrower owed a lender $50,000 due on March 1. On January 10, the lender telephoned the borrower and said that he
would discharge the debt if the borrower would promise to pay the lender $45,000 by January 15. The borrower responded,
“I will attempt to get the money together.” On January 11, the lender again telephoned the borrower and said that he had
changed his mind and would expect the borrower to make full payment on March 1. On January 15, the borrower tendered
$45,000 as full payment, which the lender refused to accept. On March 1, the borrower refused the lender’s demand for
$50,000, and the lender sued for that amount.

Which of the following statements best supports the lender’s position?

(A) The borrower’s January 10 statement was not a return promise, and therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer

on January 11.

(B) The January 10 telephone conversation between the lender and the borrower created an executory accord and therefore

did not operate as a discharge of the $50,000 debt.

(C) The lender’s offer to discharge the debt was a gift promise and therefore was not binding on the lender.

(D) The lender’s promise to discharge the $50,000 debt was not enforceable because it was not in writing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 93 - Torts

A man rented a car from a car rental agency. Unbeknownst to the rental agency, the car had a bomb hidden in it at the time
of the rental. The bomb exploded an hour later, injuring the man.

Immediately prior to renting the car to the man, the rental agency had carefully inspected the car to be sure it was in sound
operating condition. The rental agency did not inspect for hidden explosive devices, but such an inspection for explosives
would have revealed the bomb.

There had been no previous incidents of persons hiding bombs in rental cars.

In a negligence action by the man against the car rental agency, is the man likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the rental agency could not have reasonably foreseen the likelihood of someone placing a bomb in the car

it was about to rent to the man.

(B) No, because the rental agency did not hide the bomb in the car.

(C) Yes, because an inspection for explosive devices would have revealed the bomb.

(D) Yes, because the bomb made the car abnormally dangerous.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 94 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  charged  with  robbery  of  a  savings  and  loan  branch  after  being  arrested  near  the  scene  and  found  with
marked bills. An hour after the robbery, the officer investigating the crime videotaped an interview with an eyewitness, in
which the eyewitness described the crime and the robber. The officer then arranged for a lineup, at which the teller who
was robbed identified the defendant as the robber. The officer later obtained computerized records of that day’s deposits
and  withdrawals  at  the  savings  and  loan,  which  allowed  the  calculation  of  how  much  cash  was  taken  in  the  robbery.  A
month later, the teller testified before a grand jury, which indicted the defendant. The teller and the eyewitness both died of
unrelated causes shortly afterward.

At trial, which of the following evidence, if properly authenticated, may properly be admitted against the defendant over his
attorney’s objection that its receipt would violate the confrontation clause?

(A) A transcript of the teller’s sworn grand jury testimony.

(B) The computerized records from the savings and loan.

(C) The officer’s testimony that the teller picked the defendant out of the lineup as the robber.

(D) The videotape of the eyewitness’s statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 95 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Police responded to a call that shots had been heard coming from a certain house. Upon arriving at the house, the police
looked through a window and saw a man lying on the living room floor. The police opened the front door, which was not
locked, and found that the man had recently been shot in the back and was unconscious. An ambulance was called. While
waiting for the ambulance, one officer walked through the house to see if anyone else was present. No one else was found,
but the officer did see on the kitchen table clear bags of what he believed to be cocaine. The officer seized the bags, and
laboratory tests later confirmed that the contents were cocaine.

After the ambulance arrived a few minutes later and took the man to the hospital, the police went through the house and
opened drawers trying to find the gun used in the shooting. No gun was found, but upon opening a drawer in an upstairs
bedroom, the police found marijuana and seized it.

Later investigation led to charging a young woman, who lived in the house, with unlawful possession of the cocaine and
the marijuana. The young woman has filed a motion to suppress the use of both as evidence on the ground that the entry
into the house and the searches were made without a warrant.

How should the court decide the young woman’s motion?

(A) Grant it as to the cocaine, but deny it as to the marijuana.

(B) Deny it as to the cocaine, but grant it as to the marijuana.

(C) Grant it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

(D) Deny it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 96 - Real Property

A man conveyed his house to his wife for life, remainder to his only child, a son by a previous marriage. Thereafter, the
man died, devising his entire estate to his son.

The wife later removed a light fixture in the dining room of the house and replaced it with a chandelier that was one of her
family heirlooms. She then informed her nephew and her late husband’s son that after her death, the chandelier should be
removed from the dining room and replaced with the former light fixture, which she had stored in the basement.

The wife died and under her will bequeathed her entire estate to her nephew. She also named the nephew as the personal
representative  of  her  estate.  After  the  nephew,  in  his  capacity  as  personal  representative,  removed  the  chandelier  and
replaced it with the original light fixture shortly after the wife’s death, the son sued to have the chandelier reinstalled.

Who will likely prevail?

(A) The nephew, because he had the right to remove the chandelier within a reasonable time after the wife’s death.

(B) The nephew, because of the doctrine of accession.

(C) The son, because the chandelier could not be legally removed after the death of the wife.

(D) The son, because a personal representative can remove only trade fixtures from real property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 97 - Constitutional Law

A state  adopted a rule denying admission  to its bar to anyone who was currently  or had previously been a member  of a
subversive  group.  The  state's  bar  application  form  was  modified  to  ask  applicants  whether  they  were  or  had  previously
been members of any subversive organization. An applicant refused to answer the question and was denied bar admission
on that basis. The applicant challenged the decision, arguing that the question infringed upon his freedom of association.

Is the applicant likely to prevail?

(A) No, because membership in a subversive group constitutes endorsement of the group's illegal activities.

(B) No, because the Constitution does not apply to the bar.

(C) Yes,  because  denying  bar  admission  based  on  any  association  with  a  subversive  organization  violates  the  First

Amendment.

(D) Yes, because denying bar admission based solely on past membership in a subversive organization violates the First

Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 98 - Contracts

A seller  entered  into an  agreement  to sell  a machine  to a buyer for $5,000. At the time  of the  order, the buyer gave the
seller a down payment of $1,000. The buyer then built a foundation for the machine at a cost of $250. The seller failed to
deliver the machine. The buyer made reasonable efforts to find a similar machine and bought one for $5,500 that did not fit
on the foundation. The buyer sued the seller for breach of contract.

Which of these amounts claimed by the buyer, if any, could best be described as restitution?

(A) The $250 cost of the foundation.

(B) The $500 difference in price.

(C) The $1,000 down payment.

(D) None of the claimed amounts.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 99 - Evidence

A defendant is being prosecuted for conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. At trial, the government seeks
to  have  its  agent  testify  to  a  conversation  that  he  overheard  between  the  defendant  and  a  co-conspirator  regarding  the
incoming shipment of a large quantity of cocaine. That conversation was also audiotaped, though critical portions of it are
inaudible.  The  defendant  objects  to  the  testimony  of  the  agent  on  the  ground  that  it  is  not  the  best  evidence  of  the
conversation.

Is the testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the testimony of the agent is not the best evidence of the conversation.

(B) No, because the testimony of the agent reports hearsay not within any exception.

(C) Yes, because the best evidence rule does not require proof of the conversation through the audiotape.

(D) Yes, because the audiotape is partly inaudible.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 100 - Torts

In an action by a man against a pharmacy, the man offered only the following evidence:

The man took a clearly written prescription to a pharmacy. The pharmacy’s employee filled the prescription by providing
pills with 30 milligrams of the active ingredient instead of 20 milligrams, as was prescribed. Shortly after taking the pills as
directed,  the  man,  who  had  no  previous  history  of  heart  problems,  suffered  a  heart  attack.  Overdoses  of  the  active
ingredient had previously been associated with heart problems.

Does the man have a valid claim against the pharmacy?

(A) No, because pharmacies are not strictly liable for injuries caused by incorrectly filled prescriptions.

(B) No, because the man offered no specific proof as to the pharmacy’s negligence.

(C) Yes, because a jury could reasonably conclude that the man would not have suffered a heart attack had the pharmacy

provided the correct dosage.

(D) Yes,  because  by  providing  the  30-milligram  pills  rather  than  the  20-milligram  pills,  the  pharmacy  sold  the  man  a

defective product.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 1 - Torts

A homeowner was using a six-foot stepladder to clean the furnace in his home. The homeowner broke his arm when he
slipped and fell from the ladder. The furnace had no warnings or instructions on how it was to be cleaned.

In a suit by the homeowner against the manufacturer of the furnace to recover for his injury, is the homeowner likely to
prevail?

(A) No, because the danger of falling from a ladder is obvious.

Correct. A manufacturer has no obligation to warn against obvious dangers. There appears to be nothing unique
to the furnace that would add to the ordinary dangers of working on a ladder.

(B) No, because the homeowner should have hired a professional to clean the furnace.

(C) Yes, because the furnace did not have a ladder attached to it for cleaning purposes.

(D) Yes, because the lack of warnings or instructions for how to clean the furnace made the furnace defective.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 2 - Real Property

A landlord and a tenant orally agreed to a commercial tenancy for a term of six months beginning on July 1. Rent was to be
paid by the first day of each month, and the tenant paid the first month’s rent at the time of the agreement.

When the tenant arrived at the leased premises on July 1, the tenant learned that the previous tenant had not vacated the
premises  at  the  end  of  her  lease  term  on  May  31  and  did  not  intend  to  vacate.  The  tenant  then  successfully  sued  the
previous tenant for possession. The tenant did not inform the landlord of the eviction action until after the tenant received
possession.

The tenant then sued the landlord, claiming damages for that portion of the lease period during which the tenant was not in
possession.

If the court finds for the landlord, what will be the most likely explanation?

(A) By suing the previous tenant for possession, the tenant elected that remedy in lieu of a suit against the landlord.

(B) The landlord had delivered the legal right of possession to the tenant.

Correct. The landlord granted the legal right of possession to the tenant, which means that neither the landlord
nor anyone holding of the landlord prevented the tenant from going into possession at the commencement of the
lease  term.  The  previous  tenant’s  lease  term  had  ended  before  the  new  lease  term  began.  The  previous  tenant
then became a trespasser and was not holding of the landlord. The court found for the landlord, and thus there is
no rule in this jurisdiction that the landlord need also put the tenant into actual possession.

(C) The tenant failed to timely vacate as required to sue for constructive eviction.

(D) The tenant had not notified the landlord before bringing the eviction action.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 3 - Constitutional Law

A  state  law  provides  that  a  person  who  has  been  divorced  may  not  marry  again  unless  he  or  she  is  current  on  all
child-support  payments.  A  woman  who  was  refused  a  marriage  license  pursuant  to  this  law  sued  the  appropriate  state
officials.

What standard should the court apply in reviewing the constitutionality of this law?

(A) The state must show that the law is necessary to serve a compelling government interest.

Correct. U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that an individual’s decision to marry is a fundamental right,
and that therefore laws that unduly burden a decision to marry trigger strict judicial scrutiny. This strict scrutiny
standard obligates the state to prove that the law is necessary to serve a compelling government interest.

(B) The state must show that the law is substantially related to an important government interest.

(C) The woman must show that the law serves no important public purpose.

(D) The woman must show that the legislature did not have a rational basis for enacting the law.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 4 - Contracts

Before putting her home up for sale, a homeowner painted the living room ceiling to conceal major water damage caused
by a leaking  roof that had  not yet been repaired.  On the  first  day the home was offered  for sale,  the homeowner gave  a
buyer  a  personal  tour.  The  homeowner  made  no  statements  at  all  regarding  the  water  damage  or  the  roof.  Without
discovering the water damage or the leaking roof and without consulting a lawyer, the buyer immediately agreed in writing
to buy the home for $200,000.

Before the closing date, the buyer discovered the water damage and the leaking roof. The cost of repair was estimated at
$22,000. The buyer has refused to go through with the purchase.

If the homeowner sues the buyer for breach of contract, is the homeowner likely to prevail?

(A) No, because no contract was formed since the buyer did not have a real opportunity to understand the essential terms

of the contract.

(B) No, because the homeowner concealed evidence of the water damage and of the leaking roof.

Correct.  A  misrepresentation  of  fact  that  induces  assent  provides  a  basis  for  avoidance  of  a  contract.  A
misrepresentation  is  defined  as  a  statement  that  is  not  in  accord  with  the  facts.  Affirmative  conduct  that  is
“intended or known likely to prevent another from learning a fact is equivalent to an assertion that the fact does
not  exist”  and  constitutes  a  misrepresentation.  The  homeowner’s  painting  over  the  water  damage  constituted
affirmative  conduct  intended  to  prevent  the  buyer  from  learning  of  the  water  damage  and  the  leaking  roof.
Therefore, the buyer’s assent was induced by a misrepresentation, and the buyer can avoid the contract.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner made no affirmative statements of fact about the water damage or the leaking roof.

(D) Yes, because the buyer acted unreasonably by failing to employ an inspector to conduct an independent inspection of

the home.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 5 - Evidence

A defendant is being tried for the murder of a woman who disappeared 10 years ago and has not been heard from since.
Her body has never been found. The prosecutor has presented strong circumstantial evidence that she was murdered by the
defendant. To help establish the fact of her death, the prosecutor has requested that the judge give the following instruction,
based on a recognized presumption in the jurisdiction: “A person missing and not heard from in the last seven years shall
be presumed to be deceased.”

Is the instruction proper?

(A) No, because the fact that someone has not been heard from in seven years does not necessarily lead to a conclusion

that the person is dead.

(B) No,  because  mandatory  presumptions  are  not  allowed  against  a  criminal  defendant  on  an  element  of  the  charged

crime.

Correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held it to be a violation of due process for a judge to give a mandatory jury
instruction in a criminal case on an element of the charged crime. The instruction is unconstitutional because the
phrase “shall be presumed” could be interpreted by the jury as shifting the burden of proof to the defendant or as
requiring the jury to find an element of the charged crime, neither of which is permissible.

(C) Yes, because it expresses a rational conclusion that the jury should be required to accept.

(D) Yes, because the defendant has a chance to rebut the presumption by offering evidence that the woman is alive or has

been heard from in the last seven years.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 6 - Criminal Law and Procedure

An executive of an accounting firm was fired and told to immediately leave the building where she worked. The executive
went  home,  but  she  returned  that  night  to  retrieve  personal  items  from  her  office.  When  she  discovered  that  her  key  no
longer opened a door to the building, she forced the door open and went to her former office. To avoid attracting attention,
she did not turn on any lights. In the dark, she knew that she was taking some items that were not hers; she planned to sort
these out later and return them.

Upon arriving home, she found that she had taken a record book and some financial papers that belonged to the firm. After
thinking it over and becoming angrier over being fired, she burned the book and papers in her fireplace.

The jurisdiction has expanded the crime of burglary to include all buildings.

What crime(s) has the executive committed?

(A) Burglary and larceny.

(B) Burglary, but not larceny.

(C) Larceny, but not burglary.

Correct. The executive committed larceny, but not burglary. There was no burglary because the executive did not
break and enter the building with the intent to commit a felony therein. She did, however, commit larceny, under
the theory of continuing trespass.

(D) Neither larceny nor burglary.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 7 - Contracts

A wholesaler contracted in a signed writing to sell to a bakery 10,000 pounds of flour each week for 10 weeks, the flour to
be delivered to the bakery on Mondays and payment to be made on Wednesdays of each week. The bakery did all of its
weekly  bread  baking  on  Tuesdays.  On  Monday  morning  of  the  first  week,  the  wholesaler  tendered  delivery  of  8,000
pounds of flour to the bakery, and the bakery accepted it on the wholesaler’s assurance that the remaining 2,000 pounds
would be delivered later that evening, which it was. The bakery paid for both deliveries on Wednesday. On Monday of the
second week, the wholesaler  tendered  delivery  of 5,000 pounds of flour  to the bakery and said that the remaining  5,000
pounds could not be delivered on Monday but would be delivered by Wednesday. The bakery rejected the tender.

Was the bakery legally justified in rejecting the tender of the 5,000 pounds of flour?

(A) Yes, because the bakery was legally entitled to reject any tender that did not conform perfectly to the contract.

(B) Yes, because the tender was a substantial impairment of that installment and could not be cured.

Correct.  UCC  §  2-612(2)  provides  that  a  buyer  may  reject  any  installment  that  is  nonconforming  if  the
nonconformity  substantially  impairs  the  value  of  that  installment  and  it  cannot  be  cured.  The  delivery  of  less
than  the  contracted-for  amount  constituted  a  nonconformity  that  substantially  impaired  the  value  of  the
installment  since  the  wholesaler  could  not  deliver  the  remaining  5,000  pounds  until  the  day  after  the  bakery
needed the flour to fulfill its weekly baking needs, and the bakery was entitled to reject the tender.

(C) No, because the tender was not a substantial impairment of the entire contract, and the wholesaler had given assurance

of a cure.

(D) No, because by accepting the first 8,000 pounds on Monday of the first week, the bakery had waived the condition of

perfect tender and had not reinstated it.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 8 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute prohibiting discrimination in the rental of residential property anywhere in the United States on
the basis of sexual orientation or preference by any person or entity, public or private.

Which of the following provisions provides the strongest basis for Congress’s authority to enact this statute?

(A) The enforcement clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.

(C) The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.

Correct. Congress can regulate the rental terms for residential property pursuant to the commerce clause because
such rentals constitute economic activity that, in the aggregate, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce.

(D) The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 9 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A woman and her sister took a trip to the Caribbean. When they passed through U.S. Customs inspection upon their return,
the customs officials found liquid cocaine in several bottles each of them was carrying. They were arrested. Upon separate
questioning by customs officers, the woman broke down and cried, “I told my sister there were too many officers at this
airport.” The sister did not give a statement.

The woman and her sister were indicted for conspiracy to import cocaine. They were tried separately. At the woman’s trial,
after the government introduced the above evidence and rested its case, her lawyer moved for a judgment of acquittal on
grounds of insufficient evidence.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister agreed to import cocaine.

Correct. A conviction of conspiracy requires proof of an agreement to commit a crime and, in some jurisdictions
or under some statutes, proof of an overt act in furtherance of the agreement. The conspiratorial agreement need
not be proven through direct evidence, as long as the circumstantial evidence taken in the light most favorable to
the prosecution is sufficient to allow a rational jury to find that there was a conspiratorial  agreement beyond a
reasonable  doubt.  Here,  because  a  jury  rationally  could  conclude  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt  from  all  the
circumstances  (including  the  woman’s  statement  about  her  discussion  with  her  sister)  that  the  woman  and  her
sister  had  agreed  to  import  cocaine,  the  issue  is  for  the  jury,  and  the  woman  is  not  entitled  to  a  court-ordered
acquittal.

(B) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister possessed cocaine.

(C) Yes, because the evidence shows only that the woman and her sister committed separate crimes of cocaine possession.

(D) Yes, because the evidence shows that the woman effectively withdrew from the conspiracy when she cooperated by

giving a statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 10 - Evidence

Several  defendants,  senior  executives  of  a  corporation,  were  charged  with  securities  fraud.  The  government  called  as  a
witness  another  executive  of  the  corporation,  who  had  not  been  charged  and  who  had  been  given  immunity  from
prosecution, to authenticate handwritten notes that she had made after meetings of the corporation’s management team at
which the alleged fraud was discussed. The witness testified that she had prepared the notes on her own initiative to help
her remember what had happened at the meetings. After this testimony, the government offered the notes into evidence to
establish what had happened at the meetings.

Should the witness’s notes be admitted?

(A) No, because the notes are hearsay not within any exception.

Correct. The notes are hearsay because they are out-of-court statements offered to prove the truth of the matter
asserted, and they do not fit any hearsay exception.

(B) No,  because  the  witness’s  immunity  agreement  with  the  government  makes  her  notes  untrustworthy  and  thus

substantially more prejudicial than probative.

(C) Yes, because they are business records.

(D) Yes, because they are past recollections recorded.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 11 - Torts

A college student was asleep in his bed in a college dormitory when his roommate, in a drunken fury, entered their room
intending to attack the student with an ice pick while he slept. Fortunately, the phone rang and awakened the student. The
roommate retreated quickly and threw the ice pick under his own bed in the same room. The next day, the student heard
from friends about the roommate’s murderous plans and later found the ice pick under the roommate’s bed. Even though
the college expelled his roommate, the student remained extremely upset and afraid to sleep.

In a suit against the roommate for assault, will the student prevail?

(A) No, because the roommate did not touch the student.

(B) No,  because  the  student  was  not  awake  when  the  roommate  entered  the  room  and  was  unaware  until  later  that  the

roommate was intending to attack him.

Correct.  To  establish  a  claim  for  assault,  a  plaintiff  must  demonstrate  that  he  reasonably  apprehended  that  a
harmful  or  offensive  touch  was  imminent.  In  this  case,  because  he  was  asleep,  the  student  did  not  have  the
apprehension necessary for an assault claim.

(C) Yes, because it was reasonable for the student to feel afraid of sleeping in his room afterward.

(D) Yes, because the roommate intended to inflict serious harm.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 12 - Real Property

Six  months  ago,  a  man  told  his  cousin  that  he  would  give  her  his  farm  as  a  gift  on  her  next  birthday.  The  cousin  then
entered  into  a  valid  written  contract  to  sell  the  farm  to  an  investor  with  the  closing  to  take  place  “one  week  after  [the
cousin’s] next birthday.”

The man failed  to convey the  farm  to  the cousin on her birthday.  One week after  the cousin’s  birthday,  on the intended
closing  date,  the  investor  first  learned  of  the  cousin’s  inability  to  convey  the  farm  because  the  man  had  breached  his
promise.  The investor  considered  suing the cousin but  realized  that she could  not compel  the cousin  to convey the  farm
because it was still owned by the man.

Two weeks after the cousin’s birthday, the man died. Under his valid will, the man devised the farm to the cousin. Within a
week, the executor of the man’s estate gave the cousin an executor’s deed to the farm in compliance with state law. The
investor promptly learned of this transfer and demanded that the cousin convey the farm to her. The cousin refused.

The investor sued the cousin for specific performance.

Who will likely prevail?

(A) The cousin, because the contract to convey was not signed by the legal owner of the farm as of the date of the contract

and was therefore void.

(B) The cousin, because she received title by devise rather than by conveyance.

(C) The investor, because the contract to convey merged into the executor’s deed to the cousin.

(D) The investor, because the contract to convey remained enforceable by her within a reasonable period of time after the

proposed closing date.

Correct. The cousin and the investor had a valid contract for the sale of the farm. The contract did not specify
that time was of the essence, and thus the investor should be able to enforce the contract within a reasonable time
after the proposed closing date. The cousin acquired the land two weeks after the intended closing date, which
was within a reasonable time period afterward.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 13 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued a defendant, alleging that she was seriously injured when the defendant ran a red light and struck her while
she was walking in a crosswalk. During the defendant’s case, a witness testified that the plaintiff had told him that she was
“barely touched” by the defendant’s car.

On cross-examination, should the court allow the plaintiff to elicit from the witness the fact that he is an adjuster for the
defendant’s insurance company?

(A) No, because testimony about liability insurance is barred by the rules of evidence.

(B) No, because the reference to insurance raises a collateral issue.

(C) Yes, for both substantive and impeachment purposes.

(D) Yes, for impeachment purposes only.

Correct. The evidence is not admissible for substantive purposes. FRE 411 bars evidence of liability insurance to
prove  negligence  or  wrongful  conduct.  However,  the  rule  contains  an  exception  allowing  the  use  of  such
evidence  to  prove  bias.  The  fact  that  the  witness  is  an  adjuster  for  the  defendant’s  insurance  company  is  a
legitimate ground for impeachment for bias.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 14 - Contracts

An  engineer  entered  into  a  written  contract  with  an  owner  to  serve  in  the  essential  position  of  on-site  supervisor  for
construction  of  an  office  building.  The  day  after  signing  the  contract,  the  engineer  was  injured  while  bicycling  and  was
rendered  physically  incapable  of  performing  as  the  on-site  supervisor.  The  engineer  offered  to  serve  as  an  off-site
consultant for the same pay as originally agreed to by the parties.

Is the owner likely to prevail in an action against the engineer for damages resulting from his failure to perform under the
contract?

(A) No, because the engineer offered a reasonable substitute by offering to serve as an off-site consultant.

(B) No, because the engineer’s physical ability to perform as on-site supervisor was a basic assumption of the contract.

Correct. The engineer is not in breach. The incapacity of a particular person to perform his or her duty under a
contract  renders  the  performance  impracticable  and  operates  as  an  excuse  for  nonperformance.  The  parties
contracted for the engineer to personally provide on-site services. Therefore, the engineer’s continued ability to
perform those services was a basic assumption of the contract, and his nonperformance is excused.

(C) Yes, because the engineer breached the contract by disappointing the owner’s expectations.

(D) Yes, because the engineer’s duty to perform was personal and absolute.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 15 - Constitutional Law

A state law made it a criminal offense for any state employee to “knowingly provide educational services or extend welfare
benefits” to a foreign national who was in the United States in violation of U.S. immigration laws. The principal of a public
elementary school was prosecuted under the law for enrolling and providing education to several foreign nationals he knew
to be in the country illegally. All of these actions took place before the new law was adopted. No federal statute applied to
the principal’s actions.

What constitutional provision would be most helpful to the principal’s defense?

(A) The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) The ex post facto clause of Article I, Section 10.

Correct.  Article  I,  Section  10  of  the  Constitution  prohibits  states  from  passing  ex  post  facto  laws.  An  ex  post
facto law punishes conduct that occurred before the law became effective. Because the principal had enrolled the
foreign nationals before the state adopted the law under which he was prosecuted, it was an unconstitutional ex
post facto law as applied to his prosecution.

(D) The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 16 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  store  owner  whose  jewelry  store  had  recently  been  robbed  was  shown  by  a  police  detective  a  photograph  of  the
defendant, who previously had committed other similar crimes. The store owner examined the photograph and then asked
the  detective  whether  the  police  believed  that  the  man  pictured  was  the  robber.  After  the  detective  said,  “We’re  pretty
sure,” the store owner stated that the man in the photograph was the one who had robbed her.

The  defendant  was  indicted  for  the  robbery.  His  counsel  moved  to  suppress  any  trial  testimony  by  the  store  owner
identifying the defendant as the robber.

Should the court grant the motion and suppress the store owner’s trial testimony identifying the defendant as the robber?

(A) No, because suppression of in-court testimony is not a proper remedy, even though the out-of-court identification was

improper.

(B) No, because the out-of-court identification was not improper.

(C) Yes, because the improper out-of-court identification has necessarily tainted any in-court identification.

(D) Yes, unless the prosecution demonstrates that the in-court identification is reliable.

Correct. Even if an out-of-court identification procedure is unnecessarily suggestive, which this one plainly was,
suppression of in-court testimony is not required if the eyewitness’s identification is shown to be reliable under a
multi-factor inquiry.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 17 - Real Property

A mother who died testate devised her farm to her son and her daughter as “joint tenants with right of survivorship.” The
language of the will was sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship, which is unmodified
by statute in the jurisdiction. After the mother’s death and with the daughter’s permission, the son took sole possession of
the farm and agreed to pay the daughter a stipulated monthly rent.

Several years later, the son defaulted on a personal loan, and his creditor obtained a judgment against him for $30,000. The
creditor promptly and properly filed the judgment.

A statute  of the jurisdiction  provides:  “Any judgment  properly  filed  shall,  for 10 years  from  filing,  be a lien on the  real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered.”

Six months later, the son died.

There are no other applicable statutes.

Is the creditor entitled to enforce its judgment lien against the farm?

(A) No, because the daughter became sole owner of the farm free and clear of the creditor’s judgment lien when the son

died.

Correct.  The  recording  of  a  judgment  against  a  joint  tenant  with  right  of  survivorship  allows  the  judgment
creditor  to  obtain  a  writ  of  execution  but  does  not  effect  a  severance  of  the  joint  tenancy.  The  son’s  creditor
failed to execute on the judgment against the son before his death, and the daughter, as the survivor, became the
sole owner of the farm.

(B) No, because the son’s interest was severed from the daughter’s interest upon the filing of the lien.

(C) Yes, because a joint  tenancy cannot be created  by devise, and the son died owning a 50% undivided interest  in the

farm as a tenant in common.

(D) Yes, because the son died owning a 50% undivided interest in the farm as a joint tenant with the daughter.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 18 - Contracts

An experienced  rancher  contracted to harvest  his neighbor’s  wheat crop for $1,000 “when the crop [was] ripe.”  In early
September, the neighbor told the rancher that the crop was ripe. The rancher delayed because he had other customers to
attend to. The neighbor was concerned that the delay might cause the crop to be lost, for hailstorms were common in that
part of the country in the fall. In fact, in early October, before the crop was harvested, it was destroyed by a hailstorm.

Is the rancher liable for the loss?

(A) No, because no time for performance was established in the contract.

(B) No, because the neighbor failed to tell the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm.

(C) Yes, because at the time the contract was made, the rancher had reason to foresee the loss as a probable result of his

breach.

Correct. According to the Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 351, a non-breaching party is entitled to recover
damages  that  the  party  in  breach  “had  reason  to  foresee  as  a  probable  result  of  the  breach”  when  the  parties
entered into the contract. The rancher’s experience and the frequency of hailstorms in the fall combined to make
the loss resulting from the rancher’s breach foreseeable.

(D) Yes,  because  a  party  who  undertakes  a  contractual  obligation  is  liable  for  all  the  consequences  that  flow  from  his

breach.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 19 - Torts

When a tire of a motorist’s car suffered a blowout, the car rolled over and the motorist was badly injured. Vehicles made
by the manufacturer of the motorist’s car have been found to be negligently designed, making them dangerously prone to
rolling over when they suffer blowouts. A truck driver who was driving behind the motorist when the accident occurred
stopped to help. Rescue vehicles promptly arrived, and the truck driver walked along the side of the road to return to his
truck. As he approached his truck, he was struck and injured by a speeding car. The truck driver has sued the manufacturer
of the injured motorist’s car.

Is the truck driver likely to prevail in a suit against the car manufacturer?

(A) No, because the car manufacturer’s negligence was not the proximate cause of the truck driver’s injuries.

(B) No, because the truck driver assumed the risk of injury when he undertook to help the motorist.

(C) Yes, because it is foreseeable that injuries can result from rollovers.

(D) Yes,  because  the  car  manufacturer’s  negligence  caused  the  dangerous  situation  that  invited  the  rescue  by  the  truck

driver.

Correct.  It is well established  that injury  to rescuers  is sufficiently  foreseeable  to support  proximate  cause.  As
Cardozo said, “Danger invites rescue.”

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 20 - Constitutional Law

An  unconstrued  state  law  prohibited  the  distribution  within  the  state  of  “seditious  propaganda.”  The  state  prosecuted
United States Post Office letter carriers under this law for delivering propaganda from a foreign country to state residents.

Which of the following statements is an INACCURATE description of the state’s law as applied to the letter carriers?

(A)

It is an unconstitutional bill of attainder.

Correct.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a  legislative  act  that  inflicts  punishment  on  named  individuals  or  on  easily
identifiable members of groups. Because the statute proscribes a type of conduct when engaged in by anyone, it
is not a bill of attainder.

(B)

It is void for vagueness.

(C)

It  may  not  be  applied  to  the  letter  carriers,  because  they  are  employees  of  a  federal  instrumentality  carrying  out  an
authorized function.

(D)

It unconstitutionally abridges rights protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 21 - Evidence

A defendant was charged with the crime of defrauding the federal agency where he worked as an accountant. At trial, the
court allowed the defendant to call his supervisor at the large corporation where he had previously worked, who testified
about the  defendant’s  good reputation  in  the  community  for honesty.  Over  objection,  the  defendant  then  sought  to  elicit
testimony from his former supervisor that on several occasions the corporation had, without incident, entrusted him with
large sums of money.

Should the testimony be admitted?

(A) No, because the testimony is extrinsic evidence on a collateral matter.

(B) No, because good character cannot be proved by specific instances of conduct unless character is an essential element

of the charge or defense.

Correct. When a criminal defendant seeks to prove his good character under FRE 404(a)(1), FRE 405(a) allows
proof only by reputation evidence or opinion evidence, not by specific instances of conduct.

(C) Yes, because it is evidence of a pertinent character trait offered by an accused.

(D) Yes, because it is relevant to whether the defendant was likely to have taken money as charged in this case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 22 - Contracts

A niece had worked in her aunt’s bookstore for many years. The bookstore business, which was housed in a building that
the aunt leased, was independently appraised at $200,000. The aunt decided to retire. She wrote to the niece, expressing her
affection for the niece and offering to sell her the bookstore business for $125,000 if the landlord would agree to a transfer
of the lease. The letter also specified when the aunt would transfer the business. The niece wrote back accepting her aunt’s
offer. In a phone call to the niece, the aunt stated that the landlord had approved the transfer of the lease and that she would
now  ask  her  attorney  to  draft  a  written  contract  so  that  there  would  be  a  record  of  the  terms.  Before  the  attorney  had
finished  drafting  the  document,  the  aunt  changed  her  mind  about  selling  the  business  and  informed  the  niece  of  her
decision.

In an action for breach of contract brought by the niece against her aunt, is the niece likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the motivation for the transfer of the business was the aunt’s affection for her niece, not the price.

(B) No, because the promised consideration was inadequate in light of the market value of the business.

(C) Yes,  because  the  condition  concerning  the  landlord’s  assent  to  the  transfer  of  the  lease  was  beyond  the  control  of

either party.

(D) Yes, because the document being drafted by the attorney  was merely  a record  of an agreement already  made, not a

condition to it.

Correct. Manifestations of assent are sufficient to conclude an enforceable contract even though parties manifest
intent to memorialize their agreement in a writing that is not subsequently prepared. Here, the parties’ agreement
on essential terms constituted the manifestation of mutual assent sufficient to create an enforceable contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 23 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man and his friend were watching a televised football game at the man’s home. Upset by a penalty called by the referee,
the friend threw a bottle of beer at the man’s television, breaking the screen. Enraged, the man picked up a nearby hammer
and hit the friend on the head with it. The friend died from the blow.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

In a jurisdiction that follows common law principles, what is the most serious crime of which the man could properly be
convicted?

(A) Murder.

Correct. At common law, a defendant could be convicted of murder not only for an intentional killing but also
for causing another’s death by actions intended to cause serious bodily injury short of death. Under the facts of
this case, a jury could properly convict the man of murder under that common law theory. While a jury could
certainly convict the man of lesser manslaughter or assault crimes, murder is the most serious crime of which the
man could properly be convicted.

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C)

Involuntary manslaughter.

(D) Assault.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 24 - Constitutional Law

A protester entered an IRS office during business hours. He denounced the income tax and set fire to pages from his copy
of the Internal Revenue Code. The fire was extinguished before it caused any other damage. The protester was arrested and
charged with violating a state law that prohibited igniting a fire in a public building. He claimed that his prosecution was
unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

May the protester constitutionally be convicted?

(A) No, because he was exercising his right to freedom of speech by burning a copy of the code.

(B) No, because the copy of the code belonged to him, and thus burning it did not infringe upon a legitimate government

interest.

(C) Yes, because the burning of the code was conduct rather than speech.

(D) Yes,  because  the  state  law  is  narrowly  drawn  to  further  a  substantial  government  interest  in  prohibiting  the

noncommunicative aspects of the act in question.

Correct.  The  protester’s  burning  of  the  tax  code  qualifies  as  expressive  conduct  protected  by  the  free  speech
clause  of  the  First  Amendment  because  (1)  the  protester  intended  to  communicate  a  message  and  (2)  the
audience was likely to understand the communication. But because the state’s interest underlying the law that the
protester violated (preventing the burning of public buildings) is unrelated to the message communicated by the
burning  of  the  tax  code,  a  court  will  not  subject  the  state  law  to  strict  scrutiny.  Instead,  the  court  will  uphold
application of the law to the protester if the law is narrowly tailored to further a substantial government interest,
a standard of justification that this law should satisfy easily.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 25 - Torts

A gas company built a large refining facility that conformed to zoning requirements on land near a landowner’s property.
The landowner had his own home and a mini-golf business on his property.

In a nuisance action against the gas company, the landowner established that the refinery emitted fumes that made many
people feel quite sick when they were outside on his property for longer than a few minutes. The landowner’s mini-golf
business had greatly declined as a consequence, and the value of his property had gone down markedly.

Is the landowner likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the landowner has offered no evidence demonstrating that the gas company was negligent.

(B) No, because the refinery conforms to the zoning requirements.

(C) Yes, because the refinery has substantially and unreasonably interfered with the landowner’s use and enjoyment of his

property.

Correct.  To prevail  on a nuisance  claim,  the  plaintiff  must show that the defendant’s  activity  has  substantially
and unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his property. The evidence that there has
been a significant decrease in the value of the landowner’s property and that his business is suffering a marked
decline would support a claim that the intrusion by the gas company is both substantial and unreasonable.

(D) Yes, because the value of the landowner’s property has declined.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 26 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with attempted murder. At the preliminary hearing, the presiding judge heard the testimony of
four  prosecution  witnesses  and  found  that  the  prosecution  had  failed  to  establish  probable  cause  that  the  defendant  had
committed any offense. Accordingly, he dismissed the charge.

The prosecutor  then  called  the  same  four  witnesses  before  a grand  jury.  The grand  jury  indicted  the  same  defendant  for
attempted murder.

The defendant has moved to quash the indictment on the ground of double jeopardy.

How should the court proceed?

(A) Grant the motion, because the dismissal of the first charge on the merits, whether correct or incorrect, bars any further

prosecution.

(B) Grant the motion, unless the prosecution has evidence that was not presented in the first case.

(C) Deny the motion, because the defendant has not yet been in jeopardy of conviction on the attempted murder charge.

Correct. For double jeopardy purposes, jeopardy  does not attach  until trial,  when the jury is sworn in (or, in a
bench trial, when the first witness is sworn in).

(D) Deny the motion, because the protection of the double jeopardy clause does not come into play until there has been a

conviction or an acquittal.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 27 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the proceeds of a casualty insurance policy covering his 60-foot yacht, claiming
that the yacht was destroyed by an accidental fire. The company denied liability, claiming that the plaintiff hired his friend
to set the fire. In the hospital the day after the fire, the friend, who had been badly burned in the fire, said to his wife, in the
presence of an attending nurse, “I was paid to set the fire.” Two weeks later, the friend died of an infection resulting from
the burns. At trial, the insurance company called the wife to testify to the friend’s statement.

Is the wife’s testimony admissible over the plaintiff’s objection?

(A) No, because the marital privilege survives the communicating spouse’s death.

(B) No, because the statement was made after the conspiracy ended.

(C) Yes, because it is a statement against interest.

Correct. The statement is against the friend’s interest because it could subject him to civil or criminal liability.
The friend is unavailable, so the statement satisfies FRE 804(b)(3).

(D) Yes, because it is a statement by a co-conspirator.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 28 - Torts

A  fire  that  started  in  the  defendant’s  warehouse  spread  to  the  plaintiff’s  adjacent  warehouse.  The  defendant  did  not
intentionally start the fire, and the plaintiff can produce no evidence as to how the fire started. However, the defendant had
failed to install a sprinkler system, which was required by a criminal statute. The plaintiff can produce evidence that had
the sprinkler system been installed, it could have extinguished the fire before it spread.

In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover for the fire damage, is it possible for the plaintiff to prevail?

(A) No, because the statute provides only for criminal penalties.

(B) No, because there is no evidence that the defendant negligently caused the fire to start.

(C) Yes, because a landowner is strictly liable for harm to others caused by the spread of fire from his premises under the

doctrine of Rylands v. Fletcher.

(D) Yes, because the plaintiff  was harmed as a result  of the defendant’s  violation of a statute  that was meant to protect

against this type of occurrence.

Correct. A criminal statute can be used to set the standard of care in a negligence action if it was meant to protect
against the type of harm that occurred by specifying preventive steps that should be taken. In that case, violation
of the statute is negligence per se.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 29 - Constitutional Law

A private university is owned and operated by a religious organization. The university is accredited by the department of
education  of  the  state  in  which  it  is  located.  This  accreditation  certifies  that  the  university  meets  prescribed  educational
standards. Because it is accredited, the university qualifies for state funding for certain of its operating expenses. Under this
funding program, 25 percent of the university’s total operating budget comes from state funds.

A  professor  at  the  university  was  a  part-time  columnist  for  the  local  newspaper.  In  one  of  her  published  columns,  the
professor  argued  that  “religion  has  become  a  negative  force  in  society.”  The  university  subsequently  discharged  the
professor, giving as its sole reason for the dismissal her authorship and publication of this column.

The professor sued the university, claiming only that her discharge violated her constitutional right to freedom of speech.

The  university  moved  to  dismiss  the  professor’s  lawsuit  on  the  ground  that  the  U.S.  Constitution  does  not  provide  the
professor with a cause of action in this case.

Should the court grant the university’s motion to dismiss?

(A) Yes, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments protect the right of the university to employ only individuals who

share and communicate its views.

(B) Yes, because the action of the university in discharging the professor is not attributable to the state for purposes of the

Fourteenth Amendment.

Correct. The protections afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment apply only to conduct that is attributable to the
state.  Because  the  professor  was  discharged  by  a  private  university  and  not  by  a  state  actor,  the  Fourteenth
Amendment does not apply.

(C) No, because the accreditation and partial funding of the university by the state are sufficient to justify the conclusion

that the state was an active participant in the discharge of the professor.

(D) No,  because  the  U.S.  Constitution  provides  a  cause  of  action  against  any  state-accredited  institution  that  restricts

freedom of speech as a condition of employment.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 30 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  with  intent  to  distribute.  On  direct  examination,  the  defendant
testified that he worked with disadvantaged children as a drug counselor, that he hated drugs, that he would “never possess
or  distribute  drugs,”  and  that  he  had  never  used  drugs  and  would  not  touch  them.  The  government  offered  as  a  rebuttal
witness a police officer who would testify that, three years earlier, he saw the defendant buy cocaine from a street dealer.
The defendant objected.

Is the testimony of the police officer about the prior drug transaction admissible to impeach the defendant?

(A) No, because the bad act of buying drugs is not sufficiently probative of a witness’s character for truthfulness.

(B) No, because it is contradiction on a collateral matter.

(C) Yes, because it is proper contradiction.

Correct.  This  is  an  example  of  impeachment  by  contradiction.  The  evidence  of  the  prior  cocaine  purchase
directly  contradicts  the  defendant’s  testimony  on  direct  examination  that  he  would  never  possess  drugs  and  is
admissible for that purpose.

(D) Yes, because the bad act shows a disregard for the law and makes it less likely that the defendant would respect the

oath of truthfulness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 31 - Real Property

A landowner borrowed $100,000 from a lender and executed a valid mortgage on a commercial tract of land to secure the
debt. The lender promptly recorded the mortgage.

A year later, the landowner conveyed the same tract to a developer by a deed that expressly stated that the conveyance was
subject to the mortgage to the lender and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as
part of the consideration  for the purchase.  The mortgage  was  properly  described  in the deed, and the deed was properly
executed by the landowner; however, because there was no provision or place in the deed for the developer to sign, he did
not do so. The developer promptly recorded the deed.

The developer made the monthly mortgage payments of principal and interest for six payments but then stopped payments
and  defaulted  on  the  mortgage  obligation.  The  lender  properly  instituted  foreclosure  procedures  in  accordance  with  the
governing law. After the foreclosure  sale, there was a $10,000 deficiency  due to the lender. Both the landowner and the
developer had sufficient assets to pay the deficiency.

There is no applicable statute in the jurisdiction other than the statute relating to foreclosure proceedings.

At  the  appropriate  stage  of  the  foreclosure  action,  which  party  will  the  court  decide  is  responsible  for  payment  of  the
deficiency?

(A) The developer, because he accepted delivery of the deed from the landowner and in so doing accepted the terms and

conditions of the deed.

Correct. The deed stated that the conveyance was subject to the lender’s mortgage and that the grantee expressly
assumed and agreed to pay the mortgage obligation as part of the consideration. While the developer did not sign
the deed, the developer accepted the deed and recorded it, thereby agreeing to the mortgage assumption. When
the  developer  assumed  the  mortgage  obligation,  the  developer  became  personally  liable  to  the  lender,  and  the
landowner became merely a surety. The developer, having sufficient assets to pay the deficiency judgment, must
do so.

(B) The developer, because he is estopped by his having made six monthly payments to the lender.

(C) The landowner, because the developer was not a signatory to the deed.

(D) The landowner, because he was the maker of the note and the mortgage, and at most the developer is liable only as a

guarantor of the landowner’s obligation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 32 - Contracts

An actor straight out of drama school and an agent entered into a one-year written contract that described the services the
agent would provide. Because he was eager for work, the actor agreed, in the contract, to pay the agent 15% of his yearly
earnings. At the end of the year, the actor was so pleased with his many roles that he gave the agent 20% of his earnings.
After the first contract had expired, the actor and the agent decided to continue working together. They photocopied their
old contract, changed the date, and signed it. At the end of the year, a dispute arose as to what percentage of earnings the
actor owed. It is a trade practice in the acting profession for actors to pay their agents 10% of their yearly earnings, payable
at the end of the year.

What percentage of the actor’s earnings is a court most likely to award the agent?

(A) 20%, because course of dealing is given greater weight than trade usage.

(B) 15%, because it was an express term of the contract.

Correct.  The  parties’  new  contract  adopted  the  terms  of  their  previous  contract,  which  included  the  15%  fee.
Evidence of express terms is given greater weight than evidence of trade usage. Therefore the express term, the
15% fee, is controlling because a court would give it greater weight than the evidence of trade usage, the 10%
fee.

(C) 10%, because trade usage is the applicable default rule.

(D) Nothing, because the contract is too indefinite.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 33 - Torts

A schizophrenic patient who was institutionalized in a psychiatric facility pushed a nurse down a stairwell at the facility.
The nurse, a paid employee of the facility who was trained to care for schizophrenic patients, was injured. The patient is an
indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

The jurisdiction  generally follows the rule that a person with a mental deficiency is held to the standard of a reasonable
person.  In  a  negligence  action  brought  by  the  nurse  against  the  patient,  the  patient’s  lawyer  will  argue  that  the  patient
should not be held responsible for the nurse’s injury.

Which of the following facts will be LEAST helpful to the patient’s lawyer’s argument?

(A) The nurse was a professional caregiver.

(B) The nurse was trained to care for patients with schizophrenia.

(C) At the time she pushed the nurse, the patient thought she was being attacked by an elephant.

(D) The patient is an indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

Correct. Whether the patient has the resources to satisfy an adverse judgment is irrelevant to the judgment itself
and  should  not  be  a  subject  of  argument  on  the  issue  of  liability  in  the  case,  although  the  patient’s  financial
situation might affect a lawyer’s decision to take on the case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 34 - Real Property

Seven years ago, a man, his sister, and his cousin became equal owners, as tenants in common, of a house. Until a year ago,
the man lived in the house alone. The sister and the cousin are longtime residents of another state.

One year ago, the man moved to an apartment and rented the house to a tenant for three years under a lease that the man
and the tenant both signed. The tenant has since paid the rent each month to the man.

Recently, the sister and the cousin learned about the rental. They brought an appropriate action against the tenant to have
the lease declared void and to have the tenant evicted. The tenant raised all available defenses.

What will the court likely decide?

(A) The lease is void, and the tenant is evicted.

(B) The lease is valid, and the tenant retains exclusive occupancy rights for the balance of the term.

(C) The lease is valid, but the tenant is evicted because one-third of the lease term has expired and the man had only a

one-third interest to transfer.

(D) The lease is valid, and the tenant is not evicted but must share possession with the sister and the cousin.

Correct. An individual tenant in common may transfer his or her undivided interest by a lease for a term of years.
The tenant  obtains  only  the  transferor’s  concurrent  right  of  possession  with  the  other  tenants  in  common.  The
man, as a tenant in common, validly transferred his interest in the tenancy in common to the tenant by a lease for
a term of years. The tenant must, however, share the right of possession with the other cotenants, the sister and
the cousin, for the term of the lease. The man must share the rental income with the sister and the cousin.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 35 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man had spent the evening drinking at a local bar and was weaving down the street on his way home, singing. Suddenly,
a  person  wearing  a  cartoon  character  mask  jumped  out  from  an  alley,  pointed  his  gun  at  the  man,  and  snarled,  “This  is
loaded, buddy, and I don’t mind using it. Hand over your cash pronto.” The man was so drunk that he failed to understand
what was going on and started to howl with laughter at the sight of the cartoon mask. Surprised and rattled by the man’s
reaction, the masked gunman fled. The man soon recovered his composure and staggered home safely.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime of which the masked gunman may properly be charged and convicted?

(A) Attempted robbery.

Correct. The masked gunman could properly be convicted of attempted  robbery because, though unsuccessful,
he  committed  an  act  intended  to  take  the  man’s  property  through  force  or  fear.  The confluence  of  the  act  and
intent would suffice to constitute an attempt under any of the various approaches to attempt liability.

(B) Attempted battery.

(C) Attempted larceny.

(D) No crime.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 36 - Contracts

A bank agreed to lend a merchant $10,000 for one year at 8% interest. The loan proceeds were to be disbursed within two
weeks. The merchant intended to use the loan proceeds to purchase a specific shipment of carpets for resale at an expected
profit  of  $5,000 but  said  nothing  about  these  plans  to  the bank.  The bank  failed  to  disburse  the  proceeds  and  refused  to
assure the merchant that it would do so. The merchant was able to secure a loan from another lender at 10% interest for one
year. However, by the time the merchant started the application process for a substitute loan, it was too late to pursue the
opportunity to buy the shipment of carpets.

In an action against the bank for breach of contract, which of the following amounts is the merchant likely to recover?

(A) Nothing, because lost opportunities are not foreseeable.

(B) Nothing, because the parties failed to tacitly agree that the merchant would be entitled to damages in the event of a

breach by the bank.

(C) The difference in cost over time between a loan at 10% and a loan at 8%.

Correct. The presumed wide availability of credit limits a borrower’s recovery to the additional cost of obtaining
a  loan  from  another  lender.  In  the  typical  case,  a  lender  has  no  reason,  at  the  time  of  contract  formation,  to
foresee  that  the  borrower  will  not  be  able  to  obtain  a  substitute  loan.  Therefore,  the  borrower’s  recovery  is
limited to the difference in cost over time between a loan at 10% and a loan at 8%.

(D) $5,000, the merchant’s foreseeable loss.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 37 - Torts

A farmer kept antiques in an uninhabited farmhouse on his property. The farmhouse had been broken into several times in
the past, and some of the farmer’s goods had been stolen. Instead of posting “No Trespassing” signs, the farmer decided to
install an alarm system to deter intruders.

While the farmer was in the farmhouse installing the alarm system, he heard a window open in the adjoining room. The
farmer crept very quietly to the door of the room, threw the door open, and found an intruder, a young child. The farmer
immediately struck the child, a 10-year-old girl, very hard in the face, breaking her nose.

In an action on behalf of the child against the farmer to recover for the injury to her nose, is the child likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the farmer did not use deadly force.

(B) No, because the farmer had probable cause to believe that the child was a thief.

(C) Yes, because the farmer should have posted a “No Trespassing” sign.

(D) Yes, because the farmer used excessive force.

Correct.  The farmer  was  privileged  to  use  reasonable  force  to  prevent  or  end  a  trespasser’s  intrusion  upon  his
land or to protect his property, but he was not privileged to use force that threatened serious bodily injury unless
he  was  himself  in  danger  of  serious  bodily  harm.  The  force  the  farmer  used  was  sufficient  to  and  did  in  fact
cause serious bodily injury. The child appeared to pose no threat of bodily harm to the farmer and could have
been deterred by less forceful means.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 38 - Constitutional Law

A state law that restricted abortion was challenged in state court as a violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and as a violation of a similar due process provision of the state constitution. The case
made its way to the state’s highest court, which ruled that the law violated the due process provisions of both the U.S. and
the state constitutions.

If petitioned to do so, may the U.S. Supreme Court exercise jurisdiction to review the state court decision?

(A) No, because the state court’s decision in this case rests on adequate and independent state law grounds.

Correct. The U.S. Supreme Court does not have appellate jurisdiction over a decision by the highest court of a
state  when  that  decision  is  supported  by  state  law  grounds  that  are  (1)  independent  of  federal  law  and  (2)
adequate to sustain the result in the case. The result in this case is fully supported by the state court’s ruling that
the  law  violated  the  state  constitution,  and  this  ruling  is  independent  of  any  consideration  of  the  federal
constitutional claim. Accordingly, even if the U.S. Supreme Court were to reverse the state court’s ruling on the
federal constitutional issue, the result in the case would not change, and thus the decision is not reviewable.

(B) No,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  appellate  jurisdiction  only  over  state  court  decisions  that  determine  the

constitutionality of federal laws.

(C) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over any ruling of a state’s highest court based on an

interpretation of federal law.

(D) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over decisions that find state laws in violation of the

federal Constitution.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 39 - Torts

A mining company that operated a copper mine in a remote location kept dynamite in a storage facility at the mine. The
storage  facility  was  designed  and  operated  in  conformity  with  state-of-the-art  safety  standards.  In  the  jurisdiction,  the
storage of dynamite is deemed an abnormally dangerous activity.

Dynamite  that  was  stored  in  the  mining  company’s  storage  facility  and  that  had  been  manufactured  by  an  explosives
manufacturer exploded due to an unknown cause. The explosion injured a state employee who was at the mine performing
a safety audit. The employee brought an action in strict liability against the mining company.

What would be the mining company’s best defense?

(A) The mine was in a remote location.

(B) The mining company did not manufacture the dynamite.

(C) The state employee assumed the risk of injury inherent in the job.

Correct. Assumption of risk can be an affirmative defense to strict liability, and in this case, the state employee
willingly took on auditing duties in potentially dangerous environments.

(D) The storage facility conformed to state-of-the-art safety standards.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 40 - Evidence

A woman sued her friend for injuries she received as a passenger in the friend’s  car. On direct examination,  the woman
testified that the friend had been speeding and ran a red light. On cross-examination,  the woman was asked whether she
was under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident. The woman invoked the privilege against self-incrimination.

How should the court treat the woman’s claim of privilege?

(A) Deny it, because the woman waived the privilege by voluntarily testifying.

(B) Deny it, because evidence of the woman’s drug intoxication is essential to assessing the accuracy of her observations.

(C) Uphold it, because the privilege applies in both civil and criminal cases.

Correct.  The  privilege  against  self-incrimination  applies  in  civil  cases  as  well  as  criminal  cases.  The  woman
cannot be forced to reveal facts that could subject her to criminal prosecution.

(D) Uphold it, because the woman’s credibility cannot be impeached by a crime for which she has not been convicted.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 41 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Police, who had probable cause to arrest a man for a series of armed robberies, obtained a warrant to arrest him. At 6 a.m.
they surreptitiously entered the man’s house and, with guns drawn, went to the man’s bedroom, where they awakened him.
Startled, the man asked, “What’s  going on?” and an officer  replied,  “We’ve got you now.” Another officer  immediately
asked the man if he had committed a particular robbery, and the man said that he had. The police then informed him that he
was under arrest and ordered him to get dressed.

Charged with robbery, the man has moved to suppress the use of his statement as evidence.

What is the man’s best argument for granting his motion?

(A) The police did not give him the required Miranda warnings.

Correct. Under the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Orozco v. Texas, 394 U.S. 324 (1969), the man was very
likely in custody, even though he was in his home, given the time and manner of the police entry. Accordingly,
the police could not properly interrogate the man without first providing him with Miranda warnings.

(B) The statement was not voluntary.

(C) He was not informed that he was under arrest until after he made the statement.

(D) The police did not have a search warrant authorizing entry into the house.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 42 - Real Property

A man decided to give his farm to his nephew. The man took a deed to his attorney and told the attorney to deliver the deed
to the nephew upon the man’s death. The man also told the attorney to return the deed to him if he asked. None of these
instructions to the attorney were in writing, and the deed was not recorded. The man then e-mailed the nephew informing
him of the arrangement.

Shortly thereafter,  the nephew died testate.  In his will, he devised the farm  to his daughter.  Several  years later,  the  man
died intestate,  survived  by two sons. The nephew’s daughter  immediately  claimed ownership of the farm  and demanded
that the attorney deliver the deed to her.

Must the attorney deliver the deed to the daughter?

(A) No, because a gratuitous death escrow is void unless supported by a written contract.

(B) No, because the man never placed the deed beyond his control.

Correct.  When  the  man  delivered  the  deed  to  his  attorney  with  instructions  to  deliver  it  to  the  nephew  on  his
death, he was attempting to create a valid death escrow. To create a valid death escrow, however, the man had to
place the deed beyond his control, reserving no power over it once it had been given to the attorney. Because the
man instructed the attorney to return the deed to the man if he asked, the man did not place the deed beyond his
control, and no death escrow was created.

(C) Yes, because the death of the nephew rendered the gratuitous death escrow irrevocable by the man.

(D) Yes, because the deed to the nephew was legally delivered when the man took it to his attorney.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 43 - Contracts

A buyer sent a seller an offer to buy 50 tons of cotton of a specified quality. The offer contained no terms except those
specifying  the  amount  and  quality  of  the  cotton.  The  seller  then  sent  an  acknowledgment  by  fax.  The  acknowledgment
repeated the terms of the buyer’s offer and stated that shipment would occur within five days. Among 12 printed terms on
the acknowledgment was a statement that any dispute about the cotton’s quality would be submitted to arbitration. Neither
the buyer nor the seller said anything further about arbitration. The seller shipped the cotton, and it was accepted by the
buyer.  A  dispute  arose  between  the  buyer  and  the  seller  as  to  the  quality  of  the  cotton,  and  the  seller  asserted  that  the
dispute had to be submitted to arbitration. The buyer instead sued the seller in court.

In that suit, which of the following arguments best supports the seller’s position that the buyer must submit the dispute to
arbitration?

(A) Arbitration is a more efficient method of resolving disputes than resolving them in court.

(B) The provision for arbitration did not contradict any term in the buyer’s offer.

(C) The provision for arbitration did not materially alter the parties’ contract.

Correct.  Because  the  buyer’s  offer  was  silent  as  to  arbitration,  the  arbitration  provision  in  the  seller’s
acknowledgment  should  be  characterized  as  an  additional  term.  Under  UCC  §  2-207(2),  an  additional  term  is
considered  a  proposal  for  addition  to  the  contract.  Section  2-207(2)  also  provides  that  an  additional  term
becomes  a  term  of  the  parties’  contract  unless  certain  specified  circumstances  are  present.  One  such
circumstance  is  where  an  additional  term  materially  alters  the  parties’  contract.  Because  none  of  the  other
circumstances  appear applicable  here, the  arbitration  provision  will be considered  a term  of the  contract  if  the
seller can successfully argue that the provision did not materially alter the parties’ contract.

(D) The seller’s acknowledgment containing a provision for arbitration constituted a counteroffer that was accepted by the

buyer when it accepted delivery of the cotton.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 44 - Constitutional Law

A  recently  enacted  federal  statute  requires  the  President  to  make  each  appointment  of  a  United  States  ambassador  to  a
foreign country from a list of three individuals. The list is to be compiled by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and
approved  by  the  full  Senate  in  advance  of  the  appointment.  The  statute  also  provides  that  Senate  confirmation  of  the
appointment is deemed to occur automatically 30 days after the time the President names an appointee from the list, unless
the full Senate determines otherwise within the 30-day period.

Is this statute constitutional?

(A) No,  because  the  statute  violates  the  constitutional  requirements  for  appointment  of  principal  officers  of  the  United

States.

Correct.  Two provisions  of  the  statute  violate  the  appointments  clause  of  the  Constitution.  First,  the  provision
limiting the President to a list of three potential nominees violates the President’s power to nominate principal
officers.  Second,  the  automatic  confirmation  provision  violates  the  requirement  that  the  Senate  consent  to  the
appointment of a principal officer.

(B) No, because the statute impermissibly restricts the plenary foreign affairs powers of the President.

(C) Yes,  because  the  statute  is  consistent  with  the  constitutional  requirement  that  the  presidential  appointment  of

ambassadors be with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(D) Yes, because the statute is a necessary and proper measure in furtherance of Congress’s power to regulate commerce

with foreign states.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 45 - Contracts

A janitorial service contracted in writing with a hospital for a one-year term. Under the terms of the contract, the janitorial
service agreed to clean the hospital daily in accordance with the hygiene standards of the city’s health code. Because the
janitorial service did not clean a patient’s room in accordance with the required hygiene standards, the patient contracted an
infection that required continued hospitalization. In addition to suing the hospital, the patient sued the janitorial service for
breach of contract.

Which  of  the  following  statements  is  most  accurate  with  respect  to  the  breach  of  contract  claim  against  the  janitorial
service?

(A) The janitorial service is liable to the patient as a matter of public policy, because it violated the city’s health code.

(B) The  patient  is  an  intended  third-party  beneficiary  under  the  contract,  because  the  janitorial  service’s  promise  was

intended to benefit all hospital patients.

(C) The patient has no claim for breach of contract against the janitorial service, because she is an incidental beneficiary.

Correct. The patient cannot recover because she is an incidental beneficiary rather than an intended third-party
beneficiary.  The  circumstances  fail  to  indicate  that  the  hospital  intended  to  give  the  patient  the  benefit  of  the
promised performance.

(D) The patient cannot sue on the contract, because she was not named in the contract.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 46 - Torts

A driver negligently ran into a pedestrian who was walking along a road. The pedestrian sustained an injury to his knee,
causing it to buckle from time to time. Several months later, the pedestrian  sustained  an injury to his shoulder when his
knee buckled, causing him to fall down a flight of stairs. The pedestrian then brought an action against the driver for the
injuries to his knee and shoulder.

In his action against the driver, for which of his injuries may the pedestrian recover damages?

(A) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, because the driver takes the victim as he finds him.

(B) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, if the jury finds that the pedestrian’s fall down a flight of stairs was a normal

consequence of his original injury.

Correct.  The  driver  is  liable  for  the  full  extent  of  the  consequential  damages  arising  from  injuries  to  the
pedestrian even if some of the injuries did not materialize for some time after the accident. While mere passage
of time may cause statute of limitations  problems if substantially  longer than several months is involved, time
passage in itself will not give rise to a proximate cause limitation.

(C) For the injury to his knee only, because the injury to the pedestrian’s shoulder is separable.

(D) For the injury to his knee only, if the jury finds that the driver could not have foreseen that his negligent driving would

cause the pedestrian to fall down a flight of stairs.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 47 - Evidence

A  consumer  has  sued  the  manufacturer  of  a  microwave  oven  for  burn  injuries  allegedly  caused  by  the  manufacturer’s
negligent  failure  to  warn  purchasers  of  the  dangers  of  heating  foods  in  certain  types  of  containers.  The  consumer  has
offered into evidence three letters, all received by the manufacturer before the oven was shipped to the consumer, in which
customers had complained of serious burns under circumstances similar to those in the consumer’s case. The manufacturer
has objected to the letters on the grounds of hearsay and, in the alternative, has asked for a limiting instruction directing
that the letters be considered not for the truth of the assertions contained in them but only regarding the issue of notice.

How should the court respond?

(A) The court should sustain the objection and treat the request for a limiting instruction as moot.

(B) The court should overrule the objection and deny the request for a limiting instruction.

(C) The court should overrule the objection and give the limiting instruction.

Correct. The letters are not hearsay if offered only for the limited purpose of proving that the manufacturer was
put on notice of possible dangers in using the microwave. Such notice supports the claim of negligence because
it  suggests  that  the  manufacturer  should  have  investigated  and  taken  action  to  protect  future  consumers.  The
letters would be hearsay if offered to prove the assertions contained in them—that other persons had been injured
or that the microwave was dangerous.

(D) The court should overrule the objection but allow only that the letters be read to the jury, not received as exhibits.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 48 - Torts

A rancher and his neighbor were involved in a boundary dispute. In order to resolve their differences, each drove his truck
to an open pasture area on his land where the two properties were separated by a fence. The rancher was accompanied by
four friends, and the neighbor was alone.

The neighbor got out of his truck and walked toward the fence. The rancher got out but simply stood by his truck. When
the neighbor came over the fence, the rancher shot him, inflicting serious injury.

In a battery action brought by the neighbor against the rancher, the rancher testified that he actually thought his neighbor
was armed, although he could point to nothing that would have reasonably justified this belief.

Is the neighbor likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the rancher was standing on his own property and had no obligation to retreat.

(B) No, because the rancher suspected that the neighbor was armed.

(C) Yes, because deadly force is never appropriate in a property dispute.

(D) Yes, because it was unreasonable for the rancher to consider the use of a gun necessary for self-defense.

Correct. While the rancher’s belief that deadly force was necessary to protect himself from harm may have been
actual,  it  was  not  reasonable.  To  justify  the  use  of  force  sufficient  to  cause  death  or  serious  bodily  injury,  a
defendant must have a reasonable belief that he himself is threatened with force of that sort.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 49 - Real Property

A  businesswoman  owned  two  adjoining  tracts  of  land,  one  that  was  improved  with  a  commercial  rental  building  and
another that was vacant and abutted a river.

Twenty years ago, the businesswoman conveyed the vacant tract to a grantee by a warranty deed that the businesswoman
signed but the grantee did not. The deed contained a covenant by the grantee as owner of the vacant tract that neither he nor
his  heirs  or  assigns  would  “erect  any  building”  on  the  vacant  tract,  in  order  to  preserve  the  view  of  the  river  from  the
commercial building on the improved tract. The grantee intended to use the vacant tract as a nature preserve. The grantee
promptly and properly recorded the deed.

Last year, the businesswoman conveyed the improved tract to a businessman. A month later, the grantee died, devising all
of his property, including the vacant land, to his cousin.

Six weeks ago, the cousin began construction of a building on the vacant tract.

The businessman objected and sued to enjoin construction of the building.

Who is likely to prevail?

(A) The businessman, because the commercial building was constructed before the cousin began his construction project.

(B) The businessman, because the cousin is bound by the covenant made by the grantee.

Correct.  The  businesswoman  and  the  grantee  created  a  valid  equitable  servitude.  The  promise  was  in  a
writing—the deed—that satisfied the statute of frauds. The promise restricting the use of the vacant land touched
and  concerned  the  land,  placing  a  burden  on  the  vacant  tract  and  giving  a  benefit  to  the  improved  tract.  The
writing  showed  an  intent  that  the  promise  would  be  binding  on  the  grantee’s  heirs  and  assigns.  The  grantee
recorded  the  deed.  The  cousin  had  constructive  notice  of  the  equitable  servitude  and  is  bound  by  it  because
nothing has occurred that would terminate the equitable servitude.

(C) The cousin, because an equitable servitude does not survive the death of the promisor.

(D) The cousin, because the grantee did not sign the deed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 50 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with battery, defined as at common law. At trial, an expert witness testified for the defense that
the defendant, an athlete, was under the influence of a performance-enhancing drug at the time he committed the battery
and that he would not have done so had he not been so influenced. The defendant asked for an instruction to the effect that
if the jury believed that he was influenced by the drug at the time of the crime and would not have committed it otherwise,
it had to acquit him.

Which of the following circumstances would most aid the defendant’s argument in favor of such an instruction?

(A) Evidence that the defendant is addicted to this drug and has an overwhelming urge to consume it.

(B) Evidence that the defendant’s coach, who gave him the drug, told him it was only an aspirin.

Correct.  The most helpful  fact  supporting  an intoxication  defense  would be evidence  that the intoxication  was
involuntary,  which  could  be  shown  by  evidence  demonstrating  that  the  defendant  was  tricked  into  taking  a
substance that he did not know was an intoxicant.

(C) Evidence that the victim of the assault taunted the defendant about his use of the drug immediately before the assault.

(D) Expert testimony that a reasonable person, on consuming this drug, may experience uncontrollable rages.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 51 - Constitutional Law

Under a state law, a drug company that makes a false factual claim about a prescription drug is strictly liable in tort to any
user of the drug.

In an advertisement promoting sales of a particular drug, a drug company claimed that the drug was safe for children. Suit
was filed against the company on behalf of a child who allegedly was harmed as a result of taking the drug. At the time the
child took the drug, the available medical studies supported the company’s claim that the drug was safe for children, but
later research proved that the drug actually was harmful to children. The company has moved to dismiss the suit on First
Amendment grounds.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because false or misleading commercial speech is not constitutionally protected.

Correct. The drug company’s claim that the drug was safe for children is commercial speech because it promoted
the sale of a commercial product. U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that the First Amendment does not
protect commercial speech that is false or misleading.

(B) No, because the drug business is subject to extensive health and safety regulation.

(C) Yes, because liability cannot be imposed for false statements without a showing of actual malice.

(D) Yes, because the company’s claims about the drug were a matter of public concern.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 52 - Contracts

A developer contracted in writing to sell to a buyer a house on a one-acre lot for $100,000. The developer told the buyer
that  the  lot  abutted  a  national  park  and  that  the  water  for  the  house  came  from  a  natural  artesian  spring.  The  developer
knew that both of these representations  were important  to the buyer and that both were false.  The buyer moved into the
house  and  eight  months  later  learned  that  a  private  golf  course  was  being  constructed  on  the  adjacent  land  and  that  the
water for his house was piped in from the city reservoir. The buyer immediately sued the developer to avoid the contract.

The construction of the golf course will probably increase the market value of the buyer’s property, and the water from the
city reservoir exceeds all established standards for drinking water.

Is the buyer likely to prevail?

(A) No, because eight months exceeds a reasonable time for contract avoidance.

(B) No, because the developer’s misstatements caused no economic harm to the buyer.

(C) Yes, because the contract was void ab initio.

(D) Yes, because the buyer retained the power to avoid the contract due to fraud.

Correct. A party may avoid a contract to which the party’s assent was induced by fraud. The time period within
which a party may avoid a contract due to misrepresentation does not begin to run until that party either knows
or has reason to know of the misrepresentation. In this case, the buyer’s eight-month delay will not preclude him
from avoiding the contract because he did not learn of the misrepresentation until eight months after the parties
entered  into  the  contract;  the  buyer  immediately  sought  to  avoid  the  contract  after  learning  of  the
misrepresentation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 53 - Real Property

A seller owns a 400-acre tract of land with 5,000 feet of frontage on a county highway. The seller and a buyer entered into
a written agreement for the sale of a portion of the tract identified only as “a parcel of land, containing not less than 100
acres and having not less than 1,000 feet of frontage on the county highway, whose exact location and dimensions are to be
determined by the parties hereto, at a price of $8,000 per acre.”

Shortly after the execution of the agreement, the parties met to stake out the parcel of land to be sold, but they could not
agree. The disagreement intensified, and the seller repudiated the contract.

The buyer has sued the seller for specific performance. The seller has asserted all available defenses.

Is the buyer entitled to specific performance of the contract?

(A) No, because a contract for the sale of real property that requires further agreement on an essential element cannot be

specifically enforced.

Correct. The statute of frauds requires a writing evidencing an agreement to sell real property to identify the land
to be sold. Although courts are sometimes lenient with this requirement, the writing must contain some evidence
of the specific real property to be sold. The writing in this case noted that the parties were yet to agree on what
land was to be conveyed. Thus, the statute of frauds makes the contract unenforceable.

(B) No, because the purchase price was not fixed by, nor determinable under, the contract terms.

(C) Yes, because the contract bound the parties to act in good faith and to agree upon the specific land to be conveyed.

(D) Yes, because the equity powers of the court enable the court to appoint a master, or to take other appropriate action, to

identify the land to be conveyed.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 54 - Evidence

A plaintiff sued for injuries arising from a car accident, claiming a back injury. At trial, she wishes to testify that prior to
the accident she had never had any problems with her back.

Is the plaintiff’s proposed testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the plaintiff has not been qualified as an expert.

(B) No, because the plaintiff’s pain could have been caused by factors arising after the accident, such as an injury at work.

(C) Yes, because it is probative evidence of the plaintiff’s injury.

Correct. The fact that the back problems arose after the accident is probative on the issue of whether the accident
was the cause of the injury. Therefore, the evidence meets the standard of relevance, and the testimony should be
allowed.

(D) Yes, because the testimony of parties is not subject to the lay opinion rule.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 55 - Constitutional Law

A state owned a large natural gas field and took bids for its exploitation. The highest bid came from an interstate pipeline
company that distributed natural gas to providers throughout the country. A local gas company submitted the next highest
bid, which included the commitment that it would pass along to local customers any savings if it was awarded the contract.
The state awarded the contract to the local company. The interstate company sued to overturn this decision.

Should the interstate company prevail?

(A) No, because the state has a compelling interest in reducing the cost of gas for state citizens.

(B) No, because the state acted as a market participant.

Correct. When the state participates in the economic marketplace, it may decide with whom it wishes to contract
without regard to the restrictions of the dormant commerce clause. Here the state is a market participant because
it is selling the rights to exploit a natural gas field that it owns. The usual rules of the dormant commerce clause
restricting  the  power  of  the  state  to  prefer  local  economic  actors  over  interstate  companies  therefore  do  not
apply.

(C) Yes, because the state acted irrationally by not choosing the highest bidder and thus denied the interstate company due

process of law.

(D) Yes, because the state discriminated against interstate commerce.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 56 - Real Property

A woman died, devising land that she owned in another state to her daughter, who was then 17 years old.

A neighbor who owned the property immediately adjacent to the land wrongfully began to possess the land at that time.
For  24  of  the  next  25  years,  the  neighbor  planted  and  harvested  crops  on  the  land,  hunted  on  it,  and  parked  cars  on  it.
However,  in  the  sixth  year  after  he  first  took  possession  of  the  land,  the  neighbor  neither  planted  crops  nor  hunted  nor
parked cars on the land because he spent that entire year living in Europe. The neighbor built a small gardening shed on the
land, but he never built a residence on it.

When the daughter was 28, she was declared mentally incompetent and had a conservator appointed to oversee her affairs.
Since then, she has continuously resided in a care facility.

The applicable statute of limitations provides as follows: “An ejectment action shall be brought within 21 years after the
cause of action accrues, but if the person entitled to bring the cause of action is under age 18 or mentally incompetent at the
time the cause of action accrues, it may be brought by such person within 10 years after attaining age 18 or after the person
becomes competent.”

If the daughter’s conservator wins an ejectment action against the neighbor, what will be the most likely explanation?

(A) The daughter was age 17 when the neighbor first took possession of the land.

(B) Because the daughter is mentally incompetent, the statute of limitations has been tolled.

(C) The neighbor never built a residence on the land.

(D) The neighbor was not in continuous possession of the land for 21 years.

Correct. The time period to acquire title by adverse possession in this jurisdiction is a minimum of 21 years. The
neighbor  has  not  been  in  continuous  adverse  possession  for  the  entire  21-year  period  required  because  the
neighbor spent one year in Europe after the first five years of possession.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 57 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  common  law  jurisdiction  defines  first-degree  murder  as  any  murder  that  is  (1)  committed  by  means  of  poison  or  (2)
premeditated. All other murder is second-degree murder, and manslaughter is defined as at common law.

An  employee  was  angry  with  her  boss  for  denying  her  a  raise.  Intending  to  cause  her  boss  discomfort,  the  employee
secretly  dropped  into  his  coffee  three  over-the-counter  laxative  pills.  The  boss  drank  the  coffee  containing  the  pills.
Although  the  pills  would  not  have  been  dangerous  to  an  ordinary  person,  because  the  boss  was  already  taking  other
medication, he suffered a seizure and died.

If the employee is charged with murder in the first degree, should she be convicted?

(A) Yes, only because she used poison.

(B) Yes, only because she acted with premeditation.

(C) Yes, both because she used poison and because she acted with premeditation.

(D) No.

Correct.  Murder  requires  that  a  killer  have  acted  with  malice  aforethought,  express  or  implied.  Because  the
employee here did not intend to kill or cause serious injury to her boss or act with extreme indifference to human
life, she would not be guilty of any degree of murder.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 58 - Contracts

A lawn service company agreed in writing to purchase from a supplier all of its requirements for lawn care products during
the  next  calendar  year.  In  the  writing,  the  supplier  agreed  to  fulfill  those  requirements  and  to  give  the  company  a  10%
discount off its published prices, but it reserved the right to increase the published prices during the year. After the parties
had performed under the agreement for three months, the supplier notified the company that it would no longer give the
company the 10% discount off the published prices.

Does the company have a viable claim against the supplier for breach of contract?

(A) Yes, because part performance of the agreement by both parties made it enforceable for the full year.

(B) Yes,  because  the  company’s  agreement  to  buy  all  of  its  lawn  care  products  from  the  supplier  made  the  agreement

enforceable.

Correct. The parties entered into an enforceable requirements contract under UCC § 2-306. Although the terms
of the parties’ agreement granted the supplier the discretion to increase the published prices during the year, the
contract did not grant the supplier the right to discontinue the promised 10% discount off the published prices.
The supplier’s refusal to give the company the 10% discount was a breach of the contract’s agreed-upon terms.

(C) No, because the supplier could, and did, revoke its offer with respect to future deliveries.

(D) No, because the absence of a minimum quantity term rendered the company’s promise illusory.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 59 - Torts

A driver was traveling along a highway during an unusually heavy rainstorm when the roadway began to flood. To protect
his  car  from  water  damage,  the  driver  pulled  his  car  up  a  steep,  unmarked  driveway  abutting  the  highway  that  led  to  a
homeowner’s  residence.  The  driver  left  his  car  parked  in  the  driveway  and  walked  home,  intending  to  return  when  the
floodwater had subsided. Shortly after the driver started to walk home, the homeowner carefully rolled the car back down
his driveway and parked it on the highway shoulder. The floodwater continued to rise and caused damage to the driver’s
car.

If the driver sues the homeowner to recover for damage to the car, is the driver likely to prevail?

(A) Yes, because the driver was privileged to park his car on the homeowner’s property.

Correct. A landowner has no right  to forcibly expel a trespasser  or a trespasser’s  property when the trespasser
was driven by necessity to trespass on his land, and the landowner is liable for any damage to property of the
trespasser  that  results  from  an  expulsion.  If  the  car  had  damaged  the  homeowner’s  property,  the  homeowner
could have collected damages from the driver.

(B) Yes, because there were no “no trespassing” signs posted.

(C) No, because the driver intentionally drove his car onto the homeowner’s property.

(D) No, because the homeowner was privileged to remove the car from his property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 60 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Federal  agents  had  a  hunch  that  a  local  man  was  engaged  in  illegal  gambling  activities.  An  agent  decided  to  enter  the
man’s house while he was not at home and see what he could find. The agent discovered an envelope containing $5,000 in
cash and an executive’s business card. Returning the envelope to its place, the agent located and interviewed the executive,
who admitted that he had paid the man $5,000 to settle a gambling debt; the executive also disclosed that the man regularly
took illegal bets from the executive and several of his acquaintances. The agent then interviewed the acquaintances, who
confirmed what the executive had told him. The agent then arranged to be introduced to the man at a local bar. After a few
drinks, the man, unaware of the agent’s identity, boasted that he was one of the biggest bookmakers in the state.

The agent testified  to all of his investigation’s  discoveries  before  a grand jury, which returned  an indictment  against  the
man  for  illegal  gambling  activities,  based  solely  on  the  agent’s  testimony.  The  man’s  attorney  then  filed  a  motion  to
dismiss the indictment, claiming that it rested on violations of the man’s constitutional rights.

Should the court grant the motion?

(A) No, because dismissal of the indictment is not the appropriate remedy.

Correct. Dismissal of the indictment would not be warranted, because a grand jury is entitled to consider hearsay
and is not limited by the exclusionary rule.

(B) Yes, because much of the agent’s testimony before the grand jury was inadmissible hearsay.

(C) Yes, because of the agent’s unlawful search of the man’s home.

(D) Yes, because of the agent’s violation of the man’s right to counsel.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 61 - Evidence

A  plaintiff,  who  had  been  injured  in  an  automobile  collision  with  the  defendant,  sued  the  defendant  for  damages.  The
defendant  denied  negligence  and  denied  that  the  plaintiff’s  injuries  were  severe.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  has  offered  in
evidence  a  color  photograph  of  himself  made  from  a  videotape  taken  by  a  television  news  crew  at  the  scene  of  the
collision.  The plaintiff  has  demonstrated  that  the  videotape  has  since  been  routinely  reused  by the  television  station  and
that  the  footage  of  the  plaintiff  was  erased.  The  photograph  shows  the  plaintiff  moments  after  the  collision,  with  his
bloodied head protruding at a grotesque angle through the broken windshield of his car.

Should the photograph be admitted over the defendant’s objection?

(A) No, because the plaintiff has failed to establish that a duplicate could not be found.

(B) No, because the plaintiff has failed to produce the original videotape or a duplicate.

(C) Yes, because it tends to prove a controverted fact.

Correct. The defendant has denied that the plaintiff’s injuries were severe. Therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to
show the severity of his injuries by introducing the photograph. The evidence relates directly to the appropriate
amount of damages.

(D) Yes, because a photograph that establishes a disputed fact cannot be excluded as prejudicial.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 62 - Real Property

Ten years ago, a seller sold land to a buyer, who financed the purchase price with a loan from a bank that was secured by a
mortgage  on the land. The buyer purchased  a title  insurance  policy running to both the buyer and the bank, showing  no
liens on the property other than the buyer’s mortgage to the bank. Eight years ago, the buyer paid the mortgage in full.

Seven years ago, the buyer sold the land to an investor by a full covenant and warranty deed without exceptions.

Six years ago, the investor gave the land to a donee by a quitclaim deed.

Last year, the donee discovered an outstanding mortgage on the land that predated all of these conveyances. As a result of a
title examiner’s negligence, this mortgage was not disclosed in the title insurance policy issued to the buyer and the bank.

Following this discovery, the donee successfully sued the buyer to recover the amount of the outstanding mortgage.

If the buyer sues the title insurance company to recover the amount he paid to the donee, is he likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the buyer conveyed the land to an investor.

(B) No, because the title insurance policy lapsed when the buyer paid off the bank’s mortgage.

(C) Yes, because the buyer is protected by the title insurance policy even though he no longer owns the land.

Correct.  Although the lender’s  policy of title  insurance  ended when the  loan was repaid,  an owner’s policy  of
title insurance continues to protect the owner if the owner (here, the buyer) is ever successfully sued on a title
covenant in a future conveyance. The donee successfully sued the buyer on the title covenant in the buyer’s full
warranty  deed  which  was given  without exception  to  the  investor.  The buyer can  now recover  on the  owner’s
policy of title insurance.

(D) Yes, because the buyer was successfully sued by a donee and not by a bona fide purchaser for value.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 63 - Contracts

On June 1, a general contractor and a subcontractor entered into a contract under which the subcontractor agreed to deliver
all of the steel joists that the general contractor required in the construction of a hospital building. The contract provided
that delivery of the steel joists would begin on September 1.

Although  the  general  contractor  had  no  reason  to  doubt  the  subcontractor’s  ability  to  perform,  the  general  contractor
wanted to be sure that the subcontractor was on track for delivery in September. He therefore wrote a letter on July 1 to the
subcontractor  demanding  that  the  subcontractor  provide  assurance  of  its  ability  to  meet  the  September  1  deadline.  The
subcontractor refused to provide such assurance.

The general contractor then immediately obtained the steel joists from another supplier.

If the subcontractor sues the general contractor for breach of contract, is the subcontractor likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the subcontractor anticipatorily repudiated the contract when it failed to provide adequate assurance.

(B) No, because the contract failed to specify a definite quantity.

(C) Yes, because a demand for assurance constitutes a breach of contract when the contract does not expressly authorize a

party to demand assurance.

(D) Yes,  because  the  subcontractor’s  failure  to  provide  assurance  was  not  a  repudiation  since  there  were  no  reasonable

grounds for the general contractor’s insecurity.

Correct. The adequate assurance doctrine requires that a party respond to a demand for adequate assurance only
if the demand is reasonable and justified. A demand is justified if the demanding party has reasonable grounds
for insecurity with respect to the other party’s potential performance. The facts in this case state that the general
contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor’s  ability to perform. Therefore, the general contractor  was
unjustified in demanding adequate assurance, and the subcontractor properly refused to respond to the demand.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 64 - Torts

A hotel employed a carefully selected independent contractor to rebuild its swimming pool. The hotel continued to operate
while the pool was being rebuilt. The contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to indemnify the
hotel for any liability arising from the contractor’s negligent acts. A guest of the hotel fell into the excavation, which the
contractor had negligently left unguarded.

In an action by the guest against the hotel to recover for his injuries, what would be the most likely outcome?

(A) Liability, because the hotel had a nondelegable duty to the guest to keep a safe premises.

Correct.  Ordinarily,  someone  who  hires  an  independent  contractor  would  not  be  vicariously  liable  for  the
contractor’s negligence. However, a landowner who holds his land open to the public has a nondelegable duty to
keep the premises safe for business visitors. Such a landowner is liable for any negligence that causes a guest to
be injured by unsafe conditions on the premises, even the negligence of an independent contractor.

(B) Liability, because the contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to indemnify the hotel for

any liability arising from the contractor’s negligent acts.

(C) No liability, because the contractor was the actively negligent party.

(D) No liability, because the hotel exercised reasonable care in employing the contractor.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 65 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A man asked his girlfriend to lend him something he could use to break into his neighbor’s padlocked storage shed in order
to steal a lawn mower. She handed him a crowbar. He took the crowbar but then found a bolt cutter that the neighbor had
left outside the shed. Using the bolt cutter, he cut the padlock on the shed and took the mower, which he then used to mow
his girlfriend’s lawn. She was surprised and pleased by this gesture.

Burglary in the jurisdiction applies to any structure or building, and there is no nighttime element.

The girlfriend has been charged as an accomplice to burglary and larceny.

Of which crimes, if any, is she guilty?

(A) Burglary and larceny.

Correct. The girlfriend is guilty as an accomplice because she provided aid to the man with the intent of helping
him  break  into  the  shed  and  steal  the  mower;  the  fact  that  the  man  ultimately  used  an  alternative  means  to
accomplish his crimes does not eliminate the girlfriend’s accomplice liability.

(B) Burglary, but not larceny, because she intended to assist only in the breaking.

(C) Larceny, but not burglary, because she provided no actual assistance to the breaking but received a benefit from the

larceny.

(D) Neither burglary nor larceny, because she provided no actual assistance.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 66 - Constitutional Law

Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the  denial  of  all  federal  funding  to  public  school  districts  in  which  a  specified
percentage of the students enrolled in the public schools fail to pass a national achievement test. According to the terms of
the federal statute, the first national achievement test was scheduled for administration five years from the effective date of
the statute.

After  reviewing  then-current  levels  of  public  school  student  performance,  the  officials  of  a  state  became  concerned  that
several  of  its  public  school  districts  would  lose  their  federal  funding  after  the  administration  of  the  first  national
achievement test. Then-current levels of private school student performance were substantially higher.

In order to improve the chances of those school districts retaining their federal funding, the state recently enacted a law that
requires all children of elementary and secondary school age to attend the schools operated by their respective local public
school districts. The law is to take effect at the beginning of the next school year.

Parents of children enrolled in private schools within the state have filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of this state
law.

Should the court uphold the law?

(A) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(B) Yes, because it is necessary to further a compelling state interest.

(C) No, because it is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(D) No, because it is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

Correct.  U.S.  Supreme  Court  precedent  establishes  that  a  state  law  requiring  children  to  attend  public  schools
infringes  on  the  right  of  parents  to  control  the  upbringing  of  their  children.  Supreme  Court  precedent  also
establishes that this right is a fundamental aspect of liberty protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.  A  state  law  that  infringes  on  that  right  must  therefore  undergo  strict  judicial  scrutiny,  which
requires the state to prove that the law is necessary to further a compelling state interest. In this case, the state
cannot satisfy strict scrutiny, because requiring private school students to attend public schools in order to raise
the test scores in public school districts is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 67 - Torts

A newspaper published an editorial in which an editor asserted that a candidate for high political office was a user of illegal
drugs. The accusation was untrue. The editor acted unreasonably in not investigating the accusation before publishing it;
however, the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.

The candidate sued the editor for defamation.

Is the candidate entitled to recover?

(A) No, because the accusation appeared in an editorial and was, therefore, merely an opinion.

(B) No, because the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.

Correct. In a defamation action brought by a candidate for public office, the plaintiff must establish more than
mere  negligence  with  regard  to  the  truth  or  falsity  of  the  allegedly  defamatory  statement  of  fact.  The  plaintiff
must establish that the defendant acted with actual malice, that is, that the defendant in fact knew the statement
to  be  false  or  entertained  serious  doubts  as  to  the  truth  of  the  statement.  Here,  the  candidate  cannot  establish
actual malice on the part of the editor in publishing the statement.

(C) Yes, because calling someone an illegal drug user is defamatory per se.

(D) Yes, because the accusation was false and was injurious to the candidate’s reputation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 68 - Real Property

A woman owned a house on a lot abutting a public street. Six months ago, the city validly revised its zoning ordinances
and  placed  the  woman’s  lot  and  the  surrounding  lots  abutting  the  public  street  from  the  north  in  a  zone  limited  to
residential use; the lots abutting the public street on the south side were zoned for both residential and light business use.

The woman  asked  the  city’s  zoning  appeals  board  to  approve her  proposal  to  operate  a  court-reporting  service  from  her
house. This type of use would be permitted on the south side of the public street and, in fact, one such business has existed
there for several years.

The board approved the woman’s proposal.

Why?

(A) A variance was granted.

Correct.  A  variance  permits  a  waiver  from  a  zoning  requirement.  A  variance  will  be  granted  when  an  owner
convinces a zoning appeals board that without the variance the owner would suffer a hardship regarding the use
of the land. In this case, the board approved the woman’s application to operate a court-reporting service in her
house, and thus this jurisdiction allows use variances that permit nonresidential uses in areas that are otherwise
zoned residential.

(B) The doctrine of amortization applied.

(C) The doctrine of change of circumstances applied.

(D) The woman’s use of her house was a nonconforming use.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 69 - Evidence

A  cyclist  sued  a  defendant  corporation  for  injuries  sustained  when  she  was  hit  by  a  truck  owned  by  the  defendant  and
driven by its employee, who was making deliveries for the defendant. The day after the accident, the employee visited the
cyclist in the hospital and said, “I’m sorry for what I did.” At trial, the employee testified that he had exercised due care.

Why is the cyclist’s testimony relating what the defendant’s employee said at the hospital admissible to prove negligence?

(A)

It is a prior inconsistent statement.

(B)

It is a statement against interest.

(C)

It is a statement by a party-opponent’s agent.

Correct.  FRE  801(d)(2)(D)  provides  that  a  statement  is  “not  hearsay”  if  it  is  offered  against  a  party  and  is  “a
statement  by  the  party’s  agent  or  servant  concerning  a  matter  within  the  scope  of  the  agency  or  employment,
made during the existence of the relationship.”

(D)

It is a statement of then-existing state of mind.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 70 - Torts

An elderly neighbor hired a 17-year-old boy with a reputation for reckless driving to drive the neighbor on errands once a
week. One day the teenager, driving the neighbor’s car, took the neighbor to the grocery store. While the neighbor was in
the store, the teenager drove out of the parking lot and headed for a party on the other side of town.

While on his way to the party, the teenager negligently turned in front of a moving car and caused a collision. The other
driver was injured in the collision.

The injured driver has brought an action for damages against the neighbor, based on negligent entrustment, and against the
teenager.

The  jury  has  found  that  the  injured  driver’s  damages  were  $100,000,  that  the  injured  driver  was  10%  at  fault,  that  the
teenager was 60% at fault, and that the neighbor was 30% at fault for entrusting his car to the teenager.

Based on these  damage  and responsibility  amounts,  what  is  the maximum  that  the  injured  driver  could  recover  from  the
neighbor?

(A) $100,000.

(B) $90,000.

Correct. In a system of pure comparative negligence with joint and several liability, a plaintiff can recover all the
damages due, after discounting for the plaintiff’s negligence, from any one of the defendants, and that defendant
must  pursue  the  other  defendants  for  contribution.  In  this  case,  the  driver  would  be  able  to  recover  the  full
$90,000 from the neighbor, and the neighbor would have to pursue the teenager for contribution of his $60,000
share.

(C) $60,000.

(D) $30,000.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 71 - Contracts

A seller  entered  into  a  contract  to  sell  to  a  buyer  a  house  for  a  price  of  $150,000.  The contract  contained  the  following
clause: “This contract is conditional on the buyer’s securing bank financing at an interest rate of 7% or below.” The buyer
did not make an application for bank financing and therefore did not secure it, and refused to proceed with the purchase.
The seller sued the buyer for breach of contract.

Is the seller likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the buyer did not secure bank financing.

(B) No, because the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer any obligation to apply for bank financing.

(C) Yes, because a court will excuse the condition to avoid a disproportionate forfeiture.

(D) Yes,  because  a  court  will  imply  a  term  imposing  on  the  buyer  a  duty  to  use  reasonable  efforts  to  secure  bank

financing.

Correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the condition occurs or
its  nonoccurrence  is  excused.  The  duty  of  good  faith  imposed  an  obligation  on  the  buyer  to  make  reasonable
efforts  to  secure  bank  financing.  Accordingly,  the  failure  of  the  condition  (in  this  case,  the  bank  financing
commitment) to occur did not discharge the buyer’s performance obligation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 72 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A defendant was charged with the capital offense of first-degree murder, for which the only available penalties were death
or  life  in  prison  without  parole.  During  jury  selection,  the  trial  court,  over  the  defendant’s  objection,  granted  the
prosecution’s  for-cause  challenge  of  five  prospective  jurors  who  indicated  upon  questioning  by  both  parties  that  they
personally were opposed to the death penalty and were unsure if they could ever vote to impose it. The jury convicted the
defendant and, following a separate sentencing hearing, sentenced him to death.

On appeal, the defendant’s only argument was that excusing the prospective jurors violated his federal constitutional right
to be tried by a jury chosen from a fair cross section of the community.

How should the court of appeals rule on the conviction and the death sentence?

(A) Affirm both.

Correct. A trial court properly may excuse a juror for cause from serving in both the guilt and penalty phases of a
capital case if a juror’s views regarding the death penalty would prevent or substantially impair the juror from
impartially deciding whether the death penalty is warranted in that particular case. Exclusion of such jurors does
not violate the fair cross-section right of the Sixth Amendment.

(B) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for a new sentencing hearing before a different jury.

(C) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for resentencing to life in prison.

(D) Reverse both.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 73 - Constitutional Law

Congress enacted a statute establishing a program to protect areas in the United States that are rich in biological diversity.
The program is consistent with the terms of an environmental treaty that the President objected to and did not sign.

The statute creates an executive agency and authorizes it to designate parts of federal lands for inclusion in the program in
accordance with criteria taken from the treaty. In an inseverable provision, the statute further provides that the agency must
report  each  designation  to  a  committee  of  Congress  and  that  the  committee  may  overturn  the  agency’s  designation  by  a
majority vote.

Why is the statute unconstitutional?

(A)

It constitutes an invalid delegation of legislative authority to an executive agency.

(B)

It interferes with the exercise of the President’s paramount authority in foreign affairs.

(C)

It requires an executive agency to report its decisions to Congress.

(D)

It authorizes a committee of Congress to overturn an executive decision.

Correct.  The  provision  of  the  statute  authorizing  a  congressional  committee  to  overturn  the  agency’s
designations  of  federal  lands  is  an  unconstitutional  legislative  veto.  Congress  may  overturn  the  action  of  an
executive agency only by enacting a statute.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 74 - Torts

A patient received anesthesia while giving birth. Upon awakening from the anesthesia, she discovered a severe burn on the
inner  portion  of  her  right  knee.  The  patient  has  brought  a  medical  malpractice  action  in  which  she  has  joined  all  of  the
physicians  and  nurses  who  exercised  control  over  her  person,  the  delivery  room,  the  medical  procedures,  and  the
equipment used during the period in which she was unconscious.

The  defendants  have  jointly  moved  for  summary  judgment.  The  patient  has  produced  affidavits  that  establish  that  the
applicable professional standard of care was violated.

What would be the patient’s best argument against the motion?

(A) At least one of the defendants had control over whatever agency or instrumentality caused the patient’s injury.

Correct. Ybarra v. Spangard and cases that follow its approach have relied on this extension of res ipsa loquitur
to  establish  causation  in  situations  in  which  the  plaintiff  was  treated  by  a  medical  team  that,  as  a  group,  had
exclusive  control  of  the  patient  and  in  which  the  patient,  because  she  was  unconscious,  cannot  identify  what
went  wrong.  The  doctrine  may  be  limited  to  medical  cases  in  which  there  may  be  a  concern  that  none  of  the
medical professionals would be willing to testify against another.

(B) The defendants were acting in concert.

(C) The patient has produced affidavits that establish that the applicable professional standard of care was violated.

(D) The patient was in no way responsible for her injury.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 75 - Evidence

A  defendant  is  on  trial  for  bank  robbery.  Evidence  at  the  trial  has  included  testimony  by  a  bank  teller  who  was  present
during the robbery. The teller testified for the prosecution after having refreshed her memory by looking at an FBI agent’s
investigative report that was created shortly after the robbery. The defendant has asked to examine the report.

How should the court respond?

(A) The court may allow the examination if the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory before testifying, and

must allow it if she used it during her testimony.

Correct.  FRE  612  provides  that  “if  a  witness  uses  a  writing  to  refresh  memory  for  the  purpose  of  testifying,
either—(1) while testifying, or (2) before testifying, if the court in its discretion determines it is necessary in the
interests  of  justice,  an  adverse  party  is  entitled  to  have  the  writing  produced  at  the  hearing,  to  inspect  it,  to
cross-examine the witness thereon, and to introduce in evidence those portions which relate to the testimony of
the witness.”

(B) The court must allow the examination, but only to the extent that the report contains the teller’s own statement to the

FBI agent.

(C) The court should not allow the examination, unless the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory while on

the witness stand.

(D) The court should not allow the examination, because the report was not shown to have been read and approved by the

teller while the matter was fresh in her mind.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 76 - Real Property

A woman died testate. In her will, she devised a farm she owned to her husband for life, remainder to her niece. Her will
did not specify the duties of the husband and the niece with regard to maintenance and expenses related to the farm. The
husband took sole possession of the farm, did not farm the land, and did not rent the land to a third person, although the fair
rental value was substantial.

For two years in a row after the woman died, the county assessor sent the tax bills to the niece, but the niece did not pay the
bills, because she and the husband could not agree on who should pay them. Finally, the niece paid the taxes to avoid a tax
foreclosure sale.

The niece then sued the husband for reimbursement for the two years’ worth of property taxes.

There is no applicable statute.

Is the niece likely to prevail?

(A) No, because remaindermen are solely responsible for the payment of property taxes.

(B) No, because the county assessor sent the bills to the niece.

(C) No, because the woman’s will was silent on responsibility for payment of property taxes.

(D) Yes, because the niece paid an obligation that was the sole responsibility of the husband.

Correct. In the absence of a contrary direction in the document creating the life estate—in this case, the will—it
is the duty of the life tenant to pay all general property taxes that accrue during the continuance of the life estate.
The only limitation on this duty is that the life tenant has no duty to expend more than the income that can be
generated from the land. Because the fair rental value of the farmland was substantial,  this limitation  does not
apply.  If  the  remainderman  does  pay  any  property  taxes  due  during  the  life  tenancy,  he  or  she  is  entitled  to  a
judgment against the life tenant for reimbursement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 77 - Contracts

A computer  retail  outlet  contracted  to  service  a bank’s  computer  equipment  for  one year at  a fixed monthly  fee under  a
contract that was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Three months later, the retail outlet sold the service
portion  of  its  business  to  an  experienced  and  well-financed  computer  service  company.  The  only  provision  in  the
agreement between the retail outlet and the computer service company relating to the outlet’s contract with the bank stated
that the outlet “hereby assigns all of its computer service contracts to [the computer service company].”

The computer service company performed the monthly maintenance required under the service contract. Its performance
was defective, however, and caused damage to the bank’s operations.

Whom can the bank sue for damages arising from the computer service company’s defective performance?

(A) The retail outlet only, because the computer service company made no promises to the bank.

(B) Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because the bank has not released the outlet and the bank is

an intended beneficiary of the outlet’s agreement with the computer service company.

Correct. The retail outlet effectively delegated to the computer service company the outlet’s duty of performance
owed  to  the  bank.  However,  absent  consent  by  the  obligee  (the  bank)  or  performance  by  the  delegate  (the
computer service company), an effective delegation does not relieve the delegating party (the retail outlet) of its
duty to the obligee. When the computer service company purchased the service contracts, the bank also became
an  intended  beneficiary  of  the  computer  service  company’s  promise  to  the  retail  outlet.  The  computer  service
company expressly agreed with the retail outlet to perform the outlet’s obligation to the bank, making the bank
an intended beneficiary of that obligation. Thus, both the retail outlet and the computer service company remain
liable to the bank.

(C) Either  the  retail  outlet  or  the  computer  service  company,  because  since  each  has  the  right  to  enforce  the  bank’s
performance of its contract with the retail outlet, mutuality of remedy renders either potentially liable for the defective
performance.

(D) The  computer  service  company  only,  because  it  is  a  qualified  and  a  financially  responsible  supplier  of  computer

services.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 78 - Constitutional Law

A  city  ordinance  prohibited  individuals  from  picketing  in  residential  neighborhoods  unless  the  picketing  related  to  the
neighborhood zoning requirements. This exception to the ordinance was adopted in response to local citizens’ strong views
about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods.

A group that wished to picket in front of a business owner’s home because of the business owner’s employment practices
challenged the ordinance as unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

Will the group’s challenge likely prevail?

(A) No, because the ordinance is a content-neutral regulation of speech.

(B) No, because the ordinance regulates conduct rather than speech.

(C) Yes, because the ordinance irrationally discriminates between different types of protesters.

(D) Yes, because the ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech.

Correct.  The  ordinance  is  a  content-based  regulation  of  speech  because  it  permits  an  expressive  activity
(picketing)  on  one  subject  (neighborhood  zoning  requirements)  and  prohibits  it  on  all  other  subjects.  Such  a
content-based  restriction  on  expression  presumptively  violates  the  freedom  of  speech  protected  by  the  First
Amendment. To justify a content-based restriction, the government must satisfy strict judicial scrutiny, proving
that the restriction is necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The city would be unable to meet that
burden in this case.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 79 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A  defendant  was  tried  for  armed  robbery.  The  state  introduced  evidence  that  a  man,  identified  by  witnesses  as  the
defendant, entered a convenience store at 11 p.m. on March 5, threatened the clerk with a gun, and took $75 from the cash
register.

The defendant did not testify, but his sister did. She testified that on March 5, at the time of the robbery, the defendant was
with  her  in  a  city  300  miles  away.  On  cross-examination,  the  sister  admitted  having  given  a  statement  to  the  police  in
which  she  had  said  that  the  defendant  was  not  with  her  on  March  5,  but  she  claimed  that  the  earlier  statement  was
mistaken.

The court instructed the jury that in order to convict the defendant, they had to find all of the elements of the crime beyond
a reasonable doubt.

As to the defendant’s claim of alibi, which of the following additional instructions would be proper?

(A) Alibi is a matter of defense and so must be established by the defendant; however, the burden of persuasion is by a

preponderance of the evidence, not beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B) Before you may consider the defendant’s claim of alibi, you must decide whether he has produced sufficient evidence

to raise the issue.

(C)

If you have a reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant was present at the convenience store at about 11 p.m. on
March 5, you must find him not guilty.

Correct.  Due  process  requires  the  prosecution  to  prove  all  elements  of  a  crime  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt.
Because alibi is not a traditional defense, but rather negates an essential element of the crime (the defendant’s
actual commission thereof), due process precludes imposing upon a defendant the burden of proving alibi.

(D)

If the defendant’s evidence has caused you to have a reasonable doubt as to whether he was the robber, you must find
him not guilty.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 80 - Real Property

A  woman  acquired  title  to  a  four-acre  lot.  Several  years  later,  she  executed  a  mortgage  on  the  lot  to  a  bank  to  secure
repayment  of  a  $100,000  loan.  Subsequently,  the  woman  executed  a  mortgage  on  the  same  four-acre  lot  to  a  finance
company to secure repayment of a $50,000 loan. Both mortgages were promptly recorded.

The woman recently defaulted on both loans. The bank promptly initiated foreclosure proceedings and sent proper notice to
all necessary parties. The current fair market value of the four-acre lot is $250,000.

The finance company has filed a timely motion in the foreclosure proceeding asking the court to require the bank to first
foreclose  on  two  of  the  four  acres  in  the  four-acre  lot.  The  bank  opposes  this  motion  and  insists  that  it  has  the  right  to
subject the entire four-acre lot to the foreclosure sale.

Will the court grant the finance company’s motion?

(A) No, because the bank holds a purchase-money mortgage.

(B) No, because the entire four-acre lot is subject to the bank’s senior mortgage.

Correct.  Both  mortgagees  have  mortgages  on  the  entire  four-acre  lot.  Priority  of  mortgages  in  the  foreclosure
process is based on the order in which the mortgages were recorded. The bank’s mortgage was recorded first and
thus has priority. The two mortgages do not cover different tracts of land.

(C) Yes, because a pro rata foreclosure of the lot will not prejudice the rights of the bank.

(D) Yes, because of the “two funds” rule of marshalling.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 81 - Criminal Law and Procedure

A state statute provides: “Aggravated robbery of the elderly consists of robbery committed against a victim who is 65 years
of age or older.” Another state statute provides that when a criminal statute does not designate a necessary mental state, the
mental state required is recklessness. A third state statute provides that a person acts recklessly if the person “consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustified risk that the material element exists or will result from the person’s conduct.”

The evidence at a criminal trial showed that the defendant robbed a 66-year-old man outside a senior citizens’ center. The
defendant testified truthfully that the robbery had occurred on a dark night, that she had had no idea how old the victim was
and had not cared how old the victim was, and that she had intended to rob whomever she encountered.

Could the defendant properly be convicted of aggravated robbery of the elderly?

(A) No, because the only evidence on the issue showed that the defendant did not know, nor could she reasonably have

known, the victim’s age.

(B) No, because there was no evidence of a substantial risk that the victim was age 65 or older.

(C) Yes, because the evidence was clear that the victim was 66 years old, and the statute is designed to protect the elderly.

(D) Yes, because the jury could find that there was no justification for the defendant’s conduct and that she was willing to

take the risk that the victim was age 65 or older.

Correct. The mens rea or scienter standard for a conviction under the statute is recklessness, defined as disregard
of a substantial and unjustified risk. Given the totality of the circumstances—including the crime’s location, the
victim’s  age,  and  the  defendant’s  intent  and  unjustifiable  actions—a  jury  could  properly  conclude  that  the
defendant had acted with reckless disregard of the victim’s age.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 82 - Contracts

A  farmer  contracted  to  sell  100,000  bushels  of  wheat  to  a  buyer.  When  the  wheat  arrived  at  the  destination,  the  buyer
discovered that the farmer had delivered only 96,000 bushels. The buyer sued the farmer for breach of contract. At the trial
of the case, the court found that the written contract was intended as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the
agreement. The farmer offered to prove that in the wheat business, a promise to deliver a specified quantity is considered to
be satisfied if the delivered quantity is within 5% of the specified quantity. The buyer objected to the offered evidence.

Is the court likely to admit the evidence offered by the farmer?

(A) No, because the offered evidence is inconsistent with the express language of the agreement.

(B) No, because the written contract was totally integrated.

(C) Yes, because the offered evidence demonstrates that the farmer substantially performed the contract.

(D) Yes, because the offered evidence explains or supplements the agreement by usage of trade.

Correct. This transaction involves a sale of goods and is subject to UCC Article 2. Under Article 2, evidence of
trade usage that can be construed as reasonably consistent with an agreement’s express language is admissible to
interpret or supplement an agreement. The majority rule provides that trade usage will be viewed as consistent
with an agreement’s express language unless the usage completely negates specific express language. The trade
usage allowing for a variation of up to 5% does not completely negate but rather qualifies the express language
calling for the delivery of 100,000 bushels of wheat.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 83 - Constitutional Law

A state law prohibits the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within the state for use in another state. The express
purpose of the law is to safeguard the supply of water for state citizens. Adoption of this state law followed enactment of a
federal  statute  providing  that  “the  transport  of  groundwater  from  one  state  to  another  may  be  restricted  or  prohibited  in
accordance with the laws of the state in which the water originates.”

An  association  of  water  users  in  a  neighboring  state  has  filed  suit  to  have  the  state  law  declared  unconstitutional  and
enjoined on the ground that it violates the negative implications of the commerce clause.

Which of the following is the best argument supporting a motion to dismiss the lawsuit?

(A) The law promotes a compelling state interest that outweighs any burden on interstate commercial activity that might

result from this state regulation of its groundwater.

(B) Groundwater located within a state is not itself an article of interstate commerce, and therefore state regulation of the

withdrawal of such groundwater does not implicate the commerce clause.

(C) The  Tenth  Amendment  reserves  to  the  states  plenary  authority  over  the  regulation  of  the  natural  resources  located

within their respective borders.

(D) The federal statute explicitly consents to a state’s regulation of its groundwater in a way that would otherwise violate

the negative implications of the commerce clause.

Correct. Congress may exercise its authority under the commerce clause to permit a state regulation that would
otherwise  violate  the  negative  implications  of  the  commerce  clause,  as  long  as  the  congressional  legislation
unmistakably grants such permission. The federal statute that permits states to restrict or prohibit the transport of
groundwater from one state to another qualifies as such legislation.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 84 - Torts

A customer pledged a stock certificate  to a bank as security for a loan. A year later, when the customer fully repaid  the
loan, the bank refused the customer’s demand to return the stock certificate because the officer dealing with the loan had
the mistaken belief that there was still a balance due. No one at the bank reviewed the records until two months later, at
which time the error was discovered. The bank then offered to return the stock certificate. However, the customer refused
to accept it.

At the time the customer pledged the certificate, the shares were worth $10,000; at the time the customer repaid the loan,
the shares were worth $20,000; and at the time the bank offered to return the certificate, the shares were worth $5,000.

If  the  customer  brings  an  action  against  the  bank  based  on  conversion,  how  much,  if  anything,  should  the  customer
recover?

(A) Nothing, because the bank lawfully came into possession of the certificate.

(B) $5,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer refused to accept the certificate back.

(C) $10,000, because that was the value of the shares when the bank came into possession of the certificate.

(D) $20,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer was entitled to the return of the certificate.

Correct. Conversion is equivalent to a forced sale of the chattel to the defendant, who is liable for the full value
of the chattel at the time of the tort. The tort occurred when the bank refused to relinquish the stock certificate in
response to the customer’s lawful demand, and at that time the shares were worth $20,000.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 85 - Evidence

A  patient  sued  a  hospital  for  medical  negligence,  claiming  that  a  nurse  employed  by  the  hospital  failed  to  administer
critical medication prescribed by the patient’s treating physician during the plaintiff’s hospitalization. To prove the nurse’s
failure  to  administer  the  prescribed  medication,  the  patient  called  the  medical  records  librarian,  who  authenticated  the
hospital’s  record  of  the  patient’s  treatment,  which  contained  no  entry  showing  that  the  medication  in  question  had  been
administered.

Is the hospital record admissible?

(A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

(B) No, because the nurse’s testimony would be the best evidence of her actions in treating the plaintiff.

(C) Yes, although hearsay, because it is a statement against interest by agents of the hospital.

(D) Yes, because it is within the hearsay exception covering the absence of entries in business records.

Correct. The hospital record itself is hearsay, but it qualifies as a record of regularly recorded conduct under FRE
803(6). The absence of an entry in such a record is admissible under FRE 803(7) to prove the nonoccurrence of a
matter that would normally have been recorded if it had occurred. Thus, the absence of an entry can be used by
the patient to establish that the medication was not administered.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 86 - Contracts

The mother of a son and a daughter was dying. The daughter visited her mother in a hospice facility and said, “You know
that I have always been the good child, and my brother has always been the bad child. Even so, you have left your property
in the will to us fifty-fifty. But it would be really nice if you would sell me the family home for $100,000.”

“I don’t know,” said the mother. “It is worth a lot more than that—at least $250,000.”

“That is true,” said the daughter. “But I have always been good and visited you, and my brother has never visited you, so
that  ought  to  be  worth  something.  And  besides,  if  you  won’t  sell  me  the  house  for  that  price,  maybe  I  won’t  visit  you
anymore, either.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t want that,” said the mother, and she signed a contract selling the house to her daughter for $100,000.

Shortly thereafter, the mother died. When her son found out that the house had been sold and was not part of his mother’s
estate, he sued to have the contract avoided on behalf of the mother.

On what ground would the contract most likely be avoided?

(A) Duress.

(B)

Inadequate consideration.

(C) Mistake.

(D) Undue influence.

Correct.  A  contract  is  voidable  if  the  elements  of  undue  influence—undue  susceptibility  to  pressure  and
excessive  pressure—are  established.  The  undue  susceptibility  element  can  be  established  either  by  the
circumstances  (e.g., the mother’s  illness)  or the existence  of a confidential  relationship  (such as a parent-child
relationship).  The  following  facts  support  a  finding  of  excessive  pressure:  the  daughter’s  statement  that  she
might  not  visit  her  mother,  the  daughter  pressuring  her  mother  to  sell  the  property  while  her  mother  was  in  a
hospice facility,  the  mother  assenting  without  obtaining  independent  advice,  and the  mother’s  susceptibility  to
pressure.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 87 - Real Property

Under the terms of his duly probated will, a testator devised his house to his “grandchildren in fee simple” and the residue
of  his  estate  to  his  brother.  The  testator  had  had  two  children,  a  son  and  a  daughter,  but  only  the  daughter  survived  the
testator. At the time of the testator’s death, the daughter was 30 years old and had two minor children (grandchildren of the
testator) who also survived the testator.

A third  grandchild  of  the  testator,  who was  the  child  of  the  testator’s  predeceased  son,  had  been  alive  when the  testator
executed  the  will,  but  had  predeceased  the  testator.  Under  the  applicable  intestate  succession  laws,  the  deceased
grandchild’s sole heir was his mother.

A statute of the jurisdiction provides as follows: “If a devisee, including a devisee of a class gift, who is a grandparent or a
lineal descendant of a grandparent of the testator is dead at the time of execution of the will or fails to survive the testator,
the issue of such deceased devisee shall take the deceased’s share under the will, unless the will expressly provides that this
statute shall not apply. For this purpose, words of survivorship, such as ‘if he survives me,’ are a sufficient expression that
the statute shall not apply.”

Who now owns the house?

(A) The testator’s brother.

(B) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren.

Correct.  The testator  devised his house, which he owned at his death, to his grandchildren  as a class  gift.  The
testator was survived by two grandchildren who became the sole surviving members of the class. The deceased
grandchild’s interest lapsed because the grandchild, though alive at the time of the will execution, died before the
testator.  The  deceased  grandchild  would  qualify  under  the  anti-lapse  statute,  but  he  was  not  survived  by  any
issue who would be substituted for him under the statute.

(C) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren and all other grandchildren who are born to the testator’s daughter.

(D) The testator’s two surviving grandchildren and the deceased grandchild’s mother.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 88 - Criminal Law and Procedure

While on their way home from a ball game, a driver and his passenger stopped at an all-night gas station. The passenger
offered to pay for the gas. While the passenger pumped gas, he was surprised to see the driver enter the station, take money
from the unattended cash drawer, and get back in the car. The passenger paid the attendant for the gas, and the driver drove
off. The driver offered to reimburse  the passenger for the gas, but the passenger declined. After discovering the missing
cash, the gas station attendant called the police, and the driver was later stopped. The driver escaped with the stolen money,
however, and was never prosecuted.

If the passenger is prosecuted for theft as an accomplice, should he be convicted?

(A) No, because he had no intent to promote the commission of the offense.

Correct.  A  conviction  for  accomplice  liability  requires  not  only  proof  that  an  accomplice  aided  a  principal’s
crime but also proof that the accomplice acted with a culpable mental state. Because the passenger had no prior
knowledge  of  the  driver’s  crime  and  no  intent  to  help  the  driver  commit  that  crime,  the  passenger  may  not
properly be convicted.

(B) No, because the driver, the principal, was never prosecuted.

(C) Yes, because he facilitated commission of the offense by failing to make any effort to stop it.

(D) Yes, because he paid the attendant while he knew the driver was holding the stolen money.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 89 - Real Property

Last year, a buyer and a seller entered into a valid contract for the sale of a parcel of real property. The contract contained
no contingencies. The seller was killed in a car accident before the parcel was conveyed, but the closing eventually took
place with the conveyance by a deed from the personal representative of the seller’s estate.

The personal representative of the seller’s estate wants to distribute the proceeds of the real property sale. The seller’s will
was  executed  many  years  ago  and  was  duly  admitted  to  probate.  Paragraph  5  of  his  will  leaves  all  of  the  seller’s  real
property to his son, and Paragraph 6 leaves the residue of the estate to the seller’s daughter. No other provisions of the will
are pertinent to the question regarding to whom the proceeds of the sale should be distributed.

What will determine who receives the proceeds?

(A) Whether  Paragraph  5  refers  specifically  to  the  parcel  of  real  property  that  was  sold  or  simply  to  “all  of  my  real

property.”

(B) Whether the closing date originally specified in the contract was a date before or after the seller’s death.

(C) Whether the jurisdiction has adopted the doctrine of equitable conversion.

Correct.  Many  events  may  occur  during  the  executory  time  period,  which  is  the  time  between  the  contract
signing and the closing. If the seller dies during this time period leaving a will that devises the real estate to one
person and the personalty to another, and if the contract contained no contingencies or all contingencies had been
satisfied  at  the  time  of  the  death,  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  applies.  The  determination  of  who  will
receive the proceeds thus depends on who had equitable title. In this case, the son had only a legal interest in the
land  at  the  time  of  the  seller’s  death,  and  the  daughter  had  the  equitable  interest  in  the  proceeds  and  should
receive them.

(D) Whether the sale was completed in accordance with a court order.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 90 - Evidence

A  college  student  sued  an  amusement  company  for  injuries  he  sustained  when  the  amusement  company’s  roller  coaster
allegedly malfunctioned so that the student fell out. At trial, after the student presented his case, the amusement company
called a witness who testified that just before the accident he heard a bystander say to the bystander’s companion, “That
crazy fool is standing up in the car.”

The student then offered the testimony of another witness who would testify that the day after the accident she was with the
same bystander, and that in describing the accident, the bystander told her that the car jerked suddenly and “just threw the
guy out of his seat.”

How should the court rule with respect to this offered testimony?

(A) Rule it admissible only to impeach the bystander’s credibility.

Correct.  The  statement  is  admissible  only  as  a  prior  inconsistent  statement  to  impeach  the  bystander.  It
contradicts the bystander’s earlier statement, which suggested that the student was entirely at fault by standing
up in the car. The testimony is not admissible as substantive evidence to prove the facts asserted in the statement,
because it would be hearsay.

(B) Rule it admissible to impeach the bystander’s credibility and to prove the amusement company’s negligence.

(C) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander was given no opportunity to deny or explain her apparently inconsistent

statement.

(D) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander herself was not called as a witness.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 91 - Constitutional Law

Congress passed a statute providing that parties could no longer seek review in the U.S. Supreme Court of final judgments
in criminal matters made by the highest court in each state.

What is the best argument supporting the constitutionality of the statute?

(A) Congress has the power to make exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

Correct.  The  text  of  the  exceptions  clause  of  Article  III  does  not  limit  congressional  power  to  strip  the  U.S.
Supreme  Court  of  its  appellate  jurisdiction  to  hear  particular  types  of  cases,  and  the  Court’s  own  decisions
arguably support the view that the exceptions clause grants Congress this power.

(B) Criminal matters are traditionally governed by state law.

(C) The proper means of federal judicial review of state criminal matters is by habeas corpus.

(D) The review of state court judgments is not within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 92 - Contracts

A borrower owed a lender $50,000 due on March 1. On January 10, the lender telephoned the borrower and said that he
would discharge the debt if the borrower would promise to pay the lender $45,000 by January 15. The borrower responded,
“I will attempt to get the money together.” On January 11, the lender again telephoned the borrower and said that he had
changed his mind and would expect the borrower to make full payment on March 1. On January 15, the borrower tendered
$45,000 as full payment, which the lender refused to accept. On March 1, the borrower refused the lender’s demand for
$50,000, and the lender sued for that amount.

Which of the following statements best supports the lender’s position?

(A) The borrower’s January 10 statement was not a return promise, and therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer

on January 11.

Correct.  The  lender’s  offer  requested  that  the  borrower  accept  by  making  a  return  promise.  The  borrower’s
response to the lender’s offer was a statement of intention, which was not sufficiently promissory to constitute
acceptance  of  an  offer  and  create  a  binding  contract.  Therefore  the  lender  effectively  revoked  his  offer  on
January 11.

(B) The January 10 telephone conversation between the lender and the borrower created an executory accord and therefore

did not operate as a discharge of the $50,000 debt.

(C) The lender’s offer to discharge the debt was a gift promise and therefore was not binding on the lender.

(D) The lender’s promise to discharge the $50,000 debt was not enforceable because it was not in writing.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 93 - Torts

A man rented a car from a car rental agency. Unbeknownst to the rental agency, the car had a bomb hidden in it at the time
of the rental. The bomb exploded an hour later, injuring the man.

Immediately prior to renting the car to the man, the rental agency had carefully inspected the car to be sure it was in sound
operating condition. The rental agency did not inspect for hidden explosive devices, but such an inspection for explosives
would have revealed the bomb.

There had been no previous incidents of persons hiding bombs in rental cars.

In a negligence action by the man against the car rental agency, is the man likely to prevail?

(A) No, because the rental agency could not have reasonably foreseen the likelihood of someone placing a bomb in the car

it was about to rent to the man.

Correct. The standard to be applied in a negligence action is whether the defendant acted with ordinary care. The
presence  of  a  bomb  in  a  rental  car  is  sufficiently  unlikely  that  a  reasonable  rental  agency  would  not  routinely
inspect for such a device. In the absence of evidence that the agency should have foreseen that there might be a
bomb in the car, the man cannot prove a negligence claim.

(B) No, because the rental agency did not hide the bomb in the car.

(C) Yes, because an inspection for explosive devices would have revealed the bomb.

(D) Yes, because the bomb made the car abnormally dangerous.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 94 - Evidence

A  defendant  was  charged  with  robbery  of  a  savings  and  loan  branch  after  being  arrested  near  the  scene  and  found  with
marked bills. An hour after the robbery, the officer investigating the crime videotaped an interview with an eyewitness, in
which the eyewitness described the crime and the robber. The officer then arranged for a lineup, at which the teller who
was robbed identified the defendant as the robber. The officer later obtained computerized records of that day’s deposits
and  withdrawals  at  the  savings  and  loan,  which  allowed  the  calculation  of  how  much  cash  was  taken  in  the  robbery.  A
month later, the teller testified before a grand jury, which indicted the defendant. The teller and the eyewitness both died of
unrelated causes shortly afterward.

At trial, which of the following evidence, if properly authenticated, may properly be admitted against the defendant over his
attorney’s objection that its receipt would violate the confrontation clause?

(A) A transcript of the teller’s sworn grand jury testimony.

(B) The computerized records from the savings and loan.

Correct. The computerized records are not a testimonial statement. The Crawford case specifically cites business
records as an example of statements that are generally not testimonial.

(C) The officer’s testimony that the teller picked the defendant out of the lineup as the robber.

(D) The videotape of the eyewitness’s statement.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 95 - Criminal Law and Procedure

Police responded to a call that shots had been heard coming from a certain house. Upon arriving at the house, the police
looked through a window and saw a man lying on the living room floor. The police opened the front door, which was not
locked, and found that the man had recently been shot in the back and was unconscious. An ambulance was called. While
waiting for the ambulance, one officer walked through the house to see if anyone else was present. No one else was found,
but the officer did see on the kitchen table clear bags of what he believed to be cocaine. The officer seized the bags, and
laboratory tests later confirmed that the contents were cocaine.

After the ambulance arrived a few minutes later and took the man to the hospital, the police went through the house and
opened drawers trying to find the gun used in the shooting. No gun was found, but upon opening a drawer in an upstairs
bedroom, the police found marijuana and seized it.

Later investigation led to charging a young woman, who lived in the house, with unlawful possession of the cocaine and
the marijuana. The young woman has filed a motion to suppress the use of both as evidence on the ground that the entry
into the house and the searches were made without a warrant.

How should the court decide the young woman’s motion?

(A) Grant it as to the cocaine, but deny it as to the marijuana.

(B) Deny it as to the cocaine, but grant it as to the marijuana.

Correct. The police entry of the home was reasonable to provide aid to a man in need of emergency assistance.
Once they were inside the home, the police officers could properly seize contraband in plain view but could not
conduct an exploratory search for contraband. Accordingly, the police properly seized the cocaine (which was in
plain view) but not the marijuana (which was the fruit of an improper, warrantless search).

(C) Grant it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

(D) Deny it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 96 - Real Property

A man conveyed his house to his wife for life, remainder to his only child, a son by a previous marriage. Thereafter, the
man died, devising his entire estate to his son.

The wife later removed a light fixture in the dining room of the house and replaced it with a chandelier that was one of her
family heirlooms. She then informed her nephew and her late husband’s son that after her death, the chandelier should be
removed from the dining room and replaced with the former light fixture, which she had stored in the basement.

The wife died and under her will bequeathed her entire estate to her nephew. She also named the nephew as the personal
representative  of  her  estate.  After  the  nephew,  in  his  capacity  as  personal  representative,  removed  the  chandelier  and
replaced it with the original light fixture shortly after the wife’s death, the son sued to have the chandelier reinstalled.

Who will likely prevail?

(A) The nephew, because he had the right to remove the chandelier within a reasonable time after the wife’s death.

Correct. As the life tenant, the wife had a right to annex a chattel, in this case the chandelier. It was clear that the
wife  did  not  intend  to  make  the  chandelier  a  permanent  annexation,  as  evidenced  by  her  discussions  with  her
nephew  and  the  man’s  son.  The  wife’s  personal  representative,  the  nephew,  had  the  right  to  remove  the
chandelier within a reasonable time after the termination of the wife’s life estate.

(B) The nephew, because of the doctrine of accession.

(C) The son, because the chandelier could not be legally removed after the death of the wife.

(D) The son, because a personal representative can remove only trade fixtures from real property.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 97 - Constitutional Law

A state  adopted a rule denying admission  to its bar to anyone who was currently  or had previously been a member  of a
subversive  group.  The  state's  bar  application  form  was  modified  to  ask  applicants  whether  they  were  or  had  previously
been members of any subversive organization. An applicant refused to answer the question and was denied bar admission
on that basis. The applicant challenged the decision, arguing that the question infringed upon his freedom of association.

Is the applicant likely to prevail?

(A) No, because membership in a subversive group constitutes endorsement of the group's illegal activities.

(B) No, because the Constitution does not apply to the bar.

(C) Yes,  because  denying  bar  admission  based  on  any  association  with  a  subversive  organization  violates  the  First

Amendment.

(D) Yes, because denying bar admission based solely on past membership in a subversive organization violates the First

Amendment.

Correct.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the  freedom  of  association  protected  by  the  First  Amendment
prohibits a state from inquiring about an individual’s associations in order to withhold a right or benefit because
of  the  individual’s  beliefs.  Although  the  state  has  a  legitimate  interest  in  determining  the  character  and
professional  competence  of  bar  applicants,  the  Court  has  held  that  the  state  has  other  means  of  making  these
determinations that are less restrictive of First Amendment freedoms.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 98 - Contracts

A seller  entered  into an  agreement  to sell  a machine  to a buyer for $5,000. At the time  of the  order, the buyer gave the
seller a down payment of $1,000. The buyer then built a foundation for the machine at a cost of $250. The seller failed to
deliver the machine. The buyer made reasonable efforts to find a similar machine and bought one for $5,500 that did not fit
on the foundation. The buyer sued the seller for breach of contract.

Which of these amounts claimed by the buyer, if any, could best be described as restitution?

(A) The $250 cost of the foundation.

(B) The $500 difference in price.

(C) The $1,000 down payment.

Correct. The protection of the restitutionary interest restores to a party any benefit conferred to the other party.
Under UCC § 2-711(3), on a rightful rejection, a buyer is entitled to a return of any payments made on the goods.

(D) None of the claimed amounts.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 99 - Evidence

A defendant is being prosecuted for conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. At trial, the government seeks
to  have  its  agent  testify  to  a  conversation  that  he  overheard  between  the  defendant  and  a  co-conspirator  regarding  the
incoming shipment of a large quantity of cocaine. That conversation was also audiotaped, though critical portions of it are
inaudible.  The  defendant  objects  to  the  testimony  of  the  agent  on  the  ground  that  it  is  not  the  best  evidence  of  the
conversation.

Is the testimony admissible?

(A) No, because the testimony of the agent is not the best evidence of the conversation.

(B) No, because the testimony of the agent reports hearsay not within any exception.

(C) Yes, because the best evidence rule does not require proof of the conversation through the audiotape.

Correct. Since the agent personally heard the conversation, he is not relying on the contents of the audiotape for
his testimony. Therefore there is no violation of the best evidence rule. The agent is not attempting to prove the
contents  of  the  audiotape,  only  what  he  overheard.  The  conversation  could,  of  course,  also  be  proved  by
introducing the audiotape, and it can be argued that the audiotape is “better” evidence than the agent’s testimony.
Nonetheless, so long as the agent obtained his knowledge of the conversation from his own perception, and not
by listening to the audiotape, the best evidence rule is not violated.

(D) Yes, because the audiotape is partly inaudible.

National Conference of Bar Examiners
Multistate Bar Examination - Online Practice Exam 3

Question # 100 - Torts

In an action by a man against a pharmacy, the man offered only the following evidence:

The man took a clearly written prescription to a pharmacy. The pharmacy’s employee filled the prescription by providing
pills with 30 milligrams of the active ingredient instead of 20 milligrams, as was prescribed. Shortly after taking the pills as
directed,  the  man,  who  had  no  previous  history  of  heart  problems,  suffered  a  heart  attack.  Overdoses  of  the  active
ingredient had previously been associated with heart problems.

Does the man have a valid claim against the pharmacy?

(A) No, because pharmacies are not strictly liable for injuries caused by incorrectly filled prescriptions.

(B) No, because the man offered no specific proof as to the pharmacy’s negligence.

(C) Yes, because a jury could reasonably conclude that the man would not have suffered a heart attack had the pharmacy

provided the correct dosage.

Correct. There is sufficient  circumstantial  evidence to support a conclusion that the pharmacy’s  employee was
negligent  in  filling  the  prescription  and  that  the  consequent  overdose  caused  the  heart  attack.  The  pharmacy
would be vicariously liable for its employee’s negligence under respondeat superior principles.

(D) Yes,  because  by  providing  the  30-milligram  pills  rather  than  the  20-milligram  pills,  the  pharmacy  sold  the  man  a

defective product.

