http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Contents 

Preface .............................................................................................................................................. ii 

Description of the MBE .................................................................................................................... ii 

Instructions .................................................................................................................................... iii 

Civil Procedure 

Subject Matter Outline ................................................................................................................ 2 
Questions .................................................................................................................................... 5 
Answer Key .............................................................................................................................. 20 

Constitutional Law 

Subject Matter Outline .............................................................................................................. 22 
Questions .................................................................................................................................. 25 
Answer Key .............................................................................................................................. 40 

Contracts 

Subject Matter Outline .............................................................................................................. 42 
Questions .................................................................................................................................. 45 
Answer Key .............................................................................................................................. 60 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

Subject Matter Outline .............................................................................................................. 62 
Questions .................................................................................................................................. 65 
Answer Key .............................................................................................................................. 80 

Evidence 

Subject Matter Outline .............................................................................................................. 82 
Questions .................................................................................................................................. 85 
Answer Key ............................................................................................................................ 100 

Real Property 

Subject Matter Outline ............................................................................................................ 102 
Questions ................................................................................................................................ 105 
Answer Key ............................................................................................................................ 120 

Torts 

Subject Matter Outline ............................................................................................................ 122 
Questions ................................................................................................................................ 125 
Answer Key ............................................................................................................................ 140 

i 

Preface  

The  Multistate  Bar  Examination  (MBE)  is  developed  by  the  National  Conference  of  Bar  Examiners 

(NCBE).  This  publication  includes  multiple-choice  questions  from  all  seven  subject  areas  tested  on 
the MBE. The questions are representative of the content in the MBE and are intended to familiarize 
candidates with MBE-style questions. This study aid can be used as a self-assessment tool for candidates 

seeking bar admission. 

Unlike the MBE, in which items from each of the seven subject areas are interspersed throughout the 

examination, the questions in this study aid are arranged by subject area. The questions for each subject 

area are prefaced by the relevant section of the MBE Subject Matter Outline and are followed by an 
answer key. We hope you find this study aid to be a valuable tool as you prepare to take the MBE. 

For more information about the MBE, visit the NCBE website at www.ncbex.org. 

Description of the MBE 

The MBE is a 200-question multiple-choice examination that is administered in two three-hour sessions. 

It  is  administered  by  user  jurisdictions  as  part  of  the  bar  examination  administered  twice  per  year. 

Areas of law covered on the MBE include the following: Civil Procedure, Constitutional Law, Contracts, 

Criminal Law and Procedure, Evidence, Real Property, and Torts. 

The MBE is only one of a number of measures that a jurisdiction’s board of bar examiners may use in 

determining  minimal  competence  to  practice  law.  Each  jurisdiction  determines  its  own  policy  with 
regard to the relative weight given to the MBE score and other scores. The MBE is a component of the 

Uniform Bar Examination (UBE), and jurisdictions that administer the UBE weight the MBE component 

at 50%. 

The  purpose  of  the  MBE  is  to  assess  the  extent  to  which  an  examinee  can  apply  fundamental  legal 
principles and legal reasoning to analyze given fact patterns. MBE questions are developed by seven 
MBE  drafting  committees,  one  for  each  subject  covered  on  the  MBE.  The  drafting  committees  are 
composed of a mix of the following experts: law professors, practicing attorneys, and judges. 

ii 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions 

The back cover of each MBE booklet contains the following instructions: 

This booklet is part of the MBE. You will be instructed when to begin and when to stop this 
part of the test. Do not break the seal on this booklet until you are told to do so. When you 
begin, be sure that the question numbers on your answer sheet match the question numbers 
in your test booklet. 

Your score will be based on the number of questions you answer correctly. It is therefore to 
your advantage to answer as many questions as you can. Use your time effectively. Do not 
hurry, but work steadily and as quickly as you can without sacrificing accuracy. If a question 
seems too difficult, go on to the next one. 

Each of the questions is followed by four suggested answers. Choose the best of the stated 
alternatives. YOU ARE  TO  INDICATE  YOUR ANSWERS  TO ALL  QUESTIONS  ON 
THE  SEPARATE ANSWER  SHEET.  No  credit  will  be  given  for  anything  written  in  the 
test booklet. After you have decided which of the suggested answers you want to give for a 
question, blacken the corresponding circle on the answer sheet. 

Give only one answer to each question; multiple answers will not be counted. If you wish to 
change an answer, erase your first mark completely and mark your new choice. 

Answer all questions according to generally accepted fundamental legal principles. Unless 
otherwise indicated in the question, assume that 

• 

• 

• 

• 

survival actions and claims for wrongful death are available; 

joint  and  several  liability,  with  pure  comparative  negligence,  is  the  relevant 
rule; 

the  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence,  the  Federal  Rules  of  Civil  Procedure,  and 
the  Official  Text  of Articles  1  and  2  of  the  Uniform  Commercial  Code  are 
applicable; and 

the terms “Constitution,” “constitutional,” and “unconstitutional” refer to the 
federal Constitution. 

Other than the above, assume that there is no applicable statute unless otherwise noted in 
the question. 

iii 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Procedure Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: Examinees are to assume the application of (1) the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as 
currently in effect and (2) the sections of Title 28 of the U.S. Code pertaining to trial and appellate 
jurisdiction, venue, and transfer. Approximately two-thirds of the Civil Procedure questions on the 
MBE will be based on categories I, III, and V, and approximately one-third will be based on the 
remaining categories—II, IV, VI, and VII. 

I. 

Jurisdiction and venue 

A.  Federal subject-matter jurisdiction (federal question, diversity, supplemental, and 

removal) 

B.  Personal jurisdiction 

C.  Service of process and notice 

D.  Venue, forum non conveniens, and transfer 

II.  Law applied by federal courts 

A.  State law in federal court 

B.  Federal common law 

III.  Pretrial procedures 

A.  Preliminary injunctions and temporary restraining orders 

B.  Pleadings and amended and supplemental pleadings 

C.  Rule 11 

D. 

Joinder of parties and claims (including class actions) 

E.  Discovery (including e-discovery), disclosure, and sanctions 

F.  Adjudication without a trial 

G.  Pretrial conference and order 

IV.  Jury trials 

A.  Right to jury trial 

B.  Selection and composition of juries 

C.  Requests for and objections to jury instructions 

V.  Motions 

A.  Pretrial motions, including motions addressed to face of pleadings, motions to 

dismiss, and summary judgment motions 

B.  Motions for judgments as a matter of law (directed verdicts and judgments 

notwithstanding the verdict) 

C.  Posttrial motions, including motions for relief from judgment and for new trial 

2 

	
 
 
Civil Procedure Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

VI.  Verdicts and judgments 

A.  Defaults and dismissals 

B. 

C. 

Jury verdicts—types and challenges 

Judicial findings and conclusions 

D.  Effect; claim and issue preclusion 

VII.  Appealability and review 

A.  Availability of interlocutory review 

B.  Final judgment rule 

C.  Scope of review for judge and jury 

3 

	
 
	
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A university student, a citizen of State A, believes 
that her university violated federal law when 
it eliminated funding for the women’s varsity 
volleyball team. She has sued the university, a 
nonprofit corporation located and incorporated in 
State B, and the university’s athletic director, a 
citizen of State B, in federal court in State B. 

What is the best method of serving the defendants? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

Service as required by State B’s rules of 
civil procedure. 

Service by a process server’s leaving 
copies of the summons and complaint with 
secretaries in the respective offices of the 
athletic director and the university president. 

Service by emailing copies of the summons 
and complaint to the athletic director and the 
university president. 

(D) 

Service by the student herself on the athletic 
director and the university president. 

A railroad worker’s widow brought a wrongful 
death action in federal court against the railroad, 
claiming that its negligence had caused her 
husband’s death. At trial, the widow offered the 
testimony of a coworker of the husband. The 
coworker testified that he had seen the rail car on 
which the husband was riding slow down and the 
cars behind it gain speed. The coworker also stated 
that he later heard a loud crash, but did not turn 
around to look because loud noises were common 
in the yard. Three other railroad employees testified 
that no collision had occurred. 

At the close of the evidence, the railroad moved for 
judgment as a matter of law, which was denied, and 
the case was submitted to the jury. The jury returned 
a verdict for the widow. 

The railroad has made a renewed motion for 
judgment as a matter of law. 

What standard should the court apply to determine 
how to rule on the motion? 

(A)  Whether the evidence revealed a genuine 

dispute of material fact supporting the 
widow’s claim. 

(B)  Whether the verdict is against the weight of 

the evidence. 

(C)  Whether the widow presented a scintilla of 

evidence to support the verdict. 

(D)  Whether there is substantial evidence in the 

record to support the verdict, resolving all 
disputed issues in the widow’s favor. 

5 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A manufacturer sued a buyer in federal court for 
failing to make timely payments under the parties’ 
sales contract. The case was tried to the court solely 
on documentary evidence. Immediately after the 
close of the evidence, the judge announced from the 
bench, “Judgment shall be entered for the 
manufacturer,” and judgment was so entered. The 
buyer has appealed the judgment. 

A patient domiciled in State A sued a surgeon 
domiciled in State B in a federal court in State A, 
alleging claims for malpractice. The surgeon 
moved to dismiss the action for lack of personal 
jurisdiction. The court denied the motion and set 
discovery cutoff and trial dates. 

The surgeon has appealed the denial of the motion. 

What is the buyer’s best argument for persuading 
the appellate court to reverse the judgment? 

Should the appellate court hear the merits of the 
surgeon’s appeal? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

The judgment is clearly erroneous because it 
was based solely on documentary evidence. 

(A)  No, because the appellate court lacks 
jurisdiction over the appeal. 

The manufacturer was required to file 
proposed findings and conclusions before 
the trial court ruled. 

The trial court erred because it announced 
the judgment without giving the parties an 
opportunity to submit proposed findings and 
conclusions. 

(B)  No, because the district court’s decision on 

jurisdiction is final. 

(C)  Yes, because a contrary appellate decision 

could terminate the action. 

(D)  Yes, because the surgeon’s personal- 

jurisdiction challenge raises a constitutional 
question. 

(D) 

The trial court erred by not providing 
findings and conclusions. 

Civil Procedure 

6 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5. 

Question 6. 

The attorney for a plaintiff in an action filed in 
federal district court served the defendant with the 
summons, the complaint, and 25 interrogatories 
asking questions about the defendant’s contentions 
in the case. The interrogatories stated that they were 
to be answered within 30 days after service. 

The defendant is likely to succeed in obtaining a 
protective order on which of the following grounds? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

Interrogatories are only proper to discover 
facts, not contentions. 

Interrogatories may not be served until an 
answer to the complaint is filed. 

Interrogatories may not be served until the 
parties have conferred to arrange for initial 
disclosures and prepare a discovery plan. 

The interrogatories exceed the number 
permitted without permission from the court 
or an agreement between the parties. 

A construction worker sued an insulation 
manufacturer in federal court, claiming that he had 
developed a chronic health condition as a result 
of 20 years of exposure to the manufacturer’s 
insulation at his work sites. The manufacturer 
answered, denying all liability and stating that it 
had never supplied its insulation to the worker’s 
employer. 

The worker’s attorney deposed the manufacturer’s 
president, and the manufacturer’s attorney 
deposed the worker. Immediately thereafter, the 
manufacturer moved for summary judgment on the 
ground that the worker had no evidence showing 
that the insulation had ever been used by the 
worker’s employer. 

What would be the worker’s best response to the 
motion for summary judgment? 

(A)  Argue that more time is needed for 

additional discovery to show the 
manufacturer’s liability, and attach a 
declaration describing the desired discovery. 

(B)  Argue that the motion should be denied, 

because a central issue in the case will be the 
manufacturer’s credibility on the question of 
its distribution of the insulation, and only a 
jury can decide questions of credibility. 

(C)  Argue that the motion should be denied, 
because the manufacturer failed to attach 
any evidence to its motion to show that the 
insulation was not used by the worker’s 
employer. 

(D)  Make a cross-motion for summary judgment 
arguing that the manufacturer has introduced 
no evidence to show that its insulation did 
not harm the worker. 

7 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A small commercial airplane crashed in State A. 
The passengers and pilot, all citizens of State B, 
were killed in the crash. The airline that owned 
and operated the airplane is incorporated and has 
its maintenance facilities and principal place of 
business in State C. 

One day before the statute of limitations on their 
claims would have run, the estates of the pilot and 
each of the passengers filed a wrongful death action 
against the airline in federal court in State A. The 
airline was served one week later and wants to 
prevent the State A federal court from hearing the 
action. 

Which of the following motions is most likely to 
accomplish the airline’s goal? 

(A)  A motion to dismiss the action for improper 

venue. 

(B)  A motion to dismiss the action for lack of 

personal jurisdiction. 

(C)  A motion to dismiss the action under the 
doctrine of forum non conveniens. 

A plaintiff filed an action in federal district court 
and served the defendant with the summons and 
complaint. The defendant moved to dismiss the 
complaint for failure to state a claim. 

Instead of opposing the motion to dismiss, the 
plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the action and 
filed a new action, alleging the same claims but 
also addressing the pleading defects outlined in 
the defendant’s motion to dismiss. The defendant 
then moved to dismiss the second action, and the 
plaintiff again voluntarily dismissed the second 
action instead of filing opposition papers. 

The plaintiff then filed a third action, alleging 
the same claims but also including additional 
allegations that were responsive to the defendant’s 
second motion. The defendant has moved to dismiss 
the third action; the plaintiff opposes the motion. 

Is the court likely to grant the defendant’s motion? 

(A)  No, because the plaintiff has promptly and 
diligently attempted to address the pleading 
defects. 

(D)  A motion to transfer the action to a federal 

(B)  No, because the plaintiff voluntarily 

court in State C. 

dismissed each previous action before the 
defendant filed an answer or moved for 
summary judgment. 

(C)  Yes, because the plaintiff failed to seek a 
court order dismissing the second action. 

(D)  Yes, because the plaintiff’s previously 

dismissed actions asserting the same claims 
operate as an adjudication on the merits. 

Civil Procedure 

8 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A retailer brought a federal diversity action against 
a wholesaler, alleging breach of contract and 
fraudulent misrepresentation. After the parties 
presented their evidence at trial, the court instructed 
the jury on the law. Neither party filed a motion for 
judgment as a matter of law before the case went to 
the jury. 

The jury found for the retailer on both claims.  
After the court entered judgment on the verdict, the 
wholesaler moved for a new trial and for judgment 
as a matter of law, arguing that the evidence was 
insufficient to support the jury verdict on either 
claim. The court acknowledged that there had been 
problems with some of the evidence, but it denied 
the motions. The wholesaler appealed, challenging 
the sufficiency of the evidence. 

Should the appellate court consider the wholesaler’s 
challenge? 

(A)  No, because a determination of the 

sufficiency of the evidence is solely within 
the jury’s province. 

(B)  No, because the wholesaler did not raise 
the sufficiency-of-the-evidence issue in 
a motion for judgment as a matter of law 
before the case went to the jury. 

(C)  Yes, because the challenge was raised 

and ruled on by the trial court before the 
wholesaler filed the appeal. 

(D)  Yes, because, as the trial court 

acknowledged, the wholesaler has strong 
arguments on the challenge. 

An individual investor purchased stock through a 
company’s stock offering. When the price of the 
stock plummeted, the investor sued the company in 
a state court in State A, claiming that the company’s 
offering materials had fraudulently induced him to 
purchase the stock and seeking $25,000 in damages. 

A university that had purchased the company’s  
stock through the same offering sued the company 
in federal court in State B, claiming that the offering 
materials violated federal securities laws and 
seeking $1 million in damages. 

The individual investor’s suit proceeded to trial. The 
state court ruled that the company’s offering 
materials contained false information and awarded 
the investor a $25,000 judgment. The university 
immediately moved for partial summary judgment 
in its federal action against the company, arguing 
that the state court judgment bound the federal court 
on the issue of whether the company’s offering 
materials contained false information. 

Neither State A nor State B permits nonmutual issue 
preclusion. 

Should the court grant the university’s motion? 

(A)  No, because State A does not permit 
nonmutual issue preclusion. 

(B)  No, because the federal court sits in a 

state that does not permit nonmutual issue 
preclusion. 

(C)  Yes, because federal law permits nonmutual 

issue preclusion. 

(D)  Yes, because the issue of whether the 

materials contained false information was 
actually litigated and necessarily decided. 

9 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

A worker was injured when a machine he was using 
on the job malfunctioned. The worker brought a 
federal diversity action against both the machine’s 
manufacturer and the company responsible for 
the machine’s maintenance. At trial, the worker 
submitted a proposed jury instruction on negligence. 
The court did not accept the proposed instruction 
and instead gave a negligence instruction that the 
worker’s attorney believed was less favorable and 
legally incorrect. The attorney did not object to the 
negligence instruction before it was given. The jury 
returned a verdict for the defendants. 

The worker has moved for a new trial on the ground 
that the court’s negligence instruction was improper. 

What argument has the best chance of persuading 
the court to grant the motion? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

Issues of law can be raised at any time. 

The court’s negligence instruction was 
incorrect and the worker’s objection to 
it was preserved when he submitted his 
proposed negligence instruction. 

The court’s negligence instruction was plain 
error that affected the worker’s substantial 
rights. 

The need for a formal objection to a judicial 
ruling in order to preserve an argument has 
been eliminated in the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure. 

A retailer brought a federal diversity action against 
an architect, alleging fraudulent misrepresentations 
in the architect’s design of the retailer’s store. The 
complaint did not include a jury demand. 

The architect timely moved to dismiss the action  
for failure to state a claim; he did not file an answer. 
Twenty days after being served with the motion, the 
retailer amended the complaint to add a defamation 
claim based on the architect’s recent statements 
about the retailer in a local newspaper. In the 
amended complaint, the retailer demanded a jury 
trial on both claims. 

Has the retailer properly demanded a jury trial? 

(A)  No, because the retailer filed the demand 

more than 14 days after service of the 
motion to dismiss. 

(B)  No, because the retailer filed the demand 

more than 14 days after service of the 
original complaint. 

(C)  Yes, but on the defamation claim only, 
because the original complaint did not 
contain a jury demand. 

(D)  Yes, on both claims, because the architect 

had not answered the original complaint 
when the retailer filed the amended 
complaint with the jury demand. 

Civil Procedure 

10 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

A pedestrian domiciled in State A was crossing a 
street in State B when he was hit by a car driven by 
a citizen of a foreign country. Both the pedestrian 
and the driver suffered injuries. 

A football team entered into a 10-year lease with 
a city for use of the city’s athletic stadium. Five 
years into the lease, the team threatened to leave the 
stadium and move to another city. 

The pedestrian filed a negligence action against the 
driver in a federal district court in State B, seeking 
$100,000 in damages. The driver believes that the 
pedestrian was crossing the street illegally and is 
therefore responsible for the accident. The driver 
seeks an attorney’s advice on how best to respond 
to the action. Assume that State B is a contributory 
negligence state. 

The city sued the team in federal court, seeking  
a permanent injunction to prevent the team from 
breaching its lease and leaving. In its answer, the 
team included a counterclaim seeking $10 million in 
damages for losses caused by the city’s alleged 
failure to properly maintain the stadium, as the lease 
required. The team demanded a jury trial on the 
counterclaim. 

How should the attorney advise the driver to 
respond? 

(A) 

(B) 

File an answer raising the affirmative 
defense of contributory negligence and 
asserting a counterclaim for negligence, 
seeking damages for the driver’s injuries. 

File an answer raising the affirmative 
defense of contributory negligence and 
move for judgment on the pleadings. 

(C)  Move to dismiss for lack of personal 

jurisdiction, because the driver is not a 
citizen of State B. 

(D)  Move to dismiss for lack of subject-matter 

jurisdiction, because the driver is not a U.S. 
citizen. 

The city moved to try its claim for a permanent 
injunction before the trial on the team’s 
counterclaim. The team objected and moved that the 
jury trial of its counterclaim be held before the trial 
of the city’s injunction claim. 

How should the court rule on the parties’ motions? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The court should first hold a jury trial of the 
team’s counterclaim, and then a nonjury trial 
of the issues remaining in the city’s claim. 

The court should first hold a nonjury trial 
of the city’s claim without giving binding 
effect to its findings or conclusions in the 
later jury trial of the team’s counterclaim. 

The court should first hold a nonjury trial of 
the city’s claim, and then a jury trial of the 
issues remaining in the team’s counterclaim. 

The court should schedule a jury trial 
of both the city’s claim and the team’s 
counterclaim. 

11 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A patient filed a medical malpractice action against 
a hospital in federal court, alleging that hospital 
staff had failed to diagnose the patient’s cancer 
based on an X-ray that had been taken at the 
hospital. The patient’s cancer was diagnosed six 
months later, based on the same X-ray, when the 
patient sought a second opinion. In the interim, the 
cancer had spread. 

Fact and expert discovery have been completed in 
the action. The hospital has moved for summary 
judgment. In support of its motion, the hospital has 
submitted a memorandum identifying facts that 
it claims are not in dispute. It has also cited and 
attached supporting exhibits, including a report 
from the hospital’s radiologist, who found no signs 
of cancer on the X-ray. 

What is the best way for the patient to raise a 
genuine dispute of material fact? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

Submit a report from the patient’s expert 
radiologist contradicting the findings in the 
report of the hospital’s radiologist. 

Submit an affidavit from the patient’s 
attorney detailing his conversations with the 
patient’s expert radiologist. 

Submit an affidavit from the patient’s expert 
radiologist with findings that contradict the 
report of the hospital’s radiologist. 

Submit the patient’s medical records 
showing the patient’s current cancer 
diagnosis. 

A shop owner domiciled in State A sued a 
distributor in a federal district court in State A 
for breach of a contract. The shop owner sought 
$100,000 in damages for allegedly defective  
goods that the distributor had provided under the 
contract. The distributor is incorporated in State B, 
with its principal place of business in State C. The 
distributor brought in as a third-party defendant the 
wholesaler that had provided the goods to 
the distributor, alleging that the wholesaler had a 
duty to indemnify the distributor for any damages 
recovered by the shop owner. The wholesaler is 
incorporated in State B, with its principal place of 
business in State A. 

The wholesaler has asserted a $60,000 counterclaim 
against the distributor for payment for the goods at 
issue, and the distributor has moved to dismiss the 
counterclaim for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. 

Should the motion to dismiss be granted? 

(A)  No, because the wholesaler’s and the 

distributor’s principal places of business are 
diverse. 

(B)  No, because there is supplemental 
jurisdiction over the wholesaler’s 
counterclaim. 

(C)  Yes, because there is no diversity of 

citizenship between the distributor and the 
wholesaler. 

(D)  Yes, because there is no diversity of 

citizenship between the shop owner and the 
wholesaler. 

Civil Procedure 

12 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A company incorporated and headquartered in 
State A sued a plumber domiciled in State B in a 
federal court in State A, alleging that the plumber 
had negligently installed pipes in a manner that 
resulted in $250,000 in damage to the company’s 
headquarters building. In response to the complaint, 
the plumber filed a motion to dismiss for lack of 
personal jurisdiction. The court denied the motion. 
Thereafter, the plumber did not file an answer or 
any other response to the company’s action. 

Sixty days after the court’s order denying the motion 
to dismiss, the company asked the clerk to enter 
default, and the clerk did so. The company applied 
to the court for the entry of a default            
judgment and notified the plumber three days before 
the default judgment hearing. After an ex parte 
hearing in which the court received evidence on 
the damages amount, the court entered a default 
judgment for the full amount sought. Ten days later, 
the plumber filed a motion to set aside the default 
judgment. 

Is the court likely to grant the plumber’s motion? 

(A)  No, because the court could fix the amount 
of damages even without hearing the 
plumber’s evidence. 

(B)  No, because the plumber failed to plead or 

otherwise defend against the company’s 
action. 

(C)  Yes, because the plumber was not given 

adequate notice of the hearing on the 
company’s application for the entry of a 
default judgment. 

(D)  Yes, because the State A federal court lacked 

personal jurisdiction over the plumber as a 
State B citizen. 

A bakery incorporated and headquartered in  
State A had a dispute with a mill incorporated and 
headquartered in State B over the quality of      
the flour the mill had delivered to the bakery. The 
bakery sued the mill in a federal court in State A for 
breach of contract, seeking $100,000 in damages. 

The contract between the bakery and the mill 
contained a clause designating State B courts as the 
sole venue for litigating disputes arising under the 
contract. Under precedent of the highest court in 
State A, forum-selection clauses are unenforceable 
as against public policy; under U.S. Supreme Court 
precedent, such clauses are enforceable. 

The mill has moved to transfer the case to a federal 
court in State B, citing the forum-selection clause in 
the parties’ contract and asserting the facts that the 
flour was produced in State B and that the majority 
of likely witnesses are in State B. 

Is the court likely to grant the mill’s motion? 

(A)  No, because State A law treats forum- 

selection clauses as unenforceable. 

(B)  No, because the mill should have instead 

filed a motion to dismiss for improper 
venue. 

(C)  Yes, because federal common law makes the 
forum-selection clause controlling. 

(D)  Yes, because federal law governs transfers 
of venue, and it would be more convenient 
for the witnesses and parties to litigate the 
claim in State B. 

13 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

Two days before his home was to be sold at a 
foreclosure sale, a homeowner obtained a temporary 
restraining order (TRO) in federal court that 
prevented his lender from proceeding with the 
sale for 14 days or until a preliminary injunction 
hearing could take place, whichever was sooner. 
When a preliminary injunction hearing could not 
be scheduled within the original 14-day period, the 
court extended the TRO for another 30 days. 

The lender appealed the court’s order extending the 
TRO. The homeowner has moved to dismiss the 
appeal. 

Is the appellate court likely to dismiss the appeal? 

(A)  No, because a TRO is immediately 

appealable. 

(B)  No, because the 30-day extension makes the 
TRO equivalent to a preliminary injunction 
and therefore appealable. 

A man filed a federal diversity action against a 
bus company, seeking damages for injuries he had 
sustained in an accident while riding a bus owned 
by the company. The man demanded a jury trial. 

After the parties’ attorneys examined the prospective 
jurors and exercised their challenges,                     
six jurors and two alternate jurors were chosen. 
During the trial, two jurors became ill and were 
replaced by the alternate jurors. At the conclusion of 
the trial, a third juror also became ill, and the court 
excused that juror. 

The parties’ attorneys stipulated to the return of 
a verdict from a five-person jury. The jury then 
deliberated and returned a verdict for the company. 
The man timely filed a motion for a new trial, 
arguing that the five-person jury was not large 
enough to return a verdict. 

Should the court grant the motion? 

(C)  Yes, because a TRO is not appealable under 

(A)  No, because the court properly excused the 

the interlocutory appeals statute. 

three jurors due to illness. 

(D)  Yes, because there is no final judgment from 

(B)  No, because the parties stipulated to a 

which an appeal may be taken. 

verdict from a jury of fewer than six jurors. 

(C)  Yes, because there must be at least six jurors 

on a federal civil jury. 

(D)  Yes, because there must be at least 12 jurors 

on a federal civil jury. 

Civil Procedure 

14 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

A plaintiff filed a tort action in state court but then 
failed to prosecute the action. The defendant moved 
to dismiss the action, and the court granted the 
motion in an order that stated: “The defendant’s 
motion to dismiss is granted, and this action is 
dismissed with prejudice.” The court accordingly 
entered judgment for the defendant. 

The plaintiff then filed the same claim against 
the defendant in federal court, invoking diversity 
jurisdiction. The defendant has asserted the defense 
of res judicata (claim preclusion) in its answer. 

Should the federal court give preclusive effect to the 
state court judgment? 

(A)  No, because the judgment was entered by a 

state court, not a federal court. 

(B)  No, because the state court did not rule on 

the merits in its dismissal. 

(C)  Yes, because a dismissal with prejudice 

operates as a judgment on the merits. 

(D)  Yes, because a judgment for failure to 

prosecute operates as a judgment on the 
merits under the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure. 

A plaintiff sued a defendant in federal court for 
injuries arising out of an accident involving the 
parties. The plaintiff alleged and presented evidence 
at trial demonstrating that her injuries had left her 
legs permanently paralyzed. The jury found in 
favor of the plaintiff and awarded her $5 million 
in damages. Two months after the court entered 
judgment, the defendant was given a videotape 
made that day showing the plaintiff jogging with 
her doctor. 

What is the best way for the defendant to seek relief 
from the judgment? 

(A)  Move for a new trial or in the alternative for 
remittitur to reduce the award in light of the 
shortened duration of the plaintiff’s injuries. 

(B)  Move for relief from the judgment on the 

ground that the judgment was based on the 
jury’s mistaken belief that the plaintiff’s 
injuries would be permanent. 

(C)  Move for relief from the judgment on the 

ground that the plaintiff committed a fraud 
in obtaining damages for permanent injuries. 

(D)  Move for relief from the judgment on  

the ground that there is newly discovered 
evidence that the plaintiff’s injuries were not 
permanent. 

15 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A woman sued her former employer in state court, 
asserting age and sex discrimination claims under 
both state and federal law. The woman’s attorney 
had recently been embarrassed in court by the 
judge to whom the case was assigned. Wishing 
to avoid difficulties with the judge, the woman’s 
attorney promptly removed the case to federal court 
on the basis of federal-question jurisdiction. The 
employer’s attorney has timely moved to remand. 

How is the federal court likely to proceed? 

(A)  Remand the entire case. 

(B) 

Remand the state claims but keep the federal 
claims. 

(C)  Retain the case to avoid the risk of bias and 

impropriety in having it proceed before a 
judge who has shown clear hostility toward 
the woman’s attorney. 

(D)  Retain the case, because it was timely 

removed and the woman alleges federal 
claims. 

A construction contractor brought a breach of 
contract claim in federal court against a homeowner 
who had hired the contractor to build an apartment 
over an existing garage. The action turned on 
the scope of the work covered by the contract. 
The contractor and the homeowner were the only 
witnesses at the bench trial, and they strongly 
disagreed about the scope of the work. At the end 
of the trial, the judge stated findings of fact on the 
record but never issued a written opinion. Neither 
party objected to the findings. The judge found 
in favor of the homeowner, and the contractor 
appealed. 

Is the appellate court likely to overturn the findings? 

(A)  No, because the appellate court must give 

due regard to the trial judge’s opportunity to 
determine witness credibility. 

(B)  No, because the contractor failed to object to 

the findings when the judge stated them in 
open court. 

(C)  Yes, because a judge must set forth findings 
of fact in a written opinion or memorandum 
of decision. 

(D)  Yes, because there were disputed issues of 

fact at trial. 

Civil Procedure 

16 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A man who owned riverfront property sued an 
upstream factory in federal court for polluting the 
river, seeking injunctive relief and $250,000 in 
damages. The factory moved for summary judgment 
on the ground of res judicata (claim preclusion), 
arguing that the man had sued on and lost an 
identical claim one year before. The court denied the 
motion. 

The factory has asked its attorney’s advice as 
to whether it may appeal the court’s denial of 
summary judgment in order to avoid an expensive 
trial. 

What advice should the attorney give? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The factory may appeal if the appellate court 
finds that the case involves a controlling 
question of law upon which the courts are 
divided. 

The factory may appeal if the trial court 
certifies that there is no just reason for delay. 

The factory may not appeal until after a trial 
on the merits or other disposition resulting 
in a final judgment. 

The factory may not appeal, because the 
denial of summary judgment is a collateral 
order. 

A car manufacturer produced a car that was  
sold nationwide. Problems with the car’s brakes 
allegedly caused several accidents and injuries. 
Two individual buyers of the car each filed a class 
action, in different states, against the manufacturer, 
asserting the same products liability claims on 
behalf of all buyers nationwide. One class action 
was filed in federal court and the other was filed in 
state court. 

The parties in the federal action reached a court- 
approved settlement, and the court entered judgment 
dismissing the action with prejudice. 

The manufacturer’s attorney has moved to dismiss 
the state court action on the basis of res judicata 
(claim preclusion). 

Should the state court look to federal or state law to 
decide the effect of the judgment? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

Federal law, because the judgment was 
entered in federal court. 

Federal law, because the judgment was the 
result of a nationwide action governed by 
the federal class action rule. 

State law, because the judgment is being 
asserted in a state court. 

State law, because there is no general federal 
common law and preclusion is a common 
law doctrine. 

17 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

A mail clerk domiciled in State A slipped and fell 
on ice that had formed near the loading dock of 
the building in State B where the clerk’s State B 
employer leased space for its headquarters. The 
building was owned and operated by a State C 
corporation. As a result of the fall, the clerk was 
injured and the employer’s expensive computer he 
was carrying was badly damaged. 

The clerk sued the building owner for negligence in 
a federal district court in State B, seeking $100,000 
in personal-injury damages. The employer has filed 
a timely motion to intervene, asserting an $80,000 
negligence claim against the building owner for the 
damage to its computer. 

Is the court likely to grant the employer’s motion to 
intervene? 

A plaintiff domiciled in State A brought a wrongful 
death action in a federal court in State A against a 
State B parent corporation and one of its foreign 
subsidiaries. The plaintiff alleged that a tire 
manufactured by the subsidiary in Europe had 
caused his wife’s death in an automobile accident in 
Europe. 

The parent corporation does significant business 
throughout the United States, including in State A. 
The subsidiary conducts no business and has 
no employees or bank accounts in State A. The 
subsidiary manufactures its tires for the European 
market, but 2% of its tires are distributed in State A 
by the parent corporation. The subsidiary has 
moved to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction. 

Should the court grant the subsidiary’s motion? 

(A)  No, because although the employer has an 
interest in the clerk’s action, that interest is 
not likely to be impaired in the employer’s 
absence. 

(B)  No, because the clerk chose not to join the 

employer as a co-plaintiff in his action. 

(A)  No, because 2% of the subsidiary’s tires 

entered State A through the stream of 
commerce. 

(B)  No, because of the general personal 

jurisdiction established over the parent 
corporation. 

(C)  Yes, because the employer is an 

(C)  Yes, because the accident did not occur in 

indispensable party. 

the United States. 

(D)  Yes, because the employer’s claim shares 

(D)  Yes, because the subsidiary lacks 

common questions of law and fact with the 
clerk’s action. 

continuous, systematic, and substantial 
contacts with State A. 

Civil Procedure 

18 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A purchaser filed a federal diversity action against 
a seller, alleging breach of contract. The seller 
answered the complaint and included as a separate 
defense an allegation that the purchaser had brought 
and lost a similar contract claim against a different 
seller three years earlier, and that this history 
represented a pattern of filing frivolous lawsuits. 
The purchaser believes that the earlier lawsuit was 
factually completely different from the current one 
and is therefore irrelevant. 

What is the purchaser’s best response to the seller’s 
answer? 

(A) 

File a reply that includes a denial of the 
separate defense. 

(B)  Move for sanctions against the seller for 

asserting a frivolous defense. 

(C)  Move to amend the complaint to add 

allegations about the differences between the 
lawsuits. 

(D)  Move to strike the separate defense as 

irrelevant. 

Before the close of evidence in a federal negligence 
trial, the defendant submitted a proposed jury 
instruction on contributory negligence. Before 
instructing the jury, the judge informed the parties 
of the instructions she would give, which did not 
include the defendant’s contributory negligence 
instruction or any instruction on contributory 
negligence. Neither party objected, either then or 
after the judge had given the instructions. The jury 
returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and the judge 
entered judgment on the verdict. 

The defendant would like to appeal the verdict on 
the ground that the judge should have instructed the 
jury on contributory negligence. 

Has the defendant preserved the issue for appeal? 

(A)  No, because the defendant failed to object 
after the judge gave the instructions to the 
jury. 

(B)  No, because the defendant failed to object 
after the judge informed the parties of the 
instructions she would give. 

(C)  Yes, because the defendant submitted 
a proposed instruction on contributory 
negligence. 

(D)  Yes, because the judge’s failure to give 
the defendant’s contributory negligence 
instruction amounted to a ruling on the 
instruction. 

19 

Civil Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Answer Key 

1.   D 

2.   A 

3.   D 

4.   A 

5.   C 

6.   A 

7.   D 

8.   D 

9.   B 

10.   A 

11.   C 

12.   D 

13.   A 

14.   A 

15.   C 

16.   B 

17.   C 

18.   D 

19.   B 

20.   B 

21.   C 

22.   C 

23.   A 

24.   A 

25.   C 

26.   A 

27.   D 

28.   D 

29.   D 

30.   B 

Civil Procedure 

20 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constitutional Law 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constitutional Law Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: The terms “Constitution,” “constitutional,” and “unconstitutional” refer to the federal 
Constitution unless indicated otherwise. Approximately half of the Constitutional Law questions 
on the MBE will be based on category IV, and approximately half will be based on the remaining 
categories—I, II, and III. 

I. 

The nature of judicial review 

A.  Organization and relationship of state and federal courts in a federal system 

B. 

Jurisdiction 

1.  Congressional power to define and limit 

2. 

The Eleventh Amendment and state sovereign immunity 

C. 

Judicial review in operation 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The “case or controversy” requirement, including the prohibition on advisory 
opinions, standing, ripeness, and mootness 

The “adequate and independent state ground” 

Political questions and justiciability 

II.  The separation of powers 

A.  The powers of Congress 

1.  Commerce, taxing, and spending powers 

2.  War, defense, and foreign affairs powers 

3. 

Power to enforce the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments 

4.  Other powers 

B.  The powers of the president 

1.  As chief executive, including the “take care” clause 

2.  As commander in chief 

3. 

Treaty and foreign affairs powers 

4.  Appointment and removal of officials 

C.  Federal interbranch relationships 

1.  Congressional limits on the executive 

2. 

The presentment requirement and the president’s power to veto or to withhold 
action 

3.  Nondelegation doctrine 

4. 

Executive, legislative, and judicial immunities 

III.  The relation of nation and states in a federal system 

A. 

Intergovernmental immunities 

1. 

2. 

Federal immunity from state law 

State immunity from federal law, including the 10th Amendment 

22 

	
 
 
Constitutional Law Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

B.  Federalism-based limits on state authority 

1.  Negative implications of the commerce clause 

2. 

Supremacy clause and preemption 

3.  Authorization of otherwise invalid state action 

IV. 

Individual rights 

A.  State action 

B.  Due process 

1. 

Substantive due process 

a. 

Fundamental rights 

b.  Other rights and interests 

2. 

Procedural due process 

C.  Equal protection 

1. 

Fundamental rights 

2.  Classifications subject to heightened scrutiny 

3.  Rational basis review 

D.  Takings 

E.  Other protections, including the privileges and immunities clauses, the contracts clause, 

unconstitutional conditions, bills of attainder, and ex post facto laws 

F. 

First Amendment freedoms 

1. 

Freedom of religion and separation of church and state 

a. 

b. 

Free exercise 

Establishment 

2. 

Freedom of expression 

a.  Content-based regulation of protected expression 

b.  Content-neutral regulation of protected expression 

c.  Regulation of unprotected expression 

d.  Regulation of commercial speech 

e.  Regulation of, or impositions upon, public school students, public 

employment, licenses, or benefits based upon exercise of expressive or 
associational rights 

f. 

g. 

Regulation of expressive conduct 

Prior restraint, vagueness, and overbreadth 

3. 

4. 

Freedom of the press 

Freedom of association 

23 

	
 
	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A federal statute provides states with funds for  
child welfare programs, subject to the condition that 
such programs be administered in accordance with 
federal standards. The United States sued a state in 
federal court for injunctive relief, arguing that the 
state’s child welfare programs, which were funded 
in part by federal funds disbursed under this statute, 
failed to comply with federal standards. The state 
has moved to dismiss the action. 

Is the court likely to dismiss the action? 

(A)  No, because Congress can place any 

condition on the receipt of federal funds. 

(B)  No, because the Eleventh Amendment does 
not bar actions brought by the United States. 

(C)  Yes, because the Eleventh Amendment bars 
actions against a state in federal court. 

(D)  Yes, because the protection of child welfare 

is reserved to the states. 

A police officer was employed on a city’s police 
force for 10 years. When the officer accepted the 
job, the city’s employee benefit plan provided a 
death benefit to the spouse of any employee who 
died as a result of any job-related injury. Last year, 
the city amended its employee benefit plan to deny 
its death benefit in cases where the death “was 
caused by the employee’s refusal to accept, for any 
reason other than its excessive risk to life or health, 
reasonably available medical care prescribed by a 
physician.” 

After this amendment took effect, the officer was 
shot while on duty. Because of a sincerely held 
religious belief, the officer refused to allow a 
prescribed blood transfusion and, as a result, died 
from loss of blood. When the officer’s spouse 
applied for the death benefit, the city denied the 
application on the basis of the amendment to the 
employee benefit plan. 

The officer’s spouse has challenged the amendment, 
claiming that, as applied to the officer, it violated 
the officer’s constitutional right to the free exercise 
of religion. 

Is the court likely to find the amendment to the 
employee benefit plan constitutional as applied to 
the officer? 

(A)  No, because it effectively discriminates 

against a religious practice. 

(B)  No, because it violates the vested contractual 

rights of city employees who were hired 
before the amendment took effect. 

(C)  Yes, because it does not single out religious 

reasons for the denial of benefits and is a 
reasonable limitation on the award of such 
benefits. 

(D)  Yes, because it imposes a condition only 

on the award of a government benefit and 
does not impose a penalty on an individual’s 
conduct. 

25 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A state initiated a criminal prosecution against 
the owner of a video store for selling a video that 
consisted entirely of pictures of nude sunbathers 
on a beach in a foreign country where nude public 
sunbathing is common. The state charged that 
selling the video violated its anti-obscenity law. 
The store owner defended on the ground that the 
prosecution violated his constitutional right to 
freedom of speech. 

Should the store owner prevail in this defense? 

(A)  No, because the store owner is engaged in 
the commercial sale of the video, which is 
not protected by the First and Fourteenth 
Amendments. 

(B)  No, because the video consists entirely of 

portrayals of nudity, appeals to the prurient 
interest of viewers, and lacks serious social 
value as a whole. 

(C)  Yes, because mere portrayals of nudity are 

insufficient to justify a finding that the video 
is obscene as a matter of constitutional law. 

(D)  Yes, because the portrayals of nudity 

occurred outside the United States, and 
therefore the state lacks a compelling 
interest in applying its anti-obscenity law to 
the sale of the video. 

A state law provides for an award of damages 
against anyone who publishes the name of a rape 
victim. Pursuant to that law, a woman sued a local 
newspaper in state court after the newspaper 
identified her as a rape victim. 

The state trial and appellate courts rejected the 
claim, holding that the state law was invalid under 
both the state constitution and the First Amendment 
of the U.S. Constitution. The state supreme court 
affirmed, holding specifically: “We think that this 
well-intentioned law very likely violates the First 
Amendment of the federal Constitution. We need 
not, however, decide that issue, because the law 
assuredly violates our state constitution, which 
provides even greater protection to the right of the 
press to report the news.” The woman petitioned for 
review in the U.S. Supreme Court. 

Is the U.S. Supreme Court likely to review the state 
supreme court judgment? 

(A)  No, because the First Amendment prohibits 

the imposition of liability for the publication 
of truthful information. 

(B)  No, because the judgment of the state 

supreme court rests upon an adequate and 
independent state-law ground. 

(C)  Yes, because the supremacy clause does not 

permit a state to create rights greater than 
those conferred by the federal Constitution. 

(D)  Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court’s 

appellate jurisdiction extends to cases 
arising under federal law. 

Constitutional Law 

26 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5. 

Question 6. 

On the basis of scientific studies showing a causal 
relationship between the consumption of “red meat” 
(principally beef ) and certain forms of cancer, a 
federal statute prohibits all commercial advertising 
of red meat products. The statute does not, however, 
restrict the sale of red meat products. Producers of 
red meat have challenged the statute as a violation 
of their free speech rights protected by the First 
Amendment. 

Is the court likely to find the statute constitutional? 

(A)  No, because it does not serve a substantial 

government interest. 

(B)  No, because it is more extensive than 

necessary to serve the government interest in 
preventing certain cancers. 

(C)  Yes, because it does not affect speech 

protected by the First Amendment. 

(D)  Yes, because it serves a legitimate 

government interest in protecting public 
health. 

A federal statute authorizes a federal agency to issue 
rules requiring that state legislatures adopt laws 
of limited duration to reduce water pollution from 
gasoline-powered boat motors. The purpose of these 
rules is to assist the agency in attaining the clean 
water standards required by the statute. 

After the agency issued such rules, several states 
filed an action challenging the rules on the sole 
ground that they are unconstitutional. 

Should the court uphold the constitutionality of the 
agency’s rules? 

(A)  No, because the federal government may 
not compel a state legislature to enact into 
state law a federally mandated regulatory 
program. 

(B)  No, because the Tenth Amendment grants 

states immunity from all direct federal 
regulation. 

(C)  Yes, because the rules serve an important 

purpose, and the requirements they impose 
on the states are only temporary and do not 
excessively interfere with the functioning of 
the state governments. 

(D)  Yes, because the supremacy clause of 

Article VI requires states to enforce 
federal law. 

27 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A state generally provides funding for the medical 
care of its residents who cannot afford such 
care. State law, however, prohibits use of this 
state funding for surgery for any person who has 
resided in the state for less than one year, except in 
emergency situations. 

A woman moved to the state two months ago 
seeking permanent employment. Her physician 
recommends non-emergency surgery to treat a 
medical condition. The surgery would qualify for 
state funding if the woman had resided in the state 
for a year. The woman has sued to invalidate the 
state law that prohibits state funding of her surgery. 

Should the woman prevail in her action? 

(A)  No, because the law reasonably conserves 

the state’s limited resources. 

(B)  No, because the law reasonably prevents 

the expenditure of state funds on transient 
nonresidents. 

(C)  Yes, because the law burdens the woman’s 
fundamental right to health care. 

(D)  Yes, because the law burdens the woman’s 

fundamental right to travel. 

Because of a sudden and unanticipated severe 
shortage of heating fuel, the President has ordered 
all offices of federal executive agencies to be open 
only four days per week. The President’s order 
allows an exception to the extent that emergency 
circumstances require different hours of operation 
(as in the case of federal hospitals). When Congress 
enacted the appropriations statute for operating all 
federal executive agencies, its members assumed 
that the offices of those agencies would be open five 
days per week, but Congress did not include such 
a requirement in its appropriations statute or in any 
other statute. 

Is the President’s order constitutional? 

(A)  No, because the heads of the various 

executive agencies have final responsibility 
for the operation of those agencies’ offices. 

(B)  No, because when they passed the statute 
appropriating monies for the operation of 
executive agencies, members of Congress 
assumed that those agencies’ offices would 
be open five days per week. 

(C)  Yes, because the Constitution vests the 

President with plenary authority to direct the 
administration of all federal agencies in any 
manner the President deems expedient. 

(D)  Yes, because the order relates to the 

management of the executive branch and is 
not prohibited by any statute. 

Constitutional Law 

28 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A state owned and operated an electric power 
system, which included a nuclear power plant. 
In order to ensure the availability of sites for the 
disposal of spent fuel from the nuclear power plant, 
the state refused to supply electric power to out- 
of-state purchasers residing in states that would 
not accept spent fuel from the plant for storage or 
disposal. 

Assume that no federal statute applies. 

Which of the following is the strongest argument 
that the state’s action is constitutional? 

(A)  A state may condition the sale to out-of-state 
purchasers of any products produced in that 
state on the willingness of those purchasers 
to bear the fair share of the environmental 
costs of producing those products. 

(B) 

(C) 

The generation of electricity is intrastate by 
nature and therefore subject to plenary state 
control. 

The state itself owns and operates the power 
system, and therefore its refusal to supply 
power to out-of-state purchasers is not 
subject to the negative implications of the 
commerce clause. 

(D) 

The state’s action is rationally related to the 
health, safety, and welfare of state citizens. 

A state criminal law prohibits the publication of any 
description of the details of the execution of any 
prisoner who is sentenced to death by the courts 
of the state. Although the law allows a specified 
number of reporters to observe an execution, 
only the prison warden’s official statement that 
the prisoner was “executed as provided by law” 
at a certain time and date may be published. 
The purpose of the law is to protect the public, 
particularly children, from the details of executions. 

After a particular execution was mishandled, 
causing the prisoner to suffer, a newspaper in the 
state published a story describing the event in detail. 
The story was written by the newspaper’s reporter, 
who was permitted to observe the execution but did 
not promise prison officials that he would report 
only the warden’s official statement. A prosecutor 
subsequently filed charges against the newspaper for 
publishing the details of the execution in violation  
of the state law. 

Is this prosecution constitutional? 

(A)  No, because the prosecution seeks to punish 
the publication of lawfully obtained, 
truthful information about a matter of public 
significance, without adequate justification. 

(B)  No, because the reporter did not promise 
prison officials that he would report only 
the warden’s official statement about the 
execution. 

(C)  Yes, because publication of the details of 

such events might cause psychological 
damage to some children. 

(D)  Yes, because the newspaper should have 

brought an action to test the validity of the 
law before publishing the reporter’s story. 

29 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant in a court of the 
state in which both parties reside. The plaintiff 
alleges only a cause of action arising under a federal 
statute, although state law provides a similar cause 
of action. The federal statute provides that claims 
under the statute can be brought in any court of 
competent jurisdiction. The statute has not yet been 
interpreted by any federal court. 

Should the state court hear the case? 

(A)  No, because cases arising under federal law 

must be decided in federal court. 

(B)  No, because state courts must abstain in 

cases arising under federal law until a 
federal court has decided the federal issue. 

(C)  Yes, because state courts may not 

discriminate against cases arising under 
federal law. 

(D)  Yes, because the parties cannot proceed in 
federal court since there is no diversity of 
citizenship. 

To improve the quality of rental housing within its 
boundaries, a city proposed an ordinance requiring 
all new and existing rental housing units to provide 
at least one full bathroom for each bedroom, 
plumbing and electrical hookups for a washer and 
dryer, and a covered parking space. 

A majority of the owners of existing rental housing 
in the city opposed the ordinance. They argued that 
it would dramatically decrease the number of low-
income rental housing units because owners 
would be unable to raise rents enough to recoup the 
investment required to comply. Without denying 
these contentions, the city enacted the ordinance. A 
plaintiff who owns low-income rental housing has 
sued the city, claiming only that the ordinance is 
unconstitutional on its face. 

Which of the following best states the burden of 
persuasion in this action? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The city must demonstrate that the ordinance 
is necessary to serve a compelling           
state interest, because it adversely affects the 
fundamental right of rental housing owners 
to use their property in the manner they 
deem most economically efficient. 

The city must demonstrate that the 
ordinance is necessary to serve a compelling 
state interest, because it will have a 
substantial and disproportionate negative 
impact on low-income persons. 

The plaintiff must demonstrate that the 
ordinance is not substantially related to an 
important state interest, because it requires 
some owners of rental housing to invest 
money that they will not be able to recoup 
from increased rents. 

The plaintiff must demonstrate that there is 
no rational relationship between the 
ordinance and any legitimate state interest, 
because the ordinance regulates economic 
activity of a type normally presumed to be 
within state regulatory authority. 

Constitutional Law 

30 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

A state law imposes penalties for “any public 
statement containing false or misleading 
information about a service or product.” An 
airline falsely claimed in an advertisement that its 
competitor had an inferior safety record. The claim 
was based on erroneous information, found on the 
website of a nonprofit consumer advocacy group, 
that the airline assumed to be true. The airline was 
charged under the state law for making a false 
statement. No federal statute applies. 

A U.S. senator made a speech on the floor of the 
Senate accusing a low-level purchasing officer 
employed by a federal agency of wasting millions 
of dollars of taxpayer money by purchasing many 
more office supplies than the agency needed. The 
accusation was demonstrably false, and the senator 
was negligent in making it. The purchasing officer 
has sued the senator for defamation, alleging only 
that the accusation was false and that the senator 
was negligent. 

Which of the following best supports the airline in 
a defense based on the First Amendment? 

What is the most appropriate ground for the court to 
dismiss the purchasing officer’s complaint? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

Its statement about the safety record was 
made without malice. 

Its statement about the safety record was 
protected noncommercial speech. 

The state law is a prior restraint. 

The state law is overbroad. 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The federal government is constitutionally 
immune from suit without its consent, and it 
has not consented to suits of this kind. 

The First Amendment guarantees members 
of Congress an unqualified right to speak on 
matters of public concern at any place and 
time without having to fear adverse legal 
consequences. 

The First Amendment protects public 
officials from defamation liability for 
statements made in their official capacity, 
unless the plaintiff alleges and proves that 
the statement was false and uttered with 
actual malice. 

The speech and debate clause of Article I, 
Section 6 of the Constitution wholly 
insulates members of Congress from tort 
liability for statements made on the floor of 
Congress. 

31 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A large privately owned and operated shopping 
mall is open to the public and includes small shops, 
major department stores, and restaurants that 
are located around a pedestrian area. It also has 
several movie theaters, an ice-skating rink, a small 
amusement park, and a branch of the local public 
library. The mall is advertised as “a small town with 
a big-town feel.” 

During shopping hours, a group of 10 protesters 
gathered in the pedestrian area near the entrance to 
a department store to denounce the sale of animal 
fur products in that store. The protesters were 
peaceful and did not interfere with traffic into or 
out of the store, but they carried signs and vocally 
communicated their message to people walking in 
the area. Mall management quickly broke up the 
protest and required the protesters to leave the mall. 
The protesters have sued the mall, claiming that 
their right to freedom of speech guaranteed by the 
First and Fourteenth Amendments was violated. 

Should the protesters prevail? 

(A)  No, because the mall is private property, 

and there was no state action to which the 
freedom of speech guarantees of the First 
and Fourteenth Amendments apply. 

(B)  No, because the prohibition of protests 
adjacent to the entrance of a department 
store during shopping hours is a 
constitutionally proper limitation on the 
time, place, and manner of speech. 

(C)  Yes, because the mall is functionally 

equivalent to a town and, therefore, its 
actions are subject to the Constitution’s 
guarantees of freedom of speech and 
assembly. 

(D)  Yes, because the mall’s restriction on 

the protesters’ speech was broader than 
necessary to ensure proper access to the 
department store. 

A state law requires any lawn mower sold in the 
state to meet a specified minimum level of fuel 
efficiency. 

A new federal statute requires all power equipment, 
including lawn mowers, to be labeled with energy 
efficiency stickers to permit purchasers to make 
informed choices when buying such equipment. 
The statute does not expressly preempt state 
law. Assume that no other federal statute or 
administrative regulation addresses the energy 
efficiency of power equipment. 

Which of the following is the best argument the 
state can make for the continued validity of its law? 

(A)  Congress cannot preempt state laws 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

requiring a specified minimum level of 
fuel efficiency for lawn mowers, because 
the use of such equipment is a wholly 
local event and, therefore, is beyond the 
regulatory authority vested in Congress by 
the commerce clause. 

The law is unaffected by the federal statute, 
because Congress did not expressly prohibit 
state laws requiring power equipment to 
meet specified levels of fuel efficiency. 

The purpose of the law is consistent with the 
purpose of the federal statute, enforcement 
of the law would not interfere with the full 
execution of the statute, and there is no 
evidence that Congress intended to preclude 
the states from enacting supplemental laws 
on this subject. 

There is a very strong presumption that 
a specific state law on a subject normally 
within the state’s police power prevails over 
a more general federal statute, because the 
Tenth Amendment reserves to the states 
primary authority over matters affecting 
public health, welfare, and safety. 

Constitutional Law 

32 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A statute passed by both houses of Congress and 
signed by the President authorizes a federal agency 
to select a site for and to construct a monument 
honoring members of the capitol police force killed 
in the line of duty. The statute appropriates the 
necessary funds but provides that the funds may 
not be expended until both houses of Congress 
have adopted a concurrent resolution, not subject  
to presentment to the President, approving the 
agency’s plans for the monument’s location and 
design. 

Is the provision requiring further congressional 
approval before expenditure of the funds 
constitutional? 

(A)  No, because decisions regarding the 

placement and design of government-owned 
structures are an exclusively executive 
function with which Congress may not 
interfere by any means. 

(B)  No, because the provision amounts to an 

unconstitutional legislative interference with 
an executive function. 

(C)  Yes, because Congress may attach 

reasonable conditions to its appropriation 
of funds to executive departments, and its 
special interest in the members of its  
own police force makes the provision a 
reasonable condition. 

(D)  Yes, because the provision is part of a statute 
that was passed by both houses of Congress 
and signed by the President. 

A doctor who was licensed to practice medicine in 
a particular state was convicted in state court of 
improperly distributing specified drugs by writing 
prescriptions for fictitious persons. Under state law, 
such an abuse of the prescription-writing privilege 
requires revocation of a doctor’s license. After 
it received an official notification of the doctor’s 
conviction, the state medical board revoked the 
doctor’s license without affording the doctor any 
opportunity for a hearing. 

The doctor has sued the board in state court to 
set aside the revocation, alleging deprivation of 
property without due process of law because the 
board did not provide an opportunity for a trial-type 
hearing before revoking the license. The doctor does 
not deny the conviction or the factual basis for it. 

Which of the following is the strongest argument in 
support of the state medical board? 

(A)  A doctor’s license to practice is a privilege, 

not a right, and therefore is not property 
within the meaning of the due process clause 
of the Fourteenth Amendment. 

(B)  Due process requires a balancing of 

(C) 

(D) 

interests, and the state’s interest in 
preventing drug abuse outweighs the 
doctor’s interest in the particular procedure 
followed in the disciplinary proceeding. 

The adjudicative facts necessary to revoke 
the doctor’s license were determined in the 
criminal trial, and therefore due process does 
not require any further trial-type hearing. 

The licensing board was required to 
summarily revoke the doctor’s license 
because Article IV, Section 1, of the 
Constitution requires the licensing board 
to give full faith and credit to the doctor’s 
criminal conviction. 

33 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

A city filed eminent domain proceedings in order 
to obtain 40 beach houses fronting a particularly 
attractive stretch of shoreline. As part of an 
elaborate plan to increase the city’s tourist trade and 
revive the local economy, the city planned to sell  
the beach houses to a company that would demolish 
the houses and build a luxury hotel in their place. 

The owners of the beach houses have challenged the 
city’s exercise of eminent domain, contending only 
that the city’s plan is unconstitutional. 

Will the owners of the beach houses be likely to 
prevail? 

(A)  No, because a property owner can challenge 
an exercise of eminent domain only 
on the ground of the sufficiency of the 
compensation. 

(B)  No, because the planned sale to the private 
developer to increase the tourist trade 
qualifies as a public use. 

(C)  Yes, because a public entity cannot seize the 

property of one person in order to transfer 
that property intact to other private parties. 

(D)  Yes, because the city’s action would deprive 
the owners of all economic use of their 
property. 

A nightclub owner applied for a required zoning 
permit to open a nude-dancing nightclub in 
the theater district of a city. An organization 
of influential city residents began an intensive 
lobbying effort to persuade the city council to deny 
the owner a permit to operate any type of nude- 
dancing facility at any time or in any place in the 
city. 

The owner has sued the city in an appropriate 
federal court, seeking an injunction that would 
prohibit the city council from considering the 
organization’s views, on the ground that if the 
organization is successful in its lobbying efforts,  
the owner’s First and Fourteenth Amendment rights 
would be violated. The city has moved to dismiss 
the action. 

Should the court dismiss the owner’s action? 

(A)  No, because nude dancing is symbolic 

speech and is therefore protected by the First 
and Fourteenth Amendments. 

(B)  No, because the organization does not 

seek a reasonable time, place, and manner 
regulation of nude dancing, but instead 
seeks a total ban on the owner’s opening any 
type of nude-dancing facility at any time or 
in any place in the city. 

(C)  Yes, because the action is not ripe. 

(D)  Yes, because the First and Fourteenth 

Amendments do not protect obscenity, and 
nude dancing is obscene. 

Constitutional Law 

34 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

A state law required vacant public school buildings 
to be sold at auction to the highest bidder. A church 
in a city located in the state wanted to acquire larger 
facilities for its school. The city’s school board 
proposed a new state law that would authorize it to 
sell a vacant public school building, at a price below 
its fair market value, to the church for use as its 
school. 

If enacted, would this law be constitutional? 

(A)  No, because a statute specially authorizing 
the sale of the building without competitive 
bidding would violate the equal protection 
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 

A federal statute established a national lottery and 
created a new federal agency to administer it. In 
order to sell lottery tickets directly to the public, the 
agency established outlets throughout the country, 
including in a particular state. The state levies a 
general tax on the gross receipts from all gaming 
operations within the state. The state seeks to tax the 
agency on the sales of lottery tickets from its outlets 
within the state. 

Must the agency pay the state gross receipts tax? 

(A)  No, because a federal agency may not pay 

any monies to a state without explicit federal 
statutory authorization to do so. 

(B)  No, because the transfer of the building to 

(B)  No, because a state may not impose a tax 

the church under these circumstances would 
constitute an establishment of religion 
prohibited by the First and Fourteenth 
Amendments. 

(C)  Yes, because surplus government property is 
not subject to the limitations imposed by the 
establishment clause as incorporated into the 
Fourteenth Amendment. 

(D)  Yes, because the law would not primarily or 
substantially support the religious activities 
of the church. 

directly on the federal government or any of 
its agencies or instrumentalities. 

(C)  Yes, because it is a generally applicable 
tax that does not discriminate against the 
agency. 

(D)  Yes, because the federal government is 

not exempt from state taxation on its 
commercial activities. 

35 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A state in which several popular ski resorts 
are located has enacted a law requiring state 
certification of ski instructors. Under the law, 
applicants for certification must attend a monthlong 
course, pass a test, and pay a fee of $1,000. The 
stated purpose of the law is to “promote uniformity 
in the methods of ski instruction at the state’s ski 
areas.” 

Shortly before the law’s enactment, when the state 
did not require certification of ski instructors, 
a woman moved to the state intending to find 
employment as a ski instructor. The woman had 
been a ski instructor in another state for many years. 
But since her move, even though ski resorts in the 
state have found her to be highly qualified, no resort 
will offer her a contract for employment as a ski 
instructor because she has not received the required 
state certification. 

As applied to the woman, does the state certification 
requirement constitute a violation of the contracts 
clause? 

(A)  No, because her ability to contract for 
employment with the state is not being 
impaired. 

A valid treaty between the United States and a 
foreign country provides for the elimination of 
all tariff barriers between the two countries. It 
authorizes the president of either country to issue 
a proclamation nullifying any state or local laws 
in that country that have the effect of impeding 
imports from the other country. 

The foreign country uses the metric system of 
measurement, and thus all goods produced there 
and exported to the United States are packaged in 
metric sizes, such as liters and kilograms. A law 
of a state in the United States requires all goods 
sold in that state to be packaged in traditional 
American sizes, such as quarts or pounds. Because 
the state law substantially impedes imports from the 
foreign country, the President of the United States 
has issued a proclamation nullifying the state law 
pursuant to the treaty. 

Is the President’s proclamation valid? 

(A)  No, because the Constitution vests in 

Congress the exclusive authority to specify 
binding legal standards for weights and 
measures, and the President therefore lacks 
constitutional authority for the proclamation. 

(B)  No, because she has no existing contract that 

(B)  No, because the principles of federalism 

is being impaired. 

(C)  Yes, because, as applied to an otherwise 
qualified ski instructor, the requirement 
is not rationally related to a legitimate 
government interest. 

(D)  Yes, because the requirement substantially 
impairs her ability to contract for 
employment in the absence of an important 
government objective. 

embedded in the Constitution prohibit the 
President from taking action to invalidate a 
state law. 

(C)  Yes, because it is authorized by a valid treaty 

of the United States and is not prohibited 
by any provision of the Constitution and, 
therefore, is the supreme law of the land. 

(D)  Yes, because the President has inherent 

authority to nullify any state law that 
substantially impedes commerce between 
the United States and another country. 

Constitutional Law 

36 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

To preserve the appearance and accessibility of its 
capitol building, a state enacted a law prohibiting 
“the display of any sign on any portion of the public 
sidewalk surrounding” the building. 

A group of five demonstrators who wanted to 
protest inadequate state funding for children’s 
services applied for a permit to march single file on 
the sidewalk surrounding the capitol building. Each 
demonstrator planned to carry a two-foot-square 
sign that would read, “Our lawmakers do not care 
about our children.” 

The group’s permit application was denied pursuant 
to the state law, and the group has filed an action 
challenging the law’s constitutionality. 

Should the court uphold the law’s constitutionality? 

(A)  No, because even though the sidewalk at 

issue is not a public forum, the prohibition 
against the display of signs is more 
restrictive than needed to serve a legitimate 
government interest. 

(B)  No, because the sidewalk at issue is a public 
forum, and the prohibition against the 
display of signs is not narrowly tailored to 
serve a substantial government interest. 

(C)  Yes, because even though the sidewalk  

at issue is a public forum, the prohibition 
against the display of signs is necessary to 
serve a compelling public interest. 

(D)  Yes, because the sidewalk at issue is not a 

public forum, and the prohibition against the 
display of signs is reasonable. 

A federal statute extends federal minimum 
wage requirements to all dry cleaning stores. 
The statute contains express findings that, when 
combined, the wages received by dry cleaning 
workers have a substantial impact on the national 
economy and on the flow of goods and services in 
interstate commerce. These findings are supported 
by information presented to Congress during 
committee hearings on the legislation. 

A small dry cleaning store operates exclusively 
within a community in the center of a 
geographically large state. It has no customers from 
outside the state. It employs three workers, each of 
whom is paid less than the federal minimum wage. 

Must this dry cleaning store comply with the statute 
imposing the federal minimum wage requirements 
on all dry cleaning stores? 

(A)  No, because the store does no business in 

interstate commerce. 

(B)  No, because the wages of the store’s three 

workers do not have a substantial impact on 
interstate commerce. 

(C)  Yes, because the commerce clause vests 

Congress with plenary legislative authority 
over labor relations. 

(D)  Yes, because the wages paid by dry cleaning 
stores have a substantial impact on interstate 
commerce. 

37 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

In an effort to counteract a steep increase in juvenile 
crime, a state enacted a law terminating the parental 
rights of any state resident whose child under 16 
years of age is convicted of a violent crime in the 
state. The law directs the state juvenile court to enter 
a termination order in such a case after the parent 
has been afforded notice and an opportunity          
for a hearing at which the only relevant issues are 
the age of the child and whether the child has been 
convicted of a violent crime in the state. 

Is the state law constitutional? 

(A)  No, because the law is not narrowly tailored 
to serve a substantial state interest. 

(B)  No, because the law is not necessary to serve 

a compelling state interest. 

(C)  Yes, because a state’s police power 

authorizes it to punish criminal behavior 
with appropriate sanctions. 

(D)  Yes, because the law is rationally related to 

a legitimate state interest. 

Under the authority of a federal voting rights 
statute, some states drew congressional districts in a 
manner calculated to increase the likelihood that 
members of historically disadvantaged minority 
racial groups would be elected. The U.S. Supreme 
Court declared these districts to be unconstitutional, 
as improper racial gerrymanders. 

In response to this ruling, Congress passed a 
new statute that explicitly denies the Supreme 
Court appellate jurisdiction over all future cases 
challenging the constitutionality of action taken 
under the authority of the federal voting rights 
statute. 

Which of the following is the most persuasive 
argument for the constitutionality of the new 
statute restricting the Supreme Court’s appellate 
jurisdiction? 

(A)  Article III of the Constitution explicitly 
states that the Supreme Court’s appellate 
jurisdiction is subject to such exceptions and 
regulations as Congress shall make. 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The constitutional principle of separation of 
powers authorizes Congress to pass statutes 
calculated to reduce the effects of Supreme 
Court decisions that interfere with the 
exercise of powers that have been delegated 
to the legislative branch. 

The establishment and apportionment 
of congressional districts directly affect 
interstate commerce, and the Constitution 
authorizes Congress to use its plenary 
authority over such commerce for any 
purpose it believes will promote the general 
welfare. 

The Fifteenth Amendment authorizes 
Congress to enforce the amendment’s voting 
rights provisions by appropriate legislation, 
and Congress could reasonably determine 
that this restriction on the Supreme Court’s 
appellate jurisdiction is an appropriate 
means to that end. 

Constitutional Law 

38 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A woman belonged to an organization that 
advocated for the United States to preemptively 
attack certain foreign countries. The organization 
usually used leafleting and public speeches to 
advance this view, but it sometimes engaged in 
violent demonstrations against the embassies and 
consuls of those countries. Although the woman had 
never participated in a violent demonstration, she 
was criminally prosecuted for being a member of 
the organization. In her defense, the woman claimed 
that her association with the organization was 
protected by the First Amendment. 

Which of the following would the prosecution need 
to prove to overcome that defense? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The woman joined the organization with 
the specific intent of furthering its illegal 
activities. 

The woman provided material aid to the 
organization through the payment of dues 
before the violent demonstrations. 

The woman continued to provide material 
aid to the organization through the payment 
of dues after the violent demonstrations. 

The woman expressed public support 
of the organization after the violent 
demonstrations. 

A state law provides some funding for public 
schools on a per-student basis from general state 
revenues, which primarily come from the state 
income and sales taxes. The law also provides that 
all other public monies used to support public 
schools in the state come from locally levied real 
estate taxes. This results in a large disparity in 
per-student funding among the state’s many public 
school districts because some districts have higher 
property values per student than other districts. 

Public school students who claim to be 
disadvantaged by this school funding law have 
challenged the law solely on the ground that 
it violates the Fourteenth Amendment’s equal 
protection clause. 

Which of the following best states the burden of 
persuasion in this action? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The state must demonstrate that the law is 
necessary to vindicate a compelling state 
interest. 

The state must demonstrate that the law 
is rationally related to a legitimate state 
interest. 

The students must demonstrate that the law 
is not rationally related to any legitimate 
state interest. 

The students must demonstrate that the law 
is not substantially related to an important 
state interest. 

39 

Constitutional Law 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constitutional Law Answer Key 

1.   C 

2.   B 

3.   C 

4.   B 

5.   B 

6.   A 

7.   D 

8.   D 

9.   A 

10.   C 

11.   D 

12.   C 

13.   D 

14.   D 

15.   A 

16.   C 

17.   C 

18.   B 

19.   B 

20.   C 

21.   B 

22.   B 

23.   B 

24.   C 

25.   B 

26.   D 

27.   B 

28.   A 

29.   A 

30.   C 

Constitutional Law 

40 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contracts Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: Examinees are to assume that the Official Text of Articles 1 and 2 of the Uniform 
Commercial Code has been adopted and is in effect. Approximately half of the Contracts questions 
on the MBE will be based on categories I and IV, and approximately half will be based on the 
remaining categories—II, III, V, and VI. Approximately one-fourth of the Contracts questions on 
the MBE will be based on the Official Text of Articles 1 and 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code. 
I. 

Formation of contracts 

A.  Mutual assent (including offer and acceptance, unilateral, bilateral, and implied-in-fact 

contracts) 

B. 

Indefiniteness and absence of terms 

C.  Consideration (bargained-for exchange) 

D.  Obligations enforceable without a bargained-for exchange (including reliance and 

restitution) 

E.  Modification of contracts 

II.  Defenses to enforceability 

A. 

Incapacity to contract 

B.  Duress and undue influence 

C.  Mistake and misunderstanding 

D.  Fraud, misrepresentation, and nondisclosure 

E. 

F. 

Illegality, unconscionability, and public policy 

Statute of frauds 

III.  Contract content and meaning 

A.  Parol evidence 

B. 

Interpretation 

C.  Omitted and implied terms 

IV.  Performance, breach, and discharge 

A.  Conditions (express and constructive) 

B.  Excuse of conditions 

C.  Breach (including material and partial breach, and anticipatory repudiation) 

D.  Obligation of good faith and fair dealing 

E.  Express and implied warranties in sale-of-goods contracts 

F.  Other performance matters (including cure, identification, notice, and risk of loss) 

G. 

Impossibility, impracticability, and frustration of purpose 

H.  Discharge of duties (including accord and satisfaction, substituted contract, novation, 

rescission, and release) 

42 

	
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Contracts Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

V.  Remedies 

A.  Expectation interest (including direct, incidental, and consequential damages) 

B.  Causation, certainty, and foreseeability 

C.  Liquidated damages and penalties, and limitation of remedies 

D.  Avoidable consequences and mitigation of damages 

E.  Rescission and reformation 

F. 

Specific performance and injunction 

G.  Reliance and restitution interests 

H.  Remedial rights of breaching parties 

VI.  Third-party rights 

A.  Third-party beneficiaries 

B.  Assignment of rights and delegation of duties 

43 

	
 
	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

During an ice storm, a man’s car slipped down an 
embankment and became lodged against a large 
tree. The man called a towing company and told 
the company’s manager that the car was 100 feet 
down the embankment. “That’s lucky,” said the 
manager, “because our winch only goes 100 feet.” 
After the manager and the man agreed on a price, an 
employee of the company attempted to reach the car 
but could not because the car turned out to be 120 
feet down the embankment. 

Is the towing company’s performance excused on 
the grounds of mistake? 

(A)  No, because both parties were uncertain 

about the distance. 

(B)  No, because the towing company assumed 

the risk by the manager’s failure to examine 
the distance himself. 

(C)  Yes, because at the time of contracting, 

both parties were mistaken about a basic 
assumption on which the contract was based. 

(D)  Yes, because the agreement did not allocate 
the risk of mistake to either party. 

An employer offered to pay a terminated employee 
$50,000 to release all claims the employee might 
have against the employer. The employee orally 
accepted the offer. The employer then prepared an 
unsigned release agreement and sent it to the 
employee for him to sign. The employee carefully 
prepared, signed, and sent to the employer a 
substitute release agreement that was identical to 
the original except that it excluded from the release 
any age discrimination claims. The employer signed 
the substitute release without reading it. Shortly 
thereafter, the employee notified the employer 
that he intended to sue the employer for age 
discrimination. 

Is the employer likely to prevail in an action seeking 
reformation of the release to conform to the parties’ 
oral agreement? 

(A)  No, because the employer acted 

unreasonably by failing to read the substitute 
release prior to signing it. 

(B)  No, because the parol evidence rule will 
preclude evidence of the oral agreement. 

(C)  Yes, because the employee’s fraudulent 

behavior induced the employer’s unilateral 
mistake. 

(D)  Yes, because the parties were mutually 
mistaken regarding the contents of the 
signed release. 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

45 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A national distributor of windows selected a retailer 
to sell its windows in a specified geographic 
area. The parties negotiated a written distribution 
agreement, which stated that any order for windows 
placed by the retailer would be binding on the 
distributor “only when expressly accepted by the 
distributor.” 

For the next two years, the retailer forwarded orders 
to the distributor, and the distributor always filled 
the orders. In the third year, the distributor accused 
the retailer of overcharging customers to install the 
distributor’s windows. The retailer responded that 
the distributor had no control over the retailer’s 
installation prices. When the distributor received the 
retailer’s next order for windows, it refused to fill 
the order. 

If the retailer sues the distributor for breach of 
contract, will it be likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the retailer’s forwarding of 

orders to the distributor did not give rise to 
an obligation on the distributor’s part to fill 
the orders. 

(B)  No, because the retailer’s practice of 
overcharging customers excused the 
distributor’s refusal to fill the order. 

(C)  Yes, because the distributor’s claim 
regarding overcharging customers is 
independent of its obligation to fill the 
retailer’s order. 

(D)  Yes, because the parties’ course of dealing 

binds the distributor to fill the retailer’s 
order. 

A buyer expressed interest in purchasing an 
industrial air-conditioning system manufactured by 
the seller. The parties agreed orally on a price of 
$100,000 for the system, but continued to negotiate 
over several points. When all matters regarding the 
air-conditioning system were finally settled, the 
parties signed a written agreement. It provided that 
the price for the system, which would be delivered 
on June 1, would be $110,000. The written 
agreement, a lengthy form contract, did not contain 
a merger clause. 

The seller delivered the system on June 1, but the 
buyer refused to pay more than $100,000, citing the 
earlier oral agreement as to price. 

The seller sued the buyer for the additional $10,000 
under the written agreement. 

Is the court likely to admit the evidence of the orally 
agreed price of $100,000? 

(A)  No, because the buyer assumed the risk of 

any mistake as to price. 

(B)  No, because the oral price term would 

contradict an express term in the written 
agreement. 

(C)  Yes, because the oral price term is relevant 
to whether the writing should be reformed. 

(D)  Yes, because the written agreement did not 

contain a merger clause. 

Contracts 

46 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5. 

Question 6. 

A well-established paper mill and a logging 
company signed a written contract in which the mill 
agreed to buy from the company all the logs the 
mill would need for one year. The company was 
unable to keep up with the mill’s needs, and its log 
deliveries fell short by 10% to 15% in each of the 
four quarters of the year. The mill paid the company 
on time for all delivered logs. 

The mill paid an attorney $2,000 for advice 
concerning its options in enforcing the contract. 
It paid a broker a reasonable fee of $5,000 to find 
additional logs to make up for the company’s 
shortfall. The mill also incurred reasonable costs 
of $25,000 to transport the additional logs to 
its facility. Despite the mill’s efforts to mitigate 
damages, it sustained $200,000 in losses because of 
the company’s failure to timely deliver enough logs. 

The mill has sued the company for breach of 
contract. 

If the court finds for the mill, how much should it 
award in damages? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

$205,000. 

$225,000. 

$230,000. 

$232,000. 

An attorney received a document at his office with 
an attached note from a client for whom he had just 
finished drafting a will. The note read as follows: 
“Do you think this contract of sale for my boat 
complies with state law? I would have talked to  
you in person about this, but I’m on my way out of 
town. I will be back next week.” 

The attorney reviewed the document and  
wrote a one-page letter to the client stating that 
the document complied with state law. The 
lawyer included a bill for $500, which was a 
reasonable fee. 

The client refused to pay the attorney anything, 
arguing that she had never agreed to retain the 
attorney and that she had received nothing of value 
from the attorney because the sales transaction was 
never concluded. 

Assume that there is no applicable statute or 
rule governing the formation of attorney-client 
relationships in the jurisdiction. 

If the attorney sues the client for the $500, will the 
attorney be likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because even if the parties had an 

agreement, that agreement was discharged 
under the doctrine of frustration of purpose. 

(B)  No, because the attorney and the client never 

agreed on the essential terms of a contract. 

(C)  Yes, because the attorney took action on the 

client’s note to his detriment. 

(D)  Yes, because the client’s note and the 

attorney’s performance created an implied- 
in-fact contract. 

47 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A firm contracted with a municipality to repair a 
drawbridge and began work on February 1. The 
contract provided that the firm would be paid 
an additional $1,000 for each day the repair was 
completed before the April 1 completion deadline. 
On March 14, an unusual gear on the bridge broke. 
On that same day, the firm contracted with a 
supplier for a March 15 delivery to the bridge site 
of the only available replacement gear. The supplier 
did not know about the early-completion incentive- 
pay provision in the firm’s contract. The supplier 
misdirected the delivery of the gear, and the firm 
did not receive it until March 20. The work on the 
bridge was completed on March 21. But for the late 
delivery of the gear, the firm would have completed 
the bridge repair on March 16. 

In an action against the supplier for breach of 
contract, will the firm be permitted to recover, as 
part of its damages, the additional $5,000 early- 
completion incentive pay it would have received 
from the municipality but for the supplier’s breach? 

(A)  No, because the supplier did not expressly 
agree to be responsible for such damages. 

(B)  No, because the supplier did not know and 

had no reason to know about the early- 
completion incentive-pay provision. 

(C)  Yes, because the supplier is liable for all 

damages flowing directly from its breach. 

(D)  Yes, because, by the nature of its contract 

with the firm, the supplier should have 
known that time was of the essence. 

An architect agreed with a developer to design a 
large residential development. Because the architect 
had a history of substance abuse problems, the 
parties agreed that the developer’s duty to accept 
and pay for the plans was conditioned on the 
architect’s abstaining from drinking alcohol during 
the six months it would take to do the work. After 
two months, the architect began having several 
alcoholic drinks each day. The developer became 
aware of the architect’s drinking before the architect 
showed the developer the preliminary plans. 
When the developer saw the preliminary plans, the 
developer told the architect that the concept was 
impressive and that he looked forward to seeing the 
final plans. The architect continued to have several 
alcoholic drinks each day and completed the plans 
within the specified contract period. However, the 
developer declined to review, accept, or pay for 
the final plans and stated that it was because of the 
architect’s continued use of alcohol. 

The architect has sued the developer for breach of 
contract. 

Which of the following arguments best supports the 
architect’s claim? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

The alcohol use was not a material breach 
of contract by the architect, since it did not 
affect the quality of the work. 

The developer waived the condition of no 
alcohol use. 

The no-alcohol term was functionally 
a penalty clause and therefore was 
unenforceable. 

(D) 

The no-alcohol term would be interpreted as 
a promise and not a condition. 

Contracts 

48 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A toy collector had purchased 10 antique toys over 
the last several years and had had them restored by 
an expert in toy restoration. On June 1, the collector 
sent the 11th antique toy to the expert with a signed 
note that read: “Here is another toy for you to 
restore. As with all prior jobs, I will pay $500 for 
the work, but no more.” On June 4, after receipt of 
the collector’s June 1 note and the toy, the expert 
began restoring the toy. On June 6, the collector 
unexpectedly died. On June 7, unaware of the 
collector’s death, the expert sent the collector a note 
that stated that the restoration work had begun on 
June 4. The following day, the expert learned of the 
collector’s death. 

Does a contract exist that binds the expert and the 
collector’s estate? 

(A)  No, because the collector died before the 

expert sent the June 7 note. 

A contractor agreed to remodel a homeowner’s 
garage for $5,000. Just before the parties signed the 
one-page written contract, the homeowner called to 
the contractor’s attention the fact that the contract 
did not specify a time of completion. The parties 
orally agreed but did not specify in the contract that 
the contractor would complete the work in 60 days, 
and then they both signed the contract. The contract 
did not contain a merger clause. The contractor 
failed to finish the work in 60 days. The homeowner 
has sued the contractor for breach of contract. 

Is the court likely to admit evidence concerning 
the parties’ oral agreement that the work would be 
completed in 60 days? 

(A)  No, because the court must ascertain the 

meaning of the agreement from the terms of 
the written contract. 

(B)  No, because the oral agreement was merely 

(B)  No, because the offer lapsed when the 

part of the parties’ negotiations. 

collector died. 

(C)  Yes, because the expert sent the June 7 note 

before learning of the collector’s death. 

(D)  Yes, because the offer was accepted before 

the collector’s death. 

(C)  Yes, because the contract is ambiguous. 

(D)  Yes, because the time limit is an additional 

term that does not contradict the partially 
integrated written contract. 

49 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

In order to raise revenue, a city required home- 
repair contractors who performed work within the 
city limits to pay a licensing fee to a city agency. A 
contractor who was unaware of the fee requirement 
agreed to perform home repairs for a city resident. 
After the contractor completed the work, the 
resident discovered that the contractor had not paid 
the licensing fee, and she refused to pay for the 
repairs, which were otherwise satisfactory. 

If the contractor sues the resident for breach of 
contract, how is the court likely to rule? 

(A)  Although the contract violates the law and is 

void, the court will require the homeowner 
to pay the contractor the reasonable value of 
the work accepted. 

(B)  Although the contract violates the law, the 
court will find that public policy does not 
bar enforcement of the contract, because the 
purpose of the fee is merely to raise revenue. 

(C)  Because the contract violates the law and is 
void, the court will not enforce it. 

Collection of a debtor’s $2,000 debt to a creditor 
was barred by the applicable statute of limitations. 
The debtor sold and delivered his car to a buyer 
under a written agreement, signed by the buyer, 
in which the buyer promised to pay the $2,000 
purchase price to the creditor “in satisfaction of [the 
debtor’s] debt to [the creditor].” 

Can the creditor recover the $2,000 from the buyer? 

(A)  No, because payment of the $2,000 to the 

creditor would undermine the statutory 
public policy against enforcement of stale 
claims. 

(B)  No, because the creditor’s rights as an 
intended beneficiary are subject to any 
defenses available to the contracting parties 
between themselves. 

(C)  Yes, because the buyer’s promise to pay 

$2,000 to the creditor is enforceable by the 
creditor regardless of whether the debtor 
was legally obligated to pay the creditor 
anything. 

(D)  Because the purpose of the fee is merely  

(D)  Yes, because the buyer’s promise to 

to raise revenue, the court will find that the 
contract does not violate the law but will 
allow the contractor to recover his costs 
only. 

pay $2,000 to the creditor revived the 
uncollectible debt. 

Contracts 

50 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

A buyer sent a signed letter to a seller that stated: 
“Ship 100 boxes of nails at $3 per box, the price 
quoted in your circular.” The seller mailed the 
buyer a signed form acknowledgment that agreed 
to the buyer’s terms and stated on the reverse side: 
“Disputes regarding quality shall be arbitrated.” The 
buyer did not reply to the seller’s acknowledgment, 
and the seller shipped the nails. When the buyer 
received the nails, it found their quality to be 
unsatisfactory and sued the seller for breach of 
warranty. The seller has asked an attorney whether 
the parties’ contract requires arbitration of the 
buyer’s claim. 

What is the best advice the attorney can provide? 

(A)  A contract was formed pursuant to conduct 

when the buyer received the nails, and 
a court would exclude the arbitration 
provision from the contract. 

(B)  A contract was formed when the seller 

mailed its acknowledgment, and the 
arbitration term became part of the contract. 

(C)  A contract was formed when the seller 

mailed its acknowledgment, and the court 
must decide whether the arbitration term 
should be excluded as a material alteration 
of the contract. 

(D)  No contract exists, because the arbitration 

term in the seller’s acknowledgment created 
a counteroffer that the buyer never accepted. 

An engineer signed a two-year contract to serve 
as the chief safety engineer for a coal mine at a 
salary of $7,000 per month. The position required 
the engineer to work underground each workday. 
After one week on the job, the engineer became 
very ill. He requested testing of the mine air system, 
which revealed the presence of a chemical agent to 
which the engineer had a rare allergic reaction. The 
engineer promptly quit. The coal mine then hired 
a qualified replacement for the remainder of the 
engineer’s contract at a salary of $7,500 per month. 

Assume that no statute or regulation applies. 

If the coal mine sues the engineer for breach of 
contract, is the coal mine likely to recover damages? 

(A)  No, because an at-will employee has the 

right to terminate an employment contract. 

(B)  No, because the risk to the engineer’s health 
excused his nonperformance of the contract. 

(C)  Yes, because the coal mine acted in 

good faith in mitigating the effect of the 
engineer’s failure to finish the contract term. 

(D)  Yes, because the mine is reasonably safe for 

most people. 

51 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

An elderly woman underwent major surgery and 
spent two weeks in the hospital. The woman 
continued to take powerful pain medication for 
several weeks after she returned home. During her 
recovery, she offered to sell her car for $450 to her 
neighbor, who owned a house-cleaning service. 
The neighbor said, “That’s great! I need a car to 
transport all the people who work for me to their job 
sites.” 

A landscaper agreed to maintain the yard of a 
homeowner for six months for a fee of $300 per 
month, payable at the end of the six-month period. 
This amount was the fair market value of the work 
to be performed. The landscaper performed the 
work for four months but was then offered another 
job for $500 per month and, after notifying the 
homeowner, stopped doing the promised work and 
took the other job. 

The homeowner refused to pay the landscaper 
anything. The homeowner could have hired a 
comparable landscaper to complete the work for 
$300 per month. 

In a lawsuit between the landscaper and the 
homeowner, what is the likely result? 

(A) 

(B) 

The homeowner will recover $600, which is 
the cost of completing the work at prevailing 
market rates. 

The homeowner will recover $400, which 
constitutes the unjust enrichment of the 
landscaper. 

(C) 

The landscaper will recover $1,200 for the 
work done before the breach. 

(D)  Neither the landscaper nor the homeowner 
will recover, because neither has suffered 
any loss. 

In fact, the woman’s car was worth $3,000, and the 
neighbor knew this. He was also aware that the 
woman had undergone surgery and noted that she 
seemed “out of it” because of the medication she 
was taking. 

Several days later, the woman’s son found out 
about the deal and contacted the neighbor, telling 
him that the woman would sell him the car, but for 
$3,450. The next day, when the neighbor tendered 
$450 and demanded that the woman give him the 
car, she refused. 

If the neighbor sues the woman for breach of 
contract, will he be likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the contract was voidable due 
to the woman’s apparent incapacity. 

(B)  No, because the woman put nothing in 

writing. 

(C)  Yes, because the neighbor’s reliance on 
the otherwise voidable contract made it 
enforceable. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman’s offer and 
the neighbor’s acceptance created an 
enforceable contract. 

Contracts 

52 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A woman prepared an accurate statement of her 
financial condition and submitted it with a loan 
application to a local bank with which she had done 
business for many years. Shortly thereafter, the 
woman’s financial condition worsened significantly, 
but she failed to disclose this fact to the bank. 
Unaware of the woman’s changed financial 
condition, the bank then agreed to lend money to 
the woman. 

The bank later learned of the woman’s true financial 
condition. The bank refused to honor its promise 
to lend money to the woman, contending that the 
parties’ contract was voidable at the bank’s option 
because of the woman’s misrepresentation. 

If the woman sues the bank for breach of contract, 
will the bank’s misrepresentation defense likely 
succeed? 

(A)  No, because the woman did not make any 
subsequent affirmative misrepresentations 
about her financial condition. 

(B)  No, because the woman’s representations 

were accurate at the time she submitted the 
loan application to the bank. 

(C)  Yes, because the woman had an obligation 

to correct her previous representations about 
her financial condition in order to prevent 
them from being fraudulent. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman had an obligation 
to tell the bank about her changed 
financial condition due to the longstanding 
relationship of trust and confidence between 
them. 

A general contractor about to bid on a construction 
job for an office building invited a carpenter and 
several others to bid on the carpentry work. The 
carpenter agreed to bid if the general contractor 
would agree to give the carpenter the job provided 
that his bid was lowest and the general contractor 
was awarded the main contract. The general 
contractor so agreed. The carpenter, incurring time 
and expense in preparing his bid, submitted the 
lowest carpentry bid. The general contractor used 
the carpenter’s bid in calculating its own bid, which 
was successful. 

Which of the following best supports the carpenter’s 
position that the general contractor is obligated to 
award the carpentry subcontract to the carpenter? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The carpenter detrimentally relied on the 
general contractor’s conditional promise in 
preparing his bid. 

The carpenter gave consideration for the 
general contractor’s conditional promise 
to award the carpentry subcontract to the 
carpenter. 

The general contractor has an implied duty 
to deal fairly and in good faith with all 
bidders whose bids the general contractor 
used in calculating its main bid to the 
building owner. 

The general contractor has an obligation to 
the owner of the building to subcontract 
with the carpenter because the carpenter’s 
bid was used in calculating the general 
contractor’s bid, and the carpenter is an 
intended beneficiary of that obligation. 

53 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

A ceramics studio contracted with an artist to 
produce cups and saucers designed by the artist. 
The artist was an established designer of collectible 
ceramic dinnerware, and the studio did production 
work for many artists who created ceramic 
dinnerware. The price and quantity term of the 
contract read: “2,000 sets of the cups and saucers  
at $5 each, payable on delivery.” The contract 
contained a merger clause. 

The studio produced the cups and saucers and 
delivered them along with a bill for $20,000 (4,000 
pieces at $5 per piece). The artist refused to pay 
more than $10,000 (2,000 sets at $5 per set). 

At the trial of the studio’s action against the artist 
for breach of contract, the studio introduced 
evidence of an established practice in the studio 
industry to price cup-and-saucer sets on a per-piece, 
not a per-set, basis. 

Is the studio’s evidence admissible? 

(A)  No, because such evidence would vary an 
unambiguous term of the contract. 

(B)  No, because the agreement was completely 

integrated. 

(C)  Yes, because evidence of trade usage is 

always admissible. 

(D)  Yes, because the usage of trade is offered to 

give meaning to the contract. 

A builder contracted in writing to construct a 
small greenhouse on a homeowner’s property for 
$20,000, payable upon completion. After the builder 
had spent $9,000 framing the greenhouse and an 
additional $1,000 for materials not yet incorporated 
into the greenhouse, the homeowner wrongfully 
ordered the builder to stop work. 

The builder then resold the unused materials that he 
had already purchased for the greenhouse to another 
contractor for $1,000. At the time the homeowner 
stopped the work, it would have cost the builder 
an additional $5,000 to complete the project. The 
partially built greenhouse increased the value of the 
homeowner’s property by $3,000. 

In a suit by the builder against the homeowner, how 
much is the builder likely to recover? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

$3,000, the increase in the value of the 
homeowner’s property. 

$10,000, the total cost expended by the 
builder at the time of the breach. 

$14,000, the total cost expended by the 
builder ($10,000) plus the builder’s expected 
profit ($5,000), minus the loss avoided by 
the resale of the unused materials ($1,000). 

(D) 

$15,000, the contract price ($20,000) minus 
the costs saved by the breach ($5,000). 

Contracts 

54 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

On March 15, in a signed written contract, a 
manufacturer agreed to sell 40,000 pens at $1  
each to a retailer, delivery to be made in two equal 
installments on April 1 and May 1. The contract was 
silent as to the time of payment, but on March 25  
the two parties orally agreed that the entire purchase 
price was to be paid on delivery of the second 
installment. 

On April 1, the manufacturer delivered 20,000 
pens, and the retailer accepted them. The 
manufacturer then demanded payment of $20,000. 
When the retailer refused to make the payment, 
the manufacturer sued the retailer for breach of 
contract. In its defense, the retailer proffered 
evidence of the March 25 oral agreement. 

Is the manufacturer likely to succeed in its action? 

(A)  No, because even though the March 25 oral 
agreement is not effective, payment is due at 
the time of the second installment. 

(B)  No, because the March 25 oral agreement 

was an effective modification of the written 
contract. 

(C)  Yes, because the parol evidence rule bars 

the introduction of evidence of an oral 
agreement modifying a written contract. 

(D)  Yes, because there was no consideration to 

support the modification. 

A brick mason was hired by a builder under a 
written one-year contract, at an annual salary of 
$45,000, with employment to begin on March 1. 
Because the builder was unable to secure enough 
building contracts to keep all its employees busy 
during the season beginning March 1, it notified 
the brick mason on February 15 that it could not 
afford to employ him as a mason. At the same time, 
however, the builder offered to employ the mason, 
for the same contract period, as a night guard at an 
annual salary of $25,000. The mason declined the 
offer and remained unemployed during the year. No 
employment for brick masons was available in the 
community during the year, but the mason could 
have obtained other employment as a day laborer 
that would have paid up to $25,000 a year. 

At the end of the year, in an action against the 
builder for breach of contract, how much, if 
anything, is the mason entitled to recover? 

(A) 

$20,000 (the $45,000 contract price less the 
$25,000 the mason could have earned in 
other employment). 

(B) 

$45,000 (the contract price). 

(C)  Nothing, because the builder did not act in 

bad faith when it discharged the mason. 

(D)  Nothing, because the mason did not mitigate 

his damages. 

55 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A buyer contracted with a seller to purchase 10,000 
bushels of soybeans at market price. The soybeans 
were to be delivered in 90 days. Two days after 
the soybean contract was made, the buyer and the 
seller entered into another contract under which the 
buyer agreed to purchase 10,000 bushels of wheat 
from the seller at market price. Before the time 
for delivery of the soybeans, the seller notified the 
buyer that it would not deliver the wheat because 
the seller’s wheat supplier had refused to extend 
additional credit to the seller and therefore the seller 
had no wheat available for the buyer. 

Which of the following statements best describes 
the effect of the seller’s repudiation of the wheat 
contract on the buyer’s rights under the soybean 
contract? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

It gives the buyer the right to demand 
assurances that the seller will perform the 
soybean contract. 

It gives the buyer the right to terminate the 
soybean contract, because of the doctrine of 
dependent covenants. 

It gives the buyer the right to terminate the 
soybean contract, because the buyer does 
not have to deal with a party that breaches a 
contract. 

It has no effect on the buyer’s rights, 
because the two contracts are entirely 
separate. 

A motorcycle collector and his friend had known 
each other for years. The collector sent a letter to 
the friend that said, “I am willing to sell you my 
oldest motorcycle for $4,000.” The friend sent the 
collector an email saying, “I accept your offer.” The 
collector owned three motorcycles: a 1985 model, 
a 1987 model, and a 1992 model. The friend did 
not know about the 1985 model, which was the one 
the collector intended to sell. The collector was 
unaware that the friend intended to buy the 1987 
model. When the collector tendered the 1985 model, 
the friend refused to accept it. 

Is the friend likely to prevail in a breach of contract 
suit against the collector? 

(A)  No, because by not inquiring further 

about the meaning of the phrase “oldest 
motorcycle,” the friend assumed the risk of 
being mistaken. 

(B)  No, because neither the friend nor the 

collector had reason to know of the 
other’s interpretation of the words “oldest 
motorcycle.” 

(C)  Yes, so long as a reasonable person in the 

friend’s position would have considered the 
letter as referring to the 1987 model. 

(D)  Yes, because the friend had no reason to 
know of the collector’s meaning and the 
collector could have avoided the confusion 
by more careful drafting. 

Contracts 

56 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A homeowner contracted in writing with a kitchen 
contractor to renovate her kitchen for $25,000, 
“subject to the homeowner’s complete personal 
satisfaction.” The contractor replaced the cabinets, 
flooring, and countertops and then sought payment 
from the homeowner. The homeowner paid the 
contractor only $20,000, truthfully saying that 
she did not like the finish on the cabinets and was 
therefore not satisfied. 

If the contractor sues the homeowner for the 
balance of the contract price, will the contractor be 
likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because a condition to the homeowner’s 
obligation to pay was not satisfied. 

(B)  No, because the contractor breached his duty 

of good faith and fair dealing by supplying 
unsatisfactory materials. 

(C)  Yes, because the homeowner breached the 
covenant of good faith and fair dealing by 
rejecting the cabinets without justification. 

(D)  Yes, because the homeowner was the first 

party to breach the contract. 

On June 1, an appliance manufacturer telephoned 
a supplier to determine whether the supplier could 
provide 300 washing machine motors of a particular 
model by October 1. The supplier offered to do so at 
a price of $300 per motor (a total price of $90,000). 
The manufacturer’s representative said, “Deal.” The 
next day the manufacturer’s representative sent the 
supplier an unsigned note on company letterhead 
that stated, “I am happy that you are going to supply 
us with the motors. I will call you soon to talk about 
another order.” The manufacturer then sent catalogs 
to its regular customers advertising washing 
machines that included the specified motors. 

The manufacturer did not hear from the supplier 
until July 1, when the supplier called to say that it 
would be unable to supply the motors because it 
was no longer carrying that model. At that time, 
the manufacturer had received no orders for the 
machines with the specified motors. 

The manufacturer sued the supplier for breach of 
contract, and the supplier raised the statute of frauds 
as a defense. 

Is the supplier’s statute of frauds defense likely to 
succeed? 

(A)  No, because the manufacturer distributed the 

catalogs in reliance on the contract, making 
the contract enforceable under the statute of 
frauds. 

(B)  No, because the supplier failed to object 

to the contents of the note sent by the 
manufacturer. 

(C)  Yes, because the manufacturer’s note failed 

to contain a signature. 

(D)  Yes, because there is no writing that contains 

the quantity term of the contract. 

57 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

A seller contracted to manufacture 1,000 toasters 
for a buyer for a specified price. The contract 
contained a provision that clearly stated: “This 
contract may not be assigned, and any violation  
of this prohibition voids the contract.” After the 
contract was signed, the seller informed the buyer 
that the toasters would be manufactured by a 
competitor of the seller. Citing the non-assignment 
provision, the buyer claimed that it was no longer 
bound by the contract. Toasters manufactured by 
the competitor were of equal quality to toasters 
manufactured by the seller. 

Is the buyer bound by the contract? 

(A)  No, because “this contract may not be 

assigned” means that duties may not be 
delegated, and the seller delegated a duty. 

(B)  No, because the seller assigned a right 

despite the contractual prohibition. 

(C)  Yes, because even though the seller breached 

the contract, there are no damages since the 
competitor’s toasters are of equal quality to 
the seller’s toasters. 

(D)  Yes, because the non-assignment provision 
is not enforceable since public policy favors 
free assignment and delegation. 

A popular singer expressed interest in performing 
in a theater producer’s musical production. The 
producer and the singer agreed that there would  
be no enforceable contractual obligations between 
them until they had entered into a final, signed 
contract. They then began negotiating the terms of 
the contract. 

While the parties were negotiating, the producer 
began to spend money on the production. When 
the parties were unable to agree on the terms of a 
final contract, the producer made reasonable but 
unsuccessful efforts to hire another singer before 
abandoning the production. 

If the producer sues the singer, what will he likely 
recover? 

(A) 

(B) 

Expectation damages in the form of the 
profits that the production would have made 
if it had been performed. 

Reliance damages in the form of the actual 
expenses the producer incurred while 
negotiating with the singer. 

(C)  Restitution for any harm done to the 

producer’s reputation when the production 
was abandoned. 

(D)  Nothing, because it was not reasonable for 
the producer to expect to be reimbursed for 
expenses incurred when he knew that the 
singer was not obligated until there was a 
final, signed agreement. 

Contracts 

58 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A homeowner and a contractor entered into a 
contract under which the homeowner agreed to pay 
the contractor $50,000 for remodeling the 
homeowner’s basement according to a set of plans. 

After the work was completed, the homeowner 
honestly believed that there were defects in the 
contractor’s work as well as departures from the 
plans. In fact, the contractor had fully performed. 
The homeowner offered to pay the contractor 
$35,000 in full settlement in exchange for the 
contractor’s promise to surrender his entire claim. 
The contractor accepted the homeowner’s offer, and 
the homeowner paid the contractor $35,000. The 
reasonable value of the work was $35,000. 

A mechanic agreed in writing to make repairs to 
a landscaper’s truck for $12,000. The mechanic 
properly made the repairs, but when the landscaper 
tendered payment, the mechanic refused to deliver 
the truck unless the landscaper promised to pay an 
additional $2,000. The customary charge for such 
work was $14,000. Because the landscaper needed 
the truck immediately to fulfill existing contractual 
obligations, and because no rental trucks of the 
same type were available, the landscaper promised 
in writing to pay the mechanic an additional $2,000. 
The mechanic then delivered the truck. 

Will the mechanic be able to enforce the 
landscaper’s promise to pay the additional $2,000? 

Is the contractor likely to succeed in an action 
challenging the validity of the settlement 
agreement? 

(A)  No, because the landscaper had no 

reasonable alternative but to yield to the 
mechanic’s wrongful threat. 

(A)  No, because the homeowner honestly 

disputed the amount he owed the contractor. 

(B)  No, because the reasonable value of the 

work was only $35,000. 

(C)  Yes, because the contractor reasonably relied 

on the homeowner’s contractual promise 
to pay the full $50,000, and that promise 
should be enforced to avoid injustice. 

(D)  Yes, because the homeowner’s payment of 

$35,000 cannot furnish consideration for the 
contractor’s relinquishment of a claim for 
$50,000. 

(B)  No, because the mechanic exerted undue 

influence over the landscaper with respect to 
the modification. 

(C)  Yes, because the landscaper could have 
obtained possession of the truck through 
legal action rather than by agreeing to the 
increased payment. 

(D)  Yes, because the modified contract price did 

not exceed a reasonable price. 

59 

Contracts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contracts Answer Key 

1.   C 

2.   C 

3.   A 

4.   B 

5.   C 

6.   D 

7.   B 

8.   B 

9.   D 

10.   D 

11.   B 

12.   C 

13.   C 

14.   B 

15.   A 

16.   C 

17.   C 

18.   B 

19.   D 

20.   C 

21.   B 

22.   B 

23.   A 

24.   B 

25.   A 

26.   D 

27.   A 

28.   D 

29.   A 

30.   A 

Contracts 

60 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Criminal Law and Procedure Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: Approximately half of the Criminal Law and Procedure questions on the MBE will be based 
on category V, and approximately half will be based on the remaining categories—I, II, III, and IV. 

I. 

Homicide 

A. 

Intended killings 

1. 

2. 

Premeditation, deliberation 

Provocation 

B.  Unintended killings 

1. 

Intent to injure 

2.  Reckless and negligent killings 

3. 

Felony murder 

4.  Misdemeanor manslaughter 

II.  Other crimes 

A.  Theft and receiving stolen goods 

B.  Robbery 

C.  Burglary 

D.  Assault and battery 

E.  Rape; statutory rape 

F.  Kidnapping 

G.  Arson 

H.  Possession offenses 

III. 

Inchoate crimes; parties 

A. 

Inchoate offenses 

1.  Attempts 

2.  Conspiracy 

3. 

Solicitation 

B.  Parties to crime 

IV.  General principles 

A.  Acts and omissions 

B.  State of mind 

1.  Required mental state 

2. 

Strict liability 

3.  Mistake of fact or law 

62 

	
 
 
Criminal Law and Procedure Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

C.  Responsibility 

1.  Mental disorder 

2. 

Intoxication 

D.  Causation 

E. 

F. 

Justification and excuse 

Jurisdiction 

V.  Constitutional protection of accused persons 

A.  Arrest, search and seizure 

B.  Confessions and privilege against self-incrimination 

C.  Lineups and other forms of identification 

D.  Right to counsel 

E. 

Fair trial and guilty pleas 

F.  Double jeopardy 

G.  Cruel and unusual punishment 

H.  Burdens of proof and persuasion 

I.  Appeal and error 

63 

	
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A man became ill while at work and decided to go 
home early. When he entered his bedroom, the man 
saw his wife engaged in sexual intercourse with a 
neighbor. The man grabbed a gun from a dresser 
drawer and shot and killed the neighbor. He was 
later charged and prosecuted. 

In a jurisdiction that follows the common law for 
homicide offenses, which crimes should the court 
instruct the jury on? 

(A)  Murder and involuntary manslaughter. 

(B)  Murder and voluntary manslaughter. 

(C)  Murder, voluntary manslaughter, and 

involuntary manslaughter. 

(D)  Voluntary manslaughter and involuntary 

manslaughter. 

A defendant was indicted and arrested for bank 
robbery. The defendant had an initial appearance 
before a magistrate judge in which he was notified 
of the charges and told that counsel would be 
appointed for him the next day. The police then 
required the defendant to participate with other 
prisoners in a lineup in which each person had to 
wear a white T-shirt and say, “Put your hands in the 
air.” At the lineup, witnesses to the bank robbery 
identified the defendant as the bank robber. The next 
day, the defendant was arraigned on the charges. 

The defendant argues that his Sixth Amendment 
right to counsel was violated when he was denied 
counsel at two critical stages of the proceeding: his 
initial appearance in court before the magistrate 
judge and the lineup identification. 

Was the defendant’s Sixth Amendment right to 
counsel violated? 

(A)  No. 

(B)  Yes, based only on the denial of counsel at 

the initial appearance. 

(C)  Yes, based only on the denial of counsel at 

the lineup. 

(D)  Yes, based on the denial of counsel at both 

stages of the proceeding. 

65 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A man who owned a business believed that one of 
his employees was stealing computer equipment 
from the business. He decided to break into the 
employee’s house one night, when he knew that the 
employee and her family would be away, to try to 
find and retrieve the equipment. 

The man had brought a picklock to open the 
employee’s back door, but when he tried the door, 
he found that it was unlocked, so he entered. As the 
man was looking around the house, he heard sounds 
outside and became afraid. He left the house but 
was arrested by police on neighborhood patrol. 

What is the man’s strongest defense to a burglary 
charge? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The back door to the house was unlocked. 

The burglary was abandoned. 

The house was not occupied at the time of 
his entry. 

The man did not intend to commit a crime 
inside the house. 

In a trial of a defendant for armed bank robbery, 
the prosecutor presented overwhelming evidence 
of guilt. Three tellers identified the defendant as 
the robber, a latent fingerprint found on the bank 
counter linked the defendant to the scene, and bank 
money had been found in the defendant’s car. The 
police had arrested the defendant immediately after 
the robbery, as the defendant was driving away from 
the bank. 

When the prosecution rested its case, the judge 
directed the jury to return a verdict of guilty. The 
defense attorney did not object at the time. The jury 
withdrew, discussed the case, and agreed to a guilty 
verdict. The jury returned to the courtroom and 
announced the guilty verdict. The defense attorney 
then voiced an objection to the judge’s           
having directed the verdict. The court overruled the 
objection and sentenced the defendant to 20 years in 
prison. 

On appeal, what should the appellate court do? 

(A)  Affirm the conviction, because the defense 

attorney failed to timely object to the judge’s 
action. 

(B)  Affirm the conviction, because the 

prosecution presented both circumstantial 
and direct evidence conclusively 
establishing the defendant’s guilt. 

(C)  Reverse the conviction, because the 

defense attorney’s failure to timely object 
to the judge’s action constituted ineffective 
assistance of counsel. 

(D)  Reverse the conviction, because the judge’s 

action in directing the verdict denied the 
defendant his constitutional right to a trial 
by jury. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

66 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5. 

Question 6. 

A man who believed that his wife was cheating on 
him with her gym trainer decided to kill the trainer. 
He loaded his handgun and set off for the trainer’s 
house. Because he was anxious about committing 
the crime, the man first stopped at a bar, drank eight 
shots of hard liquor, and became intoxicated. He 
then left the bar and went to the trainer’s house. 
When the trainer answered the door, the man shot 
and killed him. The man then passed out on the 
trainer’s porch. 

The man has been charged with murder in a 
jurisdiction that follows the common law. 

Can the man raise an intoxication defense? 

(A)  No, because drinking at the bar was the 
proximate cause of the killing. 

(B)  No, because the man intended to commit the 

murder and drank to strengthen his nerve. 

(C)  Yes, because drinking at the bar was a 

foreseeable intervening cause of the killing. 

(D)  Yes, because the man’s intoxication negated 
the specific intent required for murder. 

A state statute provides that the crime of assault is 
generally punishable by a maximum of five years 
in prison. It further provides that the maximum 
punishment increases to 10 years in prison if the 
defendant possessed a deadly weapon during the 
assault. The statute designates the deadly weapon 
element as a sentencing factor. 

A defendant charged with assault has pleaded not 
guilty and has requested a jury trial. The prosecutor 
has announced that she will be seeking a 10- 
year sentence based on the defendant’s alleged 
possession of a deadly weapon. 

What finding regarding the defendant’s possession 
of a deadly weapon is necessary for the court to 
impose a 10-year sentence? 

(A)  A judicial finding by a preponderance of the 

evidence. 

(B)  A jury finding by a preponderance of the 

evidence. 

(C)  A judicial finding beyond a reasonable 

doubt. 

(D)  A jury finding beyond a reasonable doubt. 

67 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A new gang member, hoping to impress the gang’s 
leader, pointed a gun at a pedestrian and ordered her 
to give him her expensive watch, which she did. 
The gang member then tossed the watch to the gang 
leader, who was standing nearby. Although totally 
surprised by this act, the gang leader put the watch 
in his pocket. The pedestrian ran away. 

What crime did the gang leader commit? 

(A)  Accessory after the fact to robbery. 

(B)  Accomplice to robbery. 

(C)  Conspiracy to commit robbery. 

(D)  Receiving stolen property. 

A police officer stopped a driver who had run a red 
light. Upon approaching the car, the officer noticed 
a strong odor of alcohol and immediately asked 
whether the driver had been drinking. The driver 
admitted having had several alcoholic drinks that 
evening. 

The driver, charged with driving while intoxicated, 
moved to suppress the officer’s testimony regarding 
the driver’s statement about his drinking. The driver 
argued that the officer had elicited the statement 
without providing the requisite Miranda warnings. 
The prosecutor has responded that the statement 
should be allowed in the prosecution’s case-in- chief 
or, at a minimum, should be allowed as 
impeachment in the event the driver testifies and 
denies drinking. 

How should the court rule regarding the driver’s 
statement admitting his drinking? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The statement should be allowed, because 
although the driver was in custody, the 
officer’s spontaneous utterance upon 
smelling alcohol did not rise to the level of 
interrogation. 

The statement should be allowed, because 
the driver was not in custody for Miranda 
purposes when the admission was made. 

The statement should be suppressed both 
in the prosecution’s case-in-chief and as 
impeachment evidence, even if the driver 
testifies. 

The statement should be suppressed in the 
prosecution’s case-in-chief, but it may be 
used as impeachment evidence if the driver 
testifies. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

68 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A man and a woman were partners in an automobile 
leasing agency. For some time, the man had been 
embezzling money from the agency. The woman 
became suspicious and told the man that she wanted 
to engage an accounting firm to audit the agency’s 
books. In a panic to prevent the audit and avoid 
being discovered, the man decided to have the 
woman killed. He contacted a professional killer 
and hired him to kill the woman for $10,000. A 
short time later, the woman died in a car crash 
arranged by the killer. 

In addition to embezzlement, of what crime or 
crimes may the man properly be convicted? 

(A)  Conspiracy and murder. 

(B)  Murder. 

(C) 

(D) 

Solicitation and conspiracy. 

Solicitation, conspiracy, and murder. 

Four hours into a defendant’s assault trial, the 
lawyers gathered in the judge’s chambers to 
discuss an evidentiary issue. While there, the judge 
received a phone call from his wife telling him that 
her mother had suddenly died. Without asking the 
lawyers what they wanted to do, the judge brought 
the lawyers back into the courtroom, declared a 
mistrial, excused the jury, and rushed home to his 
wife. 

A new jury was impaneled the next day before a 
second judge. 

The defendant has objected to the second trial on 
double jeopardy grounds. 

Would the second trial violate the prohibition 
against double jeopardy? 

(A)  No, because the first judge acted in good 

faith in declaring a mistrial. 

(B)  No, because the first trial did not produce a 

verdict. 

(C)  Yes, because the second judge’s evidentiary 
rulings might be inconsistent with those of 
the first judge. 

(D)  Yes, because there was no manifest necessity 

for a mistrial. 

69 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

A man was paroled after serving five years in prison 
for forgery. Three weeks later, he found a handgun 
in a high school parking lot. Fearing that students 
from the school might find the gun and get into 
trouble using it, the man put it in the trunk of his 
car. The man drove off, was lawfully stopped by a 
police officer for speeding, and allowed the officer 
to search his car and the trunk. During the search, 
the officer discovered the gun. 

The man was charged under a federal statute 
prohibiting the knowing possession of a firearm by 
a convicted felon. 

Which of the following additional facts, if 
established, would be most helpful to the man’s 
defense? 

(A)  He did not intend to use the gun for an 

unlawful purpose. 

(B)  He did not know about the federal statute. 

(C)  He was driving to the police station to give 
the gun to the authorities when the officer 
stopped his car. 

(D)  His previous conviction did not involve the 

use of a gun or other weapon. 

Police officers had probable cause to believe that 
a man had committed a series of armed bank 
robberies with an accomplice. 

The officers obtained a valid arrest warrant for 
the man and went to his house to arrest him. The 
officers found the front door ajar and could hear 
a radio playing inside. They knocked on the door, 
identified themselves as police officers, and stated 
that they had a warrant. Getting no response, the 
officers entered the house. After the officers called 
the man’s name several times and again identified 
themselves as police officers, the man emerged 
from the basement and was arrested. The officers 
went into the basement to look for the accomplice. 
They opened a closet door and found cocaine in 
plain view. They did not find the accomplice. 

The man was indicted for cocaine possession. He 
has moved to suppress the cocaine as evidence on 
the ground that it was obtained in violation of the 
Fourth Amendment. 

Should the court grant the motion to suppress? 

(A)  No, because the officers discovered the 

cocaine during a lawful protective sweep of 
the house looking for the man’s accomplice. 

(B)  No, because the search was incident to the 

man’s arrest. 

(C)  Yes, because the officers did not have a 

search warrant. 

(D)  Yes, because the officers did not have 

probable cause to believe that cocaine would 
be in the closet. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

70 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

Without a warrant, police officers searched 
the garbage cans in the alley behind a man’s 
house and discovered chemicals used to make 
methamphetamine, as well as cooking utensils and 
containers with the man’s fingerprints on them. The 
alley was a public thoroughfare maintained by the 
city, and the garbage was picked up once a week by 
a private sanitation company. The items were found 
inside the garbage cans in plastic bags that had been 
tied closed and further secured with tape. The man 
was charged in federal court with the manufacture 
of methamphetamine. 

Did the search of the garbage cans violate the 
Fourth Amendment? 

(A)  No, because the man had no reasonable 

expectation of privacy in garbage left in the 
alley. 

(B)  No, because the probative value of the 
evidence outweighs the man’s modest 
privacy claims in his garbage. 

(C)  Yes, because the alley was within the 
curtilage of the man’s home and entry 
without a warrant was unconstitutional. 

(D)  Yes, because there is a reasonable 

expectation of privacy in one’s secured 
garbage containers. 

A man and a woman agreed that the woman would 
rob a bank and that the man would steal a car 
beforehand for the woman to use as a getaway 
vehicle. The man stole a car and parked it two 
blocks from the bank. He left the car key under the 
floor mat with a note saying that he wanted nothing 
more to do with the scheme. 

The next day, the woman robbed the bank and ran 
to the spot where the man had said he would leave 
the stolen car. She then escaped in the car and 
disappeared. She never shared any of the money 
with the man. 

In a jurisdiction that has adopted the bilateral 
requirement for conspiracy, can the man properly be 
convicted of conspiring with the woman to rob the 
bank? 

(A)  No, because the man received no benefit 

from the robbery. 

(B)  No, because the man withdrew from the 

conspiracy. 

(C)  Yes, because the robbery was successful due 

in part to the man’s actions. 

(D)  Yes, because there was an agreement to rob 
the bank and an overt act in furtherance of 
the agreement. 

71 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A man entered a store with a gun, planning to rob 
the store. He was unfamiliar with guns and thought 
that the safety lock was on. When the store manager 
refused to give him any money, the man shook the 
gun at her to scare her into cooperating. The gun 
fired, killing the manager. A clerk ran in from the 
back stockroom. The man fired a shot into the air to 
scare the clerk. Unbeknownst to the man, the clerk 
had a heart condition, and the fright caused her to 
suffer a fatal heart attack. 

Can the man properly be convicted of felony 
murder? 

(A)  No. 

(B)  Yes, but only for the death of the store 

manager. 

(C)  Yes, but only for the death of the clerk. 

(D)  Yes, for the deaths of both the manager and 

the clerk. 

A defendant was charged with armed robbery. The 
defendant had only an eighth-grade education and 
no legal knowledge. 

At a pretrial hearing, the defendant told the judge 
that he was unhappy with the public defender who 
had been appointed to represent him and that he 
wanted the judge to appoint another lawyer. The 
judge refused to appoint another lawyer, telling the 
defendant, with no further explanation, that his 
only other choice was to represent himself. The 
defendant said that he would represent himself at 
trial then, as “anything [was] better than having this 
lawyer.” 

The defendant did not raise the subject again, 
and he represented himself at trial. After hearing 
overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s guilt, the 
jury convicted him of armed robbery. On appeal, the 
defendant has requested a new trial on the ground 
that he was deprived of his right to counsel. 

Should the appellate court grant the defendant’s 
request? 

(A)  No, because the defendant voluntarily 

waived his right to counsel. 

(B)  No, because the trial court’s error was 
harmless in light of the overwhelming 
evidence. 

(C)  Yes, because the defendant was not capable 
of effectively representing himself. 

(D)  Yes, because the record does not establish a 
valid waiver of the right to counsel. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

72 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A defendant was convicted of fraud after a jury trial 
in state court. The conviction was affirmed on direct 
appeal. 

The defendant timely moved for postconviction 
relief under the Sixth Amendment on the ground 
that his attorney had provided ineffective assistance 
of counsel. The trial judge, after a hearing, found 
that the attorney had performed deficiently by 
failing to raise a proper objection that would have 
resulted in exclusion of important prosecution 
evidence. 

What more, if anything, must the trial court find in 
order to sustain the defendant’s Sixth Amendment 
claim? 

(A)  Nothing more, because the unjustifiable 
failure to object to important prosecution 
evidence is structural error. 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

That the attorney was court-appointed and 
not privately retained. 

That there is a reasonable probability 
that the trial’s outcome would have been 
different if the attorney had objected. 

That there is clear and convincing evidence 
that the trial’s outcome would have been 
different if the attorney had objected. 

A man allowed his friend to borrow a debit card to 
buy a computer. When the friend refused to return 
the card during a later conversation in a bar, the 
man pointed a handgun at the friend, held his finger 
on the trigger, and said, “Give it back!” A bystander 
screamed and threw a beer bottle at the man. The 
bottle struck the man’s hand and caused the gun to 
discharge, killing the friend instantly. 

The man was convicted of murder in a jurisdiction 
that follows the common law of homicide. 
On appeal, he argues that the evidence, which 
essentially set out the facts above, was insufficient 
to support a verdict of murder. 

Should the man’s conviction be reversed? 

(A)  No, because the evidence was sufficient to 
support a verdict of depraved-heart murder. 

(B)  No, because the evidence was sufficient to 
support a verdict of felony murder. 

(C)  Yes, because the evidence showed that the 
man did not intentionally pull the trigger. 

(D)  Yes, because the evidence showed that the 
man’s intent was not to kill the friend, but 
to take property from him under a claim of 
right. 

73 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

A man kidnapped a victim in State A and 
transported the victim across the state border into 
State B. These actions violated the kidnapping laws 
of both states, which are identical. A jury convicted 
the man in a State A court, but the trial judge gave 
what prosecutors in State B deemed an unduly 
lenient sentence. The state prosecutor in State B 
then commenced a kidnapping case against the man 
for violating State B’s kidnapping statute. 

The man’s lawyer has filed a motion in State B to 
dismiss the charge based on the double jeopardy 
protection against a second prosecution for the 
man’s single act of kidnapping. 

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss? 

(A)  No, because the double jeopardy protection 
only prohibits a second prosecution 
following an acquittal for the same offense. 

(B)  No, because the man’s conduct violated the 

laws of two different states, and each has the 
right to enforce its laws. 

(C)  Yes, because the double jeopardy protection 

The police suspected a woman of dealing in stolen 
credit cards. An undercover police officer knocked 
on the woman’s door and told her that he was 
willing to pay for usable credit cards. When the 
woman asked if he was a police officer, the officer 
replied, “No,” giving her a false name and saying, 
“You can call Harvey—he’ll vouch for me.” The 
woman admitted him to her house. After she left the 
room to call Harvey, the officer lifted some papers 
off a desk and underneath discovered three credit 
cards bearing different names. He seized the cards, 
and when the woman returned, he arrested her. 

The woman has moved to suppress the evidence 
seized on the ground that her Fourth Amendment 
rights were violated. 

Should the court grant the motion to suppress? 

(A)  No, because it was immediately apparent 

that the cards were stolen. 

(B)  No, because the woman assumed the risk 
that the officer would seize items in plain 
sight. 

prohibits a second prosecution following a 
conviction for the same offense. 

(C)  Yes, because the woman’s rights were 

violated when the officer lifted the papers. 

(D)  Yes, because the government is collaterally 
estopped under the double jeopardy 
protection from prosecuting a defendant a 
second time for the same conduct that led to 
an earlier conviction. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman’s rights were 

violated when the officer obtained entry by 
deceit. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

74 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

The owner of a meatpacking company was charged 
under a state criminal code prohibiting the sale of 
contaminated meat. The state’s highest court has 
construed the code as imposing strict and vicarious 
liability to the extent allowed by the federal 
Constitution. 

The evidence at trial established that the owner’s 
company had sold contaminated meat that had 
sickened hundreds of consumers. It further showed, 
however, that the owner had been out of the country 
when the meat was sold and had had no reason to 
know that any of the meat was contaminated. 

The jury convicted the owner, and the court 
sentenced him to a large fine and probation. On 
appeal, the owner has challenged the sufficiency of 
the trial evidence. 

Should the appellate court uphold the conviction? 

(A)  No, because there was insufficient proof of 

the owner’s actus reus. 

(B)  No, because there was insufficient proof of 

A defendant was charged with and tried for murder. 
At trial, the defendant testified that he had acted in 
self-defense. 

The trial court instructed the jury that the defendant 
had the burden of proving by a preponderance of 
the evidence that he had acted in self-defense. The 
defendant objected, arguing that this instruction 
violated the constitutional requirement that the 
prosecution prove the offense beyond a reasonable 
doubt. 

Did the trial court’s instruction violate the 
defendant’s federal constitutional rights? 

(A)  No, because due process does not preclude 
requiring a defendant to prove self-defense 
by a preponderance of the evidence. 

(B)  No, because due process does not regulate 

the burdens of proof in criminal cases. 

(C)  Yes, because due process precludes placing 
any evidentiary burden on a criminal 
defendant. 

the owner’s mens rea. 

(D)  Yes, because due process precludes 

(C)  Yes, because an appellate court cannot 
second-guess a jury’s verdict. 

(D)  Yes, because the evidence was sufficient to 

support the jury’s verdict. 

requiring a criminal defendant to bear the 
burden on an issue that would make an act 
lawful. 

75 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A man was angry at a coworker who had received 
a promotion. The man believed that the coworker 
had taken credit for the man’s work and had bad- 
mouthed him to their boss. One day, as the man was 
leaving the company parking lot in his car, he saw 
the coworker walking through the lot. On a sudden 
impulse, the man pushed the accelerator pedal hard 
and veered toward the coworker with the intention 
of scaring him. The coworker tried to jump out 
of the way but slipped and fell and was run over. 
Although the coworker suffered life-threatening 
injuries, he survived. 

In a jurisdiction that follows the common law of 
homicide, could the man properly be convicted of 
attempted murder? 

(A)  No, because the coworker’s slip and fall 
broke the chain of proximate causation. 

(B)  No, because the man lacked the requisite 

intent. 

(C)  Yes, because the coworker suffered life- 

threatening injuries. 

(D)  Yes, because the man acted with reckless 

disregard for human life. 

A man was in jail after being arrested for burglary. 
When the police attempted to question him, the man 
invoked his Miranda rights and refused to       
answer any questions. The man was subsequently 
tried, convicted, and sentenced to a prison term for 
the burglary. Three years later, while the man was 
serving his prison sentence for the burglary, a police 
detective from a nearby town questioned him about 
an unsolved homicide. The detective did not know 
that the man had invoked Miranda at an earlier time. 
The man waived his Miranda rights and made 
several incriminating statements to the detective. 
When he was later charged with the homicide, the 
man moved to suppress these statements, claiming 
that his earlier refusal to waive his Miranda rights 
should have been honored. 

Should the court suppress the statements? 

(A)  No, because the detective was unaware that 
the man had originally invoked his Miranda 
rights. 

(B)  No, because the man’s prior invocation of 

his Miranda rights did not preclude the later 
interrogation. 

(C)  Yes, because the man had earlier invoked 

his Miranda rights, and the police were not 
permitted to resume questioning, even after 
a time lapse of years. 

(D)  Yes, because the man was incarcerated, and 
his earlier invocation of his Miranda rights 
shielded him from further questioning until 
he was released. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

76 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A defendant, a 14-year-old male, was tried as an 
adult for an armed robbery and was convicted. No 
one had been physically harmed during the robbery. 
In light of the defendant’s lengthy juvenile criminal 
history, which included violent offenses, and the 
fact that armed robbery is a crime of violence, 
he was sentenced to life in prison without the 
possibility of parole. 

Did the life-without-parole sentence violate the 
Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual 
punishment? 

(A)  No, because a juvenile may be sentenced to 

life without parole if release would pose a 
danger to the community. 

(B)  No, because the Eighth Amendment does 

not apply outside the context of capital 
punishment. 

(C)  Yes, because a life-without-parole sentence 
is not permissible for a juvenile defendant 
convicted of a nonhomicide offense. 

(D)  Yes, because a life-without-parole sentence 

is not permissible for an adult or juvenile 
defendant convicted of a nonviolent offense. 

A man decided to steal a valuable coin collection 
from a collector’s house while the collector was 
away. Knowing that the house had an alarm system, 
the man contacted the pool cleaner who worked at 
the house twice a week. The man offered the pool 
cleaner part of the proceeds from selling the coin 
collection if she would disarm the alarm and leave a 
side door unlocked so that the man could enter the 
house. The pool cleaner pretended to agree but 
then contacted the police, who immediately arrested 
the man. 

In a jurisdiction that follows the common law and 
has adopted the bilateral requirement for conspiracy, 
what crime has the man committed? 

(A)  Attempted burglary. 

(B)  Attempted larceny. 

(C)  Conspiracy. 

(D) 

Solicitation. 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

77 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

Police officers had probable cause to believe 
that drug dealing was routinely taking place in a 
particular room at a local motel. The motel manager 
authorized the officers to enter the room and 
provided them with a passkey. Without obtaining a 
warrant, the officers knocked on the room’s door, 
announced their presence, and told the occupants 
that they would like to speak with them. The 
officers then heard yelling and repeated flushing of 
the toilet. They then used the passkey and entered 
the room, where they saw the occupants dumping 
drugs into the toilet. The occupants of the room 
were charged with drug dealing and have moved to 
suppress the drugs. 

Should the court grant the motion to suppress? 

(A)  No, because exigent circumstances justified 

the officers’ entry. 

(B)  No, because the motel manager consented to 

the officers’ entry. 

(C)  Yes, because exigent circumstances cannot 

excuse the lack of a warrant. 

(D)  Yes, because the officers cannot benefit from 
exigent circumstances that they created. 

A federal grand jury was investigating a corporation 
whose tanker ship had spilled crude oil into 
environmentally sensitive waters. The grand jury 
issued a subpoena requiring the corporation to 
produce all emails and internal documents regarding 
the corporation’s knowledge of the risks of an oil 
spill. The corporation has objected, citing its Fifth 
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. 

Can the subpoena be enforced? 

(A)  No, because the corporation was not granted 

transactional immunity. 

(B)  No, because the corporation was not granted 

use-and-derivative-use immunity. 

(C)  Yes, because a corporation has no Fifth 

Amendment privilege. 

(D)  Yes, because the Fifth Amendment privilege 
does not apply to the compelled production 
of documents. 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

78 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A woman was standing in the aisle of a subway car 
and put her purse on the seat next to her. A man 
approached the woman from behind and grabbed 
the purse off the seat. He then pushed the woman 
out of the way and ran out of the subway car while 
carrying the purse. The man was apprehended on 
the subway platform while in possession of the 
purse. 

In a jurisdiction that follows the common law with 
respect to criminal offenses, of what crime can the 
man properly be convicted? 

(A) 

(B) 

Larceny, because force was not used until 
after he took the purse. 

Larceny, because he made no threat to use 
force. 

(C)  Robbery, because he physically took the 
purse from the woman’s presence. 

(D)  Robbery, because he used force in leaving 

with the purse. 

A man was charged with first-degree murder. Two 
lawyers were appointed to represent him because 
the prosecution planned to seek the death penalty. 
On the first day of trial, the air-conditioning 
malfunctioned in the courtroom, so the judge 
directed that the selection of the jurors take place 
in his chambers. Because of the large number 
of potential jurors, the judge directed that only 
one lawyer for the prosecution and one for the 
defense participate in the jury selection process. 
The defendant remained in the courtroom during 
the questioning of the jurors. Once the jury was 
selected, the trial was postponed until the next day, 
when the air-conditioning was again working. 

Did the court’s jury selection process violate the 
defendant’s federal constitutional rights? 

(A)  No, because a defendant’s confrontation 
rights are limited to witnesses rather than 
jurors. 

(B)  No, because there was good cause 

to conduct jury selection outside the 
defendant’s presence. 

(C)  Yes, because excluding the defendant 

undercut the presumption of innocence. 

(D)  Yes, because jury selection is a critical 

stage at which a defendant is entitled to be 
present. 

79 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Criminal Law and Procedure Answer Key 

1.   B 

2.   C 

3.   D 

4.   D 

5.   B 

6.   D 

7.   D 

8.   B 

9.   A 

10.   D 

11.   A 

12.   C 

13.   A 

14.   D 

15.   D 

16.   D 

17.   C 

18.   A 

19.   B 

20.   C 

21.   D 

22.   A 

23.   B 

24.   B 

25.   C 

26.   D 

27.   A 

28.   C 

29.   D 

30.   D 

Criminal Law and Procedure 

80 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: All Evidence questions should be answered according to the Federal Rules of Evidence, as 
currently in effect. Approximately one-quarter of the Evidence questions on the MBE will be based 
on category I, one-third on category II, one-quarter on category V, and the remainder on categories 
III and IV. 

I. 

Presentation of evidence 

A. 

Introduction of evidence 

1.  Requirement of personal knowledge 

2.  Refreshing recollection 

3.  Objections and offers of proof 

4. 

Lay opinions 

5.  Competency of witnesses 

6. 

Judicial notice 

7.  Roles of judge and jury 

8. 

Limited admissibility 

B.  Presumptions 

C.  Mode and order 

1.  Control by court 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Scope of examination 

Form of questions 

Exclusion of witnesses 

D. 

Impeachment, contradiction, and rehabilitation 

1. 

Inconsistent statements and conduct 

2.  Bias and interest 

3.  Conviction of crime 

4. 

Specific instances of conduct 

5.  Character for truthfulness 

6.  Ability to observe, remember, or relate accurately 

7. 

Impeachment of hearsay declarants 

8.  Rehabilitation of impeached witnesses 

9.  Contradiction 

E. 

Proceedings to which evidence rules apply 

82 

	
 
 
Evidence Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

II.  Relevancy and reasons for excluding relevant evidence 

A.  Probative value 

1.  Relevancy 

2. 

Exclusion for unfair prejudice, confusion, or waste of time 

B.  Authentication and identification 

C.  Character and related concepts 

1.  Admissibility of character 

2.  Methods of proving character 

3.  Habit and routine practice 

4.  Other crimes, acts, transactions, and events 

5. 

Prior sexual misconduct of a defendant 

D.  Expert testimony 

1.  Qualifications of witnesses 

2.  Bases of testimony 

3.  Ultimate issue rule 

4.  Reliability and relevancy 

5. 

Proper subject matter for expert testimony 

E.  Real, demonstrative, and experimental evidence 

III.  Privileges and other policy exclusions 

A.  Spousal immunity and marital communications 

B.  Attorney-client and work product 

C.  Physician/psychotherapist-patient 

D.  Other privileges 

E. 

Insurance coverage 

F.  Remedial measures 

G.  Compromise, payment of medical expenses, and plea negotiations 

H.  Past sexual conduct of a victim 

IV.  Writings, recordings, and photographs 

A.  Requirement of original 

B.  Summaries 

C.  Completeness rule 

83 

Continued… 

	
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Evidence Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

V.  Hearsay and circumstances of its admissibility 

A.  Definition of hearsay 

1.  What is hearsay 

2. 

3. 

Prior statements by witness 

Statements attributable to party-opponent 

4.  Multiple hearsay 

B.  Present sense impressions and excited utterances 

C.  Statements of mental, emotional, or physical condition 

D.  Statements for purposes of medical diagnosis and treatment 

E. 

Past recollection recorded 

F.  Business records 

G.  Public records and reports 

H.  Learned treatises 

I. 

J. 

Former testimony; depositions 

Statements against interest 

K.  Other exceptions to the hearsay rule 

L.  Right to confront witnesses 

84 

	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A plaintiff, a management trainee, brought a sex 
discrimination lawsuit against her employer for 
wrongful termination of her employment. At trial, 
the plaintiff is prepared to testify that a janitor at the 
company told her that he had heard her supervisor 
say to other male coworkers about her, “Make 
it hard for her. Maybe she’ll go home where she 
belongs.” 

Is the plaintiff’s proposed testimony admissible? 

(A)  No, because the janitor’s statement is 

hearsay not within any exception. 

(B)  No, because the statements of both the 

janitor and the supervisor are hearsay not 
within any exception. 

(C)  Yes, because the janitor’s statement 

is a present sense impression, and the 
supervisor’s statement is a statement of his 
then-existing state of mind. 

(D)  Yes, because the statements of both the 
janitor and the supervisor are statements 
concerning a matter within the scope of their 
employment. 

A plaintiff sued a defendant in federal court for 
assault and battery. At trial, the court has allowed 
the plaintiff to introduce the deposition testimony 
of a witness, now deceased, that he was with the 
plaintiff at the time of the incident. The defendant 
now seeks to impeach the testimony of the witness 
with his 13-year-old conviction for burglary (for 
which he served 18 months in prison) for breaking 
into the home of a neighbor while she was away and 
taking some of her valuable jewelry. 

Should the court allow evidence of the conviction? 

(A)  No, because the witness did not testify at 

trial. 

(B)  No, unless the court finds, in the interests 

of justice, that the probative value of the 
conviction, supported by specific facts and 
circumstances, substantially outweighs its 
prejudicial effect. 

(C)  Yes, because prior convictions are probative 
to impeach the witness’s character for 
truthfulness. 

(D)  Yes, because the crime involved an act of 

dishonesty. 

85 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A plaintiff sued a department store for injuries she 
sustained when she slipped and fell in the store. 
At trial, the plaintiff proposes to testify that, when 
the store manager rushed to the scene, he said to 
the plaintiff, “I’m so sorry about the water on the 
floor there, but don’t worry—the store will pay for 
the ambulance and your hospital bill.” The store’s 
attorney objects. 

How should the court rule on the admissibility of 
the store manager’s testimony? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The testimony is admissible in its entirety as 
the statement of an opposing party. 

The testimony about the water is an 
admissible statement of an opposing party, 
but the rest of the testimony is inadmissible 
as an offer to pay medical expenses. 

The testimony is inadmissible in its entirety, 
because it is hearsay not within any 
exception. 

The testimony is inadmissible in its entirety, 
because the manager’s statement is in the 
context of an offer to pay medical expenses. 

A defendant is on trial for theft of a used car 
that he took for a test drive and did not return. 
He was arrested in the car two days later. In his 
defense, the defendant has testified that he had no 
intention of keeping the car but got caught up in 
marital problems and simply delayed returning it. 
The defendant calls a witness to testify that the 
defendant told him, during the two days, “I’m going 
to return this car as soon as I work things out with 
my wife.” 

Is the witness’s testimony admissible? 

(A)  No, because it is a self-serving statement by 

an accused. 

(B)  No, because it is hearsay not within any 

exception. 

(C)  Yes, as a prior consistent statement of the 

defendant. 

(D)  Yes, as a statement by the defendant of his 

then-existing state of mind. 

Evidence 

86 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 5. 

Question 6. 

A plaintiff sued an industrial facility in her 
neighborhood for injuries to her health caused by air 
pollution. At trial, the plaintiff was asked questions 
on direct examination about the days on which she 
had observed large amounts of dust in the air and 
how long the condition had lasted. She testified that 
she could not remember the specific times, but that 
she maintained a diary in which she had accurately 
recorded this information on a daily basis. When her 
attorney sought to refresh her recollection with her 
diary, she still could not remember. The plaintiff’s 
attorney seeks to have the information in the diary 
admitted at trial. 

Is the information admissible? 

(A)  No, because reviewing it did not refresh the 

plaintiff’s recollection. 

(B)  No, unless it is offered by the defendant. 

(C)  Yes, and the plaintiff should be allowed the 
option of reading it into evidence or having 
the diary received as an exhibit. 

(D)  Yes, and the plaintiff should be allowed to 

read the diary into evidence. 

At trial in a criminal prosecution for theft, the 
defendant calls a witness to testify that he formerly 
knew the defendant as an army supply sergeant and 
that the defendant had turned down many 
opportunities for black marketeering. 

Is the witness’s testimony admissible? 

(A)  No, because it is irrelevant to the present 

charge. 

(B)  No, because the defendant may not prove his 
good character by specific instances of good 
conduct. 

(C)  Yes, because a criminal defendant may 
prove his good character as a basis for 
inferring conduct. 

(D)  Yes, because, by accusing the defendant of 

being a thief, the prosecution has put his 
character in issue. 

87 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A defendant is on trial for kidnapping. The victim 
has testified that one of the kidnappers referred to 
the other as “Speed.” The prosecutor calls a jail 
employee to testify that, while the defendant was 
in jail awaiting trial, other inmates addressed the 
defendant as “Speed.” 

Is the jail employee’s testimony admissible? 

(A)  No, because it is hearsay not within any 

exception. 

(B)  No, because it is substantially more 
prejudicial than probative. 

(C)  Yes, as circumstantial evidence that the 

defendant was one of the kidnappers. 

(D)  Yes, to corroborate the truthfulness of the 

victim. 

A plaintiff sued a defendant in connection with  
the dissolution of a partnership they had formed to 
run a parcel delivery service. They had relied on a 
business attorney in establishing the business. After 
the business failed, the plaintiff and the defendant 
disagreed about their respective obligations. At trial, 
both have hired new counsel. The plaintiff calls 
the business attorney to testify to representations 
the defendant made in meetings she had with the 
plaintiff and the business attorney. 

The defendant objects to the business attorney’s 
testimony, invoking the attorney-client privilege. 

Should the court uphold the defendant’s privilege 
claim? 

(A)  No, because the business attorney’s 

professional relationship with the plaintiff 
and the defendant has ended. 

(B)  No, because the plaintiff and the defendant 

consulted the business attorney jointly. 

(C)  Yes, because either the plaintiff or the 

defendant may block disclosure of 
statements made during such meetings. 

(D)  Yes, because either the plaintiff or the 

defendant may claim the privilege on behalf 
of the partnership. 

Evidence 

88 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A defendant who is an accountant has been charged 
with fraud for allegedly helping a client file false 
income tax returns by shifting substantial medical 
expenses from one year to another. The defendant 
has pleaded not guilty, claiming that he made an 
honest mistake as to the date the expenses were 
paid. At trial, the prosecutor offers evidence of 
the defendant’s involvement in an earlier scheme 
to help a different client falsify tax returns in the 
same way. 

Is the evidence of the defendant’s involvement in 
the earlier scheme admissible? 

(A)  No, because it is impermissible character 

evidence. 

(B)  No, because it is not relevant to the issues in 

this case. 

At a defendant’s trial for burglary, the defendant has 
called a witness who has testified without objection 
that the defendant said shortly after his arrest, 
“They’ve got the wrong person for this, because 
I have an alibi.” The prosecutor seeks to cross- 
examine the witness about why she did not mention 
that statement when the police asked her whether 
the defendant had said anything to her about having 
an alibi. 

Is the prosecutor’s proposed cross-examination 
proper? 

(A)  No, because the witness’s character for 

truthfulness cannot be attacked by specific 
instances of conduct. 

(B)  No, because the witness’s failure to mention 
the alibi is collateral and ambiguous. 

(C)  Yes, to show absence of mistake. 

(C)  Yes, as impeachment for bias and interest. 

(D)  Yes, to show the defendant’s propensity to 

(D)  Yes, as impeachment for prior inconsistency. 

commit the crime. 

89 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

A plaintiff sued a defendant over title to land on 
a riverbank. Changes in the water level over time 
were important to the plaintiff’s case. 

For 15 years, a commercial fisherman had kept 
a daily log of the water level at his dock on the 
riverbank opposite the land in order to forecast 
fishing conditions. The plaintiff hired a draftsman to 
graph the data from the fisherman’s logs for use as 
a trial exhibit. 

At trial, the fisherman testified to the care with 
which he had made the measurements and recorded 
them in his logs, which had been made available  
for the defendant’s inspection. The draftsman then 
testified to the manner in which he had prepared the 
graphs. 

With this foundation, are the graphs admissible? 

(A)  No, because they are hearsay not within any 

exception. 

(B)  No, because they violate the “best evidence” 

rule. 

(C)  Yes, as summaries of voluminous business 

records. 

(D)  Yes, as the draftsman’s expert opinion of the 

water levels. 

A plaintiff sued the manufacturer of a slicing 
machine for negligent design, after the machine cut 
off the plaintiff’s finger. The plaintiff claims that 
while he was cleaning the machine, two wires came 
into contact with each other and caused the machine 
to turn on. At trial, the manufacturer has offered 
evidence that it was unreasonably expensive to 
design the machine so that the wires could not come 
into contact. In rebuttal, the plaintiff offers evidence 
that after this action was filed, the manufacturer 
redesigned the machine to prevent the wires from 
coming into contact. 

Is evidence of this change in design admissible? 

(A)  No, because the change in design may have 

been unrelated to this type of accident. 

(B)  No, under the rule regarding remedial 

measures that encourages manufacturers to 
make their products safer. 

(C)  Yes, as evidence tending to show that the 

machine could be designed to keep the wires 
from coming into contact. 

(D)  Yes, as evidence tending to show that the 

manufacturer was negligent because its 
initial design failed to prevent the wires 
from coming into contact. 

Evidence 

90 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

A plaintiff sued the manufacturer of his lawn 
mower, alleging that, as the result of a design 
defect, he was injured when the mower’s blade flew 
off after striking a sprinkler head in the lawn. 

At trial, the manufacturer has called as an expert 
witness a product safety engineer, who testifies 
that the manufacturer retained him for a fee to test 
identical mowers and, if his opinion was helpful, to 
testify in the case. The expert then testifies that he 
did test the mowers, and that the blade, as designed 
and installed by the manufacturer, could not fly off 
in the manner claimed by the plaintiff. Assume that 
the expert has used a reliable method for reaching 
his conclusion. 

A defendant is on trial for bribing a government 
procurement officer by providing the officer with 
free vacation facilities. When the defendant was 
approached by an FBI investigator, the defendant 
stated that her invitation to the procurement officer 
to spend his vacation in the defendant’s mountain 
cabin was a favor to a friend, unrelated to his 
government office. The defendant also said to 
the investigator that she would reveal some “hot” 
information on a large-scale fraud in exchange for 
the investigator’s promise to “stop worrying about 
a little vacation.” 

Is the investigator’s testimony about the defendant’s 
offer to give information admissible? 

Should the court admit the expert’s testimony? 

(A)  No, because it is hearsay not within any 

(A)  No, because it goes to an ultimate issue that 

only the jury can decide. 

(B)  No, because the manufacturer paid the 

expert to render a certain opinion, in 
violation of rules barring paid testimony. 

(C)  Yes, because expert testimony on such 

issues of causation is relevant and helpful to 
the jury. 

(D)  Yes, provided that the plaintiff had notice 

and an opportunity to participate in the 
testing process. 

exception. 

(B)  No, because the defendant made the offer 

in a negotiation for settlement of a criminal 
investigation. 

(C)  Yes, as a matter observed and reported by 

the investigator pursuant to a duty imposed 
by law. 

(D)  Yes, as a statement of an opposing party. 

91 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A plaintiff, a former city employee, sued the city for 
his alleged wrongful discharge from a civil service 
position. The plaintiff alleged that his supervisor 
had discharged him in retaliation after she learned 
that he had told the police he thought the supervisor 
might be embezzling. At trial, the plaintiff has 
called the supervisor as an adverse witness, and the 
supervisor has testified that the plaintiff was fired 
for incompetence. 

The plaintiff’s attorney then asks the supervisor, 
“Isn’t it true that before the discharge you were told 
that [the plaintiff ] had reported to the police that 
you were pilfering money from the office coffee 
fund?” 

For what purpose(s) is the plaintiff’s question 
permissible? 

(A)  Only to establish the supervisor’s improper 
motive in discharging the plaintiff. 

(B)  Only to impeach the supervisor’s veracity as 
a witness because of her dishonesty. 

(C)  Only to impeach the supervisor’s veracity 
as a witness because of her personal bias 
against her accuser, the plaintiff. 

(D)  Both to impeach by showing bias and to 

establish improper motive in discharging the 
plaintiff. 

A defendant was indicted for engaging in a 
fraudulent investment scheme. At the criminal trial, 
the prosecutor called a witness who had participated 
in the scheme with the defendant. The witness 
testified about the operation of the scheme and was 
cross-examined by the defendant’s attorney. The 
case resulted in a mistrial. 

An investor who was allegedly defrauded by the 
scheme has now brought a civil action against the 
defendant. She seeks to introduce the witness’s 
testimony from the criminal trial. The witness has 
moved to a foreign country. 

Is the witness’s testimony in the criminal trial 
admissible in the civil action? 

(A)  No, because the burden of proof in a 

criminal action is different from the burden 
of proof in a civil action. 

(B)  No, because the parties are not identical in 

the two actions. 

(C)  Yes, because it is prior testimony of an 

unavailable declarant. 

(D)  Yes, but only if the investor demonstrates 

that she was unable to obtain the testimony 
of the witness by deposition. 

Evidence 

92 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A defendant is on trial in federal court for bank 
robbery. Before the police had any suspects, a police 
officer interviewed an eyewitness at the police 
station and showed her a “mug book” containing 
dozens of photographs. The eyewitness identified 
the defendant’s photograph as that of the robber. 

At trial, the eyewitness surprises the prosecutor by 
testifying that she is unable to identify the defendant 
as the robber. The prosecutor calls the officer to 
testify that the eyewitness identified the defendant 
from the photograph in the police station. The 
eyewitness remains present in the courthouse and 
can be recalled. 

Is the officer’s testimony admissible? 

(A)  No, because the eyewitness was unable to 

identify the defendant at trial. 

(B)  No, because the eyewitness’s testimony 

has disappointed the prosecutor but has not 
affirmatively harmed the prosecution’s case. 

(C)  Yes, because the eyewitness’s statement of 

identification as reported by the officer is not 
excluded by the hearsay rule. 

(D)  Yes, because the hearsay rule does not 

exclude out-of-court statements if a 
declarant testifies and is available for cross- 
examination. 

A plaintiff sued the insurer of her home after the 
insurer denied coverage for water damage to the 
home allegedly caused by a frozen plastic pipe 
that burst. At trial, the insurer called as an expert 
witness an engineer, who testified that the pipe 
had burst because of age rather than freezing. On 
cross-examination, the engineer admitted that  
five years earlier, he had been convicted of tax 
fraud, even though he had asserted that it was his 
accountant’s error. In response, the insurer calls a 
witness, who is well acquainted with the engineer 
and his reputation, to testify that (1) in the witness’s 
opinion, the engineer is a truthful person, and (2) 
the engineer’s neighbors all describe him as a 
truthful person. 

How much, if any, of the witness’s testimony is 
admissible? 

(A)  All of the testimony is admissible to support 

the engineer’s credibility. 

(B)  Only the portion concerning the engineer’s 

reputation is admissible, because where 
both opinion and reputation evidence are 
available, only the latter is admissible under 
a rule of preference. 

(C)  Only the portion concerning the witness’s 

opinion of the engineer’s character, because 
the witness’s reporting of the neighbors’ 
comments is hearsay. 

(D)  None of the testimony is admissible, because 
it is collateral, having no bearing on the 
engineer’s qualifications as an expert. 

93 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

A defendant, a nurse at a nursing home, is charged 
with murdering a resident at the home by adding 
an allegedly lethal substance to the resident’s food. 
At trial, to prove that the substance added to the 
resident’s food could result in death, the prosecutor, 
without first calling any witnesses, offers to read 
into evidence several pages from a standard medical 
treatise that support the prosecution’s claim that the 
substance the defendant added to the food is lethal. 

Is the evidence offered admissible? 

(A)  No, because the treatise excerpts were not 

offered during the examination of a qualified 
expert. 

(B)  No, because the treatise itself must be 

introduced as an exhibit. 

(C)  Yes, although hearsay, under the learned 

treatise exception to the hearsay rule. 

(D)  Yes, because the lethal nature of the 

substance is relevant to the defendant’s state 
of mind and intent. 

At a defendant’s trial for drug dealing, a prosecution 
witness testified that he had heard the defendant 
telling a group of people to come to the defendant’s 
house because he had “a great crop of apples for 
sale.” The prosecutor then called and qualified a 
drug enforcement agent as an expert in how drug 
dealing is conducted. The prosecutor now seeks to 
have the expert testify that in her opinion, based 
on years of experience with drug dealers, the 
defendant’s statement about the apples was code for 
his having drugs for sale. 

Should the expert’s opinion be admitted? 

(A)  No, because an expert must base his or her 
opinion on scientific or technical data, not 
merely on experience. 

(B)  No, because the opinion is based on the 

criminal actions of others engaged in drug 
dealing, and thus is substantially more 
unfairly prejudicial than probative. 

(C)  Yes, because the opinion is based on her 

specialized knowledge, and it will assist the 
trier of fact in understanding the evidence 
and determining facts in issue in the case. 

(D)  Yes, provided that the expert first testifies 
about the specific information upon which 
she based her view that the defendant was 
using “apples” as a code word to refer to 
drugs. 

Evidence 

94 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

A defendant has been charged with selling cocaine 
to a police informant. At trial, the alleged cocaine 
no longer exists, and the only evidence that the 
substance sold was cocaine is the informant’s 
testimony that it tasted like cocaine and gave her a 
cocaine-like sensation. The informant has no formal 
training in identifying controlled substances. 

Should the court admit the informant’s opinion 
testimony that the substance was cocaine? 

(A)  No, because identification of a controlled 
substance requires an expert with formal 
training. 

(B)  No, because, without a quantity of the 

controlled substance for testing, opinion 
testimony is insufficient to make a prima 
facie case against the defendant. 

(C)  Yes, if the court determines that the 

informant has sufficient knowledge and 
experience to identify cocaine. 

(D)  Yes, provided there is evidence sufficient 

to support a jury finding that the informant 
has sufficient knowledge and experience to 
identify cocaine. 

After a fire destroyed her home, a plaintiff sued 
the insurance company that insured the home for 
the proceeds of her policy. The company claimed 
that the policy had lapsed. At trial, the plaintiff 
admits that she failed to make a timely premium 
payment; however, she cites a policy provision that 
required the company to give her notice that it had 
not received the premium by a specified date and 
testifies that she never received such a notice. The 
company then calls its chief billing clerk, who is 
prepared to testify that, because of the plaintiff’s 
unusual name, the clerk remembers preparing the 
plaintiff’s notice and placing it in the “out” box on 
his desk, and that an employee from the company’s 
mailroom daily picks up all mail from office “out” 
boxes and places it in a U.S. mail deposit box. 

How should the court rule on the admissibility of 
the billing clerk’s testimony? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

It is admissible only if the company 
produces corroborative evidence, such as a 
mailing checklist. 

It is admissible without more, because it 
is evidence of the routine practice of a 
business. 

It is inadmissible, because evidence of the 
mailroom employee’s general practice does 
not prove the particular mailing. 

It is inadmissible, because the billing clerk 
lacks personal knowledge of the actual 
mailing. 

95 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A defendant is on trial for robbing a particular bank 
with his best friend. The friend has left the country 
and cannot be found. The prosecutor has called the 
friend’s mother to testify to a conversation she had 
with her son the day before he left the country. She 
implored him not to go, but he said, “Mom, I have 
to go. I was involved in a robbery at [the bank], and 
I don’t want them to catch me.” The prosecutor has 
other evidence indicating that the defendant and the 
friend were together on the morning of the robbery. 

Is the statement by the friend to his mother 
admissible? 

(A)  No, because inculpatory statements 

against penal interest do not satisfy the 
confrontation clause. 

(B)  No, because the friend’s statement to his 

mother was not corroborated. 

(C)  Yes, as a statement against penal interest that 

is not testimonial under the confrontation 
clause. 

(D)  Yes, as a statement of the friend’s state 

of mind that is not testimonial under the 
confrontation clause. 

A defendant has been charged with making a false 
statement to a federally insured financial institution 
to secure a loan. At trial, the prosecutor calls the 
defendant’s wife as a willing witness to testify that 
the defendant told her in confidence that he had 
misrepresented his assets on the loan application. 
The defendant objects to his wife’s testimony. 

Should the testimony be admitted? 

(A)  No, because even though the wife is a 
willing witness, the defendant has the 
right to exclude confidential marital 
communications in federal court. 

(B)  No, but only if the law of the state where  

the defendant and his wife reside recognizes 
a privilege for confidential marital 
communications. 

(C)  Yes, because in federal court the right not to 
testify belongs to the testifying spouse, and 
she is a willing witness. 

(D)  Yes, because while the adverse testimonial 
privilege is recognized in federal court, the 
marital communications privilege is not. 

Evidence 

96 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A plaintiff has sued the government for injuries she 
received when her car was allegedly forced off the 
road by a military convoy. At trial, an eyewitness 
testifies for the plaintiff and then is asked on cross- 
examination whether he belongs to a religious group 
that refuses on principle to file federal tax returns, 
because the revenues are used to build weapons 
of war. 

Is the question proper? 

(A)  No, because evidence of the witness’s 

religious beliefs cannot be used for 
impeachment in this case. 

(B)  No, because the witness’s character cannot 
be impeached by evidence of criminal acts, 
but only by convictions. 

(C)  Yes, because a person’s willingness 
to violate tax laws indicates possible 
willingness to testify falsely. 

(D)  Yes, because the witness’s beliefs are 

relevant to the possibility of bias. 

A man has sued a police officer, alleging that the 
officer violated the man’s civil rights by using 
excessive force while arresting him. At trial, the 
officer admits having hit the man in the head with 
the butt of his gun, but contends that the force was 
necessary, because the man was resisting arrest. 
In support of his contention, the officer seeks to 
introduce evidence that the man had resisted arrest 
on three prior occasions during the last 10 years. 

Is this testimony regarding the man’s conduct 
during the three prior arrests admissible? 

(A)  No, because evidence of the prior incidents 
constitutes impermissible character 
evidence. 

(B)  No, because the officer has not shown that 
the man was convicted in connection with 
the prior incidents. 

(C)  Yes, because the incidents in question are 
relevant evidence of the man’s propensity 
for violence. 

(D)  Yes, because the incidents in question are 

sufficient to constitute a habit. 

97 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

At trial in a civil case arising out of a car accident, 
the plaintiff has called the investigating police 
officer to testify regarding a statement that the 
officer overheard the defendant make at the scene 
admitting that he had failed to see the stop sign. 
However, while on the stand, the officer is unable 
to recall the exact words that the defendant used. 
The plaintiff proposes to refresh the officer’s 
recollection with a police report written by a 
fellow officer who was also at the scene and wrote 
down the defendant’s statement. The defendant 
has objected to the use of this report to refresh the 
testifying officer’s memory. 

Should the court permit this use of the report? 

A defendant is on trial for possession of heroin. 
During the prosecution’s case-in-chief, a police 
officer testifies that he watched another officer seize 
a bag of white powder from the defendant and seal 
it in an envelope, which both officers initialed and 
dated and then placed in the police property room. 
The prosecutor then calls a chemist to testify that 
she obtained, intact from the property room, the 
dated, sealed envelope with the initials of both 
police officers, whose handwriting she recognized 
from previous experience, and that testing disclosed 
that the powder therein was heroin. The defendant 
argues that the prosecutor has not sufficiently 
authenticated the powder tested by the chemist as 
the powder that was seized from the defendant. 

(A)  No, because the report is hearsay not within 

Is the chemist’s testimony admissible? 

any exception. 

(B)  No, because the report was not written or 

adopted by this witness. 

(C)  Yes, because the report fits the public record 

exception to the hearsay rule. 

(D)  Yes, because the report may be used to 

refresh recollection without regard to its 
admissibility. 

(A)  No, because the chemist lacks firsthand 

knowledge that the powder came from the 
defendant. 

(B)  No, unless the envelope and powder are 

produced in court or their absence is 
explained. 

(C)  Yes, because an object in official custody is 

self-authenticating. 

(D)  Yes, because the powder is sufficiently 

identified as having come from the 
defendant. 

Evidence 

98 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

At trial in an action for personal injuries suffered 
in a traffic accident, the plaintiff first calls the 
defendant as an adverse party. The plaintiff 
then calls a witness who was a passenger in 
the plaintiff’s car but who also happens to be 
the defendant’s former employer. On direct 
examination, the witness testifies to how the 
accident occurred and also expresses his opinion 
that the defendant is not a truthful person. 

Which one of the following areas of questioning is 
most likely to be held beyond the proper scope of 
cross-examination? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

In letters to prospective employers, the 
witness has described the defendant as very 
honest and dependable. 

The defendant recently filed an action 
against the witness for breach of contract. 

The plaintiff’s injuries were not as serious as 
the plaintiff is claiming. 

The witness has been falsifying his income 
tax returns. 

A plaintiff sued a utility company that owns a 
reservoir that is open to the public for recreation 
pursuant to a license from a federal agency. The 
plaintiff was severely injured in the reservoir when 
he dove from a boat into what he thought was deep 
water and hit an unmarked submerged island. The 
plaintiff alleges that the company was negligent in 
failing to mark the submerged island. At trial, the 
plaintiff has called an engineer and qualified him as 
an expert in managing reservoirs. 

Which of the following opinions by the plaintiff’s 
expert is the court most likely to admit? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

“The accident probably occurred in the 
manner shown by this computer-animated 
film I made.” 

“The company could have marked the island 
in a day and at a cost of $300.” 

“The company was required by federal law 
to mark the island.” 

“The plaintiff was not contributorily 
negligent.” 

99 

Evidence 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence Answer Key 

1.   A 

2.   B 

3.   B 

4.   D 

5.   D 

6.   B 

7.   B 

8.   C 

9.   C 

10.   D 

11.   C 

12.   C 

13.   C 

14.   D 

15.   D 

16.   C 

17.   C 

18.   A 

19.   C 

20.   A 

21.   C 

22.   B 

23.   C 

24.   A 

25.   D 

26.   A 

27.   D 

28.   D 

29.   C 

30.   B 

Evidence 

100 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Property Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: Approximately one-fifth of the Real Property questions on the MBE will be based on each of 
the categories I through V. 

I. 

Ownership of real property 
A.  Present estates and future interests 

1. 

2. 

Present estates 
a. 
Fees simple 
b.  Defeasible fees 
c. 
Life estates 
Future interests 
a.  Reversions 
b.  Remainders, vested and contingent 
c. 
d. 
e.  Rules affecting these interests (including survivorship, class gifts, waste, 

Executory interests 
Possibilities of reverter, powers of termination 

and cy pres) 

B.  Cotenancy 

Types: tenancy in common and joint tenancy 

1. 
2.  Rights and obligations of cotenants 

Partition 
Severance 

a. 
b. 
c.  Relations among cotenants 

C.  Landlord-tenant law 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

Types of tenancies 
Possession and rent 
Transfers by landlord or tenant 
Termination (including surrender, mitigation of damages, anticipatory breach, and 
security deposits) 

5.  Habitability and suitability 

D.  Special problems 

1.  Rule against perpetuities: common law rule and statutory reforms 
2.  Alienability, descendibility, and devisability of present and future interests 
3. 
4.  Conflicts of law related to disputes involving real property 

Fair housing/discrimination 

II.  Rights in real property 

A.  Restrictive covenants 
1.  Nature and type 
2.  Creation 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

Scope 
Transfer 
Termination 
Property owners’ associations and common interest ownership communities 

102 

	
 
 
Real Property Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

B.  Easements, profits, and licenses 

1.  Nature and type 
2.  Methods of creation 

a. 
Express 
b. 
Implied 
c. 
Prescription 
Scope and apportionment 
Transfer 
Termination 

3. 
4. 
5. 
C.  Fixtures 
D.  Zoning (fundamentals other than regulatory taking) 

Zoning laws 
Protection of pre-existing property rights 

1. 
2. 
3.  Rezoning and other zoning changes 

III.  Real estate contracts 

A.  Real estate brokerage 
B.  Creation and construction 

1. 
Statute of frauds and exceptions 
2. 
Essential terms 
3. 
Time for performance 
4.  Remedies for breach 

C.  Marketability of title 
D.  Equitable conversion (including risk of loss) 
E.  Options and rights of first refusal 
F. 
G.  Merger 

Fitness and suitability 

IV.  Mortgages/security devices 

A.  Types of security devices 

1.  Mortgages (including deeds of trust) 

In general 
Purchase money mortgages 
Future-advance mortgages 

a. 
b. 
c. 
2. 
Installment land contracts 
3.  Absolute deeds as security 

B.  Security relationships 

1.  Necessity and nature of obligation 
2.  Mortgage theories: title, lien, and intermediate 
3.  Rights and duties prior to foreclosure 
4.  Right to redeem and clogging the equity of redemption 

103 

Continued… 

	
 
Real Property Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

C.  Transfers 

1.  By mortgagor 

a.  Assumption and transfer subject to 
b.  Rights and obligations 
c.  Application of subrogation and suretyship principles 
d.  Restrictions on transfer (including due-on-sale clauses) 

2.  By mortgagee 
D.  Discharge of the mortgage 

E. 

Payment (including prepayment) 

1. 
2.  Deed in lieu of foreclosure 
Foreclosure 
1. 
Types 
2.  Acceleration 
3. 
4.  Deficiency and surplus 
5.  Redemption after foreclosure 

Parties to the proceeding 

V. 

Titles 
A.  Adverse possession 
B.  Transfer by deed 

Types of deeds (including covenants for title) 

1.  Requirements for deed 
2. 
3.  Drafting, review, and negotiation of closing documents 
4. 

Persons authorized to execute documents 

C.  Transfer by operation of law and by will 

1. 
In general 
2.  Ademption 
3. 
Exoneration 
4. 
Lapse 
D.  Title assurance systems 

1.  Recording acts 

a. 
Types 
b. 
Indexes 
c.  Chain of title 
d.  Hidden risks (e.g., undelivered or forged deed) 

Title insurance 

2. 
Special problems (including estoppel by deed and judgment and tax liens) 

E. 

104 

	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A seller contracted to sell land to a buyer for 
$300,000. The contract provided that the closing 
would be 60 days after the contract was signed 
and that the seller would convey to the buyer a 
“marketable title” by a quitclaim deed at closing. 
The contract contained no other provisions 
regarding the title to be delivered to the buyer. 

A title search revealed that the land was subject to 
an unsatisfied $50,000 mortgage and a right-of-way 
easement over a portion of the land. 

The buyer now claims that the title is unmarketable 
and has refused to close. 

Is the buyer correct? 

(A)  No, because nothing under these facts 

A woman owned land in fee simple absolute. The 
woman conveyed the land to a friend “for life,” 
and when the friend died the land was to go to the 
woman’s neighbor “and her heirs.” 

The neighbor died and in her duly probated will 
devised her entire estate to a local charity. If she had 
died intestate, her daughter would have been her 
only heir. 

One year after the neighbor died, her daughter 
executed a quitclaim deed conveying any interest 
she might have in the land to the woman’s friend. 

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is 
unmodified in the jurisdiction. There are no other 
applicable statutes. 

renders title unmarketable. 

Who has what interest in the land? 

(B)  No, because the buyer agreed to accept a 

quitclaim deed. 

(C)  Yes, because the right-of-way easement 

makes the title unmarketable. 

(D)  Yes, because the unsatisfied mortgage makes 

the title unmarketable. 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The friend has a fee simple absolute, 
because his life estate merged with the 
remainder conveyed to him by the daughter. 

The friend has a life estate and the charity 
has a vested remainder, because the 
neighbor’s interest was devisable. 

The friend has a life estate and the daughter 
has a vested remainder, because the deed 
from the woman created an interest in the 
neighbor’s heirs. 

The friend has a life estate and the woman 
has a reversion, because the neighbor’s 
remainder was void under the Rule Against 
Perpetuities. 

105 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A man owned land along the south side of a 
highway. To the south of the man’s land was a lot 
owned by a woman who lived on it in a house. 

Five years ago the man conveyed a right-of-way 
easement over his land to the woman because it 
provided a more direct route between her house 
and the highway. The easement was evidenced by 
a clearly marked path. The document granting the 
easement was promptly recorded. 

Three years ago, the woman conveyed her house to 
the man. The man never took actual possession of 
the house. 

Two years ago, the man conveyed the house to a 
purchaser by a warranty deed. Two months after 
the purchaser moved into the house, a neighbor 
informed him about the easement. He then began 
using the path that had been marked on the man’s 
land. When the man noticed the purchaser using 
the path, he erected a barricade on his land that 
effectively prevented the purchaser from using the 
path. 

The purchaser has sued the man, claiming that he 
has an easement over the man’s land. 

Who is likely to prevail? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The man, because the easement was 
extinguished. 

The man, because the purchaser did not have 
actual notice of the easement at the time of 
acquisition. 

The purchaser, because he purchased the 
house by warranty deed. 

The purchaser, because the easement was of 
public record when he acquired the house. 

A man borrowed $150,000 from a bank to remodel 
his home and executed a promissory note agreeing 
to repay the loan over a 10-year period. The loan 
was secured by a mortgage on the home. The bank 
promptly recorded the mortgage, which was the 
only lien on the home at that time. Several months 
later, the man borrowed $40,000 from his mother in 
order to purchase a new truck and gave his mother a 
mortgage on the home to secure repayment of the 
debt. The mother promptly recorded the mortgage. 

The man later lost his job and was struggling to 
make loan payments to both the bank and his 
mother. To accommodate the man’s financial 
situation, the bank extended the amortization period 
of its loan to substantially reduce the amount of 
each monthly payment. The bank did not alter the 
interest rate or increase the principal amount of the 
loan. At the time of the modification of the bank 
loan, the man was not in default in his payments to 
his mother. Neither the bank nor the man informed 
the mother of the modification of the bank loan. 

After the man later missed five payments to his 
mother, she commenced a foreclosure action. While 
the action was pending, the mother learned of the 
bank’s loan modification. The mother asserted that 
her mortgage had become a first lien on the home 
and that the bank’s mortgage had become a second 
lien. 

Is the mother’s assertion correct? 

(A)  No, because the bank’s loan modification 

was not detrimental to the rights of the 
mother. 

(B)  No, because the man was not in default in 

his payments to his mother at the time of the 
bank’s loan modification. 

(C)  Yes, because the bank’s loan modification 
was made without the mother’s prior 
consent. 

(D)  Yes, because the bank’s loan modification 

was material. 

Real Property 

106 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 5. 

Question 6. 

Fifteen years ago, two men who were fishing 
buddies moved onto vacant rural land owned by a 
woman they didn’t know and built a small fishing 
shack on it. Twelve years ago, the men replaced the 
shack with a fish processing plant and a commercial 
fishing boat dock. The men maintained their 
commercial fishery operation on the land until one 
of them died intestate last year, leaving a sole heir. 

The period of time to acquire title by adverse 
possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years. 

The woman has now become aware of the changes 
that have occurred on the land. 

In an action to determine title, for whom should the 
court decide? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

For the man who is still alive and the 
deceased man’s heir, because the men 
acquired title as tenants in common. 

For the man who is still alive, because he is 
the surviving adverse possessor. 

For the woman, because the use was 
changed by the men while they were in 
possession. 

For the woman, because title cannot 
be claimed by two adverse possessors 
simultaneously. 

A man borrowed $500,000 from a bank, securing 
the loan with a mortgage on a commercial building 
he owned. 

The mortgage provided as follows: “No prepayment 
may be made on this loan during the first two 
years after the date of this mortgage. Thereafter, 
prepayment may be made in any amount at any time 
but only if accompanied by a prepayment fee of 5% 
of the amount prepaid.” 

One year later, the man received an unexpected 
cash gift of $1 million and wished to pay off the 
$495,000 principal balance still owed on the loan. 
Concerned that the bank might refuse prepayment, 
despite a rise in market interest rates in the year 
since the loan was made, or at least insist on the 
5% prepayment fee, the man consulted an attorney 
concerning the enforceability of the above-quoted 
clause. 

There is no applicable statute. 

What is the attorney likely to say? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The entire clause is unenforceable, because 
it violates a public policy favoring the 
prompt and early repayment of debt. 

The entire clause is unenforceable, because 
the rise in interest rates will allow the bank 
to reloan the funds without loss. 

The two-year prepayment prohibition and 
the prepayment fee provision are both valid 
and enforceable. 

The two-year prepayment prohibition is 
unenforceable, but the prepayment fee 
provision is enforceable. 

107 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

A son loaned his father a large sum of money. The 
father signed a 10-year promissory note and secured 
the note with a mortgage on his farm. The mortgage 
was promptly recorded. 

The next year, the father died intestate. The father’s 
heirs were the son and his two sisters. The sisters 
first learned of the mortgage just after their father 
died. 

The sisters now assert that the son, their brother, 
holds the mortgage for their benefit as well as for 
himself because as a tenant in common with his 
sisters, he has a fiduciary duty toward them. 

There are no applicable statutes. 

Are the sisters correct? 

(A)  No, because the mortgage was granted 

before the tenancy in common was created. 

(B)  No, because the three siblings took the farm 

as tenants in common rather than as joint 
tenants with right of survivorship. 

(C)  Yes, because a fiduciary relationship exists 

among tenants in common. 

(D)  Yes, because their three interests are equal. 

A woman duly executed a will under which she 
devised her farm to her nephew and bequeathed the 
residue of her estate to her niece. 

For 12 years after executing her will, the woman 
lived on her farm. Then she sold it and used the 
sales proceeds to purchase a home in the city, 
in which she lived until she died, never having 
changed her will. 

Following the admission of the will to probate, both 
the nephew and the niece claimed ownership of the 
home. 

There is no applicable statute. 

Who is the owner of the home? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The nephew, because of the doctrine of 
ademption. 

The nephew, because of the doctrine of 
equitable estoppel. 

The niece, because of the doctrine of lapse. 

The niece, because she is the residuary 
legatee. 

Real Property 

108 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A buyer and a seller entered into a written contract 
for the sale of land. The contract satisfied the 
requirements of the statute of frauds. Because the 
buyer needed time to obtain financing, the buyer 
and the seller did not agree upon a closing date, and 
the written contract did not contain a stated closing 
date. Ten days after signing the contract, the buyer 
and the seller orally agreed to rescind the contract. 
The next day, the seller sold the land to a third party. 

Two days after that sale, the original buyer told the 
seller that she had changed her mind and wanted  
to complete their contract. When the seller told her 
that he had sold the land to a third party, she sued 
him for breach of the written contract. 

For whom will the court find? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

For the buyer, because she informed the 
seller within a reasonable time that she 
desired to close the transaction. 

For the buyer, because the agreement to 
rescind the contract was not in a writing 
signed by the buyer and the seller. 

For the seller, because the contract failed to 
contain a stated closing date. 

For the seller, because the oral rescission 
was valid. 

A landlord leased a commercial building to a tenant 
for five years. Rent was payable on the first day of 
each month, and the landlord retained the right to 
terminate the lease if the tenant defaulted. The lease 
term ended 18 months ago. However, the tenant 
has stayed in possession of the building and has 
continued to pay the rent on time. The landlord has 
continued to accept the rent. 

The fair rental value of the building is now 
substantially more than what the tenant has been 
paying, and the landlord recently found a third 
party who will pay the higher rent. When the tenant 
paid the rent six weeks ago, the landlord accepted 
the rent but told the tenant in writing that she had to 
vacate at the end of the month. The tenant, who     
is still in possession of the building, has informed 
the landlord that she does not want to move and is 
willing to pay the current fair rental value. 

The landlord has asked his lawyer for advice 
regarding the right to possession. 

Who should the lawyer say is entitled to 
possession? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The landlord, because he gave proper notice 
to terminate the tenancy. 

The landlord, because he retained the right 
to reenter. 

The tenant, because she has stated that she is 
willing to pay the current fair rental value. 

The tenant, because the landlord has not 
shown good cause to terminate the tenancy. 

109 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

A woman owned land that abutted a public 
highway to the south. A neighbor owned the 
land immediately to the north. The neighbor’s 
predecessor had received an easement from the 
woman’s predecessor in title to cross the woman’s 
land for access to the public highway. This access 
was desired even though the neighbor and his 
predecessor had other access to public roads. 

Recently, the woman erected a large solar collector 
on a portion of her land subject to the easement, 
even though the woman has other power resources. 
The location was essential to acquire the maximum 
sunlight. However, by erecting the collector there, 
the woman effectively cut off the neighbor’s ability 
to use the easement. The local zoning code permits 
the use of solar collectors. 

The neighbor immediately sued to compel the 
woman to remove the solar collector. 

Must the solar collector be removed? 

Seven years ago, a man conveyed vacant land by 
warranty deed to a woman, a bona fide purchaser 
for value. The woman did not record the warranty 
deed and did not enter into possession of the land. 

Five years ago, the man conveyed the same land  
to a neighbor, also a bona fide purchaser for value, 
by a quitclaim deed. The neighbor immediately 
recorded the quitclaim deed and went into 
possession of the land. 

Two years ago, the neighbor conveyed the land to a 
friend, who had notice of the prior conveyance from 
the man to the woman. The friend never recorded 
the deed but went into immediate possession of the 
land. 

The jurisdiction has a notice recording statute and a 
grantor-grantee index system. 

If the woman sues to eject the friend, will the 
woman be likely to succeed? 

(A)  No, because the neighbor has other means of 

(A)  No, because the friend took possession of 

access. 

the land before the woman did. 

(B)  No, because the zoning code permits the use 

(B)  No, because the neighbor’s title was superior 

of solar collectors. 

to the woman’s title. 

(C)  Yes, because the easement remains valid. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman has other power 

resources. 

(C)  Yes, because the friend had notice of the 
conveyance from the man to the woman. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman, unlike the friend, 

took title under a warranty deed. 

Real Property 

110 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

An owner of land contracted to sell it to a buyer for 
$100,000, its fair market value at that time. After  
an unanticipated zoning change increased the land’s 
fair market value to $150,000 during the executory 
period, the owner refused to close. 

A builder sold a new house to a buyer for use as 
the buyer’s residence. The buyer paid 10% of the 
purchase price and financed the rest by executing a 
promissory note and purchase money mortgage to 
the builder. 

Wishing to avoid a lawsuit, the buyer assigned 
the contract (which the contract did not forbid) in 
an arm’s-length transaction to an investor, who 
is experienced in buying and selling real estate. The 
investor paid the buyer $25,000. The investor  
knew of the owner’s refusal to close, and the owner 
continued to refuse to close despite the investor’s 
demands that he do so. 

A year later, the buyer missed several mortgage 
payments to the builder and became unable to make 
payments. During that year, property values in the 
neighborhood declined substantially. The builder 
suggested that the buyer deed the house back to 
the builder to settle all claims and avoid the costs 
and other disadvantages of foreclosure. The buyer 
deeded the house back to the builder. 

The investor has sued the owner for specific 
performance. 

Does the builder now own fee simple title to the 
house? 

(A)  No, because the deed back to the builder 
constitutes a disguised mortgage. 

(B)  No, because the owner of a personal 

residence cannot waive the right to 
foreclosure. 

(C)  Yes, because of the doctrine of equitable 

redemption. 

(D)  Yes, because the transaction was reasonable 

and fair under the circumstances. 

Who will likely prevail? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The investor, because an assignee of the 
original party purchaser in a real estate 
contract is entitled to specific performance 
under these circumstances. 

The investor, because she has elected to 
waive the owner’s lack of marketable title 
caused by the zoning change. 

The owner, because the investor is not a 
bona fide assignee without notice, and thus 
does not have clean hands. 

The owner, because the investor, who is 
experienced in buying and selling real 
estate, is entitled to money damages but not 
to specific performance. 

111 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A woman owned a four-unit apartment building 
and lived in one of the units. When one of her 
tenants vacated his apartment, the woman placed 
an advertisement in the local paper that read as 
follows: “Large two-bedroom apartment available 
for rent. White male preferred.” The woman’s 
preference was motivated by the fact that she 
liked to have a mix of tenants of both genders and 
from various racial and ethnic backgrounds in her 
building, and of the remaining rented units, one was 
rented to an African American man and the other to 
a Pacific Islander woman. 

Based upon these facts, which of the following 
statements is true? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

The federal Fair Housing Act makes it 
illegal for the woman to refuse to rent her 
units to prospective tenants because of their 
race or gender. 

The woman’s motive absolves her from any 
liability under the federal Fair Housing Act. 

There are no violations of any federal laws 
under these facts. 

(D)  Under the federal Fair Housing Act, the 

woman was not permitted to state a racial or 
gender preference in the advertisement. 

The builder of a new house sold the house to 
a buyer, conveying it to the buyer by warranty 
deed. One year later, the buyer sold the house to a 
woman for $50,000 more than the buyer had paid, 
conveying it to the woman by a quitclaim deed. 

Four months after moving in, the woman discovered 
a number of latent defects in the foundation that 
caused the house’s basement to take on water during 
heavy rains. The woman contacted the builder 
about the problem. Toward the end of their heated 
conversation, the builder yelled at her, “So get it 
fixed!” 

After the woman had the foundation repaired 
by a cement contractor at a cost of $25,000, she 
successfully sued the builder to recover that amount 
from him. 

What is the most likely reason that the woman was 
successful? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The court found an implied warranty of 
habitability from the builder to the buyer 
that was enforceable by a subsequent buyer. 

The court found that by paying the buyer 
$50,000 more for the house than the buyer 
had paid the builder, the woman did not get 
the benefit of her bargain. 

The court found that by yelling at the 
woman to “get it fixed,” the builder had 
committed himself to paying for the repair. 

The court found that the defects in the 
foundation were a breach of the covenant of 
further assurances in the warranty deed from 
the builder to the buyer. 

Real Property 

112 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A man borrowed money from a lender and 
mortgaged land that he owned to secure repayment 
of the loan. Before he had completely repaid the 
loan, the man conveyed the land to an investor, who 
expressly assumed the loan. The note and mortgage 
did not contain a due-on-sale clause. 

After the investor had made several payments  
on the loan, she defaulted on two payments. The 
lender notified the man and the investor of its 
intention to accelerate the loan pursuant to the 
terms of the note and mortgage unless the default 
was cured within 60 days. When neither the man 
nor the investor made the required payment, the 
lender accelerated the loan and initiated foreclosure 
proceedings, naming both the man and the investor 
as party defendants. The foreclosure sale resulted  
in a deficiency. The lender has sought a deficiency 
judgment against only the man, because the investor 
has become insolvent in the meantime. 

Will the court likely find the man liable for the 
deficiency? 

(A)  No, because the investor’s express 

assumption of the loan released the man 
from liability. 

(B)  No, because the lender must first seek to 
obtain a deficiency judgment against the 
investor. 

(C)  Yes, because even after the assumption, 
the man remains liable as a surety of the 
investor in the absence of a release from the 
lender. 

(D)  Yes, because the note and mortgage did not 

contain a due-on-sale clause. 

A man conveyed land by quitclaim deed as a gift to 
his cousin, who did not then record the deed or take 
possession of the land. Six months later, when the 
man was still in possession, he conveyed the land 
by quitclaim deed as a gift to a friend, who knew 
nothing of the deed to the cousin. The friend did not 
record his deed. The man then vacated the land, and 
the friend took possession. 

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides as 
follows: “No unrecorded conveyance or mortgage 
of real property shall be good against subsequent 
purchasers for value without notice, who shall first 
record.” 

Recently, the cousin learned about the friend’s deed 
and possession, immediately recorded her deed, 
and sued the friend for possession and to quiet title. 
The friend then recorded his deed and raised all 
available defenses. 

For whom is the court likely to decide? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

For the cousin, because she was first in time 
and the friend was not a purchaser. 

For the cousin, because the friend failed to 
first record. 

For the friend, because a subsequent good- 
faith donee has priority over a prior donee 
who fails to record. 

(D) 

For the friend, because he was first in 
possession. 

113 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

When a buyer and a seller executed a valid contract 
for the sale of a house, the buyer gave the seller 
$1,000 as earnest money. The contract noted that 
the earnest money tendered would be applied to the 
purchase price at the time of sale but was silent as 
to remedies in the event of any default. 

Just before the closing, the buyer lost her job. 
The buyer told the seller that she could no longer 
purchase the house and asked him to return the 
earnest money. The seller accurately told the buyer 
that the seller’s actual losses exceeded the amount 
of the earnest money; that if the seller sued the 
buyer for damages, he would receive a minimum of 
$5,000; and that it would be difficult for him to sell 
the house in the current market. 

Should the buyer get the earnest money back? 

(A)  No, because the contract was silent 

regarding remedies. 

(B)  No, because the seller’s actual losses 

exceeded the amount of the earnest money. 

(C)  Yes, because the buyer is no longer ready, 

willing, and able to purchase the house. 

(D)  Yes, because the reason for the buyer’s 

default was not anticipated. 

A man and his neighbor owned homes on adjacent 
lots in a subdivision. The subdivision’s recorded 
restrictions did not prohibit detached storage sheds, 
and several homeowners in the subdivision had 
placed such sheds in their backyards. Because 
the man and the neighbor thought the sheds were 
unsightly, they both agreed in writing not to place 
detached storage sheds in their respective yards. 
Their agreement was drafted in recordable form 
and stated that it was enforceable by and against all 
assignees, heirs, and successors. The agreement was 
promptly recorded. 

Three years later, the neighbor gave his home to his 
daughter. Shortly after moving into the home, the 
daughter learned of the restriction. She informed the 
man that she planned to put a detached storage shed 
in her backyard, claiming that the restriction was  
not enforceable against her. 

Does the man have the right to enjoin the neighbor’s 
daughter from placing a detached storage shed in her 
yard? 

(A)  No, because several homeowners in the 
subdivision have storage sheds in their 
yards. 

(B)  No, because there was no horizontal privity 
between the man and the neighbor. 

(C)  Yes, because the neighbor conveyed the 

home to the daughter by gift rather than by 
sale. 

(D)  Yes, because the restriction is binding on the 

daughter as a successor. 

Real Property 

114 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

A landlord leased an apartment to a tenant on a 
month-to-month basis beginning on the first of the 
month, with rent payable monthly. Five months into 
the lease, the tenant failed to pay rent. The landlord 
then sued the tenant for possession for nonpayment 
of rent. The tenant successfully defended this suit 
on the ground that the apartment was uninhabitable 
and that, accordingly, no rent was properly payable. 

Ten years ago, a couple bought a building and 
moved into its second-floor apartment with their 
teenage daughter. The couple operated a shoe 
store on the first floor of the building for many 
years. When the couple purchased the building, the 
area was predominantly rural and was zoned for 
nonresidential use. The municipality’s zoning is 
cumulative. 

On May 7, immediately following the court order 
in the tenant’s favor, the landlord served the tenant 
with a written but not notarized notice to terminate 
the tenancy and to vacate the apartment on or before 
June 30. 

On July 1, the tenant was still in possession, 
nothing had changed, and the landlord brought 
an appropriate action for possession. The tenant 
prevailed. 

What is the most likely reason for the court’s 
decision? 

(A)  A six-month notice was required to 

terminate this periodic tenancy. 

The landlord did not give the tenant a 
notarized notice of termination. 

Five years ago, the municipality rezoned the area to 
single-family residential use. The daughter was not 
aware of this change, since she was away at college. 

Recently, the daughter inherited the building from 
her parents. The daughter immediately moved 
into the apartment and took over the operation of 
the shoe store on the first floor. The daughter has 
learned that a developer is planning to build a large 
residential community in the area surrounding her 
building. 

The daughter has asked her lawyer for advice 
regarding her ability to continue operating the shoe 
store. 

Should the lawyer advise the daughter that she can 
continue to operate her shoe store? 

The landlord was attempting to terminate the 
tenancy as a reaction to the tenant’s defense 
in the previous lawsuit. 

(A)  No, because the nonconforming use of the 

building terminated when the daughter’s 
parents died. 

The landlord’s notice to terminate was 
improper, because it was given to the tenant 
more than one month before the required 
termination date. 

(B)  No, but the municipality must pay her 
reasonable compensation for her loss 
resulting from the change in zoning. 

(C)  Yes, because the shoe store is a 

nonconforming use. 

(D)  Yes, because the zoning is cumulative and 
the building is also used for single-family 
residential purposes. 

115 

Real Property 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

A homeowner listed his home for sale with a real 
estate broker. The written six-month exclusive- 
right-to-sell listing agreement provided for the 
payment of a commission if the home sold. 

In accordance with the listing agreement, the broker 
promptly took reasonable steps to market the home, 
incurring expenses for her efforts. Five months into 
the listing period, without involving the broker, 
the homeowner accepted an offer to purchase from 
his cousin. The broker learned of the contract only 
when the sale of the home to the cousin closed, one 
month after the listing period had expired. 

Is the broker entitled to any payment? 

(A)  No, because the broker engaged in no 
negotiations with the cousin. 

(B)  No, because the closing occurred after the 

listing period had expired. 

(C)  Yes, but only reimbursement for her 

expenses. 

(D)  Yes, the full commission, because the 

homeowner accepted the cousin’s offer to 
purchase during the listing period. 

A seller and a buyer signed a contract of sale for 
improved real property. The contract contained a 
financing contingency for a certain percentage of 
the purchase price. The buyer obtained the requisite 
financing from a bank. 

At the closing, the buyer executed a note to the 
seller for a portion of the purchase price, which  
note was not secured by a mortgage. The buyer then 
executed a second note, secured by a mortgage to 
the bank, applying the bank loan proceeds to the 
purchase price of the property. The bank had actual 
knowledge of the prior note to the seller. The bank 
promptly recorded its mortgage. 

The buyer is now in default on both notes. 

There is no applicable statute. 

Which party has priority? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The bank, because its loan satisfied the 
financing contingency in the contract of sale. 

The bank, because its note is secured by a 
purchase money mortgage. 

The seller, because the bank had actual 
knowledge of the seller’s note. 

The seller, because he retained a vendor’s 
lien that was first in time. 

Real Property 

116 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A man conveyed the eastern half of a tract of vacant 
land to a woman by a warranty deed. The woman 
promptly recorded the deed. The land conveyed to 
the woman fronted on a public highway. The land 
retained by the man was landlocked. 

A woman acquired land by a deed that contained the 
following language in the grantee section: “to [the 
woman], her heirs and assigns, provided, however, 
that said grantee may not transfer any interest in the 
land for 10 years from the date of this instrument.” 

One year later, the man died intestate, leaving a 
cousin as his only heir. The cousin visited the 
man’s land for the first time and discovered that 
it had no access to a public highway. A neighbor 
who owned adjoining land fronting on the public 
highway offered to sell the cousin a right to cross 
the neighbor’s land for access to the highway. 
Although the neighbor’s price was reasonable, the 
cousin rejected the offer. The woman has refused to 
allow the cousin to cross her land for access to the 
public highway even though the woman’s land is 
still vacant. 

The cousin has sued the woman, seeking access 
across the woman’s land to the public highway. 

Who is likely to prevail? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The cousin, based on necessity. 

The cousin, because the woman’s land is 
still vacant. 

The woman, because the cousin could obtain 
an alternative access to the highway from the 
neighbor. 

The woman, because the man failed to 
reserve an easement in his deed to the 
woman. 

Two years later, the woman contracted to sell the 
land to an investor for a price based on a recent 
appraisal. When the investor’s title search revealed 
the above language in the grantee section of the 
deed to the woman, the investor refused to close 
the transaction. The contract was silent as to the 
woman’s title obligation. 

The woman has sued the investor for specific 
performance. 

Who is likely to prevail? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The investor, because the woman cannot sell 
the land during the 10-year period specified 
in the deed. 

The investor, because the woman’s heirs did 
not join in the contract. 

The woman, because the contract did not 
obligate her to provide marketable title. 

The woman, because the deed’s restraint on 
transfer is void as a matter of law. 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

117 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

A landlord orally leased a commercial building to a 
tenant for a 10-year term, which ended one year 
ago. At the beginning of the lease term, the tenant 
installed numerous appliances in the building as 
well as a large air-conditioning system. The tenant 
alone paid for these items; they were installed with 
the landlord’s permission and were used for the 
tenant’s commercial enterprise. 

At the end of the lease term, the tenant failed 
to vacate the premises in a timely manner and 
continued to pay rent while remaining in possession 
for another four months. Before vacating the 
building at the end of the fourth month, the tenant 
removed the appliances and the air-conditioning 
system that he had installed, causing no damage to 
the building. 

Was the removal by the tenant proper? 

(A)  No, because he was a holdover tenant. 

(B)  No, because the lease was oral. 

(C)  Yes, because they were accessions. 

(D)  Yes, because they were trade fixtures. 

A man decided to give a cabin he owned to his 
daughter at his death. To accomplish this goal, he 
delivered to his attorney a deed that fully complied 
with the applicable statute of frauds and told his 
attorney to record the deed when he died unless he 
later gave the attorney instructions to the contrary. 

Three weeks after dropping off the deed, the man 
properly drafted and executed his own will, which 
left all of his real property to his son. 

One year later, the man died, and the attorney 
immediately recorded the deed. At the time of the 
man’s death, the cabin was titled in his name and he 
owned no other real property. The daughter and the 
son now disagree as to who is entitled to ownership 
of the cabin. 

Other than the jurisdiction’s statute of frauds and 
statute of wills, there are no applicable statutes. 

Who is entitled to ownership of the cabin? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The daughter, because the attorney was, for 
gift-law purposes, a trustee for the daughter. 

The daughter, because the deed fully 
complied with the statute of frauds. 

The son, because the deed was not delivered 
to the daughter during the man’s lifetime. 

The son, because the proper execution of the 
will revoked the earlier gift to the daughter. 

Real Property 

118 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A man purchased a house that needed substantial 
repairs. The man financed the purchase of the house 
by borrowing funds from a bank. He signed a note 
to the bank and secured repayment of the loan with 
a mortgage. After purchasing the house, the man 
borrowed money from his credit union to make the 
repairs. The man signed a note to the credit union; 
this note was also secured by a mortgage on the 
house. Both mortgages were promptly recorded in 
the order granted. The man was personally liable on 
both loans. 

The man moved into the house and made the 
necessary repairs. He later defaulted on the debt to 
the bank, and the bank initiated judicial foreclosure 
proceedings, naming both the man and the credit 
union as parties to the action. An outside party 
acquired the house at the foreclosure sale. 

After the expenses of the sale and the balance due 
the bank have been paid, $5,000 remains in the sale 
proceeds. The outstanding balance of the credit 
union loan is $20,000. The man and the credit union 
both claim the $5,000. 

There is no applicable statute. 

Who is entitled to the $5,000? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The credit union, because the credit union 
has priority. 

The credit union, because the man is 
personally liable on the debt. 

The man, because of his equitable right of 
redemption. 

The man, because the outside party received 
title to the house subject to the second 
mortgage. 

Two years ago, a developer conveyed title to a lot to 
a woman by warranty deed. The woman purchased 
an owner’s policy of title insurance before the 
closing. Because of an error by the title insurance 
company, the title commitment and title policy failed 
to list a county tax lien encumbering the lot as        
an exception to coverage. 

Last year, the woman conveyed the lot for a bargain 
price by a quitclaim deed to a friend, who paid cash, 
did not conduct a title search, and did not purchase 
title insurance. 

Subsequently, the county began proceedings 
to foreclose the tax lien, and the friend filed a 
claim with the woman’s title insurance company, 
demanding that the company reimburse her for the 
tax lien amount. 

Is the title insurance company obligated to pay the 
friend’s claim? 

(A)  No, because the friend is not a named 

insured on the title insurance policy. 

(B)  No, because the title insurance policy 

expired when the woman conveyed the lot to 
the friend. 

(C)  Yes, because the tax lien was not listed as an 
exception on the title insurance policy. 

(D)  Yes, because the woman is liable to the 

friend for breach of the covenant against 
encumbrances, and the title policy should 
cover the friend’s potential loss. 

119 

Real Property 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Property Answer Key 

1.   C 

2.   B 

3.   A 

4.   A 

5.   A 

6.   C 

7.   A 

8.   D 

9.   D 

10.   A 

11.   C 

12.   B 

13.   A 

14.   D 

15.   A 

16.   D 

17.   C 

18.   A 

19.   B 

20.   D 

21.   C 

22.   C 

23.   D 

24.   B 

25.   A 

26.   D 

27.   D 

28.   C 

29.   A 

30.   A 

Real Property 

120 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Torts Subject Matter Outline 

NOTE: Examinees are to assume that survival actions and claims for wrongful death are available. 
Joint and several liability, with pure comparative negligence, is the relevant rule unless otherwise 
indicated. Approximately half of the Torts questions on the MBE will be based on category II, and 
approximately half will be based on the remaining categories—I, III, and IV. 

I. 

Intentional torts 

A.  Harms to the person, such as assault, battery, false imprisonment, and infliction of 

mental distress; and harms to property interests, such as trespass to land and chattels, 
and conversion 

B.  Defenses to claims for physical harms 

1.  Consent 

2. 

Privileges and immunities: protection of self and others; protection of property 
interests; parental discipline; protection of public interests; necessity; incomplete 
privilege 

II.  Negligence 

A.  The duty question, including failure to act, unforeseeable plaintiffs, and obligations to 

control the conduct of third parties 

B.  The standard of care 

1. 

The reasonably prudent person: including children, physically and mentally 
impaired individuals, professional people, and other special classes 

2.  Rules of conduct derived from statutes and custom 

C.  Problems relating to proof of fault, including res ipsa loquitur 

D.  Problems relating to causation 

1.  But for and substantial causes 

2.  Harms traceable to multiple causes 

3.  Questions of apportionment of responsibility among multiple tortfeasors, 

including joint and several liability 

E.  Limitations on liability and special rules of liability 

1. 

Problems relating to “remote” or “unforeseeable” causes, “legal” or “proximate” 
cause, and “superseding” causes 

2.  Claims against owners and occupiers of land 

3.  Claims for mental distress not arising from physical harm; other intangible 

injuries 

4.  Claims for pure economic loss 

F.  Liability for acts of others 

1. 

2. 

Employees and other agents 

Independent contractors and nondelegable duties 

122 

	
 
 
 
Torts Subject Matter Outline (continued ) 

G.  Defenses 

1.  Contributory fault, including common law contributory negligence and last clear 

chance, and the various forms of comparative negligence 

2.  Assumption of risk 

III.  Strict liability and products liability: common law strict liability, including claims 

arising from abnormally dangerous activities, and defenses to such claims; claims against 
manufacturers and other defendants arising out of the manufacture and distribution of 
products, and defenses to such claims 

IV.  Other torts 

A.  Claims based on nuisance, and defenses 

B.  Claims based on defamation and invasion of privacy, defenses, and constitutional 

limitations 

C.  Claims based on misrepresentations, and defenses 

D.  Claims based on intentional interference with business relations, and defenses 

123 

	
 
	
 
Question 1. 

Question 2. 

A homeowner was injured when an automatic cutoff 
switch failed to function on a snowblower he was 
using. The cutoff switch had functioned well for a 
year after he purchased the snowblower but failed 
after the machine had been improperly repaired by 
a mechanic. The snowblower’s operating manual 
contained a clear and prominent warning against 
making the very alteration to the switch mechanism 
that was made by the mechanic. The mechanic, 
however, did not have a manual available when he 
repaired the snowblower. 

Does the homeowner have a viable claim against 
the manufacturer of the snowblower for damages? 

(A)  No, because the homeowner was 

contributorily negligent in failing to furnish 
the snowblower’s manual to the mechanic. 

(B)  No, because the injury resulted from a 

substantial alteration of the snowblower by 
a third party. 

(C)  Yes, because a defect in the snowblower 
caused the homeowner’s injury. 

(D)  Yes, because the manufacturer should 

have made the manual available to repair 
personnel. 

A 13-year-old girl was operating a high-speed 
motorboat. The boat was towing a 9-year-old boy 
in an inner tube tied to the rear of the motorboat by 
a rope. The rope became tangled around the boy’s 
foot, causing him to suffer severe injuries. 

In a suit brought on the boy’s behalf against the girl, 
the boy has introduced uncontroverted evidence that 
the girl drove carelessly in such a way as to entangle 
the boy in the rope. 

Is the boy likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the boy assumed the risk. 

(B)  No, because the girl was too young to be 

expected to appreciate and avoid the risk she 
exposed the boy to. 

(C)  Yes, because children of the girl’s age 

should have the capacity to operate 
motorboats. 

(D)  Yes, because the girl will be held to an adult 

standard of care. 

125 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 3. 

Question 4. 

A seller sold his boat to a buyer. During 
negotiations, the buyer said that he planned to sail 
the boat on the open seas. The seller told the buyer 
that the boat was seaworthy and had never sustained 
any significant damage. In fact, the hull of the boat 
had been badly damaged when the seller had run the 
boat aground. The seller had then done a cosmetic 
repair to the hull rather than a structural repair. 

The buyer relied on the seller’s representations and 
paid a fair price for a boat in good repair, only to 
discover after the sale was completed that the hull 
was in fact badly damaged and in a dangerous 
condition. The seller has refused to refund any of 
the buyer’s money, and the buyer is contemplating 
suing the seller. 

Under what theory would the buyer be most likely 
to recover? 

(A) 

(B) 

Fraud. 

Intentional endangerment. 

(C)  Negligent misrepresentation. 

(D) 

Strict products liability. 

A farmer owns a large farm on which he allows his 
friends to hunt during quail-hunting season. He 
does not provide his friends with any instructions 
about gun safety. The neighbor who owns property 
adjacent to the farm knows of the friends’ use of the 
property during the hunting season. One day during 
the hunting season, without the farmer’s knowledge 
or permission, the neighbor took a shortcut across 
the farm to visit an acquaintance. The neighbor 
was wounded by a shot fired by one of the farmer’s 
friends, who was shooting at quail and carelessly 
failed to see the neighbor. 

Traditional rules of landowners’ and occupiers’ 
liability apply. 

In an action by the neighbor against the farmer to 
recover for the injuries, will the neighbor be likely 
to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the farmer is not responsible for 

his friends’ conduct. 

(B)  No, because the neighbor was trespassing. 

(C)  Yes, because the careless friend was 

permitted to hunt without safety training. 

(D)  Yes, because the use of firearms is an 
abnormally dangerous activity. 

Torts 

126 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 5. 

Question 6. 

A 15-year-old boy was killed during a gang fight. 
Two days after his funeral, the boy’s mother saw 
a television program about gang violence and was 
shocked to see video of herself weeping over  the 
boy’s body. The video had been shot by the 
television reporting team while the boy’s body was 
still lying on a public street. The mother suffered 
severe emotional distress as a result of seeing the 
video. 

If the mother sues the television station for invasion 
of her privacy and that of her son, will the mother 
be likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because a person has no right to privacy 

after his or her death. 

(B)  No, because the street was open to the public 

and the subject was newsworthy. 

A patient in a hospital was placed in a wheelchair 
with his broken leg extended straight out in front  
of him. As a nurse employed by the hospital was 
pushing the wheelchair through a set of automatic 
doors at a normal pace, the doors closed on the 
patient’s foot, injuring it. The nurse attempted to 
pull the wheelchair back through the doors. This 
action caused the doors to close more tightly on the 
patient’s foot, injuring it further. 

The patient sued the hospital, alleging improper 
maintenance of the doors. The patient has produced 
no evidence of specific conduct or neglect on the 
part of the hospital that would have caused the 
automatic doors to malfunction. The hospital has 
moved for summary judgment. 

Should the court grant the hospital’s motion? 

(C)  Yes, because the mother did not give 

(A)  No, because a jury could find that there was 

permission to have the video used in the 
program. 

(D)  Yes, because the mother suffered severe 

emotional distress as a result of viewing the 
video. 

a latent defect in the doors. 

(B)  No, because a jury could find the hospital 

liable for negligence based on res ipsa 
loquitur. 

(C)  Yes, because proof of an accident, by itself, 
does not establish that an injured person was 
a victim of negligence. 

(D)  Yes, because the nurse’s action was a 
superseding cause of the injury. 

127 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 7. 

Question 8. 

In a tavern, an intoxicated woman threatened to 
slash a man with a broken beer bottle. Another 
customer, who had not been threatened by the 
woman, forcefully grabbed the woman and locked 
her in the tavern’s storeroom until the police could 
arrive. In the process, although the customer used 
reasonable force, the customer badly sprained the 
woman’s wrist. 

Is the woman likely to recover in an action against 
the customer? 

(A)  No, because the customer’s conduct was 
privileged as a defense of others. 

(B)  Yes, based on battery only. 

(C)  Yes, based on false imprisonment only. 

(D)  Yes, based on both battery and false 

imprisonment. 

A longshoreman fell to his death through an open 
hatch on the deck of a ship. The longshoreman  
was an employee of a company that had contracted 
with the ship’s owner to load and unload the ship. 
The fall occurred at night, when loading work was 
over for the day, and there was no reason for the 
longshoreman to have been near the hatch. 

A negligence action was filed against the ship’s 
owner for the death of the longshoreman. In that 
action, the owner has moved for summary judgment 
and has provided unrebutted evidence that it is 
customary for the crews of ships to open the hatches 
for ventilation after the longshoremen have left the 
ships. 

How should the court respond to the motion? 

(A)  Deny the motion and submit the case to the 

jury with instructions that the custom is 
relevant but not conclusive on the issue of 
negligence. 

(B)  Deny the motion and submit the case to the 
jury with instructions that the ship’s owner 
should win if the longshoreman was 
improperly near the hatch. 

(C)  Deny the motion, because the probability 

of serious injury caused by falling down an 
open hatch clearly outweighs the burden of 
keeping the hatch closed. 

(D)  Grant the motion, because the custom  

should be considered conclusive on the issue 
of negligence. 

Torts 

128 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 9. 

Question 10. 

A pedestrian was injured when hit by a chair that 
was thrown from an upper-story hotel window. The 
pedestrian sued the occupants of all the rooms from 
which the chair might have been thrown. 

At trial, the pedestrian has been unable to offer any 
evidence as to the exact room from which the chair 
was thrown. The defendants have filed a motion for 
a directed verdict. 

Should the court grant the motion? 

(A)  No, because it is unreasonable to expect the 
pedestrian to prove which of the defendants 
caused the harm. 

(B)  No, because of the doctrine of alternative 

liability. 

(C)  Yes, because a plaintiff always has the 

burden to prove that a particular defendant’s 
conduct was the factual cause of the 
plaintiff’s physical harm. 

(D)  Yes, because the pedestrian has failed to 
offer evidence that the defendants jointly 
engaged in tortious conduct. 

A chemical company’s plant was located in a 
residential community. The manufacturing process 
used at the plant generated a toxic chemical as a by- 
product. The chemical was stored in a state-of-the- 
art tank on the site before being moved to an off-site 
disposal facility. The on-site storage arrangement 
conformed to the requirements of reasonable care 
and to the applicable government regulations. 
However, the storage of the toxic chemical created 
a foreseeable and highly significant risk of physical 
harm even when reasonable care was exercised. 

Despite the chemical company’s proper use and 
care of the storage tank, toxic fumes escaped from 
the tank and made residents of the area seriously ill. 

No state or federal statutes address the issue of the 
company’s liability. 

In an action by one of the affected residents against 
the chemical company, will the resident be likely to 
prevail? 

(A)  No, because the chemical company 

conformed to the requirements of reasonable 
care and to the applicable government 
regulations. 

(B)  No, because the chemical company used a 

state-of-the-art storage tank. 

(C)  Yes, because the chemical company is 

strictly liable in tort for any harm caused by 
the toxic chemicals it produced. 

(D)  Yes, because the storage of toxic chemicals 
in a residential community created a highly 
significant risk of physical harm even when 
reasonable care was exercised. 

129 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 11. 

Question 12. 

After her husband died in a hospital, a widow 
directed the hospital to send her husband’s body to 
a funeral home for burial. The hospital negligently 
misidentified the husband’s body and sent it to be 
cremated. When she was informed of the hospital’s 
mistake, the widow suffered serious emotional 
distress. She has sued the hospital. 

Is the hospital likely to be held liable to the widow? 

(A)  No, because the widow did not witness the 

cremation. 

(B)  No, because the widow was never in any 

danger of bodily harm. 

(C)  Yes, because hospitals are strictly liable if 

they do not properly dispose of corpses. 

(D)  Yes, because the negligent handling of the 

husband’s body was especially likely to 
cause his widow serious emotional distress. 

A security guard, dressed in plain clothes, was 
working for a discount store when a customer got 
into a heated argument with a cashier over the 
store’s refund policy. Without identifying himself 
as a security guard, the security guard suddenly 
grabbed the customer’s arm. The customer 
attempted to push the security guard away, and the 
security guard knocked the customer to the floor, 
causing injuries. The customer sued the discount 
store for battery on a theory of vicarious liability for 
the injuries caused by the security guard. 

The store filed an answer to the customer’s 
complaint, asserting the affirmative defense of 
contributory negligence. The customer has moved 
to strike the affirmative defense. Traditional rules of 
contributory negligence apply. 

Should the trial court grant the customer’s motion? 

(A)  No, because contributory negligence is an 

affirmative defense to a cause of action 
based on vicarious liability. 

(B)  No, because the customer should have 

known that his argument with the cashier 
might provoke an action by a security guard. 

(C)  Yes, because contributory negligence is not 

a defense to battery. 

(D)  Yes, because the customer did not know that 

he was pushing away someone who was 
employed as a security guard. 

Torts 

130 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 13. 

Question 14. 

A hot-air balloon touring company operated 
near a golf course. The company’s property was 
separated from the golf course by a fence on which 
the company had posted signs warning people not 
to enter the property because of the dangers of 
balloons landing. 

A golfer on the golf course hit an errant shot onto 
the company’s property, ignored the warning signs, 
and jumped over the fence to retrieve her golf ball. 
At about the same time, one of the company’s 
balloons experienced mechanical problems and had 
to make an emergency landing to avoid crashing. 
The balloon, which was out of control when it 
landed, struck the golfer and injured her. 

The jurisdiction has decided that hot-air ballooning 
is an abnormally dangerous activity. 

In an action by the golfer against the company, does 
the company have any affirmative defenses? 

(A)  No, because the balloon was out of control 

when it struck the golfer. 

(B)  No, because the company was engaged in an 

abnormally dangerous activity. 

(C)  Yes, because the balloon landed to avoid 

crashing. 

(D)  Yes, because the golfer assumed the risk by 
coming onto the company’s property. 

A homeowner resides downhill from a metal 
fabrication facility. She has sued both the owner 
of the facility and the supplier of a solvent used 
at the facility. She contends that contaminants, 
consisting mostly of the solvent, were released into 
the ground at the facility and have migrated and 
continue to migrate to her property, contaminating 
the soil, the groundwater, and her well. She alleges 
various acts of negligence on the part of the facility 
owner in causing the release of the contaminants 
into the ground. She also alleges that employees of 
the solvent supplier were negligent in frequently 
spilling some of the solvent onto the ground while 
filling a rooftop tank at the facility. 

The solvent supplier has moved for summary 
judgment, arguing that if there was any 
contamination, the facility owner and the supplier 
independently contributed indeterminate amounts to 
the contamination and that therefore the homeowner 
cannot show how much damage each has inflicted 
on her. 

There is no evidence that the facility owner and the 
solvent supplier acted in concert. 

Should the court grant the summary judgment 
motion? 

(A)  No, because concurrent tortfeasors are 

jointly and severally liable for an indivisible 
injury. 

(B)  No, because the solvent supplier is 

vicariously liable for damage inflicted by the 
facility owner. 

(C)  Yes, because there is no basis for allocating 
damages against the solvent supplier. 

(D)  Yes, because there is no evidence that the 

facility owner and the solvent supplier acted 
in concert. 

131 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 15. 

Question 16. 

A fumigation company was hired to eliminate 
pests in one of two buildings in a condominium 
complex that shared a common wall. The owners of 
the complex told the fumigation company that the 
common wall separating the infested building from 
the uninfested building was an impenetrable fire 
wall. The fumigation company did its own thorough 
inspection and determined that the buildings were 
indeed completely separated by the wall. Residents 
of the condominium units in the building that was to 
be sprayed were told to evacuate, but the residents 
of the uninfested building were told that they could 
remain while the other building was treated. 

During and shortly after the fumigation, in which 
a highly toxic chemical was used, many residents 
of the uninfested building became sick. It was 
determined that their illnesses were caused by the 
fumigation chemical. 

In fact, there was a hole in the fire wall separating 
the two buildings, but because it could only be 
observed from a specific position in the crawl space 
underneath the floor of the uninfested building, it 
had not been discovered by either the fumigation 
company or any previous building inspector. 

Are the residents of the uninfested building likely 
to prevail in a tort action against the fumigation 
company? 

(A)  No, because the condominium complex 
owners were responsible for accurately 
conveying the condition of their buildings. 

(B)  No, because the fumigation company 
exercised a high level of care. 

A complaint filed on behalf of a woman against a 
nursing home and an ambulance service included 
the following allegations: 

The woman, who was 86 years old and 
unable to speak after suffering a stroke, 
was picked up from her daughter’s house 
by the ambulance service and taken to the 
nursing home to stay while her daughter 
was out of town. When the woman’s 
daughter returned a few days later, the 
ambulance service picked up the woman 
from the nursing home and returned her to 
the daughter’s house. The daughter was 
shocked to discover that the woman had 
a broken leg; her leg had been uninjured 
when she left for the nursing home. 

A physician’s report attached to the complaint 
stated that the woman’s leg injury would not have 
occurred in the absence of negligence. 

The complaint further alleged that the woman was 
under the control, successively, of the ambulance 
service and the nursing home during the time when 
she must have sustained the injury, and that either 
the ambulance service or the nursing home must 
have negligently moved or handled the woman, 
causing the injury to her leg. 

Both defendants have argued that the allegations 
in the complaint are inadequate to support a 
negligence claim. 

What is the best response to the defendants’ 
argument? 

(C)  Yes, because the fumigation company can be 

(A)  Both defendants owed a duty to the woman. 

held strictly liable for its activity. 

(D)  Yes, because the fumigation company put 

a dangerous product into the stream of 
commerce. 

Torts 

132 

(B)  One of the two defendants probably caused 

the injury, and the circumstances of the 
injury are primarily within the knowledge 
and control of the defendants rather than the 
woman or her representative. 

(C) 

The defendants are concurrent tortfeasors, so 
each is vicariously liable for any tortious act 
committed by the other. 

(D) 

There are grounds for the fact-finder to infer 
that both defendants were negligent. 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 17. 

Question 18. 

A pilot was flying his small plane when he 
experienced engine trouble and was forced to make 
an emergency landing. He landed the plane safely  
in a large yard behind a home located in a relatively 
remote area. Unfortunately, when he disembarked 
from the plane, he was attacked and injured by two 
large dogs kept by the homeowner to discourage 
trespassers. The homeowner, who had seen the 
plane land, had ordered the dogs to attack. Several 
months earlier, the homeowner had posted large 
signs around the perimeter of the yard warning of 
the dogs. 

Does the pilot have a viable claim against the 
homeowner for battery? 

(A)  No, because the homeowner had provided 

adequate warning. 

(B)  No, because the pilot was a trespasser. 

(C)  Yes, because the pilot can invoke the 

privilege of necessity. 

(D)  Yes, because the pilot could not reasonably 
have been expected to see the warning signs 
posted by the homeowner. 

A plumbing company hired a worker to work at 
various construction sites. The worker used his own 
truck to travel between the company’s warehouse 
and the construction sites, but the company 
fitted the truck with a rack for carrying plumbing 
pipes. The company paid the worker for traveling 
between the warehouse and the construction sites, 
but not for his drive to and from work. 

Because the worker was required to haul pipes on 
his truck while driving between the warehouse 
and the construction sites, the company asked the 
worker, before hiring him, whether he had a valid 
driver’s license. The worker represented that he 
did, although in fact his license had been suspended 
because he had been convicted of recklessly causing 
motor vehicle collisions. The company made no 
effort to verify the worker’s representation. 

While driving to work one morning in his truck, 
the worker carelessly caused a collision in which a 
woman was injured. 

In her subsequent action against the plumbing 
company, based on a theory of negligent hiring, is 
the woman likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the company’s duty to use 

reasonable care in hiring a competent driver 
extended only to actions taken by the worker 
in the scope of his employment. 

(B)  No, because the worker was an independent 

contractor. 

(C)  Yes, because the company fitted the 

worker’s truck with a pipe rack. 

(D)  Yes, because the company had a duty to 
ensure that its workers had valid driver’s 
licenses. 

133 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 19. 

Question 20. 

A mother took her five-year-old child to a hospital 
emergency room for treatment. A doctor on the 
hospital staff molested the child while treating her. 
At the time, no one was in the treatment room 
except the doctor and the child; the mother had left 
the room to get a cup of coffee. Two weeks later, 
when the child told her mother what had occurred 
in the treatment room, the mother suffered severe 
emotional distress that caused her to become 
physically ill. 

In an action against the doctor by the mother on her 
own behalf to recover for intentional infliction of 
emotional distress, is the mother likely to prevail? 

(A)  No, because the mother was contributorily 

negligent in leaving the child alone with the 
doctor during treatment. 

(B)  No, because the mother was neither the 

direct victim of the doctor’s conduct nor a 
contemporaneous witness. 

(C)  Yes, because the doctor’s conduct was 

outrageous. 

(D)  Yes, because the mother’s distress was the 
natural and foreseeable consequence of the 
doctor’s conduct. 

A man and a woman were competing in an illegal 
drag race. Both of them were driving over the speed 
limit but were otherwise driving very carefully. 
However, when a tire on the woman’s car suddenly 
blew out, she lost control of her car and crashed, 
injuring a pedestrian. 

The pedestrian later sued the man, because the 
woman had no insurance or assets. 

Will the pedestrian be likely to prevail in that 
action? 

(A)  No, because the man did not cause the 

injury. 

(B)  No, because the man was driving very 

carefully. 

(C)  Yes, because the man and the woman were 

acting in concert in a dangerous activity. 

(D)  Yes, because the man was exceeding the 

speed limit. 

Torts 

134 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 21. 

Question 22. 

A construction worker was working at the 
construction site of a new building. An open 
elevator, which had been installed in the building by 
the elevator manufacturer, was used to haul workers 
and building materials between floors. While the 
worker was riding the elevator, it stalled between 
floors due to a manufacturing defect in the elevator. 
The worker called for assistance and was in no 
danger, but after waiting 15 minutes for help, he 
became anxious and jumped 12 feet to get out. He 
severely injured his back when he landed. 

In an action by the worker against the elevator 
manufacturer to recover for his back injury, is the 
worker likely to obtain a judgment for 100% of his 
damages? 

(A)  No, because such risks are inherent in 

construction work. 

(B)  No, because the worker was not in danger 

while on the stalled elevator. 

(C)  Yes, because the elevator stalled due to a 

manufacturing defect. 

(D)  Yes, because the worker was falsely 

imprisoned in the stalled elevator. 

A patient who had suffered a severe fracture of 
her leg was treated by an orthopedist, who set  
the patient’s leg and put it in a cast. When the leg 
continued to bother the patient six months later, she 
consulted a second orthopedist in the same town. 
The second orthopedist surgically inserted a pin to 
facilitate healing. 

The patient brought a malpractice action against 
the first orthopedist, claiming that he should have 
surgically inserted a pin at the time of initial 
treatment. 

The only evidence that the patient offered in support 
of her malpractice claim was the testimony of the 
second orthopedist, as follows: 

In response to the question “Would you have 
inserted a pin initially?” the second orthopedist 
testified, “I personally would not have been satisfied 
that the leg would heal properly without a pin.” 

At the close of the patient’s evidence, the first 
orthopedist moved for judgment as a matter of law. 

Should the motion be granted? 

(A)  No, because the patient has introduced 

evidence that the first orthopedist failed to 
give the care that the second orthopedist 
would have provided. 

(B)  No, because the second orthopedist practices 
in the same town and field of specialty as the 
first orthopedist. 

(C)  Yes, because the patient has failed to 

introduce evidence that the first orthopedist’s 
care fell below the professional standard of 
care. 

(D)  Yes, because the second orthopedist also 

treated the patient and is thus not sufficiently 
objective to offer expert testimony. 

135 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 23. 

Question 24. 

During a deer-hunting season open to rifle hunters, 
a hunter saw a deer in the forest. He shot his rifle at 
the deer, hoping to hit and kill it. Instead, he hit and 
injured a hiker. The hunter had not realized that the 
hiker was there. 

A customer bought a can of corn at a grocery 
store. While eating the corn later that evening, the 
customer was injured by a small piece of glass in 
the corn. The customer sued the canning company 
that had processed and canned the corn. 

Does the injured hiker have an actionable battery 
claim against the hunter? 

(A)  No, because the hunter did not intend to 

shoot the hiker. 

(B)  No, because the hunter did not make direct 

physical contact with the hiker. 

At trial, the customer presented evidence that 
neither the customer nor any third party had done 
anything after the can of corn was opened that 
would account for the presence of the glass. 

Without any other evidence, is the customer likely 
to prevail? 

(C)  Yes, because the bullet from the hunter’s 

(A)  No, because it is possible that someone 

rifle made direct physical contact with the 
hiker. 

tampered with the can before the customer 
bought it. 

(D)  Yes, because the hunter intentionally shot 

(B)  No, because the customer has not shown any 

the rifle. 

direct evidence that the canning company 
acted negligently. 

(C)  Yes, because a jury may reasonably infer 

that the canning company acted negligently. 

(D)  Yes, because the grocery store could not 

have discovered the piece of glass by 
reasonable inspection. 

Torts 

136 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 25. 

Question 26. 

A buyer bought a large, nicely kept house near a 
university campus. She was able to buy the house 
for a very good price because it was located directly 
across the street from a fraternity house known for 
its frequent late-night parties. The buyer knew of 
the fraternity’s reputation before she bought the 
house. 

The reputation was well deserved, and the buyer 
found the noise from the parties extremely 
unpleasant and disruptive. 

The buyer has asked an attorney for legal advice 
regarding a possible nuisance claim against the 
fraternity. 

Which of the following responses would best 
express the applicable law? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

“You have no nuisance claim, because the 
fraternity members have the right to use 
their property as they please.” 

“You have no nuisance claim, because you 
came to the nuisance.” 

“You might have a nuisance claim, but the 
fact that you bought the house fully aware of 
the fraternity’s habitual late-night activities 
will count against your claim and could help 
defeat it.” 

“You will be able to recover damages in 
a nuisance action, because the late-night 
activities of the fraternity members violate 
your right to the quiet enjoyment of your 
property.” 

A homeowner was injured when he slipped and 
fell in a puddle of water on his sunroom floor; 
the water had accumulated on the floor during a 
rainstorm because of leaks in the roof. The roof’s 
manufacturer had supplied nondefective materials 
to the installer, who was a franchisee (and not an 
employee) of the manufacturer. The leaks resulted 
from the carelessness of the installer during the 
installation of the roof. 

The installer’s truck, which had been parked in 
front of the homeowner’s house during the roof 
installation, bore the manufacturer’s logo. The 
manufacturer was aware that the truck and the 
literature supplied by the installer both displayed 
the manufacturer’s logo. 

Is there any basis for a claim by the homeowner 
against the manufacturer? 

(A)  No, because a franchisor has no duty to 

supervise the conduct of a franchisee. 

(B)  No, under the rule that a manufacturer is 

liable only for defects in a product that 
existed at the time the product left the hands 
of the manufacturer. 

(C)  Yes, because the installer was a franchisee of 

the manufacturer. 

(D)  Yes, under the rule of apparent agency. 

137 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 27. 

Question 28. 

A restaurant building was expanded into a vacant lot 
north of its original location. The contractor who 
was working on the restaurant expansion found that 
the north wall of the new structure needed extensive 
support, so anchor rods and concrete were added. 
The supporting anchor rods and concrete extended 
into a neighboring property farther to the north at a 
point 20 feet below the surface. 

A young woman who attended a rock concert at a 
nightclub was injured when the band opened its 
performance with illegal fireworks that ignited 
foam insulation in the club’s ceiling and walls. The 
young woman sued the radio station that sponsored 
the performance. The radio station has moved for 
summary judgment, claiming that it owed no duty 
to audience members. 

Although there was no impact on the surface  
of his land or on existing uses, the owner of the 
neighboring property has sued the restaurant owner 
for trespass. 

Which party is likely to prevail? 

(A) 

(B) 

(C) 

(D) 

The neighboring property owner, because 
he should have been given notice of the 
intrusion before it occurred. 

The neighboring property owner, because 
the restaurant intruded upon his property 
without permission. 

The restaurant owner, because the decision 
to provide the additional support was 
reasonable. 

The restaurant owner, because there was no 
disturbance of peaceful enjoyment of the 
neighboring property. 

The evidence has established the following facts: 
The station advertised its sponsorship on the radio 
and in print, distributed free tickets to the concert, 
staffed the event with the station’s interns to assist 
with crowd control, and provided a station disc 
jockey to serve as master of ceremonies. The master 
of ceremonies had the authority to stop or delay the 
performance at any time on the basis of any safety 
concern. The station knew or should have known 
that the band routinely used unlicensed, illegal 
fireworks in its performances. 

Should the court grant the radio station’s motion for 
summary judgment? 

(A)  No, because there is sufficient evidence of 

knowledge and control on the part of the 
station to impose on it a duty of care to 
audience members. 

(B)  No, because under respondeat superior, the 

radio station is vicariously liable for the 
negligent actions of the band. 

(C)  Yes, because it is the band and the nightclub 
owners who owed audience members a duty 
of care. 

(D)  Yes, because the conduct of the band in 

setting off illegal fireworks was criminal and 
was a superseding cause as a matter of law. 

Torts 

138 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Question 29. 

Question 30. 

A man was driving his new car along a dark road 
with the car’s high-beam headlights on to illuminate 
the road. When he saw the headlights of another 
car appear in the distance, he reached to turn the 
high beams off. Instead of turning from high-beam 
to low-beam, the headlights on the car turned off 
completely. The man tried repeatedly to turn the 
lights on again but could not do so. He collided with 
the other car and suffered injuries. 

The man has brought an action against the 
manufacturer of the headlight controls in his car, the 
manufacturer of his car, and the retailer who sold 
him the car. 

If the man can establish that a defect in the controls 
caused the accident, from whom can he recover? 

(A)  Only the manufacturer of the car and the 

retailer of the car. 

(B)  Only the manufacturer of the car. 

(C)  Only the manufacturer of the headlight 

controls and the manufacturer of the car. 

(D)  All three defendants. 

While visiting at his son’s home, a grandfather 
tripped on a toy left on the floor by his four-year- 
old grandson. The grandfather fell and was severely 
injured. The grandfather regularly visited his son’s 
home and was aware that the grandson routinely left 
toys scattered about the house. The son had never 
warned the grandfather to look out for toys. 

The grandfather brought an action against his son 
to recover for his injuries. At trial, after the close 
of evidence, both the grandfather and the son have 
moved for judgment as a matter of law as to 
liability. 

The jurisdiction has abolished intra-family 
immunity and applies the traditional rules of 
landowner liability. 

What action should the court take? 

(A)  Deny both motions and submit the case to 

the jury based on negligence. 

(B)  Deny both motions and submit the case to 

the jury based on strict liability. 

(C)  Grant the grandfather’s motion, because the 
son is liable as a matter of law for failing to 
warn about the risk of toys being left on the 
floor. 

(D)  Grant the son’s motion, because the son had 

no duty to warn that the grandson might 
leave toys on the floor. 

139 

Torts 

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Torts Answer Key 

1.   B 

2.   D 

3.   A 

4.   B 

5.   B 

6.   B 

7.   A 

8.   A 

9.   D 

10.   D 

11.   C 

12.   D 

13.   D 

14.   A 

15.   C 

16.   B 

17.   C 

18.   A 

19.   B 

20.   C 

21.   B 

22.   C 

23.   A 

24.   C 

25.   C 

26.   D 

27.   B 

28.   A 

29.   D 

30.   D 

Torts 

140 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
