http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Simulated MBE Civil Procedure 
Practice Questions 

~f;® Wolters Kluwer 

Law &  Business 

Copyright© 2014 CCH Incorporated . 

Published by Wolters Kluwer Law & Business in New York. 

Wolters Kluwer Law &  Business serves customers worldwide with CCH, Aspen Publishers, and Kluwer Law 
International products. (www.wolterskluwerlb.com) 

No part of t his publication may be reproduced or t ransm itted in any form 
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopy, recording, 
or ut ilized by any information storage or retrieva l system, w ithout w ritten permission 
from the publisher. For information about  permissions or to request permissions online, visit us at 
www.wolterskluwerlb.com, or a written request may be f axed to our permissions department  at 212-771-
0803. 

To contact Customer Service, e-mail customer.service@wolterskluwer.com, 
call1-800-234-1660, f ax 1-800-901-9075, or mail correspondence to: 

Wolters Kluwer Law &  Business 
Attn: Order Department 
PO  Box 990 
Frederick, MD 21705 

eiSBN: 978-1-4548-5890-4 

Contents 

Note to Bar Exam Candidates 

Primary Topics of Questions 
Civi l Procedure Practice Questions 
Civi l Procedure Answers 

. 
IV 

1 
2 
35 

Note to Bar Exam Candidates 

Beginning in February 2015, the M ultistate Bar Exam ination will include Civil Procedure 

questions. Until the National Conference of Bar Examiners releases practice exams w ith actual 

Civil Procedure questions that we can use to update our offerings, we will provide free access 

to these 50 practice questions for purchasers of select Wolters Kluwer bar exam  materials.  The 

questions simulate MBE style and  provide in-depth explanations for each choice, explaining not 

only why the correct choice is correct, but also why the others are wrong. 

You can also find 10 sample questions provided by the National Conference of Bar Examiners at 

http:ljwww.ncbex.org/assets/media  fi les/MBE/MBE-Civii-Procedure-SampleTest 

Questions.pdf. 

Best of luck on the MBE and on the rest of the bar exam. 

iv 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Primary Topics of Questions 

Jurisdiction Over t he Parties or Their Property- 2, 3, 5, 8, 20, 21 

Providing Notice and an Opportunity to Be Heard - 9, 12, 30, 33 

Jurisdiction Over the Subject Matter of the Act ion-the Court's Competency- 4, 10, 11, 14, 
16, 17, 18, 20 

Venue, Transfer, and Forum Non Conveniens- 13, 22, 43 

Ascertaining the Applicable Law- 1 

Pleading- 24, 25, 32, 34, 35, 36 

Joinder of Claims and Parties and Class Actions - 15, 21, 27, 29, 37, 40, 41 

Pretrial Devices for Obtaining Informat ion - 19, 23, 25, 28, 31, 38 

Adjudication Without Trial or by Special Proceeding- 42, 44, 46 

Trial - 45, 47 

Appellate Review- 26, 39 

The Binding Effect of Prior Decisions: Res Judicata and Collateral Est oppel-7, 48,49 

1 

Civil  Procedure Questions 

Civil Procedure Questions 

Question 1 

Plaintiff, a Texas corporation that manufactures office supplies, purchased wood pulp from 

Defendant, an Illinois corporation that is headquartered in Indiana.  The sales contract requires 

Defendant to deliver the pulp to Plaintiff's factory in Texas on or before May 1. Defendant 

delivers the pulp 45 days late, and  Plaintiff sues Defendant in federal district court in Illinois, 

invoking diversity jurisdiction. The complaint alleges breach of contract and seeks damages in 

excess of $75,000 .  Defendant moves to dismiss the complaint for fai lure to state a claim. 

Defendant argues that the judge is required to apply Illinois law to the case, and that the Illinois 

Contract Delivery Act (ICDA)  provides, "Every supply contract is deemed to permit the vendor 

to deliver goods up to 60 days after the date specified in the contract." Plaintiff opposes the 

motion and argues that applying the ICDA to the dispute gives Defendant the unfair advantage 

of allowing it to benefit from the law of its state of citizenship. 

Is the federal district court required to apply the ICDA to the dispute? 

(A)  No, because a federal court sitting in diversity is required to devise a common law 

rule of decision to ensure litigant equality and fa ir administration of the law. 

(B)  Yes,  because Illinois is the state of Defendant's incorporation, so its law governs the 

interpretation of any contract to which the company is a party. 

(C)  Yes,  if the highest court of Illinois has held that the ICDA applies to a supply contract 

of the sort involved in this dispute. 

(D) Yes,  if an Illinois state court would apply the ICDA to an analogous contract dispute. 

Question 2 

Plaintiff is a construction company. It is incorporated in Idaho and operates in that state and in 

Colorado. Defendant is an  Internet-based company that is incorporated in Delaware. The 

complaint alleges that Defendant defrauded Plaintiff in violation of a federal statute called the 

Internet Commercial Fraud Act (ICFA). Section 1 of the ICFA creates a federal private right of 

action for anyone defrauded in a commercial transaction conducted over the Internet. Section 

2 of the statute authorizes service in an ICFA action "on the defendant wherever the defendant 
may be found in the United States." The complaint, filed in district court in Idaho, asserts that 

an employee in Plaintiff's Idaho office purchased a computer on line from Defendant; that 

Defendant knew the computer was defective; and that Defendant shipped the computer to 

Plaintiff's Colorado office. The Colorado long-arm statute allows nationwide service of process 

upon, and personal jurisdiction over, any defendant who "voluntarily and knowingly ships any 

3 

Civil Procedure Questions 

item of tangible personal property into this state." After Plaintiff fi les the suit, Plaintiffs sole 

effort to make service on the Defendant is to have the summons and complaint handed to the 

CEO of Defendant while the CEO is visiting California to attend a technology conference. 

Defendant has never sold a computer to a California resident. 

Has Plaintiff established personal jurisdiction over Defendant? 

(A)  Yes,  because the statute and the Federal Rules of Civil  Procedure, taken together, 

authorize the service that occurred here, and the Idaho federa l court's exercise of 

jurisdiction would not offend due process. 

(B)  Yes,  because service in federal-question suits may be made anywhere in the U.S. 

where the defendant may be found, and in this case the Defendant could be found 

wherever the CEO was at the moment of service. 

(C)  Yes,  because a federal court will exercise personal jurisdiction where service and 

personal jurisdiction would be allowed by the long-arm of the state where the 

federal court sits, and the Colorado long-arm would apply to these facts. 

(D)  No, because the Defendant does not have minimum contacts with Idaho, and the 

exercise of personal jurisdiction over the Defendant in the Idaho federa l courts 

would violate the Defendant's due process rights. 

Question 3 

Plaintiff, a Connecticut partnership, f iles suit in federal district court in New York against 

Defendant, a New Jersey corporation. The complaint alleges that Defendant has violated a 

federal antitrust statute. The antitrust statute allows a private party to bring a civil damage suit 

against violators of the statute. The statute also provides that in any such suit, nationwide 

service-of-process may be made against, and personal jurisdiction exercised over, any 

defendant found within the United States. 

If the court is asked by Defendant to decide whether the exercise of in personam jurisdiction 

against Defendant satisfies constitutional requirements, the court should do this by deciding 

whether: 

(A)  Defendant has minimum contacts with the state of New York, as required by the Due 

Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 

(B) Defendant has minimum contacts with the United States, as required by the Fifth 

Amendment to the United States Constitution. 

4 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

(C)  Defendant has minimum contacts w ith the state of New York, as required by the Due 

Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution 

(D) Defendant has minimum contacts with the United States, as required by the Due 

Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitut ion. 

Question 4 

Plaintiff, a West Virginia citizen, works in Texas for Defendant, a company that distributes farm 

equipment and  is incorporated in New Mexico. Plaintiff was injured at work while loading boxes 

into a storage facil ity. He sues Defendant in a state court in West Virginia. The complaint alleges 
negligent infliction of harm and seeks damages in excess of $75,000. Defendant removes the 
action to a federa l district court in West Virginia and also answers the complaint. 

If  Plaintiff opposes removal to a federal court in West Virginia, which factor is most relevant to 

whether the court should remand the action back to state court? 

(A)  Defendant conducts its day-to-day operations and maintains its inventory in West 

Virginia. 

(B) Defendant's corporate officers direct, control, and coordinate the company's 

activities from an office in Texas. 

(C)  Plaintiff is a citizen of West Virginia. 

(D) Defendant's answer alleges that Plaintiff was not wearing required safety equipment 

on the day of his accident and raises an affirmative defense of contributory 
negligence based on a federa l statute, "The Safe Workplace Act," which provides, 
"No employer shall be liable under this act if the employee is contributorily negligent 

for his injury." 

Question 5 

Plaintiff, an  Indiana corporation, sues Defendant, an individual, in Georgia state court. 

Defendant is served at his home in Atlanta, Georgia. The suit, based on Texas law, seeks money 

damages. The suit contends that Defendant breached a contract to convey a piece of Texas real 

estate to Plaintiff, thereby depriving Plaintiff of the benefit of his bargain. The contract was 

negotiated in person in Illinois by Plaintiff's CEO and Defendant, and was signed by Defendant 

in New York.  Defendant t imely moves to dismiss the suit for lack of personal jurisdiction. 

Georgia's statute governing jurisdiction permits the exercise of jurisdiction to the full extent 

allowed under the United States Constitution. 

Should the court grant defendant's motion? 

5 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

(A) Yes,  because the cause of action does not arise out of or relate to defendant's 
contacts within Georgia, the forum state. 

(B) Yes,  because when a claim arises out of breach of a contract to convey rea l estate, 

only the state in which the real estate is located has j urisdiction. 

(C)  No, because the state in which a defendant resides may exercise general jurisdiction 

regard less of the nature of the cause of action. 

(D) No, because the plaintiff and defendant are citizens of different states, permitting 

the court to exercise diversity j urisdiction over the suit. 

Question 6 

Plaintiff buys a sweater from Defendant, who runs a mail-order clothing business. After wearing 

the sweater, Plaintiff develops rashes and later suffers neurological damage. She sues 

Defendant in federal district court alleging that the sweater was treated with chemicals that 

caused her injury. Defendant serves Plaintiff with a Request for a Physical Examination, and 

Plaintiff refuses to comply. Defendant moves to compel discovery. 

How should the district court resolve the discovery dispute and why? 

(A)  The district court should grant the discovery request because a physical examination 

is re levant to the claims and defenses in the action. 

(B) The district court should deny the discovery request because conditioning Plaintiff's 

right to bring suit  upon her submission to a court-ordered physical examination 

violates her right to bodily integrity. 

(C) The district court should deny the discovery request because Defendant did not 

move for such discovery and show good cause. 

(D) The district court should grant the request and treat Plaintiff's refusa l to appear for 

an examination as a contempt of court. 

Question 7 

Plaintiff purchased a used car from Defendant. At the time of the sale, Plaintiff did not know 
that the car had defective brakes. While driving the car, Plaintiff crashed into a taxi that was 
going faster than the speed lim it. Plaintiff sues Defendant in federal district court in 

Pennsylvania for personal injury, damage to property, and misrepresentation, and w ins on all 

counts. Plaintiff then sues Taxi Driver in a separate action in federa l district court in New York 

for personal injury and  property damage. Taxi Driver raises the affirmative defense of claim 

6 

Civil Procedure Questions 

preclusion, citing the judgment of the Pennsylvania federal court, and moves for summary 

judgment on that basis. 

Which statement provides the best explanation of how the New York federal court should 

resolve the motion? 

(A)  The federal court should grant the motion because Plaintiff was required to sue all 

parties involved in the accident in the Pennsylvania action. 

(B)  The federal court should grant the motion under the transactional test for claim 

preclusion. 

(C)  The court should deny the motion because Taxi Driver was not a party to the 

Pennsylvania action. 

(D) The court should deny the motion because the judgment of the Pennsylvania court 

is not final until all appeals are concluded. 

Question 8 

Plaintiff is an individual who lives in California. While on holiday in New York, he buys an 

antique map from Defendant, an art dealer with a sales office in New York. The map turns out 

to be a counterfeit, and Plaintiff sues Defendant in federal court in California. The action alleges 

breach of contract, m isrepresentation, and fraud and seeks $1  million in damages. Defendant 

has never set foot in Californ ia but he owns a storage facil ity in that state valued at $25,000. 

Plaintiff bases jurisdiction on a California statute that provides: "The courts of this state have 

authority, consistent w ith the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, to exercise 

jurisdiction on a quasi in rem basis." Plaintiff serves Defendant in the California action by 

attaching the storage facil ity. Defendant moves to dismiss the action for lack of personal 

jurisdiction. 

How should the district court resolve the motion? 

(A)  The court should grant the motion unless Plaintiff f irst made reasonable efforts to 

serve a summons on Defendant before attaching the property. 

(B)  The court should deny the motion because Plaintiff satisfied the clear requ irements 

of the state quasi in rem statute. 

(C)  The court should grant the motion because a federal statute does not authorize 

quasi in rem jurisdiction and the lawsuit was filed in federal court. 

7 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(D) The court should grant the motion because the attached assets are not related to 

Plaintiff's claim against Defendant. 

Question 9 

Plaintiff lives in New York and bought hiking equipment from Defendant, a company that is 

incorporated in Alaska. The company does mail-order and Internet sales, and Plaintiff selected 

his purchase after looking at Defendant's catalogue and talking w ith a sales agent by telephone. 

Defendant does 20 percent of its annual sales w ith customers who live in New York, but it has 

no employees or agents physically located in that state.  The hiking equipment turns out to be 

defective, and Plaintiff sues Defendant in New York state court. Plaintiff serves Defendant 

under a New York statute that provides: "Service may be made upon a nonresident company 

that is registered to do business in this state by plaintiff's hand-delivery of the summons and 

complaint to the New York Secretary of State at its official address in Albany, New York." 

Defendant does not contest that it is registered to do business in the state. Under what 

circumstances will service under the state statute be constitutionally sufficient? 

(A)  Service is constitutionally sufficient upon Plaintiff's hand-delivery of the summons 

and complaint to the state official. 

(B)  Service is constitutionally sufficient if Defendant also receives notice by mail. 

(C)  Service by any method other than in-hand delivery is per se unconstitutional 

because defendant's address is known to plaintiff. 

(D) Service is constitutionally sufficient if accompanied by notice published in a 

newspaper distributed in Alaska where Defendant is incorporated. 

Question 10 

Husband, Wife, and Child, all citizens of New York, ate a can of soup that turned out to be 

contaminated. Each suffered food poisoning that resulted in permanent neurological damage. 

Defendant, a food company in California, processed and distributed the can of soup. Husband, 

Wife, and Child sue Defendant in a federal district court in New York. Defendant moves to 

dismiss the complaint alleging lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. He concedes that the parties 

are citizens of diverse states, but argues that the complaint does not meet the amount-in 

controversy test. 

How should the court resolve the motion? 

8 

Civil Procedure Quest ions 

(A) The court  should grant the motion if the complaint alleges that each f am ily member 

suffered $40,000 in  personal damages. 

(B)  The court  should deny the motion if the complaint  alleges that each f amily mem ber 

suffered $40,000 in  personal damages. 

(C)  The court should grant the motion if the complaint alleges that Husband suffered 

$40,000 in  personal damages and $40,000 f or loss of consortium; W ife suffered 

$40,000 in  personal damages and $40,000 f or loss of consortium; and Child suffered 

$40,000 in  personal damages and $40,000 f or emotional distress. 

(D) The court should grant the motion if the complaint alleges that each f am ily member 

suffered $40,000 in  personal damages, but permit amendment of t he complaint to 

allege supplemental jurisdict ion over all claims. 

Question 11 

Plaintiff is a reside nt ial home owner in Texas. He orders a garden hose for $100 by t elephone 

from a cat alogue distributed by Defendant, a garden-supply company t hat  is incorporated and 

headquartered in Texas. The garden hose turns out t o have a defective nozzle, and while 

Plaintiff is watering his garden a f lood develops and his garden is ruined. Plaintiff is angry and 

posts disparaging comments about th e company on an on-line discussion board. Plaintiff also 

sues Defendant  in Texas state court t o recover the purc hase price plus damages, f or a tot al of 

$5,000. Defendant files a counterclaim under a federal statute entit led the "Federal Trade Libel 

Law" (the FTLL),  which provides: "Any fa lse or disparaging statement  made about a business 

that  conduct s on-line or sales by mail shall be per se acti onable f or $10,000 for each day in 

which said statement  is accessible on-line or in print by the public." Defendant's counterclaim 

alleges that Plaintiffs disparaging st atement appeared on-line f or ten days and the company 

seeks $100,000 in damages. Def endant th en removes the act ion t o federal court, and Plaint iff 

seeks to remand. 

Should t he federa l district court remand th e action? 

(A)  The distri ct  court should not  rema nd t he action because it  has power to hear 

Defendant's counterclaim. 

(B)  The distri ct  court should not  rema nd the action because it  may exercise diversity 

jurisdiction over the ent ire case. 

(C)  The distri ct  court should remand the acti on. 

9 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(D) The district court should remand Plaintiff's state-law claim but retain jurisdiction 

over Defendant's federal counterclaim. 

Question 12 

Plaintiff, an environmental activist, is concerned that lakeshore development will destroy 

vegetation that fish need to spawn. She brings a lawsuit based on a federal statute, the "Fish 

Protection Act," that provides, "Recognizing that overdeveloped shorelines are harmful to fish, 

homeowners are encouraged to maintain a 30-foot strip of natural vegetation between beach 

and lawn."  The lawsuit seeks to halt shoreline development that does not maintain the 

recommended 30-foot buffer, and seeks prelim inary injunctive rel ief. Defendant, the owner of 

undeveloped shoreline property, opposes the motion. 

Which statement best expresses how the federal court should decide the motion? 

(A)  The court should grant the motion, because damages will never be able to repa ir the 

injury that the environment will suffer if the fish cannot spawn due to Defendant's 

illegal development of his property. 

(B)  The court should grant the motion, because otherwise Defendant will develop the 

land w ithout the necessary buffer and the public interest will be hurt. 

(C)  The court should deny the motion, because money damages w ill be sufficient to 

remedy a violation of the Fish Protection Act. 

(D) The court should deny the motion because Plaintiff is unlikely to succeed on the 

merits. 

Question 13 

Purchaser is an individual who lives in New Jersey. He enters into a contract with 

Seller, a company that is incorporated in Delaware. The contract has a provision that states: 

"Goods purchased under this contract shall be delivered from Seller's warehouse in New Jersey 

to Purchaser's factory in Texas."  Seller fails to deliver the goods on time, and Purchaser sues in 

federal court on the basis of diversity jurisdiction. The suit is filed in the Southern District of 

New Jersey, the same district in which Seller's warehouse is located. After discovery, Purchaser 

moves for a change of venue to the Western District of Texas, which is where Purchaser's 

factory is located. Litigating in the Western District of Texas would be more convenient for both 

parties. 

10 

Civil Procedure Quest ions 

How should the district court resolve the motion? 

(A)  Grant the motion, assuming that Seller could initially have been served w ith process 

in the Western District ofTexas. 

(B)  Deny t he motion, because Purchaser,  having chosen the acti on's original venue, 

cannot  request to transfer the acti on. 

(C)  Deny t he motion, because changes of venue, even in t he f ederal system, may not 

cross st at e boundaries when the court is exercising diversity jurisdict ion. 

(D)  Dismiss the acti on, because t he initial venue choice was in the wrong district. 

Question 14 

Plaintiff is president of Company, w hich is incorporat ed and headquart ered in Delaware. 

Company hires Partnership, a t wo-partner company, t o redesign its comput er system. The 

system is hacked, and Company sues Partnership in fede ral distri ct  court, seeking damages in 

excess of $75,000.  Partnership's members are cit izens of Texas and New York, and Partnership 

does not  challenge subject -matter jurisdiction. During discovery, and after th e t ime t o make 

threshold objections has passed, Partnership learns t hat Plaint iff has rei ncorporat ed in Texas 

during th e course of t he lawsuit. 

Defendant moves to dismiss the act ion for lack of subject -matter j urisdicti on. Assuming proper 

briefing, how should the court resolve the motion? 

(A)  The court should deny the motion as unt imely. 

(B)  The court should dismiss t he action and sanction Plaintiff for having w ithheld 

information pertinent to j urisdicti on th at  goes to the integrity of th e acti on. 

(C)  The court should deny the motion. 

(D)  The court should remand t he matter t o st at e court. 

Question 15 

Plaintiff is an insurance company t hat is incorporat ed in Texas and has it s corporat e 

headquarters in Delaware. It  provides insurance coverage for automobile accidents. Plaintiff 

receives claims from seven different  individuals who were involved in diffe rent  car accidents 

with Driver. The face value of Driver's insurance policy w ith Plaint iff is $1 m illion. Four of th e 

II 

Civil Procedure Questions 

claimants are citizens of New Jersey; two of the beneficiaries are citizens of New York; and the 

seventh is a citizen of Delaware. Plaintiff files a statutory interpleader action in federal district 

court to determine which of the claimants, if any, should receive payment under Driver's 

insurance policy and  how much each should receive. 

Should the court dismiss the action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction? 

(A)  Yes,  because complete diversity does not exist between Plaintiff and the claimants. 

(B)  No, because two or more claimants are citizens of different states and the amount in 

controversy exceeds the statutory amount. 

(C)  Yes,  because although diversity-of-citizenship is present, the amount in controversy 

is less than $5 million, the statutory amount for high-stakes, multi-state disputes. 

(D) Yes,  because the competing claims do not have a common origin or arise out of the 

same transaction. 

Question 16 

Husband and Wife, American citizens, were married in Tennessee and then moved, together 

with their two children, to West Virginia. After a number of years,  Husband relocated to Virginia 

where he works, insures his car, and votes. He has decided to end his marriage and  has sued 

Wife for divorce in federal district court in West Virginia, seeking joint custody of the children 

and a court order that each parent will contribute $25,000 per year for the next ten years to 

support the children. 

Wife moves to dismiss the action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. How should the court 

resolve the motion? 

(A)  The court should deny the motion because diversity jurisdiction is present. 

(B)  The court should remand the action to a state court in West Virginia. 

(C)  The court should sua sponte transfer the action to a fami ly court in West Virginia. 

(D)  The court should decline to exercise jurisdiction. 

12 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

Question 17 

Plaintiff is a New York corporation that rents stage equipment for use in theatrical 

performances. Defendant is a small theater group that entered into a rental agreement w ith 

Plaintiff. Defendant is incorporated in New York and its main theater is in that state. 

Defendant's latest show is a box office fa ilure. Defendant is unable to pay Plaintiff the annual 

renta l fee, and Plaintiff wants to compel payment. Plaintiff assigns its interest in the rental 

agreement for one dollar to Lawyer, an individual who lives and works in New Jersey. By 

separate agreement, Lawyer agrees to pay Plaintiff 95 percent of all recovery rece ived "as a 

bonus." Under New York law, an assignment is legal "when made for valid consideration, even 

if only for a peppercorn."  Lawyer then sues Defendant in federal district court in New York 

alleging breach of the renta l agreement. 

Defendant moves to dismiss the action for lack of diversity jurisdiction. Assuming the amount 

in-controversy is satisfied, how should the district court resolve the motion? 

(A) The court should grant the motion because diversity jurisdiction is not available to a 

Defendant who is a citizen of the state in which the federa l court sits. 

(B) The court should deny the motion, because Plaintiff and Lawyer are citizens of 

different states and the assignment is legal under state law. 

(C) The court should grant the motion, because diversity of citizenship is not present 

despite the assignment of Plaintiffs claim to Lawyer. 

(D) The court should deny the motion, because Defendant and Lawyer are citizens of 

different states and Lawyer will vigorously litigate the interests of Plaintiff, who is 

the rea l party in interest. 

Question 18 

Plaintiff is a widow whose husband was killed in an accident while working for Defendant, a 

construction company. Plaintiff is a citizen of M issouri. Defendant is incorporated and has its 

principal place of business in Idaho. Plaintiff brings a diversity action against Defendant in 

federal district court in M issouri alleging negligence and seeking $100,000 in damages. 
Defendant f iles a third-party claim against Distributor, seeking $100,000 in damages and 

alleging that if Defendant is liable to Plaintiff, Distributor is liable to Defendant for having leased 

the equipment that allegedly caused the accident. Distributor is incorporated in Missouri. 

Plaintiff seeks to amend her complaint to assert a tort claim against Distributor and to seek a 

$100,000 in damages from that party. 

13 

Civil Procedure Questions 

Defendant and Distributor each move to dismiss the claims against them based on subject 

matter jurisdiction objections. Defendant moves to dismiss Plaintiff's negligence claim; 

Distributor moves to dismiss Defendant's third-party claim;  and Distributor also moves to 

dismiss Plaintiffs tort claim. How should the court resolve the motions? 

(A)  Grant all motions. 

(B)  Grant Distributor's motion against Defendant and Plaintiff. 

(C)  Grant Distributor's motion against Plaintiff. 

(D)  Grant Defendant's motion. 

Question 19 

Plaintiff works for Defendant, an individual who supervises a rare books store owned by 

Company. Plaintiff holds a master's degree in foreign languages and accepted the position 

because she assumed it would lead to professional advancement. Believing she has been 

passed over for a promotion because of her race and gender, Plaintiff sues both Defendant and 

Company in federa l district court alleging discrimination. The complaint survives a motion to 

dismiss.  Plaintiff wants to depose Defendant to ask questions about the company's promotion 

practices. Defendant does not live in the judicial district in which the court hearing the case is 

located. 

Can Plaintiff depose the witness? 

(A) Yes,  but will need leave of court to do so. 

(B) Yes,  but must first procure issuance of a subpoena. 

(C)  Yes,  but must provide reasonable written notice of the time and place of the 

deposition. 

(D) Yes,  but the deposition can  take place only in the district in which the deponent 

resides. 

Question 20 

Plaintiff was born in New York and  has lived there her entire life. For the last twenty years she 

worked as a data-entry operator for Employer, a New York corporation. Her work evaluations 

have consistently been excellent. Employer recently announced that it is outsourcing its data-

14 

Civil Procedure Questions 

entry operations, and that Plaintiff either will be fired or transferred to a lower-paying job. 

Plaintiff believes that she is being discriminated against because of her age and brings a lawsuit 

against Employer and  its Manager, an  individual who also lives and works in New York. The 

complaint contains two claims. The f irst claim is against Employer and arises under the federa l 

Age Bias Act (ABA Act), which provides, "No employer shall discrim inate on the basis of age." 

The second claim is against Manager and alleges breach of her employment contract which 

provides, "No employee shall be terminated other than for inability to perform the job." 

Plaintiff fi led her lawsuit in a federa l district court in New York.  M anager has moved to dismiss 

the action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. How should the court resolve the motion? 

(A)  The court should deny the motion because it can exercise federa l "arising under" 

jurisdiction over the ABA claim. 

(B)  The court should deny the motion because it  can exercise federa l diversity 

jurisdiction over M anager. 

(C)  The court should deny the motion and in its discretion exercise supplemental 

jurisdiction over the contract claim against Manager. 

(D) The court should grant the motion because it cannot exercise supplemental 

jurisdiction over a pendent party. 

Question 21 

Plaintiff owns and operates a retai l store in Vermont. It  licenses software from Defendant, a 

New York company that specializes in security technology. Despite the software, hackers broke 

into Plaintiff's f inancial system. Plaintiff sued Defendant in a state court in Delaware for breach 

of contract, choosing that forum because of its unusually long statute of limitations. Plaintiff 

loses on the merits; the state court holds that Plaintiff was contributorily negligent for its 

injuries because it did not properly install the software. Plaintiff then filed a second lawsuit 

against Defendant, largely repeating the breach-of-contract claim that was dismissed in the first 

lawsuit, but this time fil ing the lawsuit in a federa l district court in Delaware.  Defendant 

answers the complaint ra ising the affirmative defense of claim  preclusion and asserts a 

counterclaim that the f iling of multiple lawsuits has caused Defendant to suffer wrongful injury 
to reputation, and alleges special damages of lost business in excess of $75,000. 

Other than fil ing the pair of lawsuits, Plaintiff has no contacts w ith Delaware. It moves to 

dismiss the counterclaim for lack of personal jurisdiction, arguing that no summons was served 

with the counterclaim. How should the court decide the motion? 

15 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(A)  It should deny the motion because a compulsory counterclaim does not require an 

independent basis of jurisdiction. 

(B) It should grant the motion because a permissive counterclaim requires an 

independent basis of jurisdiction. 

(C)  It should grant the motion for lack of service of process. 

(D) It  should deny the motion because Plaintiff has effectively consented to suit. 

Question 22 

Plaintiff, a company that manufactures pencils,  is organized under the laws of China and has its 

operating plant and management office in that country. It buys wood pulp from Defendant, a 

Delaware corporation.  The sales contract provides that "the laws of China w ill govern any 

dispute that might arise between the parties pertinent to this agreement."  Defendant is late in 

delivering the wood pulp, and Plaintiff sues Defendant in Delaware federal district court. 

Plaintiff has no office or agents in the United States, and the contract was negotiated and 

executed through the Internet. 

Defendant moves to dismiss the action under the doctrine of forum non conveniens on the 
ground that t he case should be heard in a court in China. How should the court resolve the 

motion? 

(A) The court should grant the motion because the requ irements of 28 U.S.C. §  1404 are 

met. 

(B) The court should deny the motion if a court in China will apply law less favorable to 

Plaintiff than will the Delaware district court. 

(C) The court should grant the motion if it determines that China  is an appropriate 

alternative forum for the lawsuit . 

(D) The court has a duty to first establish  that it  has jurisdiction before deciding the 

motion to dismiss. 

Question 23 

Plaintiff heads a company that sells photography equipment. Defendant, the owner of a film 

school, buys five hundred cameras from Plaintiff. Defendant rece ives the cameras but refuses 

to pay,  insisting that the goods do not meet industry standards. Plaintiff sues Defendant in 

federal district court for breach of contract, invoking the court's diversity jurisdiction. Plaintiff 

knows from publicly available sources that Defendant has purchased fi lm, studio lighting, and 

16 

Civil Procedure Questions 

camera rigs from other vendors and knows the names of the companies. Through discovery, 

Plaintiff wants to find out if Defendant also defaulted on those contracts. 

Which statement best describes whether Plaintiff may get discovery about these other 

transactions? 

(A)  Plaintiff may depose an agent designated by each vendor and ask about its contract 

with Defendant. 

(B) Plaintiff can propound interrogatories to each vendor and inquire about its contract 

with Defendant. 

(C)  Plaintiff must show good cause to discover information about these other contracts. 

(D) Plaintiff w ill receive a copy of these other contracts as a part of automatic initial 

disclosure. 

Question 24 

Plaintiff owns a luncheonette called the Healthy Home. Defendant runs a company that sells 

"organic" baked goods. Plaintiff entered into a contract w ith Defendant for the weekly delivery 

of "organic" oatmeal cookies. It turns out that the "organic" cookies are really repackaged 

highly-processed cookies that Defendant buys in bulk from a foreign wholesale company. 

Plaintiff sues Defendant in federal court, alleging diversity jurisd iction. The complaint includes a 

proper jurisdictional statement and adequately makes a demand for judgment. It further 

alleges: (1) Defendant entered into a contract with Plaintiff to weekly deliver thirty pounds of 

"organic" oatmeal cookies. (2) Defendant instead fra udulently delivered non-organic cookies. 

(3) Defendant engaged in fraud. 

Defendant moves to dismiss the complaint for failing to state a claim.  How should the court 

resolve the motion? 

(A)  The court should grant the motion because the complaint fails to allege special 

matters. 

(B)  The court should deny the motion because Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff 

can prove no set of facts in support of the fraud claim. 

17 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(C)  The court should deny the motion because Defendant was required to move for 

judgment on the pleadings. 

(D) The court should grant the motion because the complaint improperly joins a 

contract claim with a tort claim. 

Question 25 

Company is the manufacturer of off-road recreational vehicles.  Driver owns a vehicle 

manufactured by Company. Driver was injured while driving the vehicle on the highway. Driver 

claims that the vehicle accelerated when it was supposed to brake, and as a result it  rolled into 

a ditch. A State Trooper was called and arrived at the scene of the accident. Plaintiff has 

informed Company that he intends to fi le a federal action, based on diversity jurisdiction, for 

injuries caused by the car' s alleged product-design defects. Company wants to find out what 

the State Trooper knows about the accident and whether Driver behaved in any erratic or 
unusual way, and has f iled a verified petition with the federa l district court in the district in 
which the accident occurred to depose the State Trooper. 

Does the Company have a right to depose the State Trooper? 

(A)  No, a party may not take discovery from a nonparty before the commencement of 

a federal lawsuit. 

(B)  No, a party may take discovery before a suit is commenced but only if the request is 

accompanied by a draft complaint against the party from whom discovery is sought. 

(C)  Yes,  a party may take discovery of material that is relevant to claims and defenses. 

(D)  No, a party may not take discovery before the commencement of a federa l lawsuit 

absent a special need to preserve testimony that is not present on these facts. 

Question 26 

Defendant, the manufacturer of automobile tires, entered into a long-term sales contract with 

Plaintiff, a company that distributes used cars. Plaintiff is dissatisfied with the quality of 

Defendant's tires and files a diversity action in federal court against Defendant and  Defendant's 

Director. The complaint alleges three claims: breach of warranty, strict liability, and breach of 

contract. The court grants Plaintiff's motion for partial summary judgment on the contract 

claim  against both opposing parties in favor of Plaintiff, but orders trial  on the two remaining 

claims.  Defendant and Director seek to appeal the grant of partial summary judgment, and 

18 

Civil Procedure Questions 

Plaintiff gives its consent to the motion, hoping that by quickly resolving the issue of liability, 

the parties can reach a settlement on the amount of damages and avoid a trial. 

Does the appeals court have jurisdiction to hear the appeal? 

(A)  Yes,  the appeals court has jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the grant of partial 

summary judgment is a final judgment. 

(B)  Yes,  the appeals court has jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the grant of partial 

summary judgment, although an interlocutory order, may be immediately appealed 

in the discretion of the court. 

(C)  No, the appeals court does not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the 

grant of partial summary judgment is an  interlocutory order. 

(D)  No, the appeals court does not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal because the 

parties did not file their consent to the appeal within ten days of the court's entry of 

its order. 

Question 27 

Plaintiff and Partner are co-owners of stock in Defendant's company. The stock has a face value 

of $200,000. Plaintiff and  Partner are both citizens of New York. Defendant is incorporated in 
New Jersey where it also has its corporate headquarters. Plaintiff has sued Defendant in federal 

court, alleging diversity jurisdiction, to compel the company to issue the stock certificate in 

Plaintiff's name alone. 

Defendant moves to dismiss the action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction arguing that 

Partner is a required party who was not joined. What is Plaintiff's best argument in opposition 

to the motion? 

(A)  Plaintiff should argue that nonjoinder of a party is not a ground for dismissing an 

action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. 

(B)  Plaintiff should argue that the case should not be dismissed because supplemental 

jurisdiction may be exercised over Partner. 

(C)  Plaintiff should argue that the case should not be dismissed because diversity 

jurisdiction may be exercised over Partner. 

19 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

(D)  Plaintiff should argue that the case should go forward in equity and good 

conscience. 

Question 28 

Defendant is a cattle rancher and owns 1000 acres of grazing land in Montana. Plaintiff owns a 

strawberry farm that is adjacent to Defendant's land but across t he state line. Over the last five 

years, Defendant's cattle frequently have wandered onto Plaintiffs land, destroying portions of 

Plaintiff's strawberry patches during the growing season and interfering w ith Plaintiff's ability to 

bring its produce to market. Plaintiff sues Defendant for trespass in federal district court, 

alleging diversity jurisdiction. During discovery, Defendant demands the right "to survey 

Plaintiff's property and to inspect the quality of the strawberries that Plaintiff harvests, upon 

such t ime as may be convenient to Plaintiff." 

Plaintiff opposes the request, stating that "Defendant may inspect the land but may not survey 

the land."  Should the court grant the request? 

(A)  No, because Defendant has not demonstrated good cause for the request. 

(B)  No, because Defendant may not inspect the land for the purpose of surveying it . 

(C)  Yes,  because Defendant's request is relevant. 

(D) Yes,  because Defendant's request is relevant and Plaintiff must pay a fa ir share of 

the surveyor fee. 

Question 29 

Plaintiff is an insurance company incorporated in Delaware. It provides insurance coverage to 

Defendant. Defendant owns an  inter-state bus company that is incorporated and 

headquartered in California. A Driver who works for Defendant crashes into a car on an inter 

state highway. More than a dozen individuals,  both drivers and passengers, are seriously 

injured and three people eventually die from their injuries. Defendant is insured for claims up 

to $1 m illion for accidents that occur in the course of Driver's employment. Driver has no 

personal insurance. Ten of the injured parties sue Defendant and Driver, and their claims, 

consolidated in a federal district court in California, seek more than $10 million. Plaintiff fi les a 

statutory interpleader action in federa l court in Delaware. 

Under what circumstance must the court dismiss the interpleader action? 

20 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(A)  The district court must dismiss if complete diversity does not exist between Plaintiff 

and all the claimants. 

(B)  The district court must dismiss if the individual claims, aggregated together, do not 

exceed $75,000 in value. 

(C)  The district court must dismiss if Plaintiff fails to deposit the stake into court or 

refuses to pay a bond. 

(D) The district court must dismiss if the claims to be resolved are not identical. 

Question 30 

Plaintiff and Defendant are friends attending their high school reun ion. Plaintiff lives in 

California; Defendant lives in New York. At the end of the evening they get into a heated 

argument and Defendant punches Plaintiff in the face. The next day, Plaintiff sues Defendant in 

federal court on the basis of diversity jurisdiction, alleging assault  and intentional infliction of 

emotional distress and seeking $1  million in damages. Simultaneous with the fi ling of the 

complaint, Plaintiff moves ex parte to attach Defendant's three-bedroom house. Defendant 

later moves to vacate the attachment as a violation of his rights under the Due Process Clause 

of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 

How is the court likely to decide the motion? 

(A)  The court will likely deny the motion if the law of the state in which the federal court 

sits permits prejudgment attachment of real estate. 

(B)  The court will likely deny the motion because the Due Process Clause does not govern 

private litigants. 

(C)  The court will likely grant the motion because it  is per se unconstitutional to attach 

property ex parte without the posting of a bond. 

(D)  The court will likely grant the motion absent a showing by Plaintiff of exigent 

circumstances. 

Question 31 

Plaintiff, an  individual who lives and works in California, was visiting New York. He decided to 

take a taxi to go across town.  While driving on Sixth Avenue, Taxi  Driver collided with 

Defendant's truck. Defendant is an individual who lives and works in New Jersey and is 

21 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

employed by a trucking company that is incorporated and  headquartered in New Jersey. Taxi 

Driver lives and works in New York.  Plaintiff was seriously injured and eventually sued Taxi 

Driver, Defendant, and Defendant's employer in federa l district court on the basis of diversity 

jurisdiction. 

Will Plaintiff be able to discover the existence of the three defendants' insurance coverage? 

(A)  No, because the existence and extent of the defendants' insurance coverage is not 

relevant to the trial on the merits. 

(B)  No, because discovery of t he insurance coverage could lead to an  inflated verdict 

and would therefore be unfair to the defendants. 

(C)  Yes,  but only the existence of the insurance coverage and not the monetary lim its of 

the policy. 

(D) Yes,  because the facts of insurance coverage must be disclosed even without a 

discovery request. 

Question 32 

Plaintiff owns a company that manufactures edible decorations used by commercial bakers for 

holiday cakes.  Defendant owns a company that distributes food coloring. Plaintiff enters into a 

two-year contract with Defendant for the purchase of red and blue food coloring, both of which 

are essential for cakes baked for the Fourth of July. Defendant is late shipping the food coloring, 

and as a result Plaintiff loses out on a number of important contracts. Three years later, Plaintiff 

sues Defendant in federal court for breach of contract. After the requisite jurisdictional 

allegations,  including that the court may exercise diversity jurisdiction, the complaint avers: 

"Defendant entered into a contract w ith Plaintiff and Defendant failed to deliver the goods on 

time." Defendant enters a general denial. 

Five months after fi ling its answer Defendant moves to amend its complaint by ra ising the 

statute of limitations as an affirmative defense.  M ay the court grant the motion? 

(A)  No, because more than twenty-one days have passed since Defendant's service of its 

original answer. 

(B)  No, because the fai lure to plead an affirmative defense resu lts in waiver of that 

defense and cannot be cured by amendment. 

22 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(C)  No, because t he defense of t he statute of limitations can  be ra ised only by denial, 

and not by affirmative defense. 

(D) Yes,  in its discretion and if justice so requ ires. 

Question 33 

Plaintiff, a teenager w ho lives w it h her parents in New York, receives a telephone solicitation 

from Defendant, a company incorporated in New Jersey that markets diet aids. Plaintiff is 

persuaded to purchase a contract for a life-time supply of diet aids, and uses his parent's charge 

card to make the purchase. When his parents learn about the deal, they try to resc ind the 

contract, but Defendant refuses to do so.  Parents and Plaintiff sue Defendant in federal court 

alleging fraud in the inducement. They serve Defendant by mailing the summons and complaint 

to the company's corporate headquarters in Delaware. 

Which statement best describes the legal effect of mailing the service and summons? 

(A)  Mailing the summons and complaint is complete service. 

(B)  Mailing the summons and complaint is complete service if  accompanied by a 

"request for waiver of service" and Defendant agrees to the terms of the waiver and 

the signed form is returned and fi led with the court. 

(C)  Mailing the summons and complaint is complete service if notice is also published  in 

a newspaper that is distributed in the district in which Defendant is located. 

(D)  Mailing the summons and complaint is complete service if  Defendant does not 

object to the procedure within sixty days of rece ipt. 

Question 34 

Defendant, a technology company, hired Plaintiff, a technology specialist, as a part-time 

employee on an at-will basis. The employment contract provided that Defendant would 

reimburse Plaintiff for all "reasonable travel expenses in connection with work-related 

assignments."  After sending Plaintiff on an  important assignment to Hong Kong, Defendant 

refused to reimburse her travel and  hotel expenses, and then f ired her without explanation. 

Two years later, Plaintiff filed a diversity action in federal court alleging breach of contract. 

Eight months after service of the summons and complaint and six months after service of the 

answer, Plaintiff was granted leave to amend the complaint to add a claim of tortious 

interference w ith contractual relations, alleging that Defendant's actions prevented her from 

acquiring employment with other companies. 

23 

Civil Procedure Quest ions 

Defendant moves to dismiss t he amended claim as t ime-barred under the applicable st at e 

statute of limitati ons.  What  is def endant's best  argument in support of th e moti on? 

(A) The st at e re lati on-back ru le does not  permit  relation back. 

(B)  The t ort claim  rests on a legal t heory different f rom that of the original claim. 

(C)  The tort claim arises out of a different pattern of conduct t han th e original claim. 

(D)  Plaintiff engaged in undue delay in amending t he complaint. 

Question 35 

Plaintiff ru ns a fam ily-owned restaurant t hat f eatures home-baked dessert s.  Defendant works 

as a restaurant reviewer for a nati onal newspaper. Aft er eating about a half  dozen times at 

Plaintiff's rest aurant, Defendant published a long and critical review-saying, for example, that 

"The bread is dry and the pie is even worse." Plaint iff sues for libel in f ederal district court on 

th e basis of diversity j urisd icti on. Defendant answers th e complaint  and denies t he allegati on in 

the com plaint characterizing his statements as "disparaging, offensive, and  misleading." Six 

months after answering the complaint, Defendant realizes he has fa iled t o ra ise two defenses: 

improper venue and insufficient service of process. 

W hat should Defendant do to put the defenses bef ore th e court? 

(A) Defendant should move to amend th e answer t o include th e t wo defenses. 

(B)  Defendant should move to dismiss the lawsuit and set fort h th e t wo defenses as the 

basis for t he moti on. 

(C)  Defendant  should move for judgment on the pleadings t o dism iss the complaint on 

the basis of th e t wo defenses. 

(D)  Defendant  can no longer put t he defenses before t he court because they are 

waived. 

Question 36 

Plaintiff is driving a car and stops at a red  light. Defendant, a taxi driver, crashes int o the rear 

end of  Plaintiff's car.  Defendant is employed by Company, w hich owns Defendant's taxi. 

Plaintiff files a diversit y action in federal court  against  Def endant and Company alleging 

negligence. Paragraph 16 of t he complaint alleges,  "Defendant was acting in t he course of his 

24 

Civil Procedure Questions 

employment when the accident took place." Before answering the complaint, Company reviews 

three internal documents: (a) a scheduling book that shows Defendant was not officially 

assigned to work on the day of the accident; (b) a telephone log that indicates two of the 

Company's other drivers called in sick on the day of the accident; and (c) a garage receipt 

showing that Defendant signed the taxi out of the garage on the day of the accident. Moreover, 

Company requested an  interview w ith Defendant but Defendant's counsel refused to make him 

available for questions. 

How should Company plead  in response to the allegation of Paragraph 16? 

(A)  Company should answer, "No response is required because the allegation is 

conclusory and w ithout factua l support." 

(B)  Company should answer, "No response is required because the allegation is directed 

to a different party." 

(C)  Company should answer, "Company is w ithout knowledge or information sufficient 

to form a belief as to the truth of the allegation." 

(D)  Company should answer, "No response is required because the allegation is a legal 

conclusion." 

Question 37 

Plaintiff, a data-entry specialist, works for Defendant's company.  She applies for a promotion 

and is denied; she believes that she was passed over because of her gender and that this 

problem is w idespread throughout the company. She fi les a class action lawsuit in federal court 

challenging Defendant's hiring and promotion policies; the complaint alleges a violation of the 

federal Fair Employment Act, which  bars "discrimination in the terms and conditions of 

employment on the basis of gender, ethnicity, religion, and race," and defines the class as 

"persons not hired or not promoted by Defendant because of gender, ethnicity, religion, or 

race."  The action seeks damages for every member of the class. 

Defendant opposes the motion for class certification. What is Defendant's best argument in 

opposition to the motion? 

(A)  The class is alleged to include only ninety-two clerical and administrative workers 

and so numerosity is not present. 

(B)  Plaintiff is not a member of the class she purports to represent. 

25 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(C)  The amount in controversy is not alleged to exceed $5 m illion. 

(D) The court lacks personal jurisdiction over the absent class members because they 

live outside the state in which the federal court hearing the dispute is located. 

Question 38 

Plaintiff, the mother of three young children, was injured in a motor vehicle accident while 

crossing the street. The day after the accident, she started a lengthy period of treatment. She 

later sued Defendant, the driver of the truck that allegedly hit her, and brought her action in 

federal court invoking diversity jurisdiction. As a part of automatic disclosure, Plaintiff provided 

the name and contact information of the doctor who examined her in the emergency room and 

of her treating physician. During discovery, Defendant requested "all medical records referring 

or relating to Plaintiff's injuries that are alleged to have resulted from the accident described in 

the complaint in this action."  In  response, Plaintiff's counsel  produced five pages of laboratory 

test resu lts and a two-page typed report prepared by the emergency-room doctor. Eighteen 

months later the case went to trial. During the direct exam ination of Plaintiff's treating 

physician, the physician relied upon seventy pages of handwritten progress notes made during 

his sixteen examinations of Plaintiff. 

Defendant objects to the testimony and argues that the progress notes should be excluded 

from use at the trial and that the action should be dismissed. How is the court likely to rule? 

(A)  The court w ill likely ru le that it  cannot exclude the evidence w ithout a motion for 

sanctions. 

(B)  The court w ill likely ru le that it  cannot exclude the evidence unless Defendant shows 

that it w ill be prejudiced by Plaintiff's fai lure. 

(C)  The courts will likely ru le that it should not exclude the evidence because Plaintiff 

says she did not know about the notes so the omission was substantially justified. 

(D) The court w ill likely ru le that it  should consider whether a continuance will cure any 

prejudice to Defendant and, if  not, exclude the evidence. 

Question 39 

Plaintiff is a bookkeeper who works at Defendant's company. He planned to testify in a federal 

lawsuit brought against Defendant by the Department of Labor for the company's alleged 

fa ilure to pay overtime wages to its workers. The day before the scheduled testimony, Plaintiff 

received a letter from Defendant that stated, "We inform you that as of this day you are 

26 

Civil Procedure Questions 

terminated from employment w ith our company." In response, Plaintiff sues Defendant in 

federal court alleging that t he termination violated federa l law because it interferes with an on 

going federal action. During discovery, Plaintiff propounds an  interrogatory to Defendant 

requesting a copy of all memoranda "referring or relating to communications between 

Defendant and Defendant's counsel concerning the decision to terminate Plaintiffs 

employment."  Defendant refuses to respond to the interrogatory, asserting the attorney-client 

privilege.  Plaintiff moves to compel discovery, and the court orders Defendant to disclose the 

documents. 

Twenty days have passed since the court issued its order. What is Defendant's best strategy to 

secure immediate appellate review of the order compelling discovery? 

(A)  Defendant cannot immediately appeal the disclosure order because it is a nonfinal 

order. 

(B)  Defendant can appeal the disclosure order immediately as a matter of right under 

the collateral order doctrine. 

(C)  Defendant can appeal the disclosure order immediately as a matter of right if the 

appeal will materially advance the termination of the litigation. 

(D)  Defendant can  refuse to comply with the disclosure order, face contempt sanctions, 

and then seek appeal of that order. 

Question 40 

Plaintiff is a six-year-old child. While playing on the front lawn of his parent's home, Plaintiff 

was run over by Motorcyclist. Motorcyclist, a recent college graduate, was visiting his aunt and 

uncle, who live next door to Plaintiffs fami ly, and had borrowed the motorcycle without his 

relatives' permission or knowledge. Plaintiff's fami ly intends to fi le a federa l lawsuit alleging 

that M otorcyclist negligently caused injury to the child. 

Which statement best describes who must be joined in the action? 

(A)  Plaintiff must be j oined because he is the real party in interest. 

(B)  Plaintiff's guardian or parents must be joined. 

(C)  Motorcyclist's insurance carrier must be joined because it is the real  party in 

interest. 

27 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(D)  Motorcyclist's aunt and uncle must be joined because they are joint tortfeasors. 

Question 41 

Plaintiff is the owner of a construction company that is incorporated and  headquartered in 

Indiana. Defendant is the CEO of a company t hat distributes asphalt products used in the 

construction of residential driveways.  Plaintiff placed a large order for asphalt w ith Defendant, 

and Defendant fai led to deliver the product on time. Plaintiff sues Defendant for breach of 

contract in federal district court, on the basis of diversity jurisdiction. Plaintiff claims that as a 

result of the delay, it suffered financia l losses that exceed $3  million. Defendant seeks to 

implead Third Party, a trucking company that it usually hires to ship its products, alleging that 

Third Party "is or may be liable" to Defendant. 

Which statement best describes the defenses that Third Party may assert? 

(A)  Third Party may defend on the ground that it is not directly liable to Plaintiff. 

(B)  Third Party may defend on the ground that Defendant can seek to implead only 

after, not before, a judgment is entered in Plaintiff's su it  against Defendant. 

(C)  Third Party may defend on the ground that the court lacks venue over Defendant. 

(D) Third Party may defend on the ground that the statute of limitations has lapsed on 

Plaintiff's claim against Defendant. 

Question 42 

Plaintiff is the owner of a company that rents ski equipment. Defendant is a college student 

who writes a weekend column in the student newspaper about sports events. Defendant wrote 

an uncomplimentary article about Plaintiff's company, stating that the rental equipment "was 

old, shoddy, and dangerous." In response, Plaintiff f iled a diversity action in federa l court 

against Defendant alleging libel and seeking $300,000 in damages and reasonable attorney's 

fees. Defendant fa iled to appear. Plaintiff submitted an affidavit  showing Defendant's failure 

and the clerk entered a default. 

Can the clerk also enter a default judgment? 

(A)  No, only the judge can enter the judgment and  must make an independent 

determination of damages. 

28 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(B)  Yes,  the clerk can enter the judgment if Plaintiff submits an affidavit stating a sum 

certain for damages. 

(C)  The entry of default automatically converts into a judgment of default if Defendant 

fa ils to object. 

(D) Yes,  the clerk can enter the judgment after Defendant has been served with written 

notice of the application at least seven days before a hearing. 

Question 43 

Plaintiff a privately held money management company that is incorporated in Delaware and has 

its headquarters in New York City. Plaintiff invests in mortgage-backed securities that are issued 

by Defendant, a publicly-traded investment bank. Defendant is incorporated in South Dakota 

and has its headquarters in Connecticut. Six years after the purchase, Plaintiff sues Defendant 

in federa l district court in the Southern District of New York,  invoking diversity jurisdiction and 

alleging that Defendant fraudu lently induced the sale by misrepresenting the securities as a 

triple-A rated investment, when in fact the securities were of an inferior grade. Defendant 

moves to dismiss the action as t ime barred; Plaintiff moves to transfer the action to the federal 

district court in South Dakota in the interest of convenience and justice. 

What is the likely result of the motion? 

(A)  If transfer is granted on plaintiff's motion, the transferee court w ill apply the law of 

the state in which it sits to determine whether the action is time-barred. 

(B)  If transfer is granted on plaintiffs motion, the transferee court will apply the law  of 

the state in which the transferor court sits to determine whether the action is t ime 

barred. 

(C)  If transfer is granted on plaintiffs motion, the transferee court will apply the law  of 

the state in which the transferee court sits because the initial venue choice was 

wrong. 

(D) Transfer w ill not be granted because Plaintiff is not permitted to transfer an action 

having chosen the initial forum. 

Question 44 

Plaintiff is a member of the City Council in Clearwater, Californ ia.  Defendant is a newspaper 

editor who lives and works in Washington and covers west coast politics. During Plaintiffs most 

29 

Civil Procedure Questions 

recent electoral campaign, Defendant published an article about Plaintiff that stated, "Plaintiff's 

campaign is built on a pack of lies. He says he graduated from law school but he never made it 

through kindergarten." Plaintiff files a lawsuit  in federal district court in Washington alleging 

libel. The complaint survives a motion to dism iss and, after discovery, Defendant moves for 

summary judgment. 

What standard w ill the district court use to determine whether there is a genuine dispute as to 

any material fact? 

(A) The court will determine whether there is sufficient evidence under the 

preponderance of the evidence standard to establish a genuine dispute that 

Defendant acted with actual malice. 

(B)  The court will determine whether there is sufficient evidence under the clear and 

convincing evidence standard to establish a genuine dispute that Defendant acted 

w ith actual malice. 

(C)  The court will determine whether the allegations of the complaint plausibly show 

that Defendant acted with actual malice. 

(D) The court is barred by the Seventh Amendment from determining Defendant's 

state of mind. 

Question 45 

Plaintiff is a photographer. He lends twenty of his photographs to Defendant, the administrator 

of a museum, to be featured in an upcoming exhibit. Plaintiff's contract with Defendant 

provides, "Museum agrees to return all photographs in a timely way and  in the same condition 

in which they are received." After the exhibit ends, Defendant packs up the photographs and 

m istakenly puts the boxed photographs in a recycling bin, where they are compressed beyond 

recognition.  Plaintiff sues Defendant in federal court for breach of contract, alleging diversity 

jurisdiction, and seeks to recover the market value of his photographs. The evidence presented 

to the jury shows that none of Plaintiff's photographs has ever sold for more than $5,000 a 

print. The jury returns a verdict of $1 m illion. The judge agrees that Defendant ought to be held 

liable, but believes that the jury's award reflects an arithmetic error and that the damages were 

intended to be $100,000. 

After judgment is entered on the jury's verdict for Plaintiff, Defendant moves for judgment as a 

matter of law. What is the best way for the judge to proceed? 

30 

Civil Procedure Questions 

(A)  The judge should grant the motion. 

(B)  The judge on her own initiative should conditionally order a new trial unless Plaintiff 

agrees to a reduction of the damages to an amount set by the court. 

(C)  The judge on her own initiative should order a new trial on the issue of damages 

only. 

(D) The judge should deny the motion and must accept the jury's damage award as a 

matter of the Seventh Amendment. 

Question 46 

Plaintiff is a private gaming company. Defendant is a municipality that licenses gaming 

companies. Company is a competitor gaming company. Plaintiff sues Defendant and Company 

for federa l antitrust violations alleging that defendants conspired to monopolize trade in the 

gaming industry. Plaintiffs complaint joins the federa l antitrust claim with a state tort claim 

alleging intentional interference with prospective business advantage. After Defendants answer 

the complaint, Plaintiff files a notice of dismissal of the state tort claim against Defendant w ith 

prejudice. Plaintiff also fi les a notice of dismissal of the state tort claim against Company, 

without stating whether the dismissal is w ith prejudice. The district court orders both claims 

dismissed with prejudice. 

On review, would an appeals court f ind that the district court abused its discretion when it 

dismissed the claim against Company w ith prejudice? 

(A) Yes, because the federa l ru le explicitly states that a voluntary dismissal is without 

prejudice. 

(B) No, because the court had discretion to dismiss the claim w ith prej udice. 

(C) Yes, because once plaintiff filed its notice of dismissal, the court was without 

j urisdiction. 

(D) No, because the dismissal would be reviewed under the "clearly erroneous" and 

not the "abuse of discretion" standard. 

Question 47 

Plaintiff, a Delaware corporation, sues Defendant, a New York corporation, in federal court in 

New York alleging breach of contract. The complaint seeks damages of $60 m illion. After 

3 1 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

Defendant answers the complaint and while discovery is going forward, Defendant offers to 

settle the lawsuit for $20 million. Plaintiff does not accept the offer. The case goes to trial and 

Plaintiff receives a favorable judgment but is awarded only $10,000. 

Which statement best describes whether Defendant can  recover costs from Plaintiff? 

(A)  Because Plaintiff refused to accept Defendant's offer, the court w ill award 

Defendant its post-offer costs. 

(B)  Because Plaintiff refused to accept Defendant's offer, the court w ill deny Plaintiff 

costs. 

(C)  Because the court's jurisdiction is based on diversity of citizenship, Defendant can 

recover costs from Plaintiff only if New York law permits the taxation of such costs 

on behalf of a losing party who has made an  unaccepted offer. 

(D)  Because the damages awarded are $10,000, the court may impose costs on Plaintiff. 

Question 48 

Plaintiff sues Defendant in state court in Pennsylvania alleging that Defendant is in breach of its 

contractual duty to Plaintiff. The Pennsylvania court dismisses the action for Plaintiff's fa ilure to 

prosecute. A year later, Plaintiff sues Defendant for breach of the same contract in a federal 

court in Tennessee, where Defendant is incorporated and has its headquarters. 

Assume Defendant raises the affirmative defense of claim  preclusion. What is Plaintiff's best 

argument to defeat dismissal on that ground? 

(A)  Under Tennessee law a dismissal  for fa ilure to prosecute does not bar a second 

action against the same defendant on the same claim. 

(B)  Under Pennsylvania law a dismissal for failure to prosecute does not bar a second 

action against the same defendant on the same claim. 

(C)  Under Pennsylvania law the court mistakenly dism issed the action for failure to 

prosecute. 

(D)  Under federal common law a dismissal for fa ilure to prosecute does not bar a 

second lawsuit against the same defendant on the same claim . 

Question 49 

32 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Questions 

Plaintiff owns stock in Company. Plaintiff brings a shareholder derivative action against 

Company in federal court, alleging that Company issued a false proxy statement.  While 

Plaintiff's action is pending, the federal Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)  sues 

Company in federal court for violations of the federal securities law, and the SEC's complaint 

contains the identical allegation about the false proxy statement as Plaintiff's complaint. The 

SEC's action comes to judgment first, and the district court holds that Company did issue a false 

proxy statement. 

Can Plaintiff preclude Company from relitigating the question of whether it issued a fa lse proxy 

statement? 

(A)  No, because Plaintiff was not a party to the SEC's action against Company and so 

cannot benefit from the judgment in that action. 

(B)  No, there is a per se bar on the use of preclusion if it abridges a defendant's right to 

a civil jury under the Seventh Amendment. 

(C)  Yes,  unless Company can show that on balance preclusion ought not to be 

permitted. 

(D) Yes,  because the issue decided in the SEC's suit  is identical to the issue that Plaintiff 

is seeking to preclude. 

Question 50 

Plaintiff brought a breach of contract action against Defendant in federal court on the basis of 

diversity jurisdiction. The case survived summary judgment, and was tried before a jury. At the 

close of Plaintiff's case, Defendant proceeded to present three witnesses. The jury found in 

favor of Plaintiff.  Sixty days after entry of judgment, Defendant moves for judgment 

notwithstanding the verdict. 

On what basis can the trial judge grant Defendant's motion? 

(A)  The trial judge can grant the motion if  he agrees that there was insufficient evidence 

for the jury to f ind in favor of Plaintiff. 

(B)  The trial judge cannot grant the motion because Defendant failed to make a motion 

for judgment as a matter of law before the case was submitted to the jury. 

(C)  The trial judge cannot grant the motion because Defendant failed to object to the 

substance of two of the five jury instructions. 

33 

Civil Procedure Quest ions 

(D) The trial judge can grant the motion because it  is timely. 

34 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Answer 1 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(D) is the correct answer because a federal district court sitting in diversity is required to apply 

the same rule of decision as a state court sitting in the same j urisdiction. Thus, if the Illinois 

choice-of-law rule requires an Illinois state court to apply the ICDA to the dispute, a federa l 
court sitting in Illinois is required to as well. This result follows from Erie Railroad Co.  v. 

Tompkins,  304 U.S.  64 (1938), in which the Supreme Court held that in the absence of federal 

law, a federa l district court sitting in diversity must follow state common law decisions as well 

as state statutes and state constitutional rules. The Court later held in Klaxon Co.  v.  Stentor 
Electric Mfg. Co. , 313 U.S. 487 (1941), that the Erie doctrine requires a federa l district court 

sitting in diversity to apply not only t he substantive rules of decision of the state in which it sits, 
but also the forum state's choice-of-law rules.  The Klaxon rule is defended as discouraging the 

parties from forum shopping and encouraging litigant equality; a plaintiff will not get the 

benefit of a different substantive rule by fi ling in a federa l rather than in a state court sitting in 

the same state; likewise, a defendant w ill not get the benefit of a different substantive rule by 

removing the action from state to federa l court in the same state. 

(A)  is not correct because under t he Rules of Decision Act, 28 U.S.C. §  1652, a federal court is 

required, in the absence of federal law, to apply "the laws of the several states,"  which are to 
be treated as "as rules of decisions" in federa l civil actions. In Swift v.  Tyson, 41 U.S. 1 (1842), 

the Supreme Court interpreted the words "the laws of t he several states" to include state 

statutes, but not state judicial decisions.  The Court overruled t he Swift doctrine in Erie v. 
Tompkins. Thus, even under Swift, a federal court was required to apply state statutory law, 

and was not free to devise an alternative common law rule of decision.  Requiring a federal 

court to apply the substantive law of the state in which  it sits carries out the purpose of 

diversity jurisdiction by providing t he parties, who are citizens of different states, w ith a neutral 

forum. The application of the ICDA to the dispute encourages fairness and  litigant equality by 

ensuring that t he same rule of decision applies whether the civil action is filed in a state or 
federal court of t he same state.  Keep in mind that in certain circumstances a federa l court may 

devise a federal common law rule that w ill preempt state law, but on the facts presented in 
this problem,  it is not required to do so. See Boyle v.  United Technologies Corp. , 487 U.S. 500 

(1988). 

(B) is not correct because t he rule it  states does not apply to the facts. The state of 

incorporation is relevant to determining the citizenship of a corporation for purposes of 

determining whether diversity jurisdiction exists under 28 U.S.C.  §  1332. In determining 

whether to apply state law to a dispute, the federal diversity court in the first instance must 

look to the choice-of-law rule of the state in which it sits.  The choice-of-law rules of some 

states look to territorial factors, which include the domicile of the parties, to determ ine t he law 

36 

Civil Procedure Answers 

t hat applies to the dispute, but oth er f actors,  such as w here the contract was made or w here 

t he contract  is to be performed, may also be considered. 

(C) is not correct because the rule it states, although true, is not  the best  rule for answering the 
problem. Under the Rules of Decision Act, 28 U.S.C. §  1652, a federa l court, assuming federal 
law does not apply, is required to apply stat e law to resolve the dispute before it. Deciding that 

state law applies to a dispute is only part of t he decisional process.  The fede ral court must 

figure out w hich st ate's law applies, w hich it does by looking to the choice-of-law rule of th e 

state in w hich it sits;  th en it must ascertain the content  of the stat e law, which it does by 

looking to the decisions of t he highest court of the st at e in which it sits (and then t o other 

sources if the highest  state court has not issued a decision). It  is true th at a f ederal court sitting 

in diversity w ill ascertain the law of the applicable st at e by looking to the decisions of t he 
highest court, but whether or not t he highest state court  has rul ed, the fede ral court is not f ree 
t o disregard the ICDA if  it believes the stat e court would choose to apply it t o th e dispute 

before it . 

Answer2 

(A) is th e correct answer because nationwide service of process was perm issible in thi s 
situation. FRCP 4(k)(1) lists several situations in w hich serving a summons "establishes personal 

j urisdict ion over a def endant"  for a federal-court suit : Rule 4(k)(l)(C) covers one of these 

situations, by saying th at service of th e summons will establish personal juri sdiction "when 

authorized by a federal statut e." In oth er words, FRCP 4(k)(1)(C) allows Congress to specify that 
suits brought under a particular federa l st atute are subject to "nationwide service of process." 

That's what Congress has done here in Section 2 of the IFCA- Congress has said t hat even if the 

defendant has no connecti on with th e state w here the federa l court  hearing the IFCA claim  is 

located, personal service on t he defendant t hat occurs anywhere within the Unit ed St at es w ill 

suffice t o establish personal j urisdicti on. 

Keep in mind that  even when Congress uses its power t o authorize nationw ide service for a 

particular type of federal claim, the exercise of th at power must comport with due process. 

And the final clause  of this choice illustrat es this requirement. See, e.g.,  Hogue v. M ilodon 

Eng'g, Inc., 736 F.2d 989, 991 (4th Cir.  1984) ("Where ... Congress has authorized nationwide 
service of process . . . so long as th e assertion of j urisdict ion over the defendant  is compatible 

with due process, the service of  process is suffi cient to est ablish t he j urisdicti on of t he federal 

court over th e person of t he defendant."). But given that (1) Congress has t he power under the 

Constitution's Commerce Clause t o regulat e interstate t ransactions,  (2) Congress has a strong 

interest in providing a local forum for anyone who is harmed by t he sort of int erst ate Internet  

based fraud th at the IFCA is directed against , and (3) the order by t he Plaintiff originated from 

Plaintiff's Idaho office, it's very unlikely that a court would conclude that  requiring Defendant to 

37 

Civil Procedure Answers 

def end an IFCA suit in Idaho violat es Def endant 's due process rights, even t hough the computer 

was shipped t o a non-forum state (Colorado). 

(B) is not  correct because it incorrectly st at es applicable law. It  is not true th at in all federa l 

questi on suits, service may be made anywhere in t he U.S. where t he defendant  may be fo und. 

Rather, on our present fact s,  nati onwide service is perm issible only because Congress took the 

t rouble t o specify for ICFA  suits in particular that service may be made nationwide. If Congress 

had merely drafted t he ICFA t o create a f ederal civil cause of  act ion, and had not said anything 

about w here suit on such a claim may be brought, nationwide service - as conditionally allowed 

by FRCP  4(1)(k)(C)- would not apply. (Service might  still be valid under some other provision of 

t he f ederal rules,  but thi s choice specifically, and incorrectly, relies on the availability of 

nationwide service.) 

(C) is not correct because the rule th at  it  recit es does not apply t o these f acts. It's true that  a 

federal court w ill exercise personal juri sdiction w here service and personal juri sdiction would 

be allowed by the long-arm of t he state w here the federa l court sit s. See FRCP 4(k)(1)(A), so 

stating. But Choice (C)  is a t rick; the st at e whose long-arm is quot ed is Colorado (and the 

computer was indeed shipped into Colorado), but the state w here the federa l court is sitt ing is 

Idaho, not  Colorado, so it's Idaho's long-arm, if any, that would apply. (If the suit were pending 

in Colorado federal court, this choice would be correct- Rule 4(k)(1)(A) allows the plaintiff to 

rely on the local state long-arm even if the suit is based on a f ederal question rat her t han on 

diversity.) 

(D) is not correct  because it relies on an irrelevant fact . In a case based solely on diversit y, the 

defendant s' lack of minimum contact s w ith the st at e w here the federal court is based would 

prevent the federal court f rom hearing the case because plaintiff w ill not  be able t o show 

cont acts sufficient to meet a st at e's long-arm st at ute or the requirements of t he Due Process 

Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. See Bally Export Corp. v.  Balicar,  Ltd., 804 F.2d 398, 401 

(7th Cir. 1986) ("A f ederal district court sitting in diversity looks to t he long-arm statute of the 

state in w hich it is sitt ing t o determ ine whether it has personal j urisdiction over the 

defendant s."). Justice Kennedy's plurality opinion in J.  M cintyre Machinery, Ltd.  v.  Nicastro, 131 

S.  Ct . 2780 (2011), raised the possibility of w hether Congress could authorize the exercise of 

personal j urisdiction in a federal diversity court in t his circumstance,  but f ound it "neither 

necessary nor appropriat e to address here any constitutional concerns that might  be attendant 
t o that exercise of power." /d.  at 2790. But t he Supreme Court has never held that minim um 

contacts w ith the stat e w here the f ederal court sits are necessary if the suit is based  in part on a 

federally-creat ed  right  of action. And, in f act,  in those inst ances w here Congress authorizes 

nationwide service of process for a particular type of fede rally created cl aim, it's often t he case 

th at  the defendant does not have minimum contacts w ith the stat e where the federa l court is 

38 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

hearing the case. The due process inquiry in this setting is determined by the Fifth Amendment 

to the United States Constitution and focuses on the defendant's aggregate contacts w ith the 
nation. See Stafford v.  Briggs, 444 U.S. 527 (1980). 

Answer3 

(B) is correct because it  correctly recognizes that what's at issue is the Fifth Amendment's 

impact on the federal government. The federa l government operates the federal courts, and 

the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause,  binding on the federal government, applies to the 

federal judiciary. Therefore, when Congress enacts a statute creating a federal cause of action, 

and includes a nationwide service-of-process provision, the question is whether the federa l 

court's exercise of power comports with the Fifth Amendment standard of due process. That in 

turn requires the court to decide whether the defendant has the requisite minimum contacts 

with the entire nation, not merely w ith the state where the federa l court hearing the suit is 
located. See Stafford v. Briggs, 444 U.S. 527 (1980). So even if Defendant has no contacts 
whatsoever with New York,  personal jurisdiction over Defendant w ill be constitutional if the 
sum of its contacts w ith all U.S. states and/or territories satisfies the requirement of Fifth 
Amendment due process. 

(A)  is not the best response because it incorrectly states which minimum contacts are the 

relevant ones. When Congress enacts a statute creating a federal cause of action, and includes 

a nationwide service-of-process provision in the statute, the test for determining whether 

service establishes personal jurisdiction is to look to at the defendant's minimum contacts with 
the entire nation, not merely contacts with the state in which the federa l court sits. See the 
further discussion in Choice (B). 

(C)  is not correct because it refers to the wrong constitutional amendment and the wrong sort 
of contacts. First, when Congress enacts a statute and  includes a nationwide service-of-process 

provision, the sufficiency of Defendant's contacts is determined by reference to the Due 

Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. As explained in 

Choice (A), the federal government operates the federal  courts. Therefore, it's the Fifth 

Amendment's Due Process Clause- binding on the federal government- that applies to this 

federally-run operation.  Since the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment applies 
only to the states, and since no state action is involved here, that Amendment is irrelevant. 
Second, what is determinative is Defendant's contacts with the entire nation, not just w ith New 
York. 

(D)  is not correct because it refers to the wrong constitutional Amendment. When Congress 

enacts a statute and includes a nationwide service-of-process provision, the court assesses the 

sufficiency of Defendant's contacts with the nation under the Fifth Amendment to the United 

39 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

States Constitution, and not the Fourteenth Amendment, w hich applies only to the states. See 
the f urther discussion in Choice (C). 

Answer4 

(B) is correct because remand from federa l court to state court is required if the federa l court 

lacks original subject-matter j urisdiction over the suit, and the facts about Defendant's 

corporate activity make clear t hat the court can exercise diversity jurisdiction over the claim. 

Removal  is a procedure that allows a defendant to transfer an action f iled  in state court to 

federal court if t he federa l court would have had original jurisdiction had plaintiff initially filed 

the suit  in federal court. See 28 U.S.C. §  1441. The complaint alleges a state law claim, and so 

the most likely j urisdictional base is t hat of diversity jurisdiction. See 28 U.S.C. §  1332. For the 

court to exercise diversity jurisdiction, both citizenship and amount-in-controversy 

requirements must be met. See 28 U.S.C. §  1332. In  particular, t he citizenship of all plaintiffs 

must be diverse from t he citizenship of all defendants- a rule known as the requirement of 

complete diversity.  See Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 7 U.S.  267, 267 (1806). Under t he federa l 

statute, the citizenship of a corporation includes the states in which it  is incorporated and the 

state in which it  has its principal place of business (with an exception for direct actions against 

an insurance company, an exception that is not relevant to t he problem). See  28 U.S.C.  § 

1332(c). The principal place of business is determined by the state where the company's high 

level officers, such as the chief executive officers, t he treasurer, and the secretary, direct the 

corporation's decisions- t he so-called "nerve center test."  Hertz Corp.  v.  Friend, 559 U.S. 77 

(2010). Thus, Defendant is a citizen of New Mexico, where it  is incorporated, and of Texas, 

where it  has its principal place of business. Because Plaintiff is a citizen of West Virginia, 

complete diversity is present: Plaintiff and Defendant do not share any state of citizenship in 

common. Thus, removal is proper and t he district court should not remand. Keep in mind that 

the right of removal in diversity cases has one important exception: The suit  cannot be 

removed if defendant is a citizen of the state in which the action was brought. See 28 U.S.C. § 

1441(b). 

(A)  is not correct because w here a corporation conducts its day-to-day operations and where it 

maintains its inventory are not relevant factors for establishing a corporation's citizenship for 

purposes of diversity jurisdiction. As explained with respect to Choice (B), t he Supreme Court 

has defined a company's principal place of business for purposes of determining citizenship 

under 28 U.S.C. § 1332(c) as "the place where t he corporation's high  level officers direct, 

control, and coordinate the corporation's activities," w hich is typically "found at a corporation's 

headquarters"- not w here its day-to-day operations occur or its business substantially 

predominates. Hertz Corp.  v.  Friend, 559 U.S. 77 (2010). Therefore, that Defendant conducts its 

day-to-day operations and  maintains inventory in West Virginia do not help establish its 

40 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

citizenship, making these factors irrelevant to whether the action should be remanded back to 

state court. 

(C)  is not correct because Plaintiff's citizenship in the state where the action is fi led is not 

determinative of Defendant's ability to remove the action to federal court on the basis of 
diversity jurisdiction, assuming that the requirement of complete diversity is met. By contrast, 

an action removable "solely" on the basis of diversity jurisdiction may not be removed if any of 
the parties in interest properly joined and served as defendants is a citizen of the State in which 

such action is brought. See  28 U.S.C.  §1441(b)(2).  An in-state defendant would not be 
permitted to remove an action filed as an original matter in West Virginia state court if it were 

incorporated in West Virginia or had its principal place of business in that state, even if 
complete diversity-of-citizenship existed. Thus, although plaintiffs and defendants may both 

invoke the federal court's diversity jurisdiction to seek removal from state court to federa l 
court, the Supreme Court has explained that "the scales are not evenly balanced . . .. An in-state 

plaintiff may invoke diversity jurisdiction, but [28 U.S.C.] § 1441(b) bars removal on the basis of 

diversity" if any defendant in interest who is properly joined and served "is a citizen of the State 
in which  [the] action is brought." Lincoln Property Co.  v.  Roche, 546 U.S.  81, 89-90 (2005). 

(D) is not correct because it misstates the rule for when a civil action can  be removed on the 
basis of "federal question jurisdiction." Removal jurisdiction, as the Court has explained, "is 

totally dependent on satisfaction of the requirements for original jurisdiction." Grupo Dataflux 
v.  Atlas Global Group,  L.P., 541  U.S. 567, 592  (2004).  Under 28 U.S.C. § 1441(a), "any civil action 

brought in a State court of which the district courts of the United States have original 

jurisdiction, may be removed." In this case,  Plaintiff alleged negligent infliction of harm, which 
is a state-law claim.  Defendant's raising of an affirmative defense, even one based on federal 

law, cannot provide a basis for original jurisdiction, so it does not provide a basis for removal 
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1441(a). A district court can exercise jurisdiction over a claim 

arising under the federal Constitution, laws, or treaties within the meaning of 28 U.S.C.  § 1331 
only if the claim, at a minimum, satisfies the "well pleaded complaint rule." See  Louisville & 

Nashville R.R.  Co.  v.  Mottley, 211 U.S. 149 (1908).  The federa l claim also must be substantial 
and actually disputed, and its disposition by the federal court must not upset the 

"congressionally approved balance of federa l and state judicial responsibilities." Grable & Sons 
Metal Products, Inc.  v.  Darue Engineering & Mfg., 545 U.S. 308 (2005). 

AnswerS 

(C)  is correct because in-state residence is a recognized  basis for the exercise of general 

jurisdiction and its use is constitutional under the federa l Due Process Clause. The Supreme 
Court has long held that it does not violate due process for a state to exercise personal 

jurisdiction over any cause of action against a resident of that state, whether or not the claim  is 

41 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

related to the defendant's in-state activities. (That is, "general jurisdiction"- jurisdiction for all 

claims, whether related to in-state activities or not- is allowed against in-state residents.)  See 
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, SA v.  Brown, 131 S. Ct. 2846 (2011). It is true that personal 
jurisdiction may only be exercised by a state court if a state statute permits such jurisdiction in 

the type of situation in question. But you're told that Georgia's jurisdiction statute does so. 

Indeed, this statute is typical of the jurisdictional statutes of other states. 

(A)  is not correct because it  incorrectly states the relevant rule of jurisdiction.  A state court can 

exercise "specific jurisdiction" - that is, jurisdiction over a plaintiff's claim that arises out of or 

relates to defendant's in-state contacts- even if t he defendant  is not a resident of the forum 

state.  However, the converse is not true; that is, the fact that the suit does not relate to any in 

forum-state activities does not mean t hat jurisdiction is improper. Rather, a court can always 

exercise "general jurisdiction" (i.e., "all-purpose" jurisdiction over suits that do not involve in 

state activities)  if t he defendant  has his home in the forum state, as Defendant does here. See 

Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, SA  v.  Brown, 131 S.  Ct.  2846 (2011). 

(B) is not correct because it contains an incorrect statement  of law. It's true t hat only a court in 

the state in which property is located can exercise "in rem" jurisdiction  regarding that property. 

But first of all, here Plaintiff is seeking money damages for breach of contract, so the court is 

being asked to act "in personam," not "in rem." Only a suit to determine the property's status, 

such as who properly holds title, would be "in rem." And the court will have in personam 

jurisdiction- assuming defendant does not consent to jurisdiction or waive any defect- only if 

the exercise of jurisdiction satisfies t he test of minimum contacts and reasonableness 

articulated in such decisions as World-Wide Volkswagen v.  Woodson, 444 U.S. 286 (1980). It's 

true that the location of the property here would be one of the factors to consider. But t he fact 

that the property is located outside the forum state would not by itself automatically make 

exercise of jurisdiction unreasonable, as this choice suggest.  (Indeed, the fact t hat Defendant 

resides in the forum st ate would be virtually dispositive in favor of making exercise of 

jurisdiction reasonable). 

(D) is not correct because diversity of citizenship is an irrelevant concept on these facts. 

Diversity of citizenship is a condition of subject-matter jurisdiction in federal court under 28 

U.S.C. §  1332. So t he existence (or non-existence) of diversity of citizenship is irrelevant here for 

two reasons: (1) the concept never applies to a state court; and  (2) even  in a federal court, 

diversity jurisdiction would not be relevant to a motion to dismiss based on  lack of "personal 

jurisdiction." See FRCP  12(b)(2).  (For diversity to be relevant the plaintiff's complaint would 

have to be based solely upon diversity - not the existence of a federal question- and t he 

motion would have to be one asserting lack of "subject matter jurisdiction.") 

42 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Answer& 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(C)  is correct, because the physical or mental examination of a party will take place only upon 
court order if the requestor is able to show good cause for the request; when the matter is 

contested, granting the request falls  within the trial court's discretion. As with any discovery 
request, the information sought must be relevant to the claims and defenses in the action. See 

FRCP 26(b). In addition, the federal rules impose other requirements before this kind of 
discovery will be permitted.  The physical or mental examination of a party can take place "only 

on motion for good cause and on notice to all parties and the person to be examined," and 
must also specify, among other things, the "scope of the examination, as well as the person  • • 

• who will perform it ." FRCP 35(a)(2)(A) & (B). Here you are told that Defendant simply served 
Plaintiff with the Request for a Physical Examination, treating this discovery device as if it were 

a deposition. Had Defendant made a proper motion, then the court would have considered 
such questions as whether Plaintiff's condition is in controversy, whether information about the 

condition can be obtained from other sources, and whether  Plaintiff's right to privacy is out 

weighed by  the requestor's need for the information. See Schlagenhauf v.  Holder, 379 U.S.  104 
(1964). 

(A)  is not correct because it misstates the rule that applies to requests for physical 
examinations. It is true that that the general scope of discovery includes "any nonprivileged 

information that is relevant to any party's claim or defense,"  and that for "good cause, the 
court may order discovery of any matter relevant to the subject matter involved in the action." 

Moreover, the general scope of discovery includes information that is not itself admissible but 

appears reasonably calculated to lead to admissible information. However, relevance alone is 
not sufficient to secure an order for a physical or mental examination; the condition to be 

examined must also be "in controversy." As the Court has explained, "The specific requirement 
of good cause would be meaningless if good cause could be sufficiently established by merely 

showing that the desired materials are relevant, for the relevancy standard has already been 
imposed by Rule 26(b)." Schlagenhauf v.  Holder, 379 U.S.  104, 118 (1964) (quoting Guilford 
Nat'/ Bank of Greensboro v. Southern Ry.  Co., 297 F.2d 921, 924 (4th Cir. 1962)). On the facts 
presented, Plaintiff certainly has made her medical condition an  issue in the lawsuit, and the 

pleadings may be sufficient to show that the issue is "in controversy." But questions remain 
about the kind of examination to authorize, the nature of the procedures, and the identity of 

the examining physician. 

(B) is not correct because it misstates the governing legal principle. Any doubts as to the 
constitutionality of FRCP  35 and its authorization of physical and  mental examinations upon 

court order were put to rest by the Supreme Court in Sibbach v.  Wilson  & Co., 312 U.S. 1 (1941). 
In this case, plaintiff sued for damages, and defendant moved for an order requiring a medical 

43 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

examination; plaintiff refused to appear for the examination and was held in contempt. On 

appeal, she argued that Congress was without power to enact a discovery rule that interfered 

with state privacy protections, a position that the Supreme Court emphatically rejected: "The 

suggestion that the rule offends the important right to freedom from invasion of the person 

ignores the fact that as we hold, no invasion of freedom from personal restraint attaches to 
refusal so to comply with its provisions." /d.  at 14.  Nevertheless, as explained in connection 
with Choice (C),  the court is expected to limit the use of this discovery device and for this 

reason requires a showing of good cause. Moreover, upon demand, the examined party may 

obtain a copy of the examiner's report. See FRCP  35(b). 

(D)  is not correct because it misstates both the procedures governing use of the rule providing 

for physical or mental examinations and the sanctions available for a party who resists 

examination. The examination of a person is permitted under FRCP  35 only if the requestor of 

the information makes a "motion for good cause and on  notice to all parties and the person to 

be examined"; the motion must further "specify the time, place,  manner, conditions, and scope 

of the examination, as well as the person or persons who will perform it." See FRCP  35(a)(2)(A) 

(B). In its discretion, the court "may order" the examination. At that point, if the examined 

party refuses to comply she must seek a protective order; simply refusing to comply potentially 

triggers the sanctions that are available for failure to comply with any court order for discovery, 

with the exception of imprisonment for contempt. See FRCP 37(b)(2)(A)(vii). 

Answer7 

(C)  is correct because it accurately states and applies the rule of mutuality for when a nonparty 
can  invoke claim preclusion as an affirmative defense. A stranger to a lawsuit cannot claim the 

benefits of or be subject to the burdens of a prior judgment in a lawsuit in which it did not 

participate (subject to exceptions explained later in this Answer). Claim preclusion is a judicially 

created doctrine that bars the relitigation of a claim raised in a prior suit. The basic rule of claim 

preclusion is that a valid and final judgment between the same parties (or those who are 

treated as the same parties) is conclusive and bars a second action by the plaintiff on the 

same claim . This rule, set out in the Restatement (Second) of Judgments,§ 17 (1982), is 

followed by the federal  courts and  by all of the state court systems in the United States. Thus, a 

judgment will not have claim preclusive effect unless the parties in the second lawsuit are 

identical to the parties to the first lawsuit. Taxi  Driver was not a party to the first lawsuit and 

cannot show that he is in a legal relationship with a party in the first lawsuit that would 

convince the court to treat him as a party. See Taylor v.  Sturgell, 553 U.S. 880, 894 (2008) 

("nonparty preclusion may be justified based on a variety of pre-existing 'substantive legal 

relationship[s] between the person to be bound and a party to the judgment'') (citation 
omitted). The Court has held that preclusion by "virtual representation" violates due process 

44 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

ot her t han in six narrow and exceptional circumstances that are not present on the facts in this 

problem. Those exceptions are: (1) when a person agrees to be bound; (2) when a person is in a 

"pre-existing" and qualifying substantive legal  relationship, e.g., bailee and bailor, successive 

property owners, and assignee and assignor;  (3) when a person is adequately represented by 

someone with the same interests who was named a party in the prior suit, such as a f iduciary or 

guardian; (4) when a person's interests were litigated through a "proxy"; (5) when a "special 

statutory scheme" explicitly forec loses "successive litigation by nonlitigants"; and (6)  if the 

nonparty "assume[ d) control"  over the litigation in which that judgment was rendered. See 
Taylor v.  Sturgell, 553 U.S.  880, 893-895 (2008). Under these circumstances, Taxi Driver is a 

stranger to t he lawsuit decided by the Pennsylvania court and cannot assert an affirmative 

defense of claim preclusion based on that judgment. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it states does not apply to the problem . Taxi Driver was 

not a required  party in the Pennsylvania action w ithin the meaning of FRCP 19, and so was not 

required to be joined in the lawsuit. Otherwise, with very few exceptions, the rules of 

preclusion do not require a claimant to join in one lawsuit all parties to the transaction. Thus, 

Plaintiff was not subject to a rule of compulsory joinder, and was not required to join Taxi 

Driver in his original lawsuit. Taxi Driver was a stranger to the lawsuit  between Plaintiff and 

Defendant, and under the rules of mutuality cannot invoke the benefits, and  is not bound by 

the burdens, of that judgment. For a different rule in a state system,  see Mick v.  Mani, 766 P.2d 

147 (Kan.  1988) (adopting a "one-action rule" in the context of comparative negligence that 

barred plaintiff from filing second action arising f rom  same transaction against a different 

defendant). 

(B) is not correct because the rule that it applies, although applicable in a federa l court,  does 

not permit Taxi Driver- a stranger to the suit between Plaintiff and Defendant- to benefit from 

the judgment entered in the prior litigation.  By definition Plaintiff's claim against Taxi Driver is 

not the same claim as against Defendant. It is true that the federal j udiciary has adopted the 
transactional approach to define a claim for purposes of claim preclusion. Under this test, a 

claim  "includes all rights of the plaintiff to remedies against the defendant with respect to all 
or any part of the transaction, or series of connected transactions, out of which the action 

arose."  Restatement (Second) of Judgments§ 24 (1982).  To determine whether the same 

transaction is involved, courts are instructed to look at the question "pragmatically, giving 

weight to such considerations as whether the facts are related in time, space, origin, or 

motivation, whether they form a convenient trial unit, and whether their treatment as a unit 
conforms to the parties' expectations or business understanding or usage."  /d. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule t hat it states is not pertinent; whether or not the 

Pennsylvania judgment is final, it cannot be raised as a bar by Taxi Driver because he is not a 

45 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Answers 

party to t hat j udgment . As between the same parties, a judgment  must  be valid and fi nal t o 

have claim preclusive effect. In t he f ederal syst em, a judgment  is considered to be f inal if the 

time t o appeal has run even if t he appeal has "not been t aken or perf ect ed."  United States v. 
Munsingwear, Inc., 340 U.S. 36, 389 (1950).  Moreover, simply appealing a j udgment does not 

defeat  claim preclusion. See, e.g., Prager v.  El Pasa  National Bank, 417 F.2d 1111, 1112 (5t h Cir. 

1969) ("The fact th at t he judgment  is now on appeal  . . . (w here it remains undeci ded) has no 

effect on its absolute effect as a bar."). The rule that  a valid judgment  is f inal and ent itled to 

claim  preclusive effect as between the same parties "despite the taking of an appeal"  is set out 

in Restatement  (Second) of Judgments§ 13 cmt. f and applies in many st at e judicial systems. 

Adm ittedly, according claim-preclusive effect to a j udgment  pending appeal can cause 

problems if the second action is dism issed on cl aim-preclusive grounds and the f irst judgment  is 

t hen overturned on appeal.  Nevertheless, the alternat ive approach- of w ithholding claim 

preclusive effect  pending appeal-generates different and probably more signif icant  problems. 

See Scurlock Oil Ca. v.  Smithwick, 724 S.W.2d 1 (1987) ("Despite the manifest risks of  resting 

preclusion on a judgment that is being appealed, t he alternative of retrying the common claims, 

defenses, or issues is even worse."') (quotation omitted). Keep in mind t hat t he availability of 

appellat e review is a considerati on that  informs w hether the j udgment is to be given collateral 

estoppel effect. See, e.g., Burlington Northern R.  Co. v.  Hundai Merchant Marine Co.,  Ltd., 63 

F.3d 1227 (3d Cir. 1995). 

AnswerS 

(A) is correct because it correctly states t he requirements of asserting jurisdiction over property 

in federa l court . The problem involves t he application of Federal Rule 4(n) w hen a plaint iff 

wants t he federa l court t o exercise jurisdicti on on a quasi in rem  basis.  Recall that  personal 

jurisdict ion doctrine distinguishes between j urisdiction based on a person (known as "in 

personam" j urisdiction) and juri sdiction based on property (known as "in rem" j urisdiction). 

Quasi in rem jurisdiction is based on att achment of def endant's property in t he forum st ate in 
an action brought  against a known person. See Harris v.  Balk, 198 U.S. 215 (1905). Quasi in  rem 

jurisdict ion may be invoked w hen a plaintiff seeks to secure a preexisting claim in the property; 

it also may be invoked when a plaint iff seeks to assert j urisdiction over t he property as a way to 

litigat e a personal claim against def endant t hat is unrelat ed to the property t hat  is attached. 

The question involves this second use of quasi in  rem jurisdiction- when property in t he forum 

is attached in a suit seeking t o impose personal liability on t he defendant t o redress a claim t hat 

is not  related to the property it self. The Supreme Court has est ablished that the exerci se of 

quasi in rem juri sdiction must  meet t he requirements of the Due Process Clause of the 

Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constituti on. See Shaffer v.  Heitner, 433 U.S.  186 

(1977).  A federa l district court may exercise quasi in rem juri sdiction over property located in 
its district. See  Pennington v.  Fourth National Bank, 243 U.S.  269 (1917); FRCP 4(n). The 

46 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

property may be attached as permitted under state law, but only if plaintiff shows "that 

personal jurisdiction over a defendant cannot be obtained in the district where the action is 

brought by reasonable efforts to serve a summons." FRCP  4(n)(2). On the facts given, Plaintiff 

did not comply with the rule because he failed to show, or undertake, prior service of a 

summons on Defendant. 

(B) is not correct because compliance with the state statute is not sufficient to establish a basis 

for the federal court's exercise of quasi in rem jurisdiction. It  is true that the federal court, in 

the absence of a federal statute, looks to the attachment statute of the state in which it sits. 
See  Public Administrator of New York Co.,  v.  Unimar Shipping Co.,  401 F. Supp. 313  (S.D. N.Y. 

1975) (interpreting former FRCP  4(e)). As explained in Choice (A), Plaintiff must show that 

personal jurisdiction cannot be obtained over Defendant "in the district where the action is 

brought by reasonable efforts to serve a summons." FRCP  4(n)(2). The court's exercise of 
jurisdiction also must meet the requirements of federal due process. C/.  Rush v.  Savchuck, 444 

U.S. 320 (1980), which held that the M innesota attachment statute could not be used to obtain 

quasi in rem jurisdiction by attaching contractual obligations of a liability insurer when the 

defendant had no forum contacts. 

(C)  is not correct because it misstates the rules governing when a federal court can exercise 
quasi in rem jurisdiction. As explained in Choice (A), a federal court is permitted to exercise 

quasi in rem jurisdiction over property located in the district upon a showing that due process is 

satisfied and the requirements of FRCP 4(n) are satisfied. The federal rule permits the assertion 

of such jurisdiction "if authorized by federal statute,"  provided notice is given to the defendant. 

It also permits the assertion of such jurisdiction "by seizing the assets under the circumstances 

and in the manner provided by state law in that district," upon a showing that "personal 

jurisdiction over a defendant cannot be obtained in the district where the action is brought by 

reasonable efforts to serve a summons."  FRCP 4(n)(2). 

(D)  is not correct because it misstates the constitutional principles governing the exercise of 

quasi in rem jurisdiction. An action quasi in rem seeks to impose a monetary judgment on the 

defendant. Property is attached as a basis for the court's power and as a means to secure any 

eventual judgment that the plaintiff obtains. One use of quasi in  rem jurisdiction is to 

adjudicate the rights of ownership of particular persons to the attached property. The other use 

is to obtain a basis for jurisdiction. In the latter use, the property that is attached is unrelated to 

the subject matter of the lawsuit. Plaintiff is using quasi in rem jurisdiction to secure 

jurisdiction: the storage facility is unrelated to his contract and other claims against Defendant. 

The judgment that he secures will not have res judicata value and Defendant's exposure to 

liability is capped at the value of the property that is attached-

in this case, $25,000. Unless the 

forum state permits Defendant to make a limited appearance in the action, he will be allowed 

47 

to relitigate issues should Plaintiff decide to file a second  lawsuit to impose additional liability 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

on Defendant. 

Answer9 

(B) is correct because constructive notice to an out-of-state defendant through service on a 

state official is permitted when authorized by a state statute and notice by mail is given to 
defendant. See Hess v.  Pawloski, 274 U.S. 352 (1927). The Due Process Clause requires that 

defendant receive notice of an action before the court can proceed. The requirement of notice 
is in addition to, not a substitute for, the requirement that a court have personal jurisdiction 
over defendant. Although generally personal in-hand service to defendant traditionally was 
required, the Due Process Clause permits alternative forms of notice if they are "reasonably 

calculated, under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency of the 
action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections."  Mullane v. Central Hanover 

Bank &  Trust Co.,  339 U.S. 306 (1950). A state statute authorizing service on a state official is 

considered to be constitutionally sufficient if defendant is also mailed a copy of the summons 

and complaint. Statutes of this sort were first used by states seeking to provide notice to 

nonresident motorists who had caused injury in the forum state but were no longer personally 

present. The use of such statutes for notice purposes is constitutional if the statutory 

requirements are met and accompanied by the mailing of the summons and complaint to 

defendant, although the practice is not without criticism. See Olberding v.  Illinois Central R.R. 
Co., 346 U.S. 338 (1953). 

(A)  is not correct because it assumes that constructive service on the state official meets the 

requirements of the Due Process Clause.  For the reasons explained in Choice (B), it is necessary 

to provide the out-of-state defendant with notice by mailing a copy of the summons and 

complaint to him. See Wuchter v.  Pizzutti, 276 U.S. 13, 19 (1928)  ("[T] he enforced acceptance of 

the service of process on a state officer by the defendant would not be fair or due process 

unless such officer or the plaintiff is required to mail the notice to the defendant, or to advise 

him, by some written communication, so as to make it reasonably probable that he will receive 
actual notice.").The Wuchter rule has been criticized when defendant has received actual notice 

of the lawsuit, but the facts in this problem do not support that conclusion. See Restatement 

(Second) of Judgments § 2 cmt. d (1982). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule it states is not correct. The Due Process Clause has been 
interpreted, in the context of a trust accounting, to require notice by mail to trust beneficiaries 

whose names and addresses were known to the trustee or could be reasonably ascertained. 

See  Mullane v.  Central Hanover Bank &  Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306 (1950). The Supreme Court has 

also made clear that the standard for determining the constitutionality of notice is 

reasonableness "under the circumstances" of the case, id. at 318, and that service on a state 

48 

Civil Procedure Answers 

official coupled with t he mailing of notice to defendant can be sufficient . See Wuchter v. 
Pizzutti, 276 U.S.  13, 19 (1928). 

(D) is not correct because it misst ates the applicable requirement. As explained with respect t o 

Answer (B), t he Due Process Clause requires the provision of notice that "under the 
circumstances . .. is ... reasonably calculated" to inform a defendant of the filing of the 

lawsuit. Mullane v.  Central Hanover Bank &  Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 318 (1950). When notice is 
given t o a nonresident defendant by serving the summons and complaint on a state official, due 

process further requires the mailing of notice t o the defendant when his address is known or 
can reasonably be obt ained. Publication in a newspaper under these circumstances is not 

sufficient because direct notice through mailing can be made available. See Walker v.  City of 
Hutchinson, 352 U.S. 112 (1952). Likewise, post ing of notice on a defendant's door has been 

considered constit utionally insufficient when the address was known t o plaintiff so t hat mailing 
was possible. See Greene v.  Lindsey, 456 U.S. 444, 455  (1982) ("[W)here an inexpensive and 

efficient mechanism such as mail service is available to enhance the reliability of an otherwise 

unreliable not ice procedure, t he St ate's continued exclusive reliance on an ineffective means of 
service is not notice 'reasonably calculat ed t o reach those who could easily be informed by 
other means at hand .... "'(citing Mullane, 339 U.S. at 319)). 

Answer 10 

(A) is correct because it correctly applies the rule t hat  when no single plaintiff's claim 
independently meet s the amount-in-controversy requirement for diversit y j urisdict ion, multiple 
plaintiffs may not meet the amount-in-controversy requirement by aggregating  the value of 

their claims unless their claims are common and indivisible, which the tort claims of t he 
plaintiffs are not . Article Ill of the federa l Constitut ion does not impose an amount-in 

controversy requirement on the grant of diversity j urisdiction, see Article Ill,§ 2, but Congress 
has imposed such a lim itation on the statutory grant of diversity juri sdiction since the First 

Judiciary Act of 1789. The current st atute requires that t he amount exceed "the sum or value of 

$75,000, exclusive of interest and cost s."  28 U.S.C. § 1332(a). When a lawsuit involves multiple 
plaintiffs and the claims are separat e and distinct, at least one plaintiff must meet the st atutory 

requirement. If one plaintiff's claim meet s the statutory requirement, the claims of the other 
plaintiffs can be heard under t he discret ionary doctrine of supplemental j urisdiction, assuming 

t he other requirement s of the stat ute are met. See  28 U.S.C.  § 1367; Exxon  Mobil Corp.  v. 
Allapattah Services,  Inc. , 545 U.S. 546 (2005). 

Be attentive as t o why plaintiffs' claims in the problem would not be considered common and 

indivisible. Claims are considered to be common and indivisible "if one plaintiff were to fail to 
collect his share, the remaining plaintiffs would collect a larger share." Durant v. 

Servicemaster Co.  Trugreen,  Inc. , 147 F. Supp. 2d 744, 749 (E. D.  M ich. 2001). Such claims 

49 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

typically involve a shared interest in a property title or a status entitlement. A series of 
individual torts, even when arising from the same contaminated product, do not come within 

this definition; in torts, each plaintiff is suing for the harm each  individually suffered, rather 
than suing to recover part of a shared interest. Here, not only does no single plaintiff meet the 

amount-in-controversy requirement of having a claim that exceeds $75,000, but the tort claims 
are separate and distinct, not common and indivisible, and so may not be aggregated. 

Accordingly, subject-matter jurisdiction is not present and the court must grant the motion to 

dismiss under FRCP 12(b)(1). 

(B) is not correct because it incorrectly applies the amount-in-controversy requirement for 

diversity jurisdiction. Under the federa l statute, a court may exercise diversity jurisdiction only 
if the claim  exceeds the value of $75,000. See 28 U.S.C.  § 1332(a). Here, no individual plaintiff 

meets that requirement because each party's claim  is valued only at $40,000.  Moreover, the 
plaintiffs may not aggregate their claims to meet the amount-in-controversy requirement 

because their claims are not common and  indivisible. See Eagle Star Ins.  Co.  v.  Ma/tes, 313  F.2d 

778 (5th Cir. 1963). Husband, Wife, and Child are alleging tort claims which are considered to 
be separate and distinct, even if they arise out of the same transaction or occurrence. Because 
no plaintiff individually meets the amount-in-controversy requirement, and Husband, Wife, and 

Child  may not aggregate their claims to meet the statutory condition, diversity jurisdiction is 

not present and the motion to dismiss must be granted. 

(C)  is not correct because it incorrectly applies the amount-in-controversy requirement for 

diversity jurisdiction. As explained with respect to Choices A and B, the diversity statute permits 

the exercise of jurisdiction only "where the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of 
$75,000, exclusive of interest and costs." 28 U.S.C. § 1332.  An individual plaintiff may 

aggregate all claims against a single defendant, whether or not the claims are transactionally 
related.  Here, each of the plaintiffs' claims does not independently meet the amount-in 

controversy requirement. However, Husband, Wife, and Child each have two claims against a 
single defendant. Added together, the pair of claims for each plaintiff exceeds the statutory 

condition. Thus, the amount-in-controversy requirement is satisfied and the motion to dismiss 
for lack subject-matter jurisdiction should not be granted on this basis. 

(D)  is not correct because it misapplies the rule for when supplemental jurisdiction is available 

over claims by persons proposed to be joined as plaintiffs that do not meet the amount-in 
controversy requirement. Federal law permits a district court that has original jurisdiction in a 

case to exercise jurisdiction over claims that are not within its original jurisdiction under certain 
specified conditions. First, the claims must be "so related" as to form one "case or 

controversy." 28 U.S.C. §1367(a). Second, when the original claim before the court is based on 
the diversity statute, supplemental jurisdiction may be exercised, consistent with the 

50 

Civil Procedure Answers 

requ irement of complete diversity, over claims that  do not meet the amount-in-controversy 

requ irement unless power is withheld. Power is withheld over "claims by persons proposed t o 

be joined as plaint iffs under Rule 19"- the requ ired party ru le-or by persons seeking to 

int ervene under FRCP 24. Neit her rule applies to the parties on th ese facts.  See 28 U.S.C. § 

1367 (b); Exxon  Mobil Corp. v.  Allapattah Services,  Inc., 545 U.S. 546 (2005). The problem, 

however, is t hat th e court does not have original jurisdiction because no plaint iffs claim meets 

t he amount-in-controversy requirement-the requirement of original j urisdiction under 28 

U.S.C. §  1367(a) is not met-and supplemental j urisdiction cannot cure the defect. 

Answer 11 

(C) 

is  the  correct  answer,  because  it  recogn izes  that  when the federal  court  lacks  original 

jurisdiction, 

removal  is  not  proper.  Moreover,  even  if  diversity  jurisdiction  as  an  original 

jurisdict ion  did  exist,  an  in-state  defendant  cannot  remove  when  jurisdiction  is  based  on 

diversity. Finally, the presence of Defe ndant's counterclaim does not change the analysis. Let's 

take  each  of these  steps  in  turn.  An  action  can  be  removed  to  federa l  court  only  if,  as  an 

original  matter, the plaintiff could have init ially filed th e suit in federal court. A plaintiff can file 

suit in a federa l court if there are grounds f or arising-under jurisdicti on, see 28 U.S.C. §  1331, or 

if diversity juri sdiction is present, see  28 U.S.C.  §  1332 (and  ot her jurisdictional bases t hat are 

not relevant t o this problem). Here, th ere are no grounds for ari sing-under jurisdiction because 

plaintiff has  asserted  a state-law contract  claim  and  no fede ral  issue  is  presented.  Therefore, 

t he questi on  is wheth er diversity juri sdiction  would  have been  available had the lawsuit been 

initially  fi led  in  f ederal  court.  Diversity  jurisdiction  requires  both  diversity  of  citizenship 

between  all  plaintiffs  and  all  def endant s  plus  satisf action  of  t he  amount-in-cont roversy 

requ irement.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(a).  Neither  condition  is  met  here.  The  citizenship 

requ irement  is not met  because  both the Plaintiff and the Defendant are cit izens of Texas. The 

Plaintiff,  w ho  owns  a  home  in  Texas,  would  be  considered  a  cit izen  of  Texas  based  on  the 

party's domicile plus t he party's  intent to remain. See  Mas v.  Perry,  489  F.2d.  1396 (5th  Cir.), 

certi orari denied  419  U.S.  842  (1974).  Defendant  is incorporat ed  and  has  its  headquarters  in 

Texas,  and therefore is considered to be a citizen of Texas.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(c); Hertz Corp. 

v.  Friend,  559  U.S.  77  (2010).  Moreover,  the  amount -in-controversy requ irement  insists  on  a 

claim t hat exceeds $75,000 and Plaintiffs claim  is less than that amount. Therefore, t he dist rict 

court could  not exercise  original j urisd iction  over  Plaint iffs claim,  remova l  is not proper,  and 

remand is required. 

Second,  even if diversity jurisdiction were present, the federal removal statut e bars an in-st ate 

defendant f rom removing. See 28  U.S.C.  §  1441(b)(2). Here, Defendant is a citizen of Texas, the 

state in which  the st at e-court action is pending, and so  Defendant is  barred f rom removing the 

litigati on t o federal court. 

51 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Finally,  does  the  analysis  change  if Defendant's counterclaim  can  be  heard  under the  court's 

arising-under  jurisdiction?  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1331.  Arising-under  jurisdiction  is  available  if  a 

federal  issue  appears on  the face of the well-pleaded counterclaim  complaint, and the federal 

issue  is  actually disputed  and  substantial,  and  its decision  would  not disturb the allocation  of 

judicial  business as  between the federa l and state courts. See Gunn v.  Minton,  133 S.  Ct.  1059 

(2013).  However,  the  fact  that  federal  jurisdiction  would  exist  over  the  counterclaim  had  it 

been filed  in an  independent lawsuit does not provide a basis for removal  in Plaintiff's lawsuit 

on  the facts  presented  in this  problem.  See  Mortgage Electronic  Registration Systems,  Inc.  v. 

Malugen, 2012 WL 1382265,  *8 (M.D. Fl.  2012) (" .. . the law  is well settled that federal  claims 
raised  in  a  counterclaim  may  not  serve  as  a  basis  for removal  jurisdiction").  Subject-matter 
jurisdiction is determined at the commencement of the lawsuit by examining the complaint, 
not  the  answer  or  notice  of  removal.  See  Holmes  Group,  Inc.  v.  Varnado  Air  Circulation 

Systems,  Inc., 535  U.S. 826, 829-831 (2002). 

(A) 

is not correct because  as  explained w ith respect to Choice  (C),  removal jurisdiction exists 

only  if the  district court  could  have  exercised  subject-matter jurisdiction  over the  suit  had  it 

been filed as an original matter in the federal, rather than the state, court. See  28 U.S.C.  § 1441. 

In  determining  whether  subject-matter  jurisdiction  as  an  original  matter  exists,  the  district 

court is required  to look at the complaint, and  not to the answer or the notice of removal. So 

while,  as the answer suggests, federal-question jurisdiction  is a possible avenue for satisfying 

subject-matter  jurisdiction,  the  Plaintiff's  well-pleaded  complaint  did  not  raise  any  federal 

question and the requirements of diversity jurisdiction are not met. Thus, regardless of w hether 

the district court could  exercise federa l jurisdiction over Defendant's federal-law counterclaim, 

jurisdiction  would  not  exist  over  the  suit  as  an  original  matter,  and  so  the  case  must  be 

remanded. 

(B)  is  not  correct  because  it  misapplies  the  rules  for  diversity jurisdiction  and  for  removal 

jurisdiction. There  is  no diversity jurisdiction  in the present case, as  explained with  respect to 
Choice  (C). But even  if there were, an  in-state defendant may not remove even  w hen there is 

diversity jurisdiction. See  28  U.S.C. §  1441(b),  barring an  in-state defendant from  removing on 

the basis of diversity jurisdiction. 

(D)  is  not correct because  it misapplies  the rule governing  removal  of a non-removable state 

law claim and a removable federal  claim. Under 28 U.S.C.  §  1441(c)(1) and §  1441(c)(2), if a civil 

action includes a federal claim that supports federal-question jurisdiction (a  "removable federal 

claim") and "a  claim not within the original or supplemental jurisdiction of the district court" (a 

"non-removable claim,"  usually under state  law),  then the entire  matter may be  removed to 

district court, but the district court shall  sever the non-removable state law  claims and  remand 

them "to the State court from which  the action  was  removed."  28 U.S.C. §  1441(c)(1) and  (2). 

52 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

While this might appear to match the circumstances  posed  in the original question,  Plaintiff's 

complaint did not include both a non-removable state-law claim and a removab le federal claim, 

as required  under 28 U.S.C.  §  1441(c)(1)-(2). It contained only a non-removable state-law claim 

over which diversity jurisdiction could not be exercised because the citizenship and amount-in 

controversy requirements were not met. Defendant's assertion of a removable federal  claim in 

the form of a counterclaim is irrelevant because it is not actually part of the original civil action. 

As  discussed  above,  whether  an  action  is  removable  is  based  primarily  on  the  well-pleaded 

complaint,  and  not the  answer or the  notice  of remova l.  As  a  result,  the  district court must 

remand the entire action. 

Answer 12 

(D) is the correct answer because it correctly recogn izes that Plaintiff's motion for preliminary 

inj unctive relief will not succeed; the f ederal statute upon which it is based is advisory, rather 

than mandatory or binding, and therefore Plaintiff cannot show a likelihood of success on the 

merits, a necessary condition for the relief she seeks. A court w ill issue a preliminary injunction 

only if Plaintiff shows that she is likely to succeed on the merits, and can also demonstrates 

three additional factors: (1) the likelihood of irreparable injury if  provisional relief is not 

granted; (2) a balance of hardships in favor of the movant; and (3) a showing that the requested 

rel ief is in the public interest. See  Winter v.  Natural Resources Defense Council,  Inc. , 555  U.S. 7, 

20 (2008). A preliminary injunction is never awarded as of right; it is an equitable order and 

viewed as "an extraordinary remedy that may only be awarded upon a clear showing that the 

plaintiff is entitled to such rel ief."  ld. at 22. 

Plaintiff cannot show that she will succeed on the merits because the Fish Protection Act (FPA) 

does not create a mandatory duty on homeowners. Nor does it generate a duty that the 

Plaintiff has a right to enforce in district court. The FPA does not requ ire regulated entit ies to 

build 30-foot buffers-

it only recommends that they do so. Thus, the FPA is aspirational in its 

req uirements, and does not impose an enforceable duty.  Because success on the merits is a 

necessary condition for a preliminary inj unction, fai lure to prove success on the merits ends t he 

analysis. The other three conditions only become relevant if a viable argument supporting the 

motion on the merits can be made. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it states, while accurate, is insufficient to support the 

granting of preliminary relief .  It  is true that prelim inary injunctive relief is available only on a 
showing of irreparable harm, meaning,  harm that cannot be remedied through the payment of 

money damages. See Bannercraft Clothing Co.  v. Renegotiation Board, 466 F.2d 345, 356 n. 9 

(D.C. Cir. 1972), reversed on other grounds, 415 U.S.  1 (1974) ("The very thing which makes an 

inj ury 'irreparable' is the fact that no remedy exists to repa ir it."). As the answer suggests, 

during the pendency of the suit  Defendant will over-develop his land, impede spawning, and 

53 

Civil Procedure Answers 

cause  damage t hat  cannot be remedied through the payment of money. These harms appear 

irreparable within the meaning of the requirements. However, in the absence of th e other two 

condit ions and without  a showing of a likelihood of success on t he merits, the motion must be 

denied. 

(B) is not  correct because as with Answer (A), the rul e that it st ates is insufficient to support th e 

granting of  pre liminary relief. The possibility th at an  injunction may be in t he public int erest is 

only one of t he three necessary condit ions bef ore a preliminary inj unction may be granted. The 

district court, before granting prel iminary rel ief, w ill consider whether t he order w ill serve t he 

public interest . Cf.  Weinberger v.  Romero-Barcelo, 456 U.S. 305, 312 (1982) (st ating th at "courts 

of equity should pay particular regard for t he public consequences in employing t he 

ext rao rdinary remedy of inj unction"). Indeed, the balance of equities and the public interest 

will in some cases weigh against the granting of provisional equitable re lief despite a showing of 

irreparable harm and a likelihood of success on t he merits. See Winter, 555 U.S. 7, 25-27 (2008). 

However, a showing of injury t o the public interest is only one of t he conditions to be 

considered. 

(C)  is not  correct because alt hough the answer correct ly st at es the expect ed outcome of the 

request for th e preliminary inj unction, it m isidentifies th e most likely reason f or the denial. As 

th e ru le indicat es, a prelim inary inj unction is an equitable form of re lief and is available only 

when money damages will not be able to compensat e for the harm; the harm is said to be 

irreparable. The party seeking such relief  must  show that  in th e absence of a preliminary 

inj unction, irreparab le inj ury is likely, not simply speculative. Harms to the environment are 

usually considered to be irreparable inj uries. See Sierra Club v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 

645 F.3d 978 (8th Cir. 2011). One recurring metaphor not es that  irreparable injury is present 

when it  would be impossible to " unscramble eggs" once the omelet has been made. See United 
States.  v.  Grinnell Corp., 236 F. Supp. 244, 259 (D.C.  R.I.  1964). Here,  if as Plaintiff alleges, th e 

fish do not have sufficient veget ati on and cannot  spawn due to development on the shorelines, 

th e ecological syst em is irrevocably dist urbed and money likely could not compensate f or that 

harm .  Neverth eless,  preliminary relief is not warranted because, as explained w ith respect t o 

Choice D, Plaintif f would still fai l to show likelihood of success on the merit s. 

Answer 13 

(A) is th e correct answer, because the general fede ral venue st atute perm its the distri ct  court 
t o transfer "any civil action to any other district  or division w here it might  have been brought," 
on consideration of "the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice." 28 
U.S.C. §  1404(a).  Venue in the federa l system means "th e geographic specif icat ion of t he 

proper court" in which the action can go forward . See 28 U.S.C. § 1390(a).  The general venue 

statute looks to three different bases to determine venue:  w here defendant resides; w here 

54 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

the transaction took place; and,  if there is no venue in which the action otherwise may be 

brought, the district "in which defendant is subject to the court's personal jurisdiction with 

respect to such action."  28 U.S.C.  §  1391(b)(1)-(3).  A change of venue may be sought by either 

party. If the action was fi led  in a correct venue, then the transfer mechanism to be used  is 28 

U.S.C. §  1404, which  looks to "the convenience of parties and witnesses, in the interest of 

justice," and limits transfer to a district "where it  might have been brought" or upon the 

parties' consent. The statutory language "where it might have been brought" has been 

interpreted to mean a district in which defendant could have been served at the 

commencement of the suit. Thus, if the long-arm statute of New Jersey would permit  service on 

Seller in Texas, this provision would be satisfied.  However, the district to which the action is 

transferred also must be one in which venue would originally have been proper. Arguably,  the 

district in which the warehouse is located would be proper because this is where a significant 

part of the transaction took place. 

(B) is not correct, because it  misstates the governing law on the right to transfer an action. A 

plaintiff may move to transfer an action, despite the fact that plaintiff chose the action's initial 

venue. The transfer statute "says nothing about affording plaintiffs different treatment from 

defendants,"  Ferens v.  John Deere Co.,  494 U.S.  516, 522 (1990), and transfer under the general 

federal venue statute is not limited to defendants. Thus, Plaintiff is free to seek to change the 

venue of the action if, for example, he believes that the convenience factors have changed  now 

that he has had the benefit of discovery. 

(C)  is not correct because it misstates the relationship of venue to state boundaries in the 

federal system even when the federal court sits in diversity jurisdiction. The federal venue 
statute is built upon the geographic area of the nation, and assigns actions fi led in the federal 

court system to districts within the nation.  Although it is true that circuits and districts in the 

federal system generally do not cross state boundaries, nothing in the conception of national 

sovereignty requires this resu lt . However, state boundaries are important to venue when 

determining which state's law w ill apply in a diversity action. A defendant in a diversity action 

who seeks to transfer an action from one district to another, when the districts are in different 

states, w ill not get the benefit of a change in law; the transferee court must apply the law of the 

transferor court. See  VanDusen v.  Barack, 376 U.S. 612 (1964). The rule is the same when a 

plaintiff seeks to transfer the action. See Ferens v.  John Deere Co.,  494 U.S. 516 (1990). 

(D)  is not correct because it misapplies the governing law. Transfer may be requested to 

another district when the initial venue choice was wrong. In that situation, the correct 

statutory procedure to use is that of 28 U.S.C. §  1406. Moreover, although defendant may 

move to dismiss an action for improper venue, see FRCP  12(b)(3), the problem states that 

discovery has gone forward. This fact suggests that the t ime to move for dismissal on the basis 

55 

of venue has passed, and defendant has waived his opportunity to raise this objection. See 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

FRCP 12(h)(1). 

Answer 14 

(C)  is the correct answer, because it recognizes that subject-matter jurisdiction is determ ined 

by the allegations of the complaint on the day that the lawsuit is commenced; changes in 

citizenship post-commencement do not affect the court's jurisdiction unless they suggest that a 

party acted in bad faith.  See Grupo Data/lux v.  Atlas Global Group, LP,  541 U.S. 567 (2004). 

Moreover, a party's reasons for changing citizenship are irrelevant. Thus, although a defect in 

subject-matter jurisdiction can  be raised at any t ime during a lawsuit , and even for the first 

time on appeal, the court does not lose subject-matter jurisdiction over the action because of 

changes in citizenship that take place after the commencement of the suit. Here, the court 

properly exercised diversity jurisdiction over the suit. See 28 U.S.C. §  1332. Diversity jurisdiction 

requires a showing of complete diversity - meaning every plaintiff is a citizen of a state that 

differs from that of every defendant- and the amount in controversy must exceed the 

statutory condition of $75,000. A corporation is a citizen of every state in w hich it is 

incorporated and the state in w hich it has its headquarters; in this problem, Plaintiff is a citizen 

of Delaware. See 28 U.S.C.  § 1332(c); Hertz Corp.  v.  Friend, 559 U.S. 77 (2010). A partnership is 

an unincorporated association and the citizenship of every member of the partnership is 

considered for diversity purposes; the citizenship of an individual is determined by the test of 

residence plus intent to remain. See Carden v.  Arkoma Associates, 494 U.S. 185 (1990). (The 

sole exception to this test of a partnership's citizenship is when the lawsuit is filed under the 

Class Action Fairness Act, see 28 U.S.C. §  1332(d)(2)(A).) Neither of the partners on the date of 

the commencement of the suit  had the same citizenship as the corporate-plaintiff, so the 

citizenship requirement was met, and the allegations of the complaint, "if the claim is 

apparently made in good fa ith," are accepted as true and support jurisdiction.  See St.  Paul 

Mercury Indemnity Co.  v.  Red Cab,  303 U.S. 283 (1938). 

(A)  is not correct because objections to subject-matter jurisdiction can be raised at any time 
during the lawsuit and even for the first time on appeal. See Capron v.  Van Noorden, 6 U.S. 

126 (1804). It follows that dismissal is required at any time during a lawsuit w hen the court 

recognizes that it lacks power to hear the case. See FRCP 12(h)(3).  Indeed, if the district court 

lacked jurisdiction as of the time of the commencement of the suit, the district court has an 

obligation to determine its jurisdiction and would have an obligation to dismiss the lawsuit. 

However, diversity jurisdiction did exist at the t ime of the commencement of the suit, so the 

motion to dismiss has no basis. 

(B)  is not correct because dismissal is required only if the court lacks subject-matter jurisdiction 

and sanctions would be warranted, w ith appropriate notice, if the party violated its obligations 

56 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

of pleading in good faith, see FRCP 11, or violated its obligations of complying with mandatory 

discovery or discovery requests, see FRCP  37. As  explained with respect to Choice A, subject 

matter jurisdiction existed on the date of the commencement of the suit; post-commencement 

changes in corporate status do not deprive the court's power to try the case unless they 

suggest bad faith, and the facts in this problem do not raise such a suggestion. Moreover, at the 

time of the filing of the complaint, the allegations had evidentiary support. 

(D)  is not correct, because the rule it seeks to apply, although true as far as it goes, does not 

apply to these facts. When a civil action is removed from state to federal court, the district 

court has an obligation to remand the action if federal jurisdiction would not have existed over 

the suit had it been filed as an original matter in federal court. See 28 U.S.C. § 1441. In this case, 

the action was filed as an original matter in federal court; therefore, remand is not an option if 

subject-matter jurisdiction does not exist. Rather, if subject-matter jurisdiction does not exist, 

the appropriate course of action is for the district court to dismiss the suit, not to remand the 

action to state court. 

Answer 15 

(B) is the correct answer, because it states the correct rule and applies it properly to the facts. 

Interpleader is a joinder device that allows a person who faces multiple and possibly conflicting 

claims to property to resolve all claims in one proceeding. Interpleader can  be used when the 

property is a "common fund" and so is very useful in the insurance context. The joinder device 

has its roots in equity practice and gives the person initiating the action- called a stakeholder 

the benefit of being able to avoid inconsistent judgments that could lead to conflicting or 

multiple liability. In the federal system  a stakeholder can use one of two different interpleader 

mechanisms: statutory interpleader, 28 U.S.C. § 1335, or rule interpleader, FRCP  22. As joinder 

devices the two mechanisms are similar, but they differ with respect to their jurisdictional and 
procedural requirements. The problem states that the stakeholder has commenced a statutory 

interpleader action. The statute applies when "[t]wo or more adverse claimants, of diverse 

citizenship . .. , are claiming or may claim to be entitled to . .. money or property'' that the 

stakeholder has in its "custody or possession . . . of the value of $500 or more." The action that 

the stakeholder has commenced easily meets the requirements of statutory interpleader. First, 
the citizenship requirement of minimal diversity for statutory interpleader is met because only 

two or more of the adverse claimants must be citizens of different states; the usual rule of 

complete diversity does not apply in this context. The fact that claimants are described as 

citizens of New York, New Jersey, and Delaware meets this requirement; it is irrelevant  that the 

stakeholder is a citizen of the same state as some of the claimants (the corporation is a citizen 

of both Texas where it is incorporated and of Delaware where it has its headquarters, see 28 
U.S.C. §  1332(c)). Second, the amount-in-controversy requirement is met because the value of 

57 

Civil Procedure Answers 

the fund exceeds $500. Be aware t hat under st atutory interpleader, the st akeholder must 
deposit the money or property w ith the court or, alternatively,  post a bond in an amount that 

the court set s. See 28 U.S.C.  §  1335(a)(2). 

(A)  is not  correct  because the rule of diversity that  it applies is not pertinent t o f ederal statut ory 

interpleader.  The federal statutory interpleader mechanism provides an exception to the usual 

rule of complete diversity. Compare 28 U.S.C.  §  1335, with 28 U.S.C. §  1332; see Strawbridge v. 

Curtiss, 7 U.S. 267 (1806). Thus, as long as there is diversity between two or more of the 

adverse claimants, diversity under the federal interpleader statute is met  (requiring " [t]wo or 

more adverse cl aimants of diverse citizenship as defined in subsection (a) or (d) of section 1332 

of [Title 28]"). The fact  that the individual commencing the interpleader action-the 

stakeholder who is in custody of the property-is not  diverse from all t he claimants is 

irrelevant . See State Farm Fire & Casualty Co.  v. Tashire, 386 U.S. 523, 530-531 (1967). 

(C)  is not correct because the amount-in-controversy requirement t hat  it applies is pertinent to 
class actions under the Class Action Fairness Act (CAFA), see 28 U.S.C. §  1332(d), but not t o 

federal  st atutory interpleader.  The federa l statutory interpleader mechanism  provides an 

exception t o t he usual jurisdictional amount required to invoke diversity j urisdiction. Rather 

t han an amount that exceeds $75,000, st atutory interpleader requires only an amount that 
exceeds $500. Compare 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a) with 28 U.S.C. § 1335(a). By contrast, high-stakes, 

multi-stat e class actions auth orized under CAFA impose a larger amount-in-controversy 

requirement, but similarly permit the district court to exercise diversity j urisdiction on a 

showing of  minimal and not complet e diversity. See 28 U.S.C. §  1332(d)(2) ("[T]he matter in 

controversy exceeds the sum or value of $5,000,000, exclusive of interest  and costs."); § 

1332(d)(2)(A) ("[A]ny member of a class of plaintiffs is a citizen of a State different from any 

defendant."). Thus, although statutory interpleader and CAFA actions provide an exception to 

t he usual rules of diversity jurisdicti on, they differ in the conditions that they impose. 

(D)  is not correct  because the rule of joinder that it  applies is irrelevant to federa l statut ory 

int erpleader acti ons. It is true t hat many joinder rules limit the procedure to claims that share 

common f acts or law, and in that sense are likely to arise out of a common origin or t he same 

transaction. See,  e.g., Fed.  R.  Civ. P.  24(b)(A)(B) (permitting permissive intervention on "timely 

motion"  by "anyone . .. w ho .. . has a claim or defense that shares with the main action a 

common questi on of law or fact"). However, statut ory int erpleader specifically authorizes the 

court to maintain the action "although the t itles or claims of the conflicting claimants do not 

have a common origin, or are not  identical."  28 U.S.C. §  1335(b). What is criti cal is the fact t hat 

the claims to be resolved "are adverse to and independent of one another."  ld. A determinati on 

of adversity frequent ly is found w hen the st akeholder is confronted by competing demands for 

payment by benef iciari es under insurance policies.  See Sanders v. Armour Fertilizer Works,  Inc., 

58 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

292 U.S.  190, 199 (1934)  ("Each is claiming the proceeds of the policies to the exclusion of the 

other . ... It is broad enough to cover any adverse claims against the proceeds of the policies, 

no matter on what grounds urged."). 

Answer 16 

(D) is the correct answer because even if diversity jurisdiction is present, see 28 U.S.C. § 1332, 
federal courts w ill abstain from exercising such power when the lawsuit pertains to divorce and 

child custody.  See Ankenbrandt v.  Richards, 504 U.S. 689 (1992). Usually, a federal court is 

requ ired to exercise  subject-matter jurisdiction over a state law claim if the individual parties 

are citizens of the United States and citizens of different states, and the amount in controversy 

is satisfied. However, the Supreme Court of the United States has recogn ized an exception in 

diversity actions for suits involving domestic relations. The Constitution does not mandate 

such an exception; rather, the Court has based the exception on the history and statutory 

language of the grant of diversity jurisdiction. The exception covers divorce actions, alimony, 

and decrees in child custody cases, but does not include suits for intra-fam ilial torts. Here, 

Husband seeks divorce and child custody, and the district court should exercise its discretion 

and decline to exercise diversity jurisdiction even assuming it  is present. 

(A)  is not the correct answer because as explained w ith respect to Choice D, the Court has 

recogn ized a doctrine of abstention that authorizes a federal court, in its discretion, to decline 
to exercise federa l jurisdiction in a diversity action that involves domestic relations. See 

Ankenbrandt v.  Richards, 504 U.S. 689 (1992). Therefore, even if diversity jurisdiction is present, 

the court will grant the motion. However, let's consider whether diversity jurisdiction is 

present. Diversity jurisdiction requ ires parties who are citizens of the United States and citizens 

of different states. Both parties are assumed to be U.S.  citizens; state citizenship is the 

equivalent of domicile; as explained, "A person's domicile is the place of 'his true, fixed, and 

permanent home and  principal establishment, and to which he has the intention of returning 

whenever he is absent therefrom ... :  .... A change of domicile may be effected only by a 

combination of two elements: (a) taking up residence in a different domici le with (b) the 
intention to remain there." Mas v.  Perry, 489 F.2d 1396, 1399 (5th Cir.), cert.  denied, 419 U.S. 

842  (1974). Wife is a citizen of West Virgin ia;  possibly Husband is now a citizen of Virginia 

because he has established a home in that state and has the intention of returning there as 

evidenced by his car registration, voting registration, and j ob. Therefore, the parties likely 

would be considered to be citizens of different states. The next question in determining 

whether diversity jurisdiction is present asks whether the amount in controversy is satisfied. 

The claim must exceed $75,000. Here, the action contemplates that payments of $25,000 will 

be made over a ten-year period; assuming that the amount that Husband contributes would 

not be considered a part of the amount in controversy, the decree would amount to $250,000, 

59 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

far more than the statutory requirement. See 28 U.S.C. §  1332(a) ("where the matter in 
controversy exceeds the sum or value of $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs"). 

(B) is not correct because it incorrectly assumes that a federal court can remand an action when 

a party moves to dismiss the action for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. Remand is a 

procedure that requires the federal court to transfer an action back to state court when 

defendant has improperly removed an action from state court to federa l court. See 28 U.S.C. § 

1441. A federal court cannot otherwise remand an action to state court. 

(C)  is not correct because alt hough it  is true that the district court will exercise discretion and 

decline to exercise diversity j urisdiction in a suit that pertains to divorce, alimony, or child 

custody, a federal court does not have power to transfer a federal lawsuit to the court of a 

different system, including the court of a state system in the United States. The transfer rules 

that apply in federal district court allow a district court to change the venue of an action, and an 

action may be transferred to a district court in a state different from the state in which the 

transferor court sits. See 28 U.S.C. §  1404. However, a federal court may not transfer the venue 

of a federa l action to a state court, even if it is the state in which the federal court sits. 

Answer 17 

(C)  is the correct answer because it recognizes that diversity jurisdiction cannot be created 

through the collusive assignment of a claim. See 28 U.S.C. §  1359. Had Plaintiff not assigned the 

claim to Lawyer, diversity jurisdiction would not be present in a lawsuit filed by Plaintiff against 

Defendant. This is because Plaintiff and  Defendant are citizens of the same state, New York, and 

so the basic citizenship requirement of diversity jurisdiction is not met. See 28 U.S.C.  § 1332(a). 

(The second primary requirement for diversity jurisdiction is the amount in controversy, see id., 

which the problem states is met.) Plaintiff's assignment of its claim to Lawyer, a citizen of New 

Jersey, does not create diversity jurisdiction. When an assignment is made solely for the 

purpose of creating diversity jurisdiction to gain the benefit of a federal forum, such as here, 
the assignment is considered to be collusive and does not create jurisdiction. Federal law bars 

the manufacture of diversity jurisdiction through the assignment of claims when the 

assignment is considered to be "improperly or collusively made." 28 U.S.C. §  1359.  An 

assignment is considered to be collusive if the assignee functions only "for purposes of 

collection" and does not have a substantial interest in the suit. See  Kramer v.  Caribbean Mills, 

Inc., 394 U.S. 823 (1969). Other factors that courts consider include whether "good business 

reasons" exist for the assignment; whether the assignee possessed a "prior interest in the item 

or whether the assignment was timed to coincide with commencement of the litigation"; 

whether there was "consideration given by the assignee"; and whether there was "an 

admission that the motive was to create j urisdiction." Attorneys Trust v.  Videotape Computer 

Products, Inc., 93  F.3d 593, 595-596 (9th Cir. 1996). On the facts presented, the assignment 

60 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil Procedure Answers 

would be considered under federa l law t o be improper and collusive:  Lawyer has no 
independent interest in t he suit that exist ed pri or to t he assignment and Plaintiff retains a 95 

percent  interest in any recovery. Therefore, the plaintiff and the defendant are not citizens of 
different stat es and the citizenship requirement of diversity jurisdiction is not met . 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it relies upon is not accurat e. Diversity j urisdiction may 

be invoked by a plaintiff in a suit against a defendant who is a citizen of the stat e in which the 
federal court sits. The except ion t o this rule pertains to removal jurisdiction: an in-state 

defendant who is sued in a state court action may not remove the suit t o federa l court on the 
basis of diversity j urisdiction. This is because 28 U.S.C. §  1441(b)(2) provides that an action 

removable solely on the basis of diversity j urisdiction "may not be removed  if any of the parties 
in int erest properly joined and served as defendants is a citizen of the State in which such 

action is brought." Here, the action was fi led  in federa l court as an original matter and so t he 
ban on removal by an in-state defendant is irrelevant. 

(B) is not correct because the relevant test here for the purpose of determining federa l diversity 

j urisdict ion is whether the assignment is imperm issibly collusive, not whether it is valid under 
state law. Whether the assignment is collusive is a federal question under 28 U.S.C. §  1359. 

This means t hat the legality of the assignment under New York law is not relevant to the federal 
court's determination of whet her diversity jurisdiction exist s.  As Justice Harlan explained in 

Kramer v.  Caribbean Mills,  Inc., 394 U.S. 823, 829 (1969), "[t ]he existence of federal j urisdiction 
is a matt er of federa l, not state law." Here, the st at e statut e permits an assignment of a claim 

when made for considerat ion of an amount as insignificant as a peppercorn, and under that 

standard t he assignment itself would be valid. However, under federa l law, federal courts may 
consider the adequacy of consideration when evaluating whether an assignment is collusive, 

and so an ot herwise valid assignment would not creat e diversity j urisdiction. See Reinhart Oil & 
Gas, Inc.  v.  Excel Directional Technologies,  LLC,  463 F. Supp. 2d 1240 (D. Colo. 2006). 

(D) is not correct because if, as the answer st at es, Plaint iff is t he real party, then t he assignment 

is collusive under 28 U.S.C. §  1359 and does not creat e diversit y jurisdiction. Lawyer's 
vigorousness of representation will not cure the defect in subject -matter jurisdiction and is not 

a relevant part of the analysis. For an example of when adequacy of representation is relevant, 
see the requirements for class action certification under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 

23(a)(4). The federa l court s are courts of limited jurisdiction, and t he scope of their subject 
matter cannot exceed constitutional or st atutory boundaries.  In particular, the anti-collusion 

statute, see 28 U.S.C. §  1359, is designed t o ensure that rout ine st at e law actions are heard in 

state court and not channeled  int o federa l court. See Yokeno v.  Mafnas, 973  F.2d 803, 809-810 
(9th Cir.  1992) ("The federa l ant i-collusion stat ut e is aimed at preventing parties from 
manufacturing diversity j urisdiction t o inappropriat ely channel ordinary business lit igation int o 

6 1 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

the federa l courts."). Unless diversity (or some other basis of jurisdiction) is present, the district 

court may not proceed with t he action notwithstanding t he parties' commitment to ensure a 

full and fa ir adversarial presentation of t he facts and law. 

Answer 18 

(C)  is the correct answer because Plaint iff's claim against Distributor is not within the court's 
diversity jurisdiction, supplemental jurisdiction cannot be exercised over it, and the facts do not 

suggest that any other jurisdictional basis is available. When faced with a multi-party and mult i 

claim  action, it  helps to diagram the action: 

Plaintiff (Missouri) v. Defendant (Idaho) 

.J.,  (third-party claim under FRCP 14) 

Distributor (Missouri) 

Here, Plaintiff is seeking to sue Distributor, who has been joined in the action as a third-party 

defendant, see FRCP 14. However, in order to bring a claim against a third-party defendant, the 

court must be able to exercise subject-matter jurisdiction. One form of subject-matter 

jurisdiction is diversity jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.  §  1332(a). The federal diversity statute 

permits the exercise of diversity jurisdiction if the plaintiff and the defendant are "citizens of 

different States" and  "the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $75,000 exclusive 

of interests and costs."  28 U.S.C. §  1332(a)(1). Plaintiff and Distributor are citizens of the same 

state, and so diversity jurisdiction is not present. The second form of subject-matter jurisdiction 

is supplemental jurisdiction, though this too is unavailable in this situation. Here, Plaintiff and 

Defendant are citizens of different  states and t he amount-in-controversy exceeds $75,000, and 

so diversity jurisdiction is present. When the anchor claim is grounded in diversity jurisdiction, 

federal law w ithholds supplemental jurisdiction over any claim  "  .. . by plaintiffs against 

persons made parties under Rule 14, 19, 20, or 24 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure .. . . " 
28 U.S.C. § 1367(b). Defendant's t hird-party claim against Distributor requires that Distributor 

be joined under FRCP Rule 14 which governs t hird-party practice in federa l court. Thus, 

Distributor is a person made a party under FRCP  14, and supplemental jurisdiction may not be 
exercised. The statute codifies the practice that existed before enactment of 28 U.S.C.  §  1367, 

see Owen Equipment & Erection Co.  v. Kroger, 437 U.S. 365 (1978), which did not permit 

ancillary jurisdiction when its exercise would violate the rule of complete diversity as 

articulated in Strawbridge v.  Curtiss, 7 U.S. 267 (1806). 

(A)  is not correct because, of t he three claims in the case, t he only claim t hat lacks subject 

matter jurisdiction is Plaintiff's claim against Distributor, for the reason described in the 

explanation to Choice (C).  Diversity jurisdiction exists over Plaintiff's claim against Defendant 

62 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

because both parties are citizens of different states and the amount-in-controversy 

requirement is met. Supplemental jurisdiction exists over Defendant's third-party claim against 

Distributor, and the fact that Distributor and Plaintiff are not diverse does not oust the district 

court of power to hear the anchor claim or the third-party claim. 

(B) is not correct because Distributor's motion to dismiss  Defendant's third-party claim for lack 

of subject-matter jurisdiction should not be granted. When the anchor claim is grounded in 

diversity jurisdiction, ederal law permits the exercise of supplemental jurisdiction over a third 

party claim brought by Defendant against a party joined by FRCP 14. As seen  in the explanation 
to Answer  (C),  28 U.S.C. §  1367(b) bars the exercise of supplemental jurisdiction when 

complete diversity is not met when the claim against the Rule 14 party is brought by plaintiff, 

not by defendant. Thus, subject-matter jurisdiction exists in the claim  by Defendant against 

Distributor, and it should not be dismissed. Moreover, the lack of diversity between Plaintiff 

and Distributor does not oust the district court of jurisdiction in the original suit between 

Plaintiff and Defendant. Again, the statute codifies the practice set forth in Owen Equipment & 

Erection Co. v.  Kroger, 437 U.S. 365, 376 (1978)  ("[T]he nonfederal claim in this case was simply 

not ancillary to the federal one in the same sense that ... the impleader by a defendant of a 

third-party defendant always is."). 

(D)  is not correct because the court may exercise diversity jurisdiction over Plaintiff's claim 

against Defendant and so the motion to dismiss should be denied. The complaint alleges that 

the parties are citizens of different states (Plaintiff is a citizen of Missouri and Defendant is a 

citizen of Idaho) and that the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000; therefore, both 

conditions of diversity jurisdiction are present. See  28 U.S.C. §  1332(a)(l). 

Answer 19 

(C)  is the correct answer because the federal discovery rules require that a requesting party 
give reasonable written notice to every other party to the action to examine a w itness. See 

FRCP 30(b)(l). This rule applies whether or not the deponent is a party. Notice to all parties is 

required in order to give them an opportunity to cross-examine the deponent should they 

choose to do so. The notice must state the time and  place for the taking of the deposition, but 

is not required to state the subject matter of the examination. See Madison v.  Cobb, 29 F. Supp. 

881  (M.D.  Pa. 1939). Depositions are admissible only if a party was given notice or was 

represented at the deposition. See  Howard v.  Everex Systems,  Inc., 228 F.3d 1057 (9th Cir. 

2000). 

(A)  is not correct because leave of court is generally not needed to take the deposition of a 

party. Deposing a party requires only that the requesting party serve the deponent w ith 
reasonable written notice of the time and place of the deposition. Leave of court is needed 

63 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil  Procedure Answers 

only if the requesting party will exceed the limit  on depositions set by FRCP  30(a)(2)(A)(i); if the 

deponent has already been deposed in the case, see FRCP  30(a)(2)(A)(ii);  if the deposition is 

noticed earlier than permitted under FRCP 26(d) (unless the deponent is "expected to leave the 

United States and  be unavailable for examination"); or if the deponent is "confined in prison." 

See FRCP  30(a)(2)(B). 

(B) is not correct because t he deposition of a party or officer of a party does not require a 

subpoena. The Advisory Committee Note states, "[d]epositions of parties, and officers, 

directors, and managing agents of parties need not involve use of a subpoena." Keep in mind 

that the rule is different for a nonparty deponent; a nonparty deponent is not compelled to 

appear for a deposition in the absence of a subpoena. See FRCP 45. 

(D) is not correct because it does not correctly state the rule governing the place of 

exam ination of a party deponent. The requesting party may choose to locate the deposition 

anywhere it wishes, although the party deponent is free to move for a protective order to 

change the location. Moreover, both the requesting party and t he party deponent may move 

the court for an order to take a deposition remotely (for example,  by telephone or 

videoconference). See FRCP 30(b)(4). When there is a dispute about where the deposition w ill 

take place, t he decision "is ultimately an exercise in t he vast discretion a district court has in 
supervising discovery." New Medium Technologies LLC v.  Barco N. V.,  242 F.R.D. 460, 462 (N.D. 
Ill. 2007). Keep in mind that a different rule applies to t he location of a deposition of a nonparty 

witness. FRCP 45(c)(l) sets  limits to  how far a nonparty deponent may be required to travel. 

Subparagraph (A) limits it to within 100 of miles of w here the person resides,  is employed, or 

regularly transacts business in person. Subparagraph (B) limits it to the state of the person's 

residence, employment, or regular in-person business transaction if the person is a party, a 

party's officer, or is commanded to attend a trial and wouldn't incur substantial expense. 

Answer20 

(C)  is the correct answer because t his situation illustrates when a district court has power to 

exercise supplemental jurisdiction and in its discretion ought to exercise such power. 

Supplemental jurisdiction is authorized under federal statute, see 28 U.S.C. § 1367. Until it  was 

codif ied, supplemental jurisdiction existed as a pair of judicially created doctrines known as 
pendent jurisdiction and supplemental jurisdiction. See United Mine Workers of America v. 

Gibbs, 383  U.S. 715  (1966). Under§ 1367(a), when a federal court has original jurisdiction over 

a claim, the court has power to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over "all other claims that 

are so related to claims in the action within such original jurisdiction that t hey form part of the 

same case or controversy under Article Ill of the United States Constitution." The exercise of 

such power is subject to exceptions set out in§ 1367(b) when the original claim is based on 

diversity jurisdiction. Once power to exercise supplemental jurisdiction is established, the 

64 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

district court then considers whether it  should "decline to exercise  supplemental jurisdiction" 

subject to factors that are set out in  § 1367(c). Here, the court's original jurisdiction is based on 

a claim that arises under federal law; the claim against the Manager is related to that claim 

because it concerns the conditions of Plaintiff's f iring. Power to exercise supplemental 

jurisdiction thus is present. The court may decline to exercise that power if the claim against 

Manager involves a novel or complex state law issue,  if the state-law claim "substantially 

predominates" over the federal claim, if the federa l claim is dismissed, or "in exceptional 

circumstances, there are other compelling reasons for declining jurisdiction. 28 U.S.C. § 1367(c). 

It appears that none of the discretionary factors tilt against the exercise of power. The contract 

claim  is not novel or complex, and it is not likely to predominate over the federa l law claim, 

and, so far the federa l claim has not been dismissed.  Finally, there seem to be no exceptional 

circumstances or compelling reasons to deny supplemental jurisdiction. See Executive Software 

North America, Inc.  v.  United States District Court/or the Central District of California, 24 F.3d 

1545 (9th Cir. 1994). 

(A)  is not correct because Plaintiff's claim against Manager does not arise under the ABA Act 

nor, indeed, under any federal statute, and so jurisdiction is not present under 28 U.S.C. § 1331. 

Plaintiff's claim against Manager is a garden-variety state law contract action. Although in some 

circumstances§ 1331 jurisdiction may be exercised over a state cause of action, see Smith v. 

Kansas City Title &  Trust Co., 255 U.S. 180 (1921), Plaintiff's claim in this problem does not meet 

the requirements. A federal issue is not alleged as part of the well-pleaded complaint, see 

Louisville & Nashville R.  Co.  v.  Mottley, 211 U.S. 128 (1908). Moreover, because no federa l issue 

is presented, it cannot be said that the suit  raises a substantial federal issue or one that is 

actually disputed as a matter of law, further conditions of§ 1331 jurisdiction. See Grable & Sons 

Metal Products, Inc.  v.  Darue Engineering & Manufacturing, 545  U.S. 308 (2005 ).  Under these 

circumstances, permitting the federal court to exercise§ 1331 jurisdiction over Plaintiff's 

breach-of-contract claim would disturb the "balance of federal and state judicial 

responsibilities." Gunn v.  Minton, 133 S. Ct. 1059 (2013). 

(B) is not correct because it incorrectly applies the test for federal diversity jurisdiction. Federal 

courts can invoke diversity jurisdiction to adjudicate claims alleged to be valued at more than 

$75,000 between citizens of different states. See 28 U.S.C. § 1332. Both Plaintiff and Manager 

are citizens of New York, so diversity of citizenship is not present. The rock bottom requirement 

of diversity jurisdiction-that all plaintiffs not be a citizen of the same state as any defendant 

is not met. 

(D)  is not correct because the federa l statute authorizing the exercise of supplemental 

jurisdiction explicitly provides that the scope of such power "shall include claims that involve 

the joinder or intervention of additional parties," subject to exclusions that apply when the 

65 

Civil Procedure Answers 

anchor claim  is based on diversity juri sdiction. See 28 U.S.C.  §  1367(a) & (b). Pri or to the 

enact ment  of t he supplemental j urisdict ion st atute, t he Supreme Court st ated a presumption 

against extending pendent or ancillary jurisdiction to a party sought to be joined in a lawsuit 

unless Congress explicitly authorized its exercise. See Finley v.  Uni ted States, 490 U.S. 545 

(1989). In response, Congress abrogated the Finley decision and enacted the supplemental 

jurisdict ion st atute, 28 U.S.C.  §  1367.  Section 1367 perm its the exercise of supplemental 

jurisdict ion over a party later joined  in a lawsuit, subject to exclusions set  out in 28 U.S.C. § 

1367(b). Finally, t he response is incorrect for a second reason: If supplemental jurisdiction 

could not be exercised over Manager as a pendent party, the court would have to dismiss 

Plaintiff's claim  against  him for lack of subject-matt er j urisdicti on because no independent 

source of jurisdiction exist s. 

Answer21 

(D) is t he correct  answer because the filing of a lawsuit is treated as consent by the plaintiff to 
personal jurisdiction in the forum "f or all purposes f or w hich justice to the defendant requires 

his presence." Adam v. Saenger, 303 U.S. 59, 67-68 (1938). As the Supreme Court has explained, 

deeming the plaint iff to have consented t o personal j urisdict ion in the forum in which he has 

elected to sue "is t he price w hich the st at e may exact  as the condit ion of opening its courts to 

the plaintiff"  and is consist ent with the requirements of the Due Process Clause /d.;  see also 

Schnabel v.  Lui, 302  F.3d 1023, 1037-1038 (9t h Cir. 2002) ("[A)  party cannot  avail itself of t he 

court's jurisdiction, bringing claims w hich mandate the fi ling of counterclaims, and thereafter 

attack personal jurisdiction when j udgment  is entered against the party on countercl aims."). 

The Plaintiff in this case availed  itself of  personal j urisdiction in the federa l dist rict  court in 

Delaware by bringing suit there. By so doing, Plaintiff effectively waived any objection t o 

personal j urisdiction he might  have assert ed had Defendant elected to f ile his counterclaim as 

an original claim in an independent  lawsuit. 

(A)  is not  correct  because it relies on an irrelevant  legal rule. A compulsory counterclaim is a 

claim  made by any party against  an opposing party that "ari ses out of the t ransaction or 

occurrence that is t he subject  matter of t he opposing party's cl aim."  FRCP 13(a)(1)(A). Unt il the 

enact ment of t he supplemental j urisdict ion st atute in 1990, courts assumed that a compulsory 
counterclaim did not need an independent basis of subject-matter jurisdiction because it fell 

within t he scope of a court's ancillary jurisdiction. See Great Lakes Rubber Corporation v. 

Herbert Cooper Co.,  Inc. , 286 F.2d 631  (3d Cir. 1961). Currently, t his rul e is codified  in 28 U.S.C. 

§  1367, so that generally a court has power to exercise supplemental j urisdiction over a 

counterclaim t hat arises out  of the same t ransaction or occurrence as t he plaintiff's original 

claim . Thus, while it is true t hat a compulsory counterclaim does not  require an independent 

66 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

basis of subject-matter jurisdiction, this rule is irrelevant to whether the court may exercise 

personal jurisdiction over Plaintiff w ith respect to Defendant's counterclaim. 

(B) is not correct because it relies on an  irrelevant legal rule. A permissive counterclaim is 

defined as a counterclaim that does not arise out of the same transaction or occurrence as the 
opposing party's claim See FRCP 13(b). Unlike a compulsory counterclaim, a permissive 

counterclaim requires an independent basis of subject-matter jurisdiction. Until the 

enactment of the supplemental jurisdiction statute in 1990, courts assumed that a permissive 
counterclaim did not fall w ithin the scope of a court's ancillary jurisdiction, and it was believed 
that this view was codified in 28 U.S.C. §  1367. See, e.g., Oak Park Trust and Sav.  Bank v. 

Therkildsen, 209 F.3d 648, 651  (7th Cir. 2000) (permissive counterclaims "require their own 

jurisdictional basis"). However, the circuits are now divided on this question, and some courts 

of appeal have held that supplemental jurisdiction may be exercised over permissive 

counterclaims that are logically related to the original claim over which the court has subject 
matter jurisd iction. See, e.g., Jones v.  Ford Motor Credit Co., 358 F.3d 205, 213 (2d Cir. 2004). 

Wh atever way this this disagreement is resolved, it is irrelevant to w hether the court can 

exercise personal jurisdiction over Plaintiff with respect to Defendant's counterclaim. 

(C)  is not correct because it m isapplies the governing procedure. A party asserts a counterclaim 

either by pleading the counterclaim in an answer or by raising it as a reply to a prior-asserted 
counterclaim. A summons is not requ ired. See Schnabel v.  Lui, 302 F.3d 1023, 1036 (9th Cir. 

2002) ("Because the Third Amended Complaint stated claims in the nature of compulsory 

counterclaims, no service of summons was necessary to effect personal jurisdiction."). 

Answer22 

(C)  is the correct answer because it properly applies the standard that governs a motion to 

dismiss on grounds of forum non conveniens when the plaintiff is an alien. The doctrine of 

forum non conveniens authorizes a trial court, in its discretion, to decline to exercise jurisdiction 
and to dismiss the action in favor of an alternative adequate forum. The decision to grant such 

a motion is governed by a number of public and private considerations that include the 

governing law, the state's interest, the location of witnesses, and the burdensomeness of jury 

duty.  See Gulf Oil Corp. v.  Gilbert, 330 U.S. 501 (1947). A foreign plaintiff's forum choice is not 
entitled to deference, see Piper Aircraft Co.  v.  Reyno, 454 U.S. 235 (1981), and the key question 

is whether an alternative adequate forum is available to litigate the claim. The contract for sale 

specifies that the laws of China w ill govern any dispute between the parties, which suggests 

that the remedy offered by the foreign forum is not "clearly inadequate or unsatisfactory" and 

67 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

so the suit may appropriately be tried there.  /d.  at 254. Absent strong reasons to honor 
Plaintiff's forum choice not fleshed out in the problem, the motion should be granted. 

(A)  is not correct because it misapplies the statutory transfer rule. A motion for dismissal under 

the doctrine of forum non conveniens is not made under 28 U.S.C. §  1404. Section 1404 permits 

either plaintiff or defendant to move to transfer an action that is pending in a federal district 

court to any other district in the United States "[f) or the convenience of parties and witnesses, 

in the interest of justice." Transfers under § 1404 can be made only  between different federal 

district courts and the transfer must be to a district where the suit "might have been brought" 

or if the district lacked venue and personal jurisdiction, only if all parties consent to the 

transfer. Transfer under the statute does not result in a dismissal of the action. On the facts 

presented, Defendant seeks to dismiss the action in favor of an alternative foreign forum; a 

transfer motion under 28 U.S.C. §  1404 does not serve this purpose. 

(B) is not correct because it misstates the standard used in a federal case to decide whether an 

action should be dismissed on grounds of forum non conveniens. The motion is directed to the 

district court's discretion, and it is not an abuse of discretion to grant such a motion even if it 

will result in an  unfavorable change in the law for the plaintiff.  This principle is illustrated by 

the Supreme Court's decision in Piper Aircraft Co.  v.  Reyno, 454 U.S.  235 (1981), where plaintiff 

(an American administratrix representing the estates of foreign individuals killed in an airplane 

crash in Scotland) opposed a forum on conveniens dismissal on the ground that Scotland, the 

alternative forum, would apply law less favorable to plaintiff (for example, strict tort liability 

was not recognized). The Supreme Court rejected this argument, holding that a change in law 

would defeat such a motion only when the remedy in the alternative forum is "so clearly 
inadequate or unsatisfactory that it is no remedy at all." /d.  at 254.  Here, the parties 

themselves contracted to be bound by the law of China, and so it will be difficult for Plaintiff to 

argue that the law is inadequate. 

(D)  is not correct because it misstates the governing rule. The Supreme Court has made clear 

that district courts have authority to dismiss a federal action on grounds of forum non 

conveniens without first determining that jurisdiction exists.  See Sinochem  Intern Co.  Ltd.  v. 

Malaysia International  Shipping Corp.  549 U.S. 422, 435-36 (2007) ("[W]here subject matter 

jurisdiction or personal jurisdiction are difficult to determine, and forum non-conveniens 

weighs heavily in favor of dismissal, the court properly takes the less burdensome course."). 

Earlier, the Court had stated that "the doctrine of forum non conveniens can never apply if 

there is absence of jurisdiction or mistake of venue." See Gulf Oil Corp v.  Gilbert, 303 U.S. 501, 

504 (1947). Nevertheless, in Sinochem, the Court emphasized that Gulf Oil did not resolve 

whether a federal court can presume, rather than decide, the existence of jurisdiction before 

68 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

deciding to dismiss an action on grounds of forum non conveniens. On the facts presented in 

this case, subject-matter jurisdiction would not be difficult to establish because alienage 

jurisdiction seems clearly available. Moreover, it seems clear th at the district court can exercise 

personal jurisdiction over Defendant because it is incorporated in the state in which the federal 

court sits and so is subject to general jurisdiction in the forum state. Thus the district court does 

not face "difficult" jurisdictional questions. Nevertheless, there is no bright-line rule that a 

federal court first consider dismissal on jurisdictional grounds before reaching the question of 

forum non conveniens. The Sinochem approach to the sequencing of jurisdictional and forum 

non conveniens motions applies to federal court actions, and state courts are free to follow a 

different decisional path. See, e.g., UFJ Bank Ltd. v.  leda, 109 Hawaii 137, 145 (2005) 

('[G)enerally, the doctrine of forum non conveniens may only apply in cases where the court in 

which the action was brought has both subject matter and personal jurisdiction and is a proper 

venue."). 

Answer23 

(C)  is the correct answer because information may be discovered without a showing of good 
cause only if it is non privileged and  relevant to the "claims and defenses" alleged in the 

pleadings. Relevant information need not be admissible at tri al if there is a likelihood that it will 
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. However, good cause is needed to discover 

information that is "relevant to the subject matter in involved in the action." FRCP  26(b)(l). 

The federal discovery rules thus currently establish a "two-tiered" approach to relevance:  "the 

first tier being attorney-managed discovery of information relevant to any claim or defense of a 

party, and the second being court-managed discovery that can include information relevant to 

the subject matter of the action." In re Cooper Tire & Rubber Co.,  568 F.3d 1180, 1188 (lOth Cir. 

2009). Here, Defendant's pattern of commercial dealings, although not relevant to claims or 

defenses in a garden-variety breach of contract action, could be considered relevant to the 

subject matter of the dispute. 

(A) is not correct because although depositions can be used to discover information from non 
parties, see FRCP  30, the scope of the information sought-as with all discovery-is governed 

by the standard of relevance set out in FRCP 26.  Matters are discoverable without permission 

on matters that are non privileged and "relevant to any party's claim or defense." FRCP  26(b)(1). 

The information sought is not privileged, but it also is not being used to establish Plaintiffs 

claim  of breach of contract. Learning whether and why Defendant breached contracts with 

non parties will not establish th at  Defendant had a good reason or any reason to breach 

Plaintiff's contract. See  World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc.  v.  William Morris 

Agency, Inc., 204 F.R.D. 263, 265  (S.D.N.Y. 2001), in which the district court refused to allow 

discovery of defendant's contractual agreements with third parties, on the view that 

69 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

"treatment of one contracting party ... does not really illuminate or is not really relevant to 

show how another party . . . is treated" (internal quotation omitted). 

(B) is not correct because an interrogatory may not be used to obtain information from a 

nonparty. This lim itation on the use of the interrogatory is clear from the language of the 

federal discovery rule, which says," ... a party may serve on any other party no more than 25 

written interrogatories" FRCP  33(a)(1). Court decisions confirm that interrogatories may not 

be directed at a nonparty. See,  e.g., Lehman v.  Kornblau, 206 F.R.D. 345, 346 (E.D.N.Y.  2001) 

("any interrogatories ... served on non-parties are a nullity."). 

(D)  is not correct because it misapplies the standard that governs automatic initial discovery 

under FRCP 26(a)(1)(ii). Disclosure without a request or court order is required under the 

federal discovery rules of all documents "that the disclosing party has in its possession, custody, 

or control and may use to support its claims or defenses, unless the use would be solely for 

impeachment." FRCP  26(a)(1)(ii). Here, it  is unlikely that Defendant will rely upon other 

transactions to support its defenses. If Defendant later were to rely upon such documents, its 

use would be prohibited unless its earlier fa ilure to disclose could be shown to have been 
"substantially justified or was harmless." FRCP 37(c)(1); see Forbes v.  21st Century Ins. Co., 258 
F.R.D. 335, 338 (D. Ariz. 2009). 

Answer24 

(A) is correct because the complaint alleges fraud and so is required to plead "special matters." 
See FRCP  9(b) which requires that, "[i]n alleging fraud or mistake, a party must state with 

particularity the circumstances constituting fraud or mistake."  Here the complaint includes only 

the conclusory allegation that Defendant "fraudulently" delivered goods that did not comply 

with the contract and that Defendant engaged  in fraud. Courts interpret the special pleading 

rules for fraud to require that the complaint allege the "precise misconduct" that constitutes 

the fraud. Generally this heightened pleading requirement is met when the complaint alleges 

the who, what, when, where, and  how of the fraudulent representation. See,  e.g., Lerner v. 

Fleet Bank, N.A., 459 F.3d 273 (2d Cir. 2006) (to meet the requirements of FRCP  9(b) when 

fraud is alleged, "the complaint must: (1) specify the statements that the plaintiff contends 

were fraudulent, (2) identify the speaker, (3) state where and when the statements were made, 

and (4) explain why the statements were fraudulent") (citations om itted). The allegations of the 

complaint quoted in the problem do not meet this standard because they do not include the 

"when, where, and  how" elements. Moreover, to allege fraud with particularity, the complaint 

must include specific facts to give rise to a "strong inference" of fraud, and the quoted portion 

of the complaint contains only a bare assertion that fraud occurred. Not only is this allegation 

insufficient to meet the heightened pleading requirement of FRCP  9(b), but also it  likely would 

70 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

fa il the general pleading rule of plausibility under FRCP  8 as interpret ed by the Supreme Court 

of the United States in Bell Atlantic Inc. v.  Twombly, 550 U.S. 544 (2007). 

(B) is not correct because it relies on a pleading st andard that the Supreme Court has 

abrogated. Every complaint - even if it  does not allege special matters- must meet t he 

plausibility requirement of FRCP 8. Earlier, in Conley v.  Gibson, 355 U.S.  41, 45-46 (1957), t he 

Court held t hat a complaint should not be dismissed for fa ilure to state a claim "unless it 

appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his claim w hich 

could entitle him to re lief." However, the Court has since held t hat the quoted language 

"earned its retirement" and that a complaint is insufficient  if it  alleges merely conclusory 

statements t hat do not rise above t he level of speculation. See  Bell Atlantic Corp.  v.  Twombly, 

550 U.S. 544, 554-563 (2007). The pleading of allegat ions in formu laic terms is considered 

conclusory under Twombly. 

(C)  is not correct because a party is never required to move for a judgment on the pleadings 
and, in any event, such a motion is available only after the pleadings are "closed."  FRCP  12(c). In 

contrast, a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim  is f iled  prior to any responsive pleading, 

and t hus prior to any motion for j udgment on the pleadings. See  FRCP 12(b)(6) ("A motion 

asserting any of these defenses must be made before pleading if a responsive pleading is 

allowed."). The pleadings are closed only after an answer has been filed. See FRCP  7(a).  A 

motion for judgment on the pleadings seeks a disposition on the merits when t he material facts 

are not in dispute and the movant  is entitled to j udgment  as a matter of law. See  Poehl v. 

Countryside Home Loans, Inc. , 528 F.3d 1093, 1096 (8th Cir. 2008). 

(D)  is not correct because under federal pleading rules, a plaintiff may join a tort and a contract 
claim  in one lawsuit and, indeed, may join "as many claims as it has against an opposing party." 
FRCP 18(a). The federa l joinder rules are broad and do not restrict the joinder of claims even if 

they relate to different transactions or depend on different legal theories. See, e.g., M.K.  v. 

Tenet,  216 F.R.D.  133, 141  (D. D.C. 2002) (referring to the "unrestricted joinder provisions" of 

FRCP 18 and emphasizing that claims may be j oined even if they are not transactionally 

related). Because j oinder under the Federal Rules is generally permissive and allows for the 

pleading of all potential claims against a single party, the j oinder of a contract claim and a tort 

claim  does not serve as grounds to dismiss the complaint . Keep in mind that alt hough the 

joinder rule is permissive, it does not  confer jurisdiction on t he court. See FRCP 82. 

Answer25 

(D) is the correct answer. The federa l discovery rules allow a party to petit ion a district court for 

an order to perpetuate testimony before a lawsuit has commenced. See FRCP  27. A party 
seeking pre-complaint discovery must file a verified petition with the dist rict court which 

7 1 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

shows:  "(A) that the petitioner expects to be a party to an action cognizable in a United States 

court but cannot presently bring it or cause it to be brought; (B)  the subject matter of the 

expected action and the petitioner's interest; (C)  the facts that the petitioner wants to establish 
by the proposed testimony and the reasons to perpetuate it; (D) the names or a description of 

the persons whom the petitioner expects to be adverse parties and their addresses, so far as 

known; and (E) the name, address, and expected substance of the testimony of each 

deponent."  FRCP  27(a)(1). Pre-complaint testimony "cannot be used to discover evidence for 

the purpose of filing the complaint." In re Allegretti, 229 F.R.D. 93, 96 (S.D.N.Y.  2005). The 

consensus reading of FRCP  27  is that the rule "should be used 'in special circumstances to 
preserve testimony which could otherwise be lost."' In Re  Yamaha Corp.,  U.S.A., 251  F.R.D. 97, 
99 (2008)  (quoting Ash v.  Cort, 512 F.2d 909 (3d Cir.  1975)). The facts here indicate that 
Company would be unable to show that State Trooper's testimony would be lost, concealed, or 

destroyed, and thus there is no justification to grant the motion for the pre-complaint 

deposition. Moreover, Company cannot specify "facts that [it] wants to establish by the 

proposed testimony"; it simply wishes to learn more about the accident. Further, Company has 

no "reason to perpetuate [the testimony] ." Company does not allege that State Trooper is ill or 

planning soon to leave the country, or that he plans to destroy or conceal evidence. See id.  at 

96. There is no reason to believe that State Trooper will not be able to give any testimony if 

Driver does file a federal action against Company. Be aware that in a few states, pre-litigation 

discovery is more generous than under the federal discovery rules. See, e.g., Ohio Civ. R. 

34(D)(1) (pre-filing discovery permitted by "a person who claims to have a potential cause of 

action"). 

(A)  is not correct because it mistakenly applies an incorrect rule. As discussed in the explanation 

for Choice (D) above, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure explicitly allow for limited discovery 

before commencement of a suit, as long as the party seeking discovery can show that it expects 

a suit to be brought but temporarily cannot and the testimony it seeks is at risk of being lost or 

destroyed.  See FRCP  27. Pre-litigation discovery is so limited in order to avoid exploitation of 

the judicial system  by, for example, firms seeking information from their competitors, with no 

intention of pursuing litigation. See Intel Corp.  v.  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., 542  U.S. 241, 

270 (2004). Thus, though Company's request should be denied, it is not for this reason, but 

rather the reason given in Answer (D). 

(B) is not correct because is misstates the requirements of the relevant federal rule. A party 

seeking pre-complaint discovery must file a verified petition with the district court as explained 

in Answer (A). Though pre-complaint testimony "cannot be used to discover evidence for the 

purpose of filing the complaint," In re Allegretti, 229 F.R.D. 93, 96 (S.D.N.Y. 2005), the federal 

rule does not require that a complaint be drafted, only that the petitioner expect to be a party 

72 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

in a lawsuit. Thus, though Company's request should be denied, it is not for this reason,  but 

rather the reason given in Answer (D). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule that it recites, although true as far as it goes, does not control 

the result on these facts. The federal discovery ru les define what is discoverable, who may 

discover information, and when information may (or must) be discovered. Even if the 

deposition of the Trooper will lead to information that is relevant to the claims and defenses in 

an anticipated law suit, see FRCP  26(b), the rules seriously curtail any discovery prior to the 

commencement of a litigation. Importantly, pre-litigation discovery "cannot be used to discover 

evidence" for use in the pleadings. See  In re Allegretti, 229 F.R.D. 93, 96 (S.D.N.Y. 2005). While 

the pre-complaint deposition of State Trooper might generate information relevant to 

Company's defenses, this is not an acceptable reason to grant a petition for pre-litigation 

discovery under FRCP  27. 

Answer 26 

(C) is correct because it correctly recognizes that partial summary judgments are not final and do 
not fall within an exception to the federal requirement of fin ality. Courts of appeals "have 
jurisdiction of appeal from all final decisions of the district courts of the United States."  28 
U.S.C. §  1291. The question then is whether a grant of partial summary judgment is a final 
judgment or an interlocutory order. FRCP 54(b) addresses the finality of claims in actions that 
present more than one claim: "[T]he court may direct entry of a fmal judgment as to one or more, 
but fewer than all, claims or parties only if the court expressly determines that there is no just 
reason for delay."  FRCP 54(b ). Otherwise, there is no final judgment. /d. An order granting 
partial summary judgment is not final, and thus it is not appealable under§ 1291. See Sahu v. 
Union Carbide Corp., 475 F.3d 465, 466 (2d Cir. 2007). Since the district court issued no 
express determination that its partial summary judgment order presented "no just reason for 
delay," Defendants may not appeal it until all the claims are resolved. Thus, the appeals court has 
no jurisdiction to hear the appeal. Finally, a defect in appellate jurisdiction cannot be cured by 
consent of the parties. 

(A) is not correct because t he grant of p artial summary judgment is not a  fmal judgment. 
See FRCP 54(b) ("When an action presents more than one claim for relief . .. any order or other 
decision, however designated, that adjudicates fewer than all the claims .. . does not end the 
action ... . "). This result is the converse of what was explained in response to Answer (C). 
Because there are still claims for the district court to resolve, the grant of partial summary 
judgment is an interlocutory order unless the district court "expressly determines" otherwise. 
FRCP 54(b ). The district court has discretion under FRCP 54(b) to direct entry of a final 
judgment as to one of the claims, but must "expressly determine[] that there is no just reason 
for delay." On the facts presented, the district judge did not make the required certification. 
Moreover, it is not clear that the lawsuit involves multiple claims within the meaning of the 

73 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

federal rule or instead seeks only "to vindicate a single right through multiple remedies."  Oyster 
v. Johns-Manville Corp., 568 F. Supp. 83, 85  (D.C. Pa. 1983), citing Liberty Mutual Ins. Co . v. 
Wetzel, 424 U.S. 737,747 n.4 (1976). 

(B) is not correct because immediate appellate review is not available on the facts presented. 
Federal law under 28 U .S.C. § 1292(b) allows for appeals of interlocutory orders only in 
limited circumstances. First, the interlocutory order does not pertain to an injunction or a 
receivership.  Interlocutory orders relating to certain injunctions and receiverships may be 
appealed as well as "interlocutory decrees . .. determining the rights and liabilities of the parties 
to admiralty cases."  28 U.S. C. § 1292(a)(l )-(3); see Stringfellow v. Concerned Neighbors in 
Action, 480 U.S. 370,379 (1987) ("not all denials of injunctive relief are immediately 
appealable"). Second, the district court did not indicate in its order that it involves "a controlling 
question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion and that an 
immediate appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the 
litigation." 28 U .S.C. § 1292(b). Thus, the interlocutory order in this problem is not subject to 
immediate review. 

(D) is not correct because the rule that it recites, although true as far as it goes, does not control 
the result on these facts. When- as explained with respect to Choice (B)- a district court 
includes in an otherwise non-appealable order that it involves a "controlling question of law as to 
which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion and that an immediate appeal from the 
order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation," the Court of Appeals 
may, "in its discretion" permit an appeal. In this circumstance, the application must be made 
"within ten days after the entry of the order." See 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b). However, the ten-day 
requirement is irrelevant to this problem. 

Answer27 

(D) is the correct answer because, assuming Partner is a required party and his joinder would 
defeat subject-matter jurisdiction by violating the rule of complete diversity, see Strawbridge v. 
Curtiss,  7 U .S. 267 (1806), the federal rules nevertheless permit the court "in equity and good 
conscience" to let the case go forward among the existing parties.  FRCP 19(b).  The rules of 
required joinder are set out in FRCP 19 and are very complex. FRCP  19(a) establishes that a 
party whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction must be joined if otherwise the 
court will be unable to provide "complete relief among existing parties," FRCP  19(a)(l )(A), or a 
judgment entered without joinder will as "a practical matter" impair the absentee's interest or 
subject an existing party to the "substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise 
inconsistent obligations." FRCP 19(a)(l )(B).  Partner arguably is a person that must be joined if 
feasible under FRCP 19(a) because otherwise Defendant will be subject to the risk of multiple 
obligations; a judgment that Plaintiff owns 100 percent of the stock would not bind Partner, who 
would be free to sue to recover the stock. However, Partner's joinder in Plaintiffs suit would 
deprive the court of subject-matter jurisdiction because Plaintiff and Defendant are citizens of 

74 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

the same state so diversity jurisdiction would not be present and supplemental jurisdiction could 
not cure this defect. See 28 U.S.C. § l367(b) (withholding supplemental jurisdiction when its 
exercise would be inconsistent with the requirements of diversity jurisdiction). In this 
circumstance, the court must determine whether the action nevertheless should go forward "in 
equity and good conscience," FRCP  19(b). In making this determination, the court looks to the 
factors set out in FRCP 19(b) which include the extent of prejudice to the absentee or to the 
existing parties; whether such prejudice can be reduced through the framing of a judgment; 
whether a remedy would be adequate despite the person's absence; and whether plaintiff will 
have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed. This argument, although the best available 
argument given the absence of subject-matter jurisdiction, is not a sure winner. See Haas v. 
Jefferson National Bank of Miami Beach, 442 F.2d 394 (5th Cir. 1971) (deciding the issue before 
the enactment of28 U.S.C. § 1367 and before the amendment ofFRCP 19 to omit the terms 
"necessary" and "indispensable.") 

(A) is not correct because the rule that it applies concerning nonjoinder and jurisdiction does not 
apply to a case in which the joinder of a nondiverse absentee is "required" under FRCP  19. 
Generally, the federal rules provide that "[m]isjoinder is not a ground for dismissing an action"; 
the court, sua sponte or on motion, may "add or drop a party" to protect its jurisdiction.  FRCP 
21. Thus, in a case involving permissive joinder , the district court has discretion to drop a 
nondiverse party. See Sams v. Beech Aircraft Corp ., 625 F.2d 273, 277 (9th Cir.  1980). 
However, when the question of compulsory joinder under FRCP  19 is involved, the court must 
consider whether "in equity and good conscience" the case can go forward subject to the factors 
set out in FRCP 19(b). 

(B) is not correct because the supplemental jurisdiction statute withholds jurisdiction when the 
original claim is before the court under diversity jurisdiction and the joinder under FRCP  19 
would be inconsistent with the requirements of diversity jurisdiction.  See 28 U.S.C. §  l367(b ); 
6247 Atlas Corp . v. Marine Ins . Co ., Ltd., 155 F.R.D. 454 (S.D.N.Y. 1994). In particular, the 
exercise of diversity jurisdiction generally requires complete diversity-every plaintiff must be a 
citizen of a state that is different from the state of citizenship of every defendant. Here, the 
original suit is based on diversity jurisdiction; Plaintiff is a citizen of New York and Defendant is 
a citizen of New Jersey and the amount in controversy exceeds the statutory requirement of 
$75,000. See 28 U.S. C. § l332(a)(l). The joinder of Partner, who is a citizen ofNew York, 
would be inconsistent with these requirements and supplemental jurisdiction may not be 
exercised to fill the jurisdictional gap. 

(C) is not correct because diversity jurisdiction is not available over Partner. Plaintiff and Partner 
are citizens of the same state, and so the rule of complete diversity jurisdiction is violated.  See 
Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 7 U.S. 267 (1806). 

75 

Answer28 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(C) is the correct answer because the federal discovery rules permit a requesting party to enter 
"onto designated land or other property possessed or controlled by the responding party," FRCP 
34(a)(2), provided the request is relevant to the claim or defense of any party to the action and 
seeks nonprivileged matter. See FRCP 26(b)(l). Moreover, with permission from the court, the 
requesting party may use the inspection procedure to obtain information relevant to the "subject 
matter of the action." See id. The request to inspect must "describe with reasonable particularity 
each item or category of items to be inspected," FRCP 34(b ), and in doing so, may not rely on 
boiler-plate language. See U.S. v. Territory of the Virgin Islands, 280 F.R.D. 232,235 (D. V.I. 
2012). Since the complaint alleges trespass, with consequent damage to Plaintitrs fruit, an 
inspection and survey of the land seems relevant to both the claims and possible defenses in the 
action. 

(A) is not correct because the federal discovery rules do not require good cause for a 
requesting party to enter on land for inspection or other purposes.  Under the principle of 
proportionality, an inspection may be limited if it is unduly burdensome, see FRCP 26(b )(2), and 
the court may limit the inspection so that it does not go beyond what is relevant. See Hoewischer 
v. Deerwood Village Mall, LLC, 281  F.R.D. 665 (M.D. Fl. 2011). But a party may not refuse a 
request for an on-site inspection simply because good cause is not shown if the information 
sought is relevant to the claims and defenses in the suit. See New York State Assoc.for Retarded 
Children, Inc. v. Carey, 706 F.2d 956 (2d Cir. 1983). By contrast, good cause is required when a 
request is made for the physical or mental examination of a party. See FRCP 35(a)(2)(A), and 
examination in this situation is compulsory only if ordered by the court. See Schlagenhaufv. 
Holder, 379 U.S. 104 (1964). 

(B) is not correct because it misstates the federal discovery rule governing inspection of land. 
The rule permits a requesting party to enter land in order to "inspect, measure, survey, 
photograph, test, or sample the property or any designated object or operation on it." FRCP 
34(a)(2). However, the requesting party is not permitted to use the inspection as an occasion for 
interviewing the responding party's representatives and the responding party is not required to 
make its representatives available to answer questions.  See Curry v. Goodman, 2003 WL 
22305161, * 1, (D. Conn. 2003) ("Consistent with Rule 34(a), defendant is not at liberty to refuse 
plaintiff's request for an on-site visit .... This does not permit plaintiff's expert 'basic access to 
managerial personnel to understand the operations of the [premises].'"). 

(D) is not correct because it misstates the rules for payment of expert fees and of litigation costs. 
The federal discovery rules permit discovery from an expert who has been retained by an 
opposing party. See FRCP 26(b)(4). A party seeking expert discovery from a testifying or 
non-testifying expert is required to pay the reasonable fees incurred in responding to the 
request unless manifest injustice is shown. See Gwin v. American River Transportation Co ., 
482 F.3d 969 (2007). However, a party is not required to pay the fees of an opposing party's 

76 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

expert; rather the general rule, known as the "American rule," is that each party bears its own 
costs of litigation.  Whether witness fees and expenses will be taxed as costs is a matter of 
judicial discretion. See FRCP 54( d). 

Answer29 

to join in one lawsuit all claimants to whom he is or might be liable. 

(C) is the correct answer, because it recognizes the special requirements imposed on a 
stakeholder in a statutory interpleader action. Interpleader is a procedure that allows a party 
called the stakeholder-
Federal law recognizes two different kinds of interpleader actions: "Rule 22" interpleader, see 
FRCP 22;  and "statutory" interpleader, see 28 U.S.C. § 1335. Although the procedures serve the 
same purpose-to enable a party to avoid the risk of multiple and conflicting liability "when 
several claimants asserts rights to a single stake," Airborne Freight Corp. v.  United States,  195 
F.3d 238, 240 (5th Cir. 1999)-statutory and rule interpleader differ in their procedural 
requirements. Statutory interpleader requires that the plaintiff deposit the stake "into the 
registry of the court, there to abide the judgment of the court, or has given bond payable to the 
clerk of the court in such amount and with surety as the court or judge may deem proper." 28 
U.S.C. § l335(a)(l)(B); see United States Fire Insurance Co. v. Asbestospray, Inc.,  182 F.3d 
20 l, 210 (3d Cir.  1999) ("A proper deposit or bond is a jurisdictional prerequisite  .. .. The 
stakeholder .. . must deposit the largest amount for which it may be liable in view of the subject 
matter of the controversy."  Rule interpleader does not have an explicit deposit or bond 
requirement. 

(A) is not correct, because it misstates the subject-matter jurisdiction requirements for a statutory 
interpleader action. Statutory interpleader requires only diversity of citizenship between two 
or more of the claimants--what is known as "minimal diversity." The statute explicitly 
provides that subject to a special amount-in-controversy requirement, "[t]he district court shall 
have original jurisdiction of any action of interpleader ... if [t]wo or more adverse claimants, of 
diverse citizenship as defined in subsection (a) or (d) of section 1332 of this title, are claiming or 
may claim to be entitled to such money or property  .... " 28 U.S.C. § 1335(a)(l).  The Supreme 
Court of the United States has recognized that this statutory provision "has been uniformly 
construed to require only "'minimal diversity,' that is, diversity of citizenship between two or 
more claimants, without regard to the circumstance that other rival claimants may be co 
citizens."  State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U.S. 523, 530 (1967). The citizenship 
of the stakeholder is irrelevant to this determination. See Federal Insurance Company v. Tyco 
International Ltd., 422 F. Supp. 2d 357, 393 (S.D.N.Y. 2006). 

(B) is not correct, because it misstates the special amount-in-controversy requirement that 
applies to statutory interpleader in a diversity suit. Statutory interpleader requires only that a 
claim of at least $500 be in controversy, as measured by the stake. See 28 U.S.C. § l335(a) 
("The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil action of interpleader  .. . filed 
by any person  .. . having in his  .. . custody or possession money or property of the value of 

77 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil  Procedure Answers 

$500 or more .. .. ").By contrast, in "Rule 22" interpleader, the amount-in-controversy must 
exceed $75,000. See Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Price, 501 F.3d 271,275 (3d Cir. 2007) 
("Unlike its statutory counterpart, rule interpleader is no more than a procedural device; the 
plaintiff must plead and prove an independent basis for subject matter jurisdiction). 

(D) is not correct, because it misstates the adversity requirement of statutory interpleader. The 
claims at stake must be adverse to each other; they need not be identical to each other and 
do not have to share a common origin. The statute refers to the requirement of"[t]wo or more 
adverse claimants," and specifically provides that the "action may be entertained although the 
titles or claims of the conflict claimants do not have a common origin, or are not identical, but 
are adverse to and independent of one another." 28 U.S. C. § 1335(a)(l) & (a)(l)(B). 

Answer30 

(D) is correct because it recognizes that although provisional remedies such as attachment are 
not per se unconstitutional, their use is constrained by the Due Process Clause and must be 

justified. The Supreme Court of the United States has held that in assessing the constitutionality 

of provisional remedies, consideration ought to be given to the balance of three factors: (1) 

"the private interest that will be affected"; (2) "the risk of erroneous deprivation" of property 

presented by the attachment, as well as "the probable value of additional or alternative 

safeguards"; and (3) the "interest of the party seeking" the attachment of property as well as 
"any ancillary interest the government may have."  Connecticut v.  Doehr, 501 U.S. 1, 11 (1991) 

(adapting the test set out in Mathews v.  Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1974) to apply to suits between 

private parties).  In determining the interest of the party seeking the attachment, the court will 

consider whether the party had a preexisting interest in the property attached, or whether 

there were exigent circumstances that necessitate attachment of the property before a 

hearing.  In this case, as in Doehr, the court will likely find that Plaintiffs interests in favor of the 

attachment are too weak to outweigh Defendant's interests against attachment and the risk of 

erroneous deprivation.  Plaintiff did not show that he had a preexisting interest in the three 

bedroom house; the house is unrelated to the tort action before the court; and there was no 

showing of exigent circumstances (such as Defendant's flight from the jurisdiction or immediate 

danger to the community). "Absent such allegations ... the plaintiff's interest in attaching the 

property does not justify the burdening of [the defendant's] ownership rights without a 

(preattachment hearing]."  Doehr, 501  U.S. at 16. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it states, while true as far as it goes, does not control the 

disposition of the motion. The federal rules provide that a federal court may use "every remedy 

... that, under the law of the state where the court is located, provides for seizing a person or 

property to secure satisfaction of the potential judgment," but that a federal statute, if 

available, "governs to the extent it applies." FRCP 64(a). The rule further provides that the 

78 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

federal court may use the remedy of attachment "regardless of whether state procedure 

requires an  independent action." FRCP 64(b). See Goya Foods,  Inc.  v. Wallack Management Co., 

290 F.3d 63, 70 (1st Cir. 2002) ("By its terms, that rule allows a federa l court to borrow 

provisional remedies created by state law."). However, the fact that state law authorizes 

attachment does not answer the separate question of whether the use of the provisional 

remedy is constitutional under t he Due Process Clause. See Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 80 

(1972) (considering whether state prejudgment replevin statutes "are constitutionally 

defective"). 

(B) is not correct, because the rule that it  states, while true as far as it goes, does not apply 

when a private litigant enlists judicial process in the seizure of an opposing party's property 

without notice or an opportunity to be heard. It is true that the Due Process Clause applies only 

to state and not to private action. However, the seizure of property t hrough t he use of a 

provisional remedy is an act of the government, not of an individual party, and so is subject to 

constitutional regulation. See  Fuentes v.  Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 80 (1972) (explaining that the 

requirement of fa ir process "is not only to ensure abstract fair play to the individual, its 

purpose, more particularly, is to protect his use and possession of property from arbitrary 

encroachment- to minimize  substantively unfair or mistaken deprivations of property, a 

danger that is especially great when the State seizes goods simply upon the application of and 

for the benefit of a private party.") 

(C)  is not correct because the requirement that it  imposes- the posting of a bond prior to the 

use of a provisional remedy such as attachment- does not reflect current doctrine. The 

Supreme Court of the United States has never held that the posting of a bond is an absolute 

condition of the use of a prejudgment attachment remedy. Rather, the Court has set forth a 

three-factor test that balances the different interests presented in the suit. See Mathews v. 

Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319 (1974). Under this balancing approach, the posting of a bond may not be 

constitutionally required if there are other safeguards in place to reduce the risk of an 

erroneous deprivation.  See,  e.g., Shaumyan v.  O'Neill, 987 F.2d 122, 127-129 (2d Cir.  1993). 

Answer31 

(D) is the correct answer because the federal discovery rules make the disclosure of insurance 
agreements a subject of mandatory initial disclosure without a discovery request . Under the 

rule, every party must provide "for inspection and copying  . . . any insurance agreement under 

which an insurance business may be liable to satisfy all  or part of a possible judgment in the 

action or to indemnify or reimburse for payments made to satisfy the judgment."  FRCP 

26(a)(1)(A)(iv). As with other mandatory initial disclosures, insurance information must be 

provided w ithout a discovery request at or within fourteen days after the required discovery 

meeting, see FRCP 26(f), unless otherwise ordered by the court or the parties stipulated to a 

79 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

different time. Keep in mind that the federa l rules did not always explicitly authorize the 

disclosure of insurance information from an opposing party. In 1970 the federal rules were 

amended to allow discovery of the existence and substance of insurance agreements (in what 

was then numbered FRCP  26(b)(2)). In 1993 the federa l rules again were amended, and now 

insurance agreements were made a topic of required disclosure;  a party's fai lure to disclose 

insurance as mandated is, like other discovery violations, subject to sanction. See Wickens v. 
Shell Oil Co.,  620 F.3d 747, 759  (7th Cir. 2010) (finding that a party "evaded" its responsibilities 

to disclose an "insurance company funding the litigation," and stating that "[t]he choice of a 

proper sanction for violations of the discovery rules .. .  lies in the discretion of the district 

court"). 

(A)  is not correct because it misstates the rule of relevance and the current position taken by 

the federal rules on whether information about a party's insurance coverage is relevant. 

Whether information sought to be discovered is relevant within the meaning of the federal 

rules is determined with respect to the claims and defenses in the action. See FRCP  26(b)(1) 

"(Parties may obtain discovery regard ing any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any 

party's claim or defense  . ... ").Moreover, "[f]or good cause, the court may order discovery of 
any matter relevant to the subject matter involved in the action."  /d.  Material can  be relevant, 

and so discoverable, even if  not admissible "if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to 

lead to the discovery of admissible evidence."  ld. Therefore, the statement in Choice (A) that 

insurance coverage is not "relevant to the trial on the merits" is not an accurate description of 

the governing rule. Moreover, as explained with respect to Choice (D), the federal rules now 

make the disclosure of insurance agreements a matter of required disclosure. See FRCP  26(a). 

Prior to the 1970 amendment to the federal rules, courts were divided as to whether the fact 

of insurance coverage was relevant and so subject to discovery.  Those courts that permitted 

discovery based their decisions on the view that the existence of insurance coverage was 

relevant and would be admissible in evidence. See Johanek v.  Aberle, 27 F.R.D.  272 (D. Mont. 

1961). The contrary position was taken by courts that regarded the fact of insurance coverage 

as not relevant. See Childers v.  Nicalopoulas, 296 F. Supp. 547, 548 (D.C. Okla. 1969) (holding 

that the facts of insurance agreements "are in no way relevant" and  "do not appear to be 

reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence"). 

(B)  is not correct because the view that it expresses, while shared by some courts and 

commentators, is not the view reflected in the current federal rules. See FRCP 26(a). The 1970 

amendment to the federal rules, permitting the discovery of insurance agreements, was 

intended to "enable counsel for both sides to make the same realistic appraisal of the case, so 

that settlement and litigation strategy are based on knowledge and not speculation"; at least in 

some cases, it was assumed that knowledge about insurance coverage would promote 

80 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

settlement and avoid "protracted litigation." Proposed Amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure Relating to Discovery, 48 F.R.D. 487, 499 (1969). However,  keep in mind that apart 

from the disclosure of insurance agreements, the federa l courts generally do not permit 
discovery of a defendant' s financial condition. Although plaintiff may wish to know if defendant 

will be able to satisfy a j udgment, the trend of decision is that such information is not relevant 

and therefore is not subject to discovery. See Sierra pine v.  Refiner Products Mfg., Inc., 275 
F.R.D. 604 (E. D. Cal. 2011). Rather, the appropriate way to obtain such information is post 

judgment. See FRCP  69(a)(2). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule that  it states is not correct. The federal discovery rules 

mandate the production of information about the existence of insurance coverage as well as 
the monetary limits of the policy. See FRCP 26(a)(l )(A)(iv). However, it is recognized that the 

insurance application "may contain personal and financi al information concerning the insured," 
and discovery of that information is beyond the scope of discovery of insurance agreements. 

See  Proposed Amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Relating to Discovery, 48 

F.R.D. 487, 499 (1969). What is required, is the production "of any insurance policies that give 
rise to an insurer' s obligation to indemnify or hold its insured harmless for a j udgment," and 
generally does "not require the production of all agreements relating to insurance." Excelsior 

College v.  Frye, 233 F.R.D. 583, 585  (S.D. Cal. 2006). 

Answer32 

(D) is the correct answer, because it correctly states the standard that governs amendment 

under the federal rules when a responsive pleading omits an affirmative defense. Under the 
liberal amendment procedure of t he federal rules, a party may amend once as a matter of right 
within twenty-one days of serving a pleading, or, if the pleading is one that requires a response, 
once within twenty-one days "after service of either a responsive pleading or a motion under 

Rule 12(b), (e), or (f), whichever is earlier." FRCP 15(a)(l )(A) & (B).  Here, however, Defendant 
cannot file its proposed amendment as a matter of right, and so must seek leave to do so.  FRCP 

15(a)(2). The motion is directed to the court's discretion, and the rule recites that "[t]he court 
should freely give leave when justice so requires." /d.  In exercising its discretion the district 
court will be guided by a number of factors. These include a showing of bad faith on the part of 
the movant, undue delay, the substantive futility of the proposed amendment, or the movant's 

continued failure to cure deficiencies in the pleading after previously permitted amendments 
have been filed. See  Espey v.  Wainwright, 734 F.2d 748, 750 (11th Cir. 1984) (leave should be 

granted unless there is "a substantial reason to deny" the motion). These factors do not appear 
to be present in the problem . 

(A) is not correct because it misstates the timing requirement of the federal  rule with respect 

to amendment. A party has an automatic right to amend his or her pleadings if twenty-one 

8 1 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

days have not elapsed since service of the paper. See FRCP 15(a). In addition, if a responsive 
pleading is required, a party may amend without leave of court twenty-one days after service of 

the responsive pleading or twenty-one days after service of a motion under FRCP 12(b), 12(e), 
or 12(f), "whichever is earlier." If no responsive pleading is required - and a reply is not 

required to an answer unless ordered by the court, see FRCP  7(a)(7)  - and if twenty-one days 
have passed, then the party seeking to amend must request leave of court to do so. But the 

federal rule does not impose a blanket ban on amendments simply because twenty-one days 

have passed since service of the answer. 

(B) is not correct because the rule that it states, while true as far as it goes, does not control the 
disposition of the motion to amend in this problem. Generally a defendant's failure to plead an 

affirmative defense, such as the statute of limitations, will act as a waiver of that defense . 
"Ordinarily in civil litigation, a statutory t ime limitation is forfeited if not raised  in a defendant's 

answer or in an amendment thereto . .. . An affirmative defense, once forfeited, is "exclu[ded] 
from the case,' ... and, as a rule, cannot be asserted on appeal." W ood v.  M ilyard, 132 S. Ct . 

1826, 1832 (2012) (internal citations and quotation marks omitted). However, a party that fails 
to include an affirmative defense in its answer may amend the pleading as of right if twenty 

one days have not passed since service of the paper, or upon consent of the opposing party, or 
with leave of the court. See FRCP 15(a). Indeed, courts have permitted amendment to include 

an omitted affirmative defense as late as at trial. See,  e.g. , Haskins v.  Roseberry, 119 F.2d 803 
(9th Cir.), cert. denied 314 U.S. 655 (1941). Keep in mind that a different rule of waiver applies 

to defenses under FRCP 12(b)(2)-(5). See FRCP 12(h). 

(C)  is incorrect because it incorrectly states that that the expiration of the statute of lim itations 
is not an affirmative defense. Under the federal  pleading rules, arguing that the statute of 

limitations has expired is one of several affirmative defenses that a defendant can raise in an 
answer to a complaint. See FRCP S(c).  The pleading of an affirmative defense involves the 

assertion of new facts that, if true, defeat the opposing party's claim.  See Saks v.  Franklin Covey 
Co., 316 F.3d 337, 350 (2d Cir. 2003) (quoting Black' s Law Dictionary that an affirmative defense 

is defendant's "assertion raising new facts and arguments that, if true, will defeat the plaintiff's 
or prosecution' s claim, even  if all allegations in the complaint are true"). The defense thus is not 

raised by denial. 

Answer33 

(B) is correct because it correctly applies the federal  rule governing service by mail when the 
defendant is a corporation. See FRCP 4(d).  Under this procedure, a plaintiff can send "by first 

class mail or other reliable means" notice to the corporation of the commencement of the suit 
and request that the defendant "waive service of a summons." Waiver of service becomes 

effective only after defendant signs and returns the waiver form and the signed waiver form 

82 

Civil Procedure Answers 

is filed. See FRCP 4(d)(4); see Davis v.  Liese, 353 Fed. Appx. 95, 98 (lOth Cir. 2009) (quot ing t he 

Advisory Comm ittee Not es t o the 1993 Amendments that  " [t] he revised rule is clear th at , if th e 

waiver is not  retu rned and filed,  ... the acti on will not oth erw ise proceed unless formal service 

of process is effected"). The procedure encourages t he def endant's cooperation by creating 

incentives f or the waiver of service: if defendant waives,  it is given additional time t o  respond 
to the complaint and summons. See Rule 4(d)(3).  M oreover, if the defendant fails to comply 

and did not have "good cause" for refusing, the defendant must pay "the expenses later 

incurred in making service." FRCP 4(d)(2)(A). Keep in m ind t hat th e waiver procedure is not 

lim ited to a corporation; a plaint iff may also use request a waiver of service of a summons 

when th e defendant is an individual or associati on provided t he defendant  would be subject to 

service under FRCP 4(e) (within t he judicial district),  (f) (in a foreign country), or (h) 

(corporation, partnership, or association);  in general, the waiver provision cannot  be used w hen 

th e def endant  is the United St at es, oth er government  entit ies, or minors and  incompetents. See 

Rule 4(d)(1). In additi on, th e waiver is only with respect t o formal service of process.  Defendant 

does not waive any object ion to personal jurisdict ion or t o venue. See FRCP 4(d)(5). 

(A)  is incorrect because it  m isstat es t he req uirements f or the waiver-of-service procedure t o  be 
proper. FRCP 4(d) sets out extensive requirements for service to be complete; th ey require 

t hat  noti ce and a request f or waiver be mailed by f irst-class mail or other reliable method to t he 

defendant, and  must state t he " name of t he court where the complaint was filed"; must  be 

accompanied "by a copy of the compliant, two copies of th e waiver form, and a prepaid means 

for return ing the form"; must  inform def endant of t he consequences of "waiving and not 

waiving service"; m ust st at e "the date w hen th e request is sent''; and m ust give a " reasonable 

time of at  least 30 days after t he request was sent'' t o return the waiver. FRCP 4(d)(1)(A)-(G). 

The ru le is not  sati sfied unless its req uirements are "strictly complied w it h."  Larsen v.  Mayo 

Medical Center, 218 F.3d 863, 868 (8th Cir. 2000) (internal quotation omitted). 

(C)  is incorrect because, as w it h the explanation about Choice A, it  m isstates t he requ irements 
for the waiver-of-service procedure. The rules governing service by mail are set out  in FRCP 4(d) 

and are ext ensive; the waiver procedure does not require publication in a newspaper. 

Although the Supreme Court of t he United States has not  addressed t he issue,  it seems unlikely 

th at the Due Process Clause would requ ire t hat t he waiver procedure be supplemented by 

publication w hen noti ce is sent to a def endant's known address and  is not complete unt il a 

form is signed, returned, and f iled. See United States v.  Hafner, 421 F. Supp. 2d 1220 (D. N.D. 

2006) (stating that  a constitutional objection to the waiver provision of FRCP 4(d) was rejected 

for "obvious reaso ns"). 

(D)  is incorrect because it misstates the requirements of waiver to be effective. Waiver is not 

effective if th e defendant t akes no action;  rather, waiver is effective only if t he def endant signs 

83 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil  Procedure Answers 

and returns the form and the form is filed with the court. For this reason the rule describes the 
procedure as one for "requesting a waiver." FRCP 4(d)(1). Indeed, the federa l rule was 

amended in 1993 to clarify that service by mail is not effective "w ithout the affirmative 
cooperation of the defendant." Cambridge Holdings Group, Inc.  v.  Federal Insurance Company, 

489 F.3d 1356, 1361 (D.C. Cir.  2007) (quoting Advisory Committee Notes to 1993 Amendments). 

Do not be confused by the fact that under the amended rule the defendant must be given  "a 

reasonable t ime of at least 30 days after t he request was sent- or at least 60 days if sent to the 

defendant outside any judicial district of the United States- to return the w aiver." FRCP 

4(d)(1)(F). This t ime period looks to the return of the w aiver. If the defendant does nothing and 

ignores t he request for w aiver, the w aiver is not effective. See Cambridge Holdings Group,  Inc. 

v.  Federal Insurance Company, 489 F.3d 1356 (D.C. Cir. 2007) ("if the defendant does not waive, 

the rule does not suggest that service is nonetheless effective") . 

Answer34 

(C) is the best argument because it recognizes that an untimely amended claim will 
"relate back" to the date of the original pleading only if it is factually related to the 
original claim-so that it does not,  in effect, present a new and independent action. The 
federal rule thus treats an amended claim as if it were filed on the date of the original 
pleading if it "asserts a claim or defense that arose out of the conduct, transaction, or 
occurrence set out ... in the original pleading." FRCP 15( c). Determining whether the 
amended and original claim are transactionally related often involves an inquiry into 
whether the claims share and are united by a "common core of operative facts." Mayle v. 
Felix, 545 U.S.  644, 646 (2005). For example, relation back has been permitted when the 
original complaint alleged that a defendant union breached the duty of fair representation 
by inadequately representing plaintiff because of gender, and the amended claim alleged a 
gender discrimination claim under federal law, but was not permitted when the amended 
claim alleged retaliation. Maegdlin v.  International Assn. of Machinists and Aerospace Works, 
309 F.3d 1051, 1052 (8th Cir. 2002). Critical to this inquiry is whether the "opposing party 
is not unduly surprised or prejudiced."  Hill v. Shelander, 924 F.2d 1370, 1377 (7th 
Cir.1991); accord Schiavone v.  Fortune, 477 U.S.  21 ("The linchpin [of Rule 15(c)) is notice . 
. . "). A pertinent question, therefore, is whether the breach-of-contract claim alleged in the 
original complaint-relating to unpaid reimbursable expenses-put Defendant on notice 
that it might be tortiously liable for Plaintiffs inability to obtain subsequent employment. 
Arguably, the amended tort claim depends on "new and distinct conduct, transactions, or 
occurrences not found in the original complaint," but the question is a close one. McGregor 
v. Louisiana State University Board of Supervisors, 3 F.3d 850, 864 (5th Cir. 1993) (original 
claim alleging violation of the federal Rehabilitation Act did not put defendant on notice of 
amended claim alleging due process violation). 

84 

Civil Procedure Answers 

(A) is not correct, because it misstates the relation between the federal rule on amendment 
and the state relation-back rule. The federal rule explicitly states that relation back will be 
permitted when "the law that provides the applicable statute oflimitations allows relation 
back." FRCP 15(c)(1)(A). However, the federal rule does not state the converse, and courts 
consistently hold that "less restrictive state relation-back rules will displace federal 
relation-back rules, but more restrictive state relation-back rules will not."  Morel v. 
Daimler Chrysler AG, 565 F.3d 20, 26 (1st Cir. 2 009). 

(B) is not correct, b ecause it misstates the standard for determining whether an amended 
claim is sufficiently related to the original claim as to permit relation back. Merely 
changing the legal theory upon which relief is sought is generally not a  bar to 
relation back under FRCP 15(c). What is critical, by contrast, is the factual overlap of the 
amended claim and the original claim. As the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals has explained, 
"a change in legal theory is not fatal to the rule's application." Maegdlin v.  International 
Assn. of Machinists and Aerospace Works, 309 F.3d 1051, 1053 (8th Cir. 2002). 

(D) is not correct b ecause the rule that it states is irrelevant to the determination of 
relation back under FRCP 15(c). In some cir cumstances, a court may exercise discretion 
and deny leave to amend a pleading because the party unduly delayed without good cause 
in seeking to amend. However, delay is not a factor that affects whether the amended 
claim relates back to the original claim. See Arthur v. Maersk, Inc., 4 34 F.3d 196, 203 (3d 
Cir. 2006) ("There is no allowance in Rule 15(c) for inquiry into a party's delay in moving 
for leave to amend."). 

Answer35 

(D) is the correct answer, because it recognizes that Defendant has waived the defenses of 
improper venue and insufficient service of process having failed to include them when he filed a 

responsive pleading. A motion asserting the defense of improper venue or insufficient service 
of process must be made before the filing of a responsive pleading (assuming a responsive 

pleading is required). The defense of improper venue is raised under FRCP 12(b)(4), and 
insufficient service of process is raised under FRCP 12(b)(S).  Under FRCP  12(b),  "[a)  motion 

asserting any of these defenses must be made before pleading if a responsive pleading is 

allowed." FRCP  12(b). Since Defendant has already filed a responsive pleading, he has waived 
these defenses: "A party waives any defenses listed in Rule 12(b)(2)-(S) by: . .. failing to . . . 

include it in a responsive pleading or in an amendment allowed  by Rule l S(a)(l ) as a matter of 
course." FRCP 12(h)(1). An amendment is permitted as a matter of course only within t wenty 

one days of serving the complaint. See FRCP  l S(a)(l ). Keep in mind that although FRCP  12(h) 
provides for the waiver of certain defenses if not timely raised  by motion, or by responsive 

pleading, or by amendment, a defect of subject-matter jurisdiction may be challenged at any 
time. See FRCP 12(h)(3). 

85 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it rec ites, although true as far as it goes, does not 

control the result on these facts. Defendant may not amend his answer to include the two 

defenses because he has already w aived these defenses. A party may amend a pleading as a 

matter of right within twenty-one days of serving it, FRCP  lS(a)(l), or with "the opposing 

party's written consent or the court's leave," FRCP 1S(a)(2). However, as explained in Choice 

(A), a party waives a defense under FRCP  12(b)(2)-(S) by "failing to . .. include it in a responsive 

pleading or in an amendment allowed by Rule lS(a)(l ) as  a matter of course." FRCP 12(h)(l )(B). 

Since tw enty-one days have passed since his answer, Defendant has waived these defenses, 

and a motion to amend would not help. 

(B) is not correct because the rule that it recites, although true as far as it goes, does not 

control the result on these facts. M oving to dism iss the lawsuit and setting forth the t wo 

defenses as the basis for the motion would have been a proper response to Plaintiffs 

complaint. Under FRCP  12(b),  "a party may assert" improper venue, FRCP 12 (b)(3), and 

insufficient service of process, FRCP 12(b)(S), by motion. How ever, by fail ing to assert these 

defenses earlier, Defendant has w aived them, as explained in Answer (A). Defendant cannot 

move t o assert these defenses because "[a] motion asserting any of these defenses must be 

made before pleading if a responsive pleading is allowed." FRCP 12(b). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule that it recites, although true as far as it goes, does not control 

the result on these facts. A motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made after the 

pleadings are closed, which they are in this problem because a responsive pleading has been 

filed. The motion is made w hen the movant believes that material facts are not in dispute and 

that judgment is w arranted. As set forth under FRCP 12(c), the motion is an appropriate way to 

challenge for "failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted, to join a person 

req uired by Rule 19(b), or t o state a legal defense to claim." FRCP 12(h)(2). The motion thus can 

be used to press a defense of improper venue or insufficient service of process. However, the 

motion cannot be used to assert defenses that a party failed to raise in a prior Rule 12(b) 

motion or responsive pleading. The t wo defenses that Defendant wants to raise, fall  under 

FRCP 12(h)(l ) and are w aived, as discussed in Choice (A). Defendant cannot raise these 

defenses in a motion for judgment on the pleadings. 

Answer36 

(C) is correct because it appropriately applies the federal rules regard ing a responsive pleading 

w hen a defendant lacks sufficient knowledge to admit or deny an allegation of the complaint. 

The federal rules address the responsibility of a  defendant, as here,  who seeks to answer t he 

complaint but does not have sufficient knowledge to know whether an allegation is true:  "A 

party that lacks knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief about the truth of an 

allegation must so state, and the statement has the effect of a denial."  FRCP S(b)(S). Company 

86 

Civil Procedure Answers 

knows that Defendant  is its employee, but does not  know f or sure w het her Defendant was 

acting in the scope of  his employment w hen it checked the t axi out of the garage on the day of 

the accident. From the documents that  Com pany has found, it ca nnot conclude that Def endant 

w as acting in the course of employment. Defendant was not scheduled t o work that day, and so 

Company is not  obliged to admit the allegat ion, and can keep its relationship w ith Defendant  in 

contention. On the other hand, it is possible that Defendant w as standing in for another driver 

who called  in sick on t he day of the accident, and so Company cannot  conclude that  Defendant 

was not  driving in the scope of his employment. Since an answer t hat says Company is without 

knowledge or informat ion to form a belief as to the truth of the allegat ions "has the effect of a 

denial," FRCP 8(b)(5), Company does not lose anything by not  denying t he allegation. 

Moreover, t his answer satisfies the obligation of Company and Company's attorney's to 

conduct a reasonable investigation before filing the responsive pleading. Company's position 

is "t o the best  of the person's knowledge,  informati on, and  belief, formed after an inquiry 

reasonable under the circumst ances." FRCP 11. 

(A)  is not  correct because although it correctly recognizes that Paragraph 16 is alleged in a 

barebones and form ulaic way-and so it  is "conclusory''-it misstates Defendant's obligation 

to provide a responsiv e pleading under FRCP S(b).  In 2007, t he Supreme Court of the United 

St at es held t hat the allegations of a complaint , t o survive a motion to dismiss under FRCP 

12(b)(6) for fa ilure to state a claim, must contain "more than labels and conclusions," and t hat  a 
"formulaic recitation of the elements of a cause of action will not  do." Rather, the com plaint's 

fact ual allegations must  be "enough t o raise a right to relief above t he speculative level." Bell 

Atlantic Corporation v.  Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 555  (2007). Thus, were Defendant moving to 

dismiss the complaint for fa ilure t o st ate a claim, the district  court  likely would not credit the 

conclusory allegati on of Paragraph 16 because it is expressed in formulaic t erms and is not 
accompanied by facts that  show a "plausible entit lement'' t o relief. /d.  at 546. However, 
Defendant has not  chosen to move to dismiss; it has chosen t o answer, and its obligation is t o 

"admit or deny the allegati ons" or to state t hat it "lacks knowledge or informat ion sufficient to 
form a belief about the truth of an allegati on." FRCP  8(b)(1(A) & (5). 

(B) is not correct because it does not  correctly apply the federal pleading rule to the facts of the 

problem and leaves Defendant vulnerable to having admitt ed a significant allegation of the 

complaint pertinent to its t ort liability. The federal rules make explicit that  " in responding to a 

pleading, a party must ... admit or deny the allegati ons asserted against it by an opposing 

party." FRCP  8(b)(1)(B) (emphasis added). Thus, while it is true that a party is not  obliged to 

respond "t o a separate claim brought only against other parties to the litigat ion," the allegation 

about Defendant's scope of employment indeed t argets Company and so a response is 

required. Milton v.  General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems, Inc., 2011 WL 4708637 

(S.D.  Ill. 2011) (quotation omitt ed). Moreover, if Defendant  refuses to respond t o the allegation 

87 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

of the complaint, the refusal will be deemed an admission. See FRCP 8(b)(G) ("An allegation 

other than one relating to the amount of damages-

is admitted if a responsive pleading is 

req uired and the allegation is not denied."). 

(D)  is not correct because the federal pleading rules permit only three kinds of responses - to 

admit, to deny, or to state a lack of knowledge or information necessary to admit or deny, see 

FRCP 8(b)- and the rule applies even when the allegation of the complaint is expressed as a 

legal conclusion. Lane v. Page, 272 F.R.D.  581, 603 (D.N.M . 2011) (a  response "that allegations 

are legal conclusions do not comply with rule 8(b)'s requirements"). 

Answer37 

(B) is the best answer because a basic condition of class certification is the membership of the 

named plaintiff in the class she purports to represent; the class claims must be "fairly 

encompassed by the named plaintiff's claim."  General Telephone Co.  of Southwest v.  Falcon, 

457 U.S.  147, 156 (1982). This requirement goes to the heart of the class action: the procedure 

permits a party to represent the interests of sim ilarly situated litigants, who are bound by any 

judgment entered in the lawsuit. To avoid unfairness to the absentees, the named 

representative must affirmatively show that all of the prerequisites of class certification are 

present- numerosity, commonality, typicality, and adequacy of representation, see FRCP 

23(a)(1)-(4). Here, Plaintiff  has defined the class to include persons allegedly not hired and 

persons allegedly not promoted by Defendant for reasons of gender, ethnicity, religion, or race 

that are discrim inatory under federal law . However, Plaintiff cannot herself allege not to have 

been hired by Defendant; she does not share this claim with other members of the class and 

therefore cannot be presumed to be an adequate representative of the absentees on this issue. 

Nor does Plaintiff allege to have been discriminated on the basis of ethnicity, religion, or race. 

Similarly, she is not a member of the class of persons who allege discrim ination on these bases. 

See  Falcon, 457 US. at 157-158 (certification not appropriate when class representative alleged 

across-the-board discrimination in hiring and firing but alleged only a fai lure to promote as an 

individual claim). 

(A)  is not correct because  although class certification requ ires that "the class be so numerous 

that  joinder of all member is impracticable,"  FRCP  23(a)(1), there is no hard and fast rule on 

how large the class must be to meet this requirement. See Bittinger v.  Tecumseh  Products Co., 

123 F.3d 877, 884 n.1 (6th Cir. 1997) (stating that the rule does not include a "strict numerical 

test").  Classes of fourteen members have been found sufficient to meet the numerosity 

req uirement, Grant v.  Sullivan, 131 F.R.D. 436, 446 (M .D. Pa.  1990), although generally the class 

must include at least forty members. See Consolidated Rail Corp. v.  Town of Hyde Park, 47 F.3d 

473, 483 (2d Cir. 1995). Moreover, the court also must consider whether the joinder of all class 

members is practicable-

if it is, at least some courts hold that "the other criteria don't matter." 

88 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Pruitt v.  City of Chicago, Illinois, 472 F.3d 925, 926 (7th Cir. 2006). In reaching this 

determination courts consider not only the size of the class but also additional factors such as 

the reluctance of absent class members to sue for fear of retaliation and geographic dispersion 

of the class members. See  Mullen v.  Treasure Chest Casino, LLC, 186 F.3d 620, 624 (5th Cir. 

1999). On the facts here, it is not clear that Defendant's argument would win under FRCP  (a)(1). 

(C)  is not correct because it states a rule that is irrelevant to these facts. Class actions, like all 
actions filed in federal court, must satisfy subject-matter jurisdiction requirements. When the 

lawsuit is filed under the Class Action Fairness Act (CAFA), the amount in controversy must be 

alleged to exceed $5  million exclusive of interest and costs, and this sum can be met by 

aggregating together all of the claims of the class members. See 28 U.S.C.  § 1332(d)(6). When 

CAFA does not apply to the class suit, and the allegations involve state law, then the amount in 

controversy must be alleged to exceed $75,000 for each class member, and subject-matter 

jurisdiction can be satisfied if the requirements of the diversity and supplemental jurisdiction 

statutes are met. See  28 U.S.C. § 1332 (diversity), §1367 (supplemental); Exxon Mobil Corp.  v. 

Allapattah Services,  Inc., 545 U.S. 546 (2005). But these j urisdictional bases are not relevant to 

the problem. Here, the complaint alleges a violation of federal law, and in federal question suits 

jurisdiction does not require the showing of any amount in controversy. See 28 U.S.C. §1331. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule that it applies is not correct. In a class action the court must 

be able to exercise personal jurisdiction over defendant; however, there is no requirement that 
the court determine whether it could exercise personal jurisdiction over the class members. 

See  Phillips Petroleum Co.  v.  Shutts, 472 U.S. 797 (1985). Thus, even if the class members have 

no connection to the state in which the district court sits, they nevertheless will be bound by 

any judgment that might be entered in the suit. Keep in  mind that in Shutts, class members 

were permitted to opt out of the suit, see id.  at 798. The Supreme Court of the United States 

has not yet resolved whether the Due Process Clause is violated by the entry of a judgment 

against members of a class who lack contacts with the state and are not permitted an 

opportunity to opt out  of the class suit. 

Answer38 

(D) is the correct answer because Plaintiff is under an obligation to correct and supplement her 
disclosure, see FRCP  26(e), and exclusion of evidence not so disclosed is an automatic sanction 

unless the party facing the sanction can show that the omission was "substantially justified or 

harmless." See FRCP  37(c);  Klonoski v.  Mahlab, 156 F.3d 255, 269 (1st Cir. 1998). In determining 

whether the district court abused its discretion in excluding the evidence, some circuits look to 

whether the possibility of a continuance was considered to cure any prejudice to the party 

denied access to the information. See Design Strategy, Inc.  v.  Davis, 469 F.3d 284, 297 (2d Cir. 

2006). In addition to preventing undisclosed information from being used in a motion, hearing, 

89 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

or trial, the district court, upon motion, may "order payment of the reasonable expenses, 

including attorney's fees, caused by the failure,"  or "inform the jury of the party's failure." FRCP 

37(c)(l)(A) & (B). Furthermore, the district court may impose "any of the orders listed in Rule 
37(b)(2)(A)(l)-(vi)," FRCP  37 (c)(l)(C), which includes, among other things, "dismissing the 

action . . . in whole or in part" or "rendering a default judgment against the disobedient party." 
FRCP 37(b)(2)(A)(v) & (vi). 

(A)  is not correct because it inaccurately states the procedure for sanctioning a party who has 

f ailed to supplement prior disclosures. The federal discovery rules provide that a sanction is 
automatic if a party fails to provide information or to identify a witness as required by its duty 

to supplement under FRCP  26(e), and a motion is not required. See FRCP  37(c)(1) ("If a party 

f ails to provide information or identify a witness as required by Rule 26(a) or (e), the party is 

not allowed to use that information or witness to supply evidence on a motion, at a hearing, or 

at a trial, unless the failure was substantially justified or is harmless."). The district court may 

choose "on motion and after giving an opportunity to be heard" to add to the sanction of 

exclusion or to impose a different sanction, such as the payment of reasonable expenses 

caused by the failure to disclose. FRCP  37(c)(1); see also R & R.  Sails,  Inc.  v.  Insurance Co.  of 

Pennsylvania, 673  F.3d 1240, 1246 (9th Cir. 2012). 

(B) is not correct because it incorrectly states that Defendant, the party seeking to exclude the 

evidence, has a duty to show prejudice. The federal discovery rules provide that a party who 

f ails to correct or supplement its prior disclosures as required under FRCP 26(e) may not use 

that evidence at trial "unless the f ailure was substantially justified or is harmless."  FRCP 

37(c)(l). Under the rules, the burden is on the party facing the sanction- in this case, 

Plaintiff- "to demonstrate that the failure to comply  .. . is substantially justified or harmless." 

Torres v.  City of Los Angeles, 548 F.3d  1197, 1213 (9th Cir. 2008). 

(C) is not correct because although the party facing the sanction must show that its failure to 

correct or supplement prior disclosures "was substantially justified or is harmless," Plaintiff's 

contention that she did not know about the notes of the treating physician will not meet this 

standard. FRCP  37(c)(1). The nondisclosure was not substantially justified because the federal 

discovery rules place a duty on a party "to turn over not only proper materials of which he is 

aware, but also those of which he reasonably ought to have been aware." Arthur v.  Atkinson 

Freight Lines,  Corp. , 164 F.R.D. 19, 20 (S.D.N.Y.  1995) (finding a duty on the party of plaintiff's 

counsel to disclose and supplement the disclosure of medical records in a personal injury 

action, despite counsel's claim to have been  "unaware of the existence" of the medical 

reports). The fact that Plaintiff "was simply sloppy in its search for relevant documents" does 

not excuse the omission. Norden v.  Samper, 544 F. Supp. 2d 43, 50 (D. D.C. 2008) (citation 

omitted). The nondisclosure is not harmless because it deprived Defendant of an opportunity to 

90 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

exam ine medical records about the existence, cause, and scope of Plaintiff's personal injuries, 

and this information was not available from other sources. 

Answer39 

(D) is the best strategy to secure immediate appellate review of the discovery order, which is a 

nonfinal order and so not reviewable as a final decision of the district court. See 28 U.S.C. § 
1291(a). The Supreme Court has identified the mechanism of taking an appeal from a contempt 

citation as a way to "facilitate immediate review of some of the more consequential attorney 

client privilege rulings."  Mohawk Industries,  Inc.  v.  Carpenter, 558 U.S. 100, 111-112 (2009), A 

party who refuses to comply w ith a discovery order risks court-imposed sanct ions. See FRCP 

37(b). These sanctions can include holding "the noncomplying party in contempt," and then the 

party resisting disclosure can take an appeal from that ruling. Mohawk, 558 U.S.  at 111-112; see 

also Church of Scientology of Cal. v.  United States, 506 U.S. 9 (1992). Admittedly, although the 

discovery order is nonfinal,  Defendant could try to seek immediate review as a matter of 
discretion under 28 U.S.C. §  1292(b) (discussed  in response to Answer (C)),  or through a writ of 

mandamus if extraordinary circumstances are presented, see Cheney v.  United States Dist. 

Court for the District of Columbia, 542 U.S. 367 (2004). However, the most likely course of 

action is the one described in this choice. 

(A)  is not correct because the blanket statement that appellate review is never available for a 

nonfinal order is not accurate. The general rule in the federal system  is that an appeal requires 

a final decision.  Thus, the federal appeals courts "have jurisdiction of appeals from all final 

decisions of the district courts of the United St ates,  . . . except w here a direct review may be 

had in the Supreme Court."  28 U.S.C. § 1291. Delaying appellate review until the end of a 

lawsuit is said to promote efficiency and to encourage respect for lower court decisions; it  also 

prevents the parties from using piecemeal review to abuse an opponent. However, federa l law 
creates various exceptions to the rule of finality; for example, the federal system  permits 

review of interlocutory, i.e., not fina l, orders that grant, modify, refuse, or otherwise affect 

injunctions. 28 U.S.C. §  1292(a)(1). Moreover, the Supreme Court has permitted immediate 

appellate review of an interlocutory order that has irremediable consequences. See  Forgay v. 

Conrad, 47 U.S. 201 (1848). Choice A thus is not accurate because it does not take account of 

the exceptions to the general requirement of fina lity. 

(B)  is not correct because it misstates the governing rule. Under the collateral order doctrine, 

immediate appellate review is permitted when an interlocutory order finally determines a claim 

of right that is "separable from, and collateral to, rights asserted in the action"; the rule 

embraces a "small class" of nonfinal orders that are considered to be "too important to be 

denied review and too independent of the cause itself to require that appellate consideration 

be deferred until the whole case is adjudicat ed." Cohen v.  Beneficia/Indus. Loan Corp., 337 U.S. 

91 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

541, 546 (1949). The Supreme Court has held that disclosure orders adverse to the attorney 

client privilege do not qualify for immediate appellate review under t he collateral order 

doctrine. See Mohawk Indus., Inc.  v.  Carpenter, 558  U.S. 100, 109 (2009). Thus, the doctrine 

does not grant Defendant the right to immediate appellate review here. 

(C)  is not correct because it mistakenly conflates an appeal  as a matter of right with 

discretionary appellate review. Federal law does not provide for an appeal as a matter of right 

in the circumstances presented. Discretionary review of nonfinal orders is authorized in limited 

circumstances. For example, under 28 U.S.C. §  1292(b), the party seeking discretionary review 

must meet three requirements: (a) the trial judge must certify that the order "involves a 

controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion and 

that  an  immediate appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of 

the litigation"; (2) an application for review must be made to the appeals court "within ten days 

after the entry of such order"; and (3) the appeals court must exercise its discretion to permit 

t he appeal. Here, the f acts do not suggest that the district court certified t he order compelling 

disclosure of communications as including a controlling question of law, and, moreover, more 

than ten days have passed. Defendant thus cannot seek review using this mechanism. 

Answer40 

(B) is correct because a minor requires a representative to sue or defend on behalf of him or 
her. See FRCP 17(c). A general guardian, committee, conservator, or someone like a fiduciary 
must bring the suit on behalf of a minor or incompetent. /d.  If a minor does not have a duly 
appointed representative, the court must appoint a guardian ad  litem, or issue another order, 

to protect an unrepresented minor. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it assumes-that the plaintiff in a lawsuit must be the 
real party in interest-although true as f ar as it goes, is subject to exception when the 

interested party is a minor. Generally, the federal rules require "that the party who brings an 

action actually possess,  under the substantive law, the right sought to be enforced." United 

HealthCare Corp.  v.  American Trade Ins.  Co., Ltd., 88 F.3d 563, 569 (8th Cir. 1996). However, a 

minor, even if he or she possesses a cause of action, does not have capacity to bring a lawsuit. 

The federal rules thus provide that the child's parents or an appointed representative (such as a 

guardian) is the real party in interest and  may sue in his or her own name "without joining the 

person for whose benefit the action is brought." FRCP 17(a). 

(C)  is not correct because the federal rule governing real parties in interest pertains to plaintiffs 
not defendants. Be sure not to confuse the requirement that a plaintiff be a real party in 

interest with the separate requirement that in some circumstances a party must be joined 

whether as a plaintiff or as a defendant-because its presence in the action is required in order 

92 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

for the court to do justice in the action. See FRCP 19. A party is a required party if in that party's 

absence, the court cannot accord complete relief among the existing parties, or if a person 

claiming to be required to be joined claims an interest related to the action's subject and the 

person is so situated that not joining such person may: "impair or impede the person's ability to 

protect the interest" or "leave an existing party subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, 

multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations because of the interest." FRCP  19(a)(1)(B). 

Defendant's insurance carrier's absence does not prevent complete relief among the existing 

parties.  Additionally, Defendant's insurance carrier does not have an interest that needs to be 

protected in the current lawsuit because Defendant's liability can be determined without 

assessing his insurance situation. Finally, no double,  multiple, or otherwise inconsistent 

obligations would arise to Defendant from determination of suit w ithout joinder of his 

insurance carrier. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule that it assumes is not correct. Whether a party must be 

joined in a lawsuit  is governed by the rule determining who is a required party. See FRCP 19. 

Even if the aunt and  uncle were joint tortfeasors w ith Motorcyclist, "[i]t has long been the rule 
that it  is not necessary for all joint tortfeasors to be named as defendants in a single lawsuit." 

Temple v.  Synthes Corp.,  Ltd., 498 U.S. 5, at 7 (1990). The Advisory Committee Notes to Rule 

19(a), as amended in 1966, state that "a tortfeasor with the usual'joint-and-several' liability is 

merely a permissive party to an action against another with like liability." 

Answer41 

(D) is the correct answer because a third-party defendant "may assert against the plaintiff any 

defense that the third-party plaintiff has to the plaintiff's claims." FRCP 14(a)(2)(C). Third 

party practice under the federa l rules- known as impleader practice- permits a defendant to 

join a nonparty who "is or may be liable" to defendant in the event that the court finds that 

defendant is liable to plaintiff. The federa l rule explicitly allows the third-party defendant to 

raise defenses to the impleader claim, and may also raise defenses that the third-party plaintiff 

could assert against the original plaintiff. See FRCP 14(a)(2)(C).  Thus, for example, in  Lindner v. 

Meadow Gold Dairies, Inc., 515  F. Supp. 2d 1141, 1148-1149 (D. Haw. 2007), the court held that 

the third-party defendant was entitled to assert the original defendant's defense that the 

statute of limitations on plaintiff's claim  had lapsed.  By allowing the third-party defendant to 

raise defenses that the third-party plaintiff might have failed to raise, the federal rule "protects 

the impleaded third-party defendant where the third-party plaintiff fai ls or neglects to assert a 
proper defense to the plaintiff's action."  /d.  at 1149 (quoting FRCP 14(a) Advisory Comm ittee 
Notes to 1946 Amendment). While it is unclear from the fact pattern whether a statute of 

limitations defense would be meritorious, Third Party is entitled to assert it. 

93 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(A)  is incorrect because it incorrectly states the requirements of impleader. Impleader does not 
require that the third-party defendant be liable to the original plaintiff; rather, it requires that 

the third-party defendant "is or may be liable" to the original defendant. Impleader thus is 
based on the theory of derivative or secondary liability.  "It is well established that a defendant 

may, as third-party plaintiff, implead a party that the plaintiff could not sue directly, the claim 
against the third-party defendant inuring to the benefit of the third-party plaintiff and not to 

the original plaintiff."  Parks v. United States, 784 F.2d 20, 24 (1st Cir. 1986) (citations om it t ed). 

Indeed, the federal rule has been amended as to bar defendant from impleading a party simply 
because that party may be directly liable to plaintiff; what is critical is the potential liability of 
the impleaded party to defendant if defendant is held liable to plaintiff. 

(B) is incorrect because the federal rules allow impleader against a party who "may be liable" 

to the third-party plaintiff, meaning before the third-party plaintiff's liability has been 
determined by the court in the main action. The rule does not require that the court first 

adjudicate the third-party plaintiff's liability; to the contrary, the rule states: "[a) defending 

party may, as third-party plaintiff, serve a summons and complaint on a nonparty who is or may 
be liable to it . . . . "  FRCP 14(a)(l). The only timing requirement  is that the third-party plaintiff 
must seek the permission of the court if the impleading complaint is filed more than 14 days 

after the original answer. See FRCP  14(a)(l).  This provision clearly contemplates the allowance 

of pre-judgment impleading practice and also encourages impleader complaints to occur early 
in the proceedings. 

(C)  is incorrect because, although the federal rule permits a third-party defendant to assert 

defenses that the original defendant might have, courts have held that personal defenses may 
not be raised by the third-party defendant on behalf of the third-party plaintiff. Personal 

defenses include such defenses as a lack of personal jurisdiction or a lack of venue. See Brandt 
v.  Olson,  179 F. Supp. 363, 371 (N .D. Iowa 1959) (discussing how venue is a personal defense 

that can be waived  by the defendant and therefore cannot be raised on behalf of the original 
defendant by t he third-party defendant). 

Answer42 

(A) is correct because under t he federa l rules, only the court can enter a default judgment if 
plaintiff's claim is not "for a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by computation." 

FRCP 55(b)(l). When there is any doubt about the amount of damages, t hen only the court can 
enter the judgment. See FRCP 55(b)(2). Although the complaint contains an ad damnum clause, 

the amount of damages here are not a "sum  certain" in the sense contemplated by FRCP  55. 

See KPS & Associates, Inc.  v.  Designs By FMC,  Inc., 318 F.3d 1, 19 (1st Cir. 2003)  ("in the Rule 55 

context, a claim is not a sum certain unless there is no doubt as to the amount to which a 
claimant is entitled as a result of the defendant's default." stat ing that the court cannot award 

94 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

the amount of the ad damnum clause in the complaint when the proper amount is uncertain). 

The usual example of a dispute involving a sum certain, in which resort to "extrinsic proof' is 

not needed to determine damages, is an action to enforce a money judgment or a negotiable 
instrument.  /d.  When the complaint does not involve a sum certain, the federal rule provides 

that the party seeking judgment must apply to the court for the entry of a default judgment, 

and the court may hold a hearing "to determine the amount of damages" or to "investigate any 

other matter."  FRCP  55(b)(2).  It  is not clear without further evidence whether the $300,000 

that Plaintiff has alleged is the appropriate amount in damages for the libel; moreover, the 

amount of a reasonable attorney's fee remains disputed. 

(B) is not correct because although the federa l rule permits the clerk to enter a default 

judgment for liability and damages, the clerk may do so only if it is clear from the complaint, 

without resort to extrinsic evidence, that the damages sought are for a sum certain. See FRCP 
SS(b)(l). Even if for a sum certain, a default judgment may be entered only if two other 

conditions are met: it must be shown that "defendant has been defaulted for not appearing"; 
and defendant "is neither a minor nor an incompetent person." /d.  Thus, in addition to the 
sum-certain requ irement that damages be "capable of simple mathematical computation," t he 

clerk may enter judgment only against "parties who have never appeared in t he action." 

Franchise Holding II,  LLC.  v.  Huntington Restaurants Group, Inc., 375 F.3d 922, 928-929 (9th Cir. 

2004), and are not entitled to the protection afforded to m inors and incompetents. 

(C)  is not correct because it misstates the rule pertaining to how t he entry of default  becomes a 

default judgment. The entry of default  does not automatically convert into a judgment; rather, 

the federal rule "provides a two-step process for obtaining a default judgment," and either the 

clerk or t he court must enter t he judgment. See  New York v.  Green, 420 F.3d 99, 104 (2d Cir. 

2005); FRCP  55  (b). An entry of default is a notation made by the clerk after the party seeking 

the default  submits an affidavit showing that a party has "failed to plead or otherwise defend." 

See  FRCP  55(a). The entry "formalizes a judicial  recognition that a defendant has, through its 

failure to defend the action admitted liability to the plaintiff; the entry is not an admission of 

damages."; t he entry of a default judgment "converts the defendant's admission of liability into 

a final judgment that terminates the litigation and awards the plaintiff any relief to which  t he 

court decides it is entitled .. . . "City of New York v.  Mickalis Pawn Shop,  LLC,  645 F.3d 114, 128-

129 (2d Cir. 2011). 

(D)  is not correct because it m isstates the t iming and other requirements for t he entry of a 

default judgment following t he entry of default. In cases where only the judge can enter the 
judgment, see FRCP 55(b)(2), t he federal rule provides that a party who "has appeared 

personally or by a representative  . . . must be served at least 7 days before the hearing'' on 

95 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

the application. /d. However, the seven-day rule is not implicated when the clerk enters the 
judgment. See FRCP  SS(b)(1). 

Answer43 

(B) is correct because it correctly states what law applies when a federal diversity lawsuit is 

transferred from one proper venue to another proper venue even when the motion is made 

by plaintiff. See 28 U.S.C. § 1404. The federal transfer statute does not specify the law that will 

apply if a transfer motion is granted. In concluding that the state law of the transferor court 
applies, the Supreme Court has explained that "both the history and purposes of§ 1404(a) 

indicate that it should be regarded as a federal judicial housekeeping measure, dealing w ith the 

placement of litigation in the federal courts and generally intended, on the basis of convenience 

and fairness, simply to authorize a change of courtrooms."  Van  Dusen v.  Barrack, 376 U.S. 612, 

636-637 (1964). The statute's legislative background, the Court later underscored, "does not 

justify the rather startling conclusion that one might get a change of a law as a bonus for a 

change of venue."  Ferens v. John Deere Co.,  494 U.S. 516, 523 (1990) (internal quotation 

omitted). The VanDusen rule applies when the party seeking the transfer is the plaintiff, see id. 

Moreover, the VanDusen rule applies when the rule of decision is the transferor court's statute 

of limitations; in a diversity jurisdiction case, a federa l court applies a state's statute of 

limitations even though this kind of law has both a procedural and a substantive aspect. See 

Guaranty Trust Co.  v.  York,  326 U.S. 99 (1945). 

(A)  is not correct because the rule it recites is not accurate. As explained with respect to Choice 

(B), the VanDusen rule- that the law of the transferor court applies to a transfer effected 

under 28 U.S.C. § 1404(a)- governs whether the plaintiff or the defendant moves to transfer 

the action. See Ferens v. John Deere Co.,  494 U.S.  516, 521 (1990). ("Section 1404(a) states only 

that a district court may transfer venue for the convenience of the parties and witnesses when 

in the interest of justice. It says nothing about choice of law and nothing about affording 

plaintiffs different treatment from defendants."). 

(C)  is not correct because it mistakenly assumes that plaintiff's initial venue choice was wrong. 
It is true that if the initial venue choice is wrong, transfer must be made under 28 U.S.C. § 1406, 

which provides that a court "in which it is filed a case laying venue in the wrong division or 

district shall dismiss, or if it be in the interest of justice, transfer such case to any district or 

division  in which it could have been brought." In that event, the law of the transferor court 
does not carry-over to the transferee district. See National Union Fire Ins.  Co.  of Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

v.  American Eurocopter Corp., 692 F.3d 405, 408 n.3 (5th Cir. 2012) ("The choice-of-law rules of 

the transferee state apply if a diversity suit was transferred from a district court that had no 

personal j urisdiction over the defendant or where venue was otherwise improper."). 

96 

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Section 1406 can be used only if the venue initially chosen by the plaintiff is not proper. So 
let's consider why plaintiff's initial venue choice in this problem was, indeed, proper. Venue in 

the federal system  is generally governed by 28 U.S.C. § 1391. Whether the action is within the 
court's diversity or arising-under jurisdiction, three rules of venue apply: venue may be based in 

a judicial district in which any defendant resides,  "if all defendants are residents of the State in 
which the district is located"; or  in a judicial district "in which a substantial part of the events or 

omissions giving rise to the claim occurred"; and, if no such district is available,  in "any judicial 

district in which any defendant is subject to the court's personal jurisdiction with respect to 
such action." Here Plaintiff fi led her lawsuit in the Southern District of New York, the district in 
which Defendant is headquartered and may be said to reside. See  28 U.S.C.  §  1391(b) and  (c). 

the initial venue choice was proper and so the correct transfer mechanism was §  1404, not 

§  1406. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule that it states is wrong.  As explained with respect to Choice 

(A),  a plaintiff as well as a defendant may move to transfer an action in the federal system . 

See  28 U.S.C.  § 1404(a). The federal transfer statute places no prohibition on plaintiff from 
transferring an action, even though plaintiff initially chose the venue of the action. 

Answer44 

(B) is the correct answer because it properly recognizes that the substantive evidentiary 
standard applied to a motion for summary judgment is the same as the trial burden. Under the 

federal rule, a motion for summary judgment "shall" be granted "if the movant shows that 
there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as 

a matter of law,"  FRCP  56(a). On such a motion, the question "is whether a jury could 
reasonably find either that the plaintiff proved his case by the quality and quantity of evidence 

required by the governing law or that the he did not." Anderson v.  Liberty Lobby, 477 U.S.  242, 
254 (1986)  (emphasis in original). The evidentiary burden in libel cases is that of clear and 

convincing evidence, and a showing of actual malice is a material issue of fact. If Defendant 

shows by clear and convincing evidence that he did not act with actual malice, it follows that no 
rational finder of fact could find the inverse- that Defendant did act with actual malice by clear 

and convincing evidence and there would be no genuine dispute as to this material fact. 

(A)  is not correct because it points to an inaccurate substantive evidentiary standard.  As 

discussed with respect to Choice (B), the court will evaluate the motion for summary judgment 
"through the prism of the substantive evidentiary burden" that would apply at trial. Anderson 

v.  Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255. The evidentiary standard in a libel case is clear and 

convincing evidence. As the Court has explained, "where the factual dispute concerns actual 
malice .. . the appropriate summary judgment question will be whether the evidence in the 

record could support a reasonable jury finding either that the plaintiff has shown actual malice 

97 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

by clear and convincing evidence or that the plaintiff has not." Anderson v.  Liberty Lobby,  Inc., 
477 u.s. 242, 255 (1986). 

(C)  is not correct because the standard t hat it  applies is not relevant to a motion for summary 

judgment under FRCP  56. Rather, the requirement that the allegations show a plausible claim 

for reli ef  is the standard that the court uses when asked to decide a motion to dismiss for 

fa ilure to state a claim. See FRCP 12(b)(6).  A motion to dismiss for fail ure to state a claim-

like 

its common law predecessor, the demurrer- tests t he legal sufficiency of the claim for relief as 

set forth in the pleading. The court accepts the truth of the allegations of t he complaint, 

provided the allegations comprise facts and do not merely recite formu laic legal conclusions. 

See Ashcroft v.  Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662  (2009). By contrast, a motion for summary judgment 

determines whether material facts are in dispute so t hat a trial is needed. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule t hat it recites is not accurate. The motion for summary 

judgment is not said to violate the Seventh Amendment. See  Fidelity & Deposit Co.  of Maryland 

v.  United States, 187 U.S. 315, 319-321 (1902) (explaining that t he procedure for summary 

judgment only "prescribes the means of making an  issue" and that the jury right  "accrues" only 

when there is a triable issue). Moreover, although t he motion for summary j udgment is to be 

used with "caution" in cases involving state of mind, EM/ Catalogue Partnership v.  Hill,  Holliday, 

Connors,  Cosmopulos Inc. , 228 F.3d 56, 61 (2d Cir. 2000), the Court has not forec losed  its use. 

See Anderson v.  Liberty Lobby,  Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255 n.7 (1986) (noting that although proof of 

malice "does not readily lend itself to summary disposition," t here is no blanket bar on t he 

motion's use in this context) (quotation omitted). 

Answer 45 

(B) is the correct answer because the district judge has discretion, on her own initiative,  to order 
a new trial "for any reason that would justify granting one on a party's motion," FRCP 59( d), 
and these reasons include that the verdict was "against the weight of the evidence." Gasperini 
v. Ctr .for Humanities, Inc ., 5 18 U.S. 415, 433 ( 1996). Moreover, the district judge may enter a 
conditional order of remittitur, "compelling a plaintiff to choose between reduction of an 
excessive verdict and a new trial." Kirsch v. Fleet Street, Ltd., 148 F.3d 149, 165 (2d Cir.  1998). 
Two circumstances warranting such an action by the district judge include: (1) "where the court 
can identify an error that caused the jury to include in the verdict a quantifiable amount that 
should be stricken"; and (2) "where the award is intrinsically excessive in the sense of being 
greater than the amount a reasonable jury could have awarded, although the surplus cannot be 
ascribed to a particular, quantifiable error." /d. Because the district judge here believes the jury's 
award simply reflects an arithmetic error, similar to the first circumstance described in Kirsch, 
then the judge should use her authority to order a new trial unless Plaintiff agrees to the 
reduction in damages. 

98 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

(A) is incorrect because Defendant's motion does not meet the requirements for a motion for a 
judgment as a  matter oflaw. There are two conditions. See FRCP 50( a). The federal rules 
require that such a motion be made within twenty-eight days after judgment is entered on the 
jury's verdict, and the movant also must have moved for judgment under FRCP SO(a) before 
the case went to the jury. Moreover, even if Defendant's motion had been timely made, the 
facts in the problem indicate that the district judge believes that there is sufficient evidence to 
support the verdict so that it would not be proper to grant judgment as a matter oflaw. Keep in 
mind that the standard for granting a new trial is not the same as that for a judgment as a matter 
of law. See DLC Mgmt. Corp. v. Town of Hyde Park,  163 F.3d 124,  133- 34 (2d Cir. l 998) 
("[ u ]nlike judgment as a matter of law, a new trial may be granted even if there is substantial 
evidence supporting the jury's verdict ... "). 

(C) is incorrect because although the court has authority to grant a partial new trial, see FRCP 
59( a), the district judge has better options than to hold a new trial on damages to correct a 
presumed arithmetic error. As explained with Choice (A), the district judge has authority to set 
aside a jury verdict and order a new trial if the verdict is "against the great weight of the 
evidence," see Gasperini, 518 U.S. at 433, and courts have found that a remittitur, or court 
ordered reduction in damages, is most appropriate in instances where the jury's award is "merely 
excessive or so large as to appear contrary to right reason," and a new trial on the question of 
damages would be appropriate only if the high jury verdict "results from passion or prejudice." 
Brunnemann v. Terra International, Inc., 975 F.2d 175, 177-178 (5th Cir. 1992). 

(D) is incorrect because it misstates the current state of federal law. While there is disagreement 
on whether the Seventh Amendment's guaranty of a jury trial wholly proscribes courts from 
reviewing jury verdicts on their substantive merits, see, e.g., Gasperini, 518 U .S. at 450 (Scalia, 
J., dissenting), the majority in Gasperini affirmed the core holding that the "reexamined" clause 
of the Seventh Amendment allows for a judge to overturn a jury verdict "according to the rules 
of the common law," U .S. Const. amend. Vll. Thus, judges may use the remittitur device and set 
aside jury damage awards that are "against the great weight of evidence," see Gasperini, 518 
U.S. at 433. 

Answer46 

(B) is correct because the dismissal of an action by order of the court can be with prejudice or 

without prejudice, and the decision is within the court's discretion. See FRCP 41(a)(2). On the 

facts presented, Plaintiff failed to state whether the voluntary dismissal that she sought was 

with prej udice or not. Under these circumstances it has been held that it is not an abuse of 

discretion if the court orders dismissal with prejudice. Indeed, some courts hold that it is not an 

abuse of discretion if the court orders the dismissal with prejudice without giving notice of its 

intention to the plaintiff and without giving plaintiff  an opportunity to withdraw the request. 

See United States ex rei. Stone v.  Rockwell Intern. Corp. , 282 F.3d 787, 809-811 (lOth Cir. 2002); 

99 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

but see Michigan Surgery lnv., LLC v.  Arman, 627 F.3d 572, 576-577 (lOth Cir. 2010) (abuse of 
discretion not to provide notice and an opportunity to withdraw the request for dismissal).  In 

considering whether a court has abused its discretion  in dismissing without prejudice, some 
courts consider whether the defendant "would suffer some plain legal prejudice other than the 

mere prospect of a second  lawsuit," see Cone v.  West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co.,  330 U.S. 212, 
217 (1947). Other courts consider multiple factors "including (1) the plaintiff's diligence in 

bringing the motion, (2) any undue vexatiousness on the plaintiff's part, (3) the extent to which 

the suit has progressed, including the defendant's efforts and expense in preparation for trial, 
(4) the duplicative expense of relitigation, and (5) the adequacy of the plaintiff's explanation for 
the need to dismiss. See D'Aito v.  Dahan California, Inc.,  100 F.3d 281, 283 (2d Cir.1996). On the 

facts presented here, it cannot be said with certainty that the district court abused its 

discretion, and Choice (B)  is the best of the four answers. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it states, while true as far as it goes, does not control the 

situation presented. It is true that the federal rule provides that a voluntary dism issal of a claim 

by a plaintiff is "without prejudice." See FRCP 41(a)(l). But this rule applies only if the notice of 
dismissal is fi led  "before the opposing party serves either an answer or a motion for summary 
judgment" or with "a stipulation of dismissal signed by all  parties who have appeared."  FRCP 

41(a)(1)(A)(i) and  (ii). Here, the problem states that Defendants had already answered the 

complaint, and a signed stipulation was not filed. Moreover, even  if Plaintiff had filed the notice 
of dismissal before Defendants' answer, the dismissal could  be without prejudice only if Plaintiff 

had  not previously dismissed any federal or state action based on the same claim . See FRCP 
(a)(1)(B). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule that it states does not apply to these facts. The fi ling of a 

notice of dismissal or a stipulation of dismissal under FRCP 41(a)(l(A) does not require a court 
order and serves to divest the district court of jurisdiction. See Anago Franchising Inc., v.  Shaz, 

LLC,  677 F.3d 1272, 1278 (11th Cir. 2012)  ("District courts need not and may not take action 
after the stipulation becomes effective because the stipulation dismisses the case and divests 

the district court of jurisdiction."). However, this rule does not apply when the dismissal 
requires a court order, see FRCP 41(a)(2). 

(D)  is not correct because the "clearly erroneous" standard of review does not apply to this fact 

pattern. The rule governing voluntary dismissal with a court order does not state the standard 
either that the trial court or the reviewing court should apply. See FRCP 41(a). However, 

appellate courts routinely hold that the decision to grant dismissal, with or without prejudice,  is 
within the district court's discretion. See,  e.g., Walter Kidde Portable Equipment, Inc.  v. 

Universal Security Instruments, Inc., 479 F.3d 1330 (Fed. Cir. 2007). The standard of "clearly 
erroneous" generally applies when an appellate court reviews a lower court's findings of fact. 

100 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Thus, the federal rule provides that "[f] indings of fact, whether based on oral or other evidence, 

must not be set aside unless clearly erroneous, and the review ing court must give due regard to 

the trial court's opportunity to judge the witnesses'  credibility." FRCP  52(a)(6). Proceedings 

covered by FRCP  include non-jury trials, trials w ith advisory juries, and proceedings seeking 

preliminary or permanent injunctions, none of which apply to this fact pattern; the rule also 

applies w hen the court grants a dismissal on partial findings,  meaning plaintiff has presented 
evidence. See FRCP  52( c). The dismissal covered by the problem is not w ithin this standard. 

Answer47 

(D) is the correct answer because it correctly recognizes that a district court "may impose costs 
on the plaintiff' in a diversity action when the award of damages is less than the amount-in 

controversy requirement- "the sum or value of $75,000, computed without regard to any 

setoff or counterclaim to w hich the defendant may be adjudged to be entitled, and exclusive of 
interest and costs." 28 U.S. C. §  1332(b).  Keep in mind that the fact that the award of damages 
is less than the amount-in-controversy requirement does not affect the court's jurisdiction in 

the suit; jurisdiction is determined at the commencement of the suit. M oreover, courts do not 

typically award costs on this basis unless there is evidence that plaintiff acted in bad faith. On 

the facts here, it w ould be difficult to show  bad faith; after all, given the size of Defendant' s 

offer of settlement, Plaintiff had a reasonable basis for assuming it would be awarded damages 
that exceeded the amount-in-controversy requirement. See Bochenek v.  Germann,  191 F. Supp. 
104 (E. D. M ich. 1960) (costs not awarded where court believed  plaintiff acted in good faith). 

(A) is not correct because the rule that it states does not exist. An unaccepted offer of 

settlement does not create a right to post-offer costs for Defendant from a prevailing 
plaintiff. By contrast, an offer of judgment does create such a right. An offer of judgment is 

made by a defendant under FRCP 68 w hich allows a defendant, at least fourteen days before 

the date set for trial, to serve upon an opposing party "an offer to allow judgment on specified 

terms, w ith the costs then accrued." FRCP 68(a).  If the opposing party w ithin fourteen days 

accepts the offer (w hich must be in a w riting that is filed, with proof of service), the clerk "must 
then enter judgment."  /d.  As the Supreme Court has explained, "The critical feature of the Rule 
is that the offer be one that allows judgment to be taken against the defendant for both the 
damages caused by the challenged conduct and the costs then accrued.  In other words, the 
drafters' concern w as not so much w ith the particular components of offers, but with the 
judgments to be allow ed against defendants."  Marek v.  Chesny, 473  U.S. 1, 6 (1985) (emphasis 
in original). On the facts presented, Defendant made no more than a garden-variety settlement 
offer, which does not affect the apportionment of costs. See Spooner v.  EEN, Inc.,  644 F.3d 62 
(1st Cir. 2011).  Had Defendant made an offer of judgment under FRCP 68 and complied w ith 

the rule's formalities, then Plaintiff w ould have been liable for post-offer costs incurred by 

101 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

Defendant. The rule provides:  "If the judgment that the offeree f inally obtains is not more 

favorab le than the unaccepted offer, the offeree must pay the costs incurred after the offer 

was made." FRCP  64(d). 

(B) is not correct for the same reasons explained with respect to Choice (A):  an unaccepted 
offer of settlement does not affect the apportionment of costs in federal court. Without the 

entry of a judgment, no cost-shifting occurs and the general rule applies: t he district court 

ordinarily awards costs to a prevailing party. See FRCP 54( d). FRCP  54( d) directs t hat unless a 

federal statute otherwise provides, "costs-other than attorney's fees-should be allowed to 

the prevailing party." FRCP  54(d)(1). Under this rule, the clerk may tax such costs upon fourteen 
days' notice. /d. What may be taxed as costs is specified by federa l statute and includes such 
items as marshal's fees, fees for printed or electronically recorded transcripts, and docket fees. 

See  28 U.S.C. §  1920.  Moreover, even though Plaintiff received an award of damages t hat is 

less than the amount Defendant offered to settle the lawsuit, Plaintiff is likely still considered to 

be a prevailing party w ithin the meaning of the rule. "A party prevails for purposes of Rule 

54( d) when a final judgment awards it substantial relief." Smart v.  Local 702 Intern. Broth. of 

Elec.  Workers, 573  F.3d 523, 525  (7th Cir. 2009). 

(C)  is not correct because the rule that it states is not correct. Federal and not state law 
controls the taxation of costs in a federal law suit even if the court's jurisdiction is based on 

diversity of citizenship and t he claims arise under state law. See Humann v.  KEM Elec.  Co-op., 

Inc., 497 F.3d 810, 813 (8th Cir. 2007). The governing rule is FRCP 54( d); the fact that the federa l 

rule conflicts with t he state rule is beside the point. See Abrams v.  Lighto/ier, Inc., 50 F.3d 1204, 

1223 (3d Cir. 1995) (explaining that a federal rule will "trump a state cost shifting provision with 

which it conflicts"). 

Answer48 

(B) is correct because it  recognizes that a federa l court will look to the law of t he rendering 

state in order to determine the claim preclusive effect of a state-court judgment. This rule f lows 

from the constitutional requirement of Full  Faith and Credit. The United States Constitution, 

Article IV, § 1, provides that the "Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings" of each state are 

entitled to full fa ith and credit in the courts of sister states, and this requirement  has been 

extended to the courts of the federal system by statute. See  28 U.S.C. §  1738, providing that 

state judicial  proceedings "shall have t he same full fa ith and credit  in every court within the 

United States .. .  as they have by law or usage in the courts of such State .. . from which they 

are taken." Although the rule was not always certain, "It is now settled t hat a federal court 

must give to a state-court judgment the same preclusive effect as would be given that 
judgment under the law of the State in which the judgment was rendered." Migra v.  Warren 

City School Dist.  Bd.  of Educ.,  465 U.S. 75, 81 (1984). Likewise, a diversity court is required  "to 

102 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

accord all the res judicata effects that a judgment entered in another state would command as 

a matter of full faith and credit in any other state court." See  Reinke v.  Boden, 45 F.3d 166, 168 

(7th Cir.  1995) (quotation omitted). 

(A)  is not correct because it mistakenly assumes that the claim  preclusive effect of a state-court 

dismissal is determined by the law of the state in which the federal diversity court sits. That 

view is not correct. As explained w ith respect to Choice (B), whether the dismissal of the 

M ichigan suit for failure to prosecute is a judgment on the merits and so entitled to claim 

preclusive effect is determ ined by the law of the state that rendered the judgment. See  Harl v. 

City of La Salle, 679 F.2d 123 (7th Cir. 1981). In some states, dism issal  for failure to prosecute is 

not treated as a judgment on the merits, and so a later action on the same claim is not barred 

by claim preclusion. See McCarter v.  Mitcham, 883 F.2d 196, 199-200 (3d Cir. 1989) 

(Pennsylvania does not accord res judicata effect to a dismissal resu lting from a failure to 

prosecute). 

(C)  is not correct because the error that it  identifies, even if true, would not affect the claim 

preclusive effect of the Pennsylvania judgment. The fact that the rendering court made an 

error of law is not a basis for collateral attack on the judgment and does not deny the 

judgment the preclusive effect that the rendering court would accord it. See  Fauntleroy v.  Lum, 

210 U.S. 230 (1908)  (state court judgment could not be "impeached either in or out of the state 

by showing that it was based  upon a mistake of law"). Keep in mind, however, that in certain 

situations a judgment can be collaterally attacked on grounds of lack of jurisdiction and notice. 

(D)  is not correct because federal common law does not determine the claim  preclusive effect 

of a prior state-court judgment. As explained with respect to Choice (B),  Full Faith and Cred it 

requires the federa l court to accord the same preclusive effect to a state-court judgment as 

would the state court that rendered the judgment. By contrast, the claim-preclusive effect of a 

diversity judgment is determined by federal common law, and the content of such law is the 

law of the forum state. Thus, the claim-preclusive effect of a federal diversity judgment is the 

same as a state-court judgment rendered by the state in which the federa l court sits. See 

Semtek International inc.  v.  Lockheed Martin Corp., 531 U.S. 497 (2001). 

Answer49 

(C)  is correct because it  correctly recognizes that a stranger to a prior judgment can make 
offensive use of collateral estoppel, but the court will undertake a case-by-case analysis to 

decide whether on balance preclusion is appropriate. Offensive nonmutual collateral estoppel 

refers to the situation in which a plaintiff-as in this problem-"seeks to forec lose defendant 

from litigating an issue the defendant has previously litigated unsuccessfully in an action w ith 

another party" or a defendant "seeks to prevent a plaintiff from asserting a claim the plaintiff 

103 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

has previously litigated and  lost against another defendant." Parklane Hosiery Co.  v.  Shore, 439 

U.S.  322, 326 n.4 (1979). In determining whether such  preclusion should be permitted, the 

court undertakes a case-by-case analysis and looks to such factors as w hether the party who is 

to be precluded had a full and fair opportunity to resolve the issue; whether the party making 

use of preclusion strategically sat out t he first lawsuit; whether the party to be precluded was a 

defendant or plaintiff in t he prior lawsuit; w hether the party to be precluded had  incentives in 

the f irst lawsuit to litigate the issue fully; and whether t he second lawsuit was foreseeable at 

the time of the first suit. Preclusion w ill be denied when its application w ill distort decision of 

the issues that remain open in the case, create juror confusion, or create inefficiency. 

(A)  is not correct because the rule that it states, while accurate as far as it goes, does not 

account for exceptions to the rule of mutuality.  The general requirement  of preclusion - known 

as mutuality- is that a nonparty to a judgment can neither benefit from t hat judgment nor be 
burdened by it. See Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Mining & Smelting Co. , 225  U.S. 111, 127 
(1912) ("It  is a principle of general elementary law that t he estoppel of a judgment must be 

mutual."). However, t he rule of mutuality has given rise to a number of important exceptions. 

One of t he earliest exceptions from t he requirement of mutuality developed with respect to 
indemnification and vicarious liability relationships. ld.  at 127-128 (providing the examples of 

principal and agent, master and servant, and indemnitor and indemnitee). In the federa l courts 

today mutuality "is no longer strictly required," Fiumara v.  Fireman's Fund.  Ins. Cos. , 746 F.2d 
87, 92  (1st Cir.  1984), but non mutual issue preclusion is "not available as a matter of right." 
Rodrfguez-Garcfa v.  Miranda-Marin, 610 F.3d 756, 772 (1st Cir. 2010) (quotation omitted). As 
explained with response to Choice (C),  the court w ill take a case-by-case approach in deciding 

whether non mutual preclusion ought to be permitted. 

(B) is not correct because t he rule that it states is not accurate: the Supreme Court has held 

that although t he use of collateral estoppel may abridge a defendant's right to a civil jury, this 

objection is not automatically fatal to its use. In particular, the Court rejected the argument 

"that since t he scope of the Amendment  must be determined by reference to the common law 

as it  existed in 1791, and since the common law permitted collateral estoppel only where t here 

was mutuality of parties, collateral estoppel cannot constitutionally be applied w hen such 

mutuality is absent." Parklane Hosiery Co. v.  Shore, 439 U.S.  322, 335  (1979). Instead, when 

determining if a stranger may make offensive use of collateral estoppel, courts proceed on a 

case-by-case basis and consider, among other factors, whether defendant in the second action 
would benefit from procedural opportunities that were not present in the f irst action, and so 

ought to be given the chance to relitigate the factual issue. See id.  at 331 (recognizing t hat "it 

might be unfair to apply offensive estoppel  . . . where the second action affords the defendant 

procedural opportunities unavailable in t he first action that could readily cause a different 

104 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

result"). The Court has noted that differences in discovery might make it inappropriate to apply 
offensive collateral estoppel. /d.  at 331 n.lS. 

(D)  is not correct because the rule that it recites, while accurate as far as it goes, is not sufficient 

to control the disposition of the motion. A party seeking to invoke issue preclusion must show 
that the issue to be precluded in the second lawsuit is the same or identical as the issue 

decided in the first lawsuit. Identity of issue is a necessary condition for the successful plea of 

issue preclusion. But it is not a sufficient condition. The other requirements are set forth in the 

Restatement (Second) of Judgments§ 27: "When an issue of fact or law is actually litigated and 
the determination is essential to the judgment, the determination is conclusive in a subsequent 

action between the parties, whether on the same or a different claim." Thus, although issue 

preclusion can be invoked in a later suit that involves a claim that is different from the claim 

that was decided in the first lawsuit, its requirements include identity of issue, that the issue 

was actually litigated in the prior lawsuit, and that the determination of the issue was essential 

to the judgment in the prior lawsuit.  On the facts of this problem the question of the falsity of 

the proxy statement in the second lawsuit is clearly the same issue as the falsity of the same 

proxy statement in the first lawsuit. But determining whether two issues are the same or 

identical is not always so easy.  Restatement (Second) tends to take a pragmatic approach to the 

question of issue-identity; moreover, courts generally take the view that "[i]ssues are not 

identical if the second action involves application of a different legal standard, even though the 

factual setting of both suits be the same." Peterson v.  Clark Leasing Carp., 451 F.2d 1291, 1292 

(9th Cir.  1971). 

Answer SO 

(B) is correct because it recognizes that a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict 

(JNOV)  under FRCP  SO(b)  is essentially a renewal of a motion for a judgment made preverdict 

and cannot be made unless the preverdict motion under FRCP SO( a) was made. Indeed, the 

motion J NOV generally may include only those issues included in the earlier motion. The rule 

provides that "[i]f the court does not grant a motion for judgment as a matter of law made 

under Rule SO( a) . .. the movant may file a renewed motion  .. . . "  On the facts presented 

Defendant failed to make a motion before the case was submitted to the jury and therefore 

cannot move for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.  Courts "strictly construe the 

procedural requirement of filing a Rule SO(a)  motion before filing a Rule SO(b)  motion."  Tartu v. 

Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Dept., 556 F.3d 1075, 1081 (9th Cir. 2009). This requirement 

applies despite 2006 amendments to FRCP  50 that the motion for judgment as a matter of law 

need not be made at the close of evidence; the motion still must be made before the judge 

submits the case to the jury. The note to the 2006 Amendments states, in pertinent part: "Rule 

SO( b)  is amended to permit renewal of any Rule SO( a)  motion for judgment as a matter of law, 

105 

Civil  Procedure Answers 

deleting the requirement that a motion be made at the close of all the evidence. Because the 

Rule SO(b) motion is only a renewal of the preverdict motion, it can be granted only on grounds 

advanced in the preverdict motion . . . . "  Under these circumstances, Defendant has forfeited 

the opportunity to move JNOV.  However, if the evidence does not support the verdict, the 

court may order a new trial; FRCP  59, which governs motions for a new trial, does not require 

the making of a preverdict motion. See  Pediatrix Screening,  Inc.  v.  Telechem Intern.,  Inc. , 602 

F.3d 541, 546 (3d Cir. 2010). 

(A)  is not correct because although it correctly states the standard applied to a motion J NOV,  it 

fails to take account of the procedural requirements of the motion, as expla ined with respect to 

Choice (B). A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict under FRCP SO(b)  is subject to 

the same standard as that of a motion for judgment as a matter of law under FRCP  SO( a). The 

trial court may not "reweigh the evidence or assess the credibility of witnesses"; the question is 

whether "only if in viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, 

there is no genuine issue of material fact for the jury, and  reasonable minds could come to but 

one conclusion, in favor of the moving party." Radvansky v.  City of Olmsted Falls, 496 F.3d 609, 

614 (6th Cir. 2007). However, because Defendant may not make the motion JNOV without 

having first made a preverdict motion for judgment as a matter of law, the judge may not 

consider the substance of the motion. 

(C)  is not correct because the requirement that it  states does not apply to the disposition of 
motions for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. As explained with respect to Choice (B), the 

motion under FRCP SO(b) must follow upon a preverdict motion for a judgment as a matter of 

law under FRCP  SO( a). But there is no requirement that an objection be made to jury 

instructions, and the failure to make such an objection does not make the instructions law of 

the case (this doctrine  provides that "when a court decides upon a rule of law, that decision 

should continue to govern the same issues in subsequent stages in the same case."  United 

States v. Aramony,  166 F.3d 655, 661 (4th Cir.1999)  (quotation omitted)). 

(D)  is not correct because even if the motion were timely, the right to have the court order a 

judgment notwithstanding the verdict is not automatic; the court must consider whether the 

verdict is supported by sufficient evidence. Moreover, the motion was not t imely. A renewed 

post-judgment motion under FRCP  SO(b) must be filed not later than twenty-eight days after 

the entry of the judgment. Courts are divided as to whether the twenty-eight day rule is 

jurisdictional and whether it  can  be enlarged by the district court. See, e.g., Clergeau v.  Local 

1181, Amalgamated Transit Union, AFL-CIO, 162 Fed. Appx. 32 (2d Cir. 2005) (applying the pre 

amendment ten-day deadline, and treating it as "jurisdictional"). Here, Defendant made his 

motion sixty days after entry of judgment. 

106 

