Page 150

Question 1600 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (7/24/2016) 

The question was: 

A police officer had a hunch, not amounting to probable cause or reasonable suspicion, that a man was a drug dealer.
One day while the officer was on highway patrol, her radar gun clocked the man's car at 68 mph in an area where the
maximum posted speed limit was 65 mph. The officer's usual practice was not to stop a car unless it was going at
least 5 mph over the posted limit, but contrary to her usual practice, she decided to stop the man's car in the hope that
she might discover evidence of drug dealing. After she stopped the car and announced that she would be writing a
speeding ticket, the officer ordered the man and his passenger to step out of the car. When the passenger stepped
out, the officer saw that the passenger had been sitting on a clear bag of what the officer immediately recognized as
marijuana. The officer arrested both the man and the passenger for possession of marijuana.   

At their joint trial, the man and the passenger claim that their Fourth Amendment rights were violated because the
officer improperly (1) stopped the car for speeding as a pretext for investigating a hunch rather than for the stated
purpose of issuing a traffic ticket and (2) ordered the passenger to step out of the car even though there was no
reason to believe that the passenger was a criminal or dangerous.   

Are the man and the passenger correct?  

A: No, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car. 
B: No as to the stop of the car, but yes as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car. 
C: Yes as to the stop of the car, but no as to the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car. 
D: Yes, as to both the stop of the car and the officer's order that the passenger step out of the car. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is correct. The stop of the car was constitutional, because it was objectively justifiable (regardless of the officer's
subjective motivation), and both the driver and any passengers may be ordered to step out of a car during a lawful
traffic stop.   

B is incorrect. It is correct that the stop of the car was constitutional, because it was objectively justifiable (regardless
of the officer's subjective motivation). However, it is also correct that both the driver and any passengers may be
ordered to step out of a car during a lawful traffic stop.   

C is incorrect. It is correct that both the driver and any passengers may be ordered to step out of a car during a lawful
traffic stop. However, it is also correct that the stop of the car here was constitutional, because it was objectively
justifiable (regardless of the officer's subjective motivation).   

D is incorrect. The stop of the car was constitutional, because it was objectively justifiable (regardless of the officer's
subjective motivation), and both the driver and any passengers may be ordered to step out of the car during a lawful
traffic stop. 













Page 151

Question 749 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/6/2017) 

The question was: 

A statute provides: A person commits the crime of rape if he has sexual intercourse with a female, not his wife, without
her consent.  

 A man is charged with the rape of a woman.  At trial, the woman testifies to facts sufficient for a jury to find that the
man had sexual intercourse with her, that she did not consent, and that the two were not married.  The man testifies in
his own defense that he believed she consented to sexual intercourse and that she was his common-law wife.  

 At the conclusion of the case, the court instructed the jury that in order to find the man guilty of rape, it must find
beyond a reasonable doubt that he had sexual intercourse with the woman without her consent.  

 The court also instructed the jury that it should find the defendant not guilty if it found either that the woman was the
man's wife or that the man reasonably believed that the woman had consented to the sexual intercourse, but that the
burden of persuasion as to these issues was on the defendant.  

 The jury found the man guilty, and the man appealed, contending that the court's instructions on the issues of
whether the woman was his wife and whether he reasonably believed she had consented violated his constitutional
rights.  

 The man's constitutional rights were  

A: violated by the instructions as to both issues. 
B: violated by the instruction as to whether the woman was his wife, but not violated by the instruction on belief as to
consent. 
C: violated by the instruction on belief as to consent, but not violated by the instruction as to whether the woman was
his wife. 
D: not violated by either part of the instructions. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  When the time of the decision comes, the jury must be instructed how to decide the issue if
their minds remain in doubt. If all the evidence is in and the issue is balanced in the mind of the jury, then the party
with the burden of persuasion must lose. In a criminal prosecution, each element of a crime must be proved beyond a
reasonable doubt. In this case, the prosecution must prove three things: (1) that the man had sexual intercourse with
a woman (2) who was not his wife and (3) without her consent. All three must be proven by the prosecution beyond a
reasonable doubt, and this burden of persuasion will not be shifted onto the defendant. Therefore, the burden of
persuasion about whether the woman was the man's wife must be on the prosecution, and the judge's instruction to
the contrary was a violation of the defendant's constitutional rights.    

 A jury instruction that places the burden of persuasion on the defendant regarding an affirmative defense, in this case
regarding the man's reasonable belief that the woman had consented, is not improper and does not violate the man's
constitutional rights.  Therefore, placing the burden on the defendant to show that he reasonably believed that the
woman had consented would not violate his constitutional rights.  

 Answer A is incorrect because placing the burden on the man to persuade the jury that he had a reasonable belief of
consent does not go to the elements of the charge of rape and instead is an affirmative defense.  Answers C and D
are incorrect because the prosecution bears the burden of persuasion for each element of the offense.  















Page 152

Question 1047 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/7/2017) 

The question was: 

The police had, over time, accumulated reliable information that a suspect operated a large cocaine-distribution
network, that he and his accomplices often resorted to violence, and that they kept a small arsenal of weapons in his
home.  

  One day, the police received reliable information that a large brown suitcase with leather straps containing a supply
of cocaine had been delivered to the suspect's home and that it would be moved to a distribution point the next
morning.  The police obtained a valid search warrant to search for and seize the brown suitcase and the cocaine and
went to the suspect's house.  

 The police knocked on the suspect's door and called out, "Police.  Open up.  We have a search warrant."  After a few
seconds with no response, the police forced the door open and entered.  Hearing noises in the basement, the police
ran down there and found the suspect with a large brown suitcase and put handcuffs on the suspect.  A search of his
person revealed a switchblade knife and a .45-caliber pistol.  The suspect cursed the police and said, "You never
would have caught me with the stuff if it hadn't been for that lousy snitch Harvey!"  The police then fanned out through
the house, looking in every room and closet.  They found no one else, but one officer found an Uzi automatic weapon
in a box on a closet shelf in the suspect's bedroom.  In addition to charges relating to the cocaine in the suitcase, the
suspect is charged with unlawful possession of weapons.  

 The suspect moves pretrial to suppress the use as evidence of the weapons seized by the police and of the
statement he made.  

 As to the switchblade knife and the .45-caliber pistol, the suspect's motion to suppress should be  

A: granted, because the search and seizure were the result of illegal police conduct in executing the search warrant. 
B: granted, because the police did not inform the suspect that he was under arrest and did not read him his Miranda
rights. 
C: denied, because the search and seizure were incident to a lawful arrest. 
D: denied, because the police had reasonable grounds to believe that there were weapons in the house. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The suspect was under arrest at the time, and the search of his person was a proper search
incident to arrest.  Once a person is placed under arrest, police officers have the right to search the person and the
immediate surroundings of the person for any weapons and evidence of the crime without first having to obtain a
warrant.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the police officers acted properly in the execution of the search warrant and were
allowed to search the suspect for any weapons upon his arrest.  Answer B is incorrect because the suspect does not
need to be informed that he is under arrest before the search incident to the arrest can take place.  In addition,
whether or not the suspect received his Miranda warnings prior to the search is irrelevant to the search incident to
arrest and the finding of physical evidence on his person.  

 Answer D is incorrect because the officers' reasonable belief that there are weapons present would not, without more,
authorize the search of the suspect.  Answer D is a misstatement of the standard for reviewing the constitutionality of
the search in this case.  The knife and the .45 caliber pistol were found on his person and were found pursuant to a
search incident to arrest, so the suspect's motion to suppress these pieces of evidence should be denied. 














Page 153

Question 1120 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/13/2017) 

The question was: 

A marijuana farmer had been missing for several months.  The sheriff's department received an anonymous tip that a
rival marijuana farmer had buried the marijuana farmer in a hillside about 200 yards from the rival's farmhouse.  The
sheriff's deputies went to the rival's farm.  They cut the barbed wire that surrounded the hillside and entered, looking
for the grave.  They also searched the adjacent fields on the rival's farm that were within the area enclosed by the
barbed wire and discovered clothing that belonged to the marijuana farmer hanging on a scarecrow.  The rival
observed their discovery and began shooting.  The deputies returned fire.  The rival dashed to his pickup truck to
escape.  Unable to start the truck, he fled across a field toward the barn.  A deputy tackled him just as he entered the
barn.  

 As the rival attempted to get up, the deputy pinned his arms behind his back.  Another deputy threatened, "Tell us
what you did with the marijuana farmer or we will shut you down and see your family on relief."  The rival responded
that he had killed the marijuana farmer in a fight but did not report the incident because he did not want authorities to
enter his land and discover his marijuana crop.  Instead, he buried him behind the barn.  The rival was thereafter
charged with murder.  

 If the rival moves to exclude the introduction of the marijuana farmer's clothing into evidence, the court should  

A: grant the motion, because the deputies had not obtained a warrant. 
B: grant the motion, because the deputies' conduct in its entirety violated the rival's right to due process of law. 
C: deny the motion, because the rival had no expectation of privacy in the fields around his farmhouse. 
D: deny the motion, because the clothing was not the rival's property. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The fields around the rival's farmhouse are considered held out to the public under the
"open fields" doctrine, so the rival did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in them or in the scarecrow on
which the victim's clothes were hanging.  Because the fields were not protected by the Fourth Amendment, the police
officers' search did not violate the rival's constitutional rights.  The rival's motion to suppress should be denied.  

   Answer A is incorrect because the rival had no reasonable expectation of privacy in lands visible to the public, and
the police officer's did not need to obtain a warrant to see the evidence.  

 Answer B is incorrect because it is a misstatement of the relevant law regarding search and seizure; answer B refers
to the rival's right to due process of law, whereas search and seizure law is covered by the fourth amendment.  

   Answer D is incorrect because actual ownership of the searched or seized property is not the deciding factor in
determining the propriety of the search.  Because the clothing was on the rival's land when the search and seizure
occurred, the fact that it belonged to somebody else is irrelevant.  Therefore, because the rival did not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy in the lands around his farmhouse, the clothing should not be suppressed. 













Page 154

Question 619 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

Police received information from an undercover police officer that she had just seen two men (whom she described) in
a red pickup truck selling marijuana to schoolchildren near the city's largest high school.  A few minutes later, two
police officers saw a pickup truck fitting the description a half block from the high school.  The driver of the truck
matched the description of one of the men described by the undercover officer.  

 The only passenger was a young woman who was in the back of the truck.  The police saw her get out and stand at a
nearby bus stop.  They stopped the truck and searched the driver.  In the pocket of the driver's jacket, the police found
a small bottle of pills that they recognized as narcotics.  They then broke open a locked toolbox attached to the flatbed
of the truck and found a small sealed envelope inside.  They opened it and found marijuana.  They also found a
quantity of cocaine in the glove compartment.  

 After completing their search of the driver and the truck, the police went over to the young woman and searched her
purse.  In her purse, they found a small quantity of heroin.  Both the driver and the young woman were arrested and
charged with unlawful possession of narcotics.  

 If the driver moves to suppress the use as evidence of the marijuana and cocaine found in the search of the truck, the
court should  

A: grant the motion as to both the marijuana and the cocaine. 
B: grant the motion as to the marijuana but deny it as to the cocaine. 
C: deny the motion as to the marijuana but grant it as to the cocaine. 
D: deny the motion as to both the marijuana and the cocaine. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  Under the automobile exception to the warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment, the
police may properly search a vehicle, including any containers contained therein, that might contain the evidence they
seek without first obtaining a warrant.  Therefore, if the police have reason to believe there is illegal contraband in the
car, they can search the entire car for the contraband.   

 Here, a police officer reported that the driver of the vehicle was selling marijuana, and gave a description of the truck
and the driver.  This information gave the two police officers the probable cause needed to search a vehicle matching
the description. The automobile exception allows the warrantless search of the vehicle, of any container in the vehicle
which may contain the evidence sought, and the belongings of the people inside the vehicle. The police were thus
constitutionally permitted to search the glove compartment, the locked toolbox, and the sealed envelope for more
evidence of marijuana. Answers A, B, and C are incorrect because the automobile exception allows for a warrantless
search of the entire car and any compartment that might contain the marijuana as long as there is probable cause for
the search.   












Page 155

Question 146 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

Police officers were concerned about an increase in marijuana traffic in the defendant's neighborhood.  One night,
several police officers, accompanied by dogs trained to sniff out marijuana, went into the back yard of the defendant's
house and onto his porch.  The defendant and his friend were inside having dinner.  The dogs acted as if they smelled
marijuana.  The police officers knocked on the back door.  The defendant answered the door and let them in.  The
defendant was immediately placed under arrest.  After a brief search, the police officers confiscated a large quantity of
marijuana which they found in the defendant's linen closet.  

 The defendant's motion to prevent introduction of the marijuana into evidence will most probably be  

A: denied, because the search was incident to a valid arrest. 
B: denied, because the defendant permitted the police officers to enter his house. 
C: granted, because under the circumstances the police activity violated the defendant's reasonable expectations of
privacy. 
D: granted, because this kind of detection by trained dogs has not been scientifically verified and cannot be the basis
for probable cause. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C. The defendant has a reasonable expectation of privacy in his back yard and porch, and the
police, by entering the porch with the dogs, were conducting an illegal, warrantless search. The defendant's motion to
exclude the evidence should be granted. Answer A is incorrect because the arrest was not valid; the defendant was
arrested due to the illegal, warrantless search. Furthermore, a search incident to arrest is limited to the defendant and
the area within his immediate control. In this case, the evidence was found in a linen closet in the defendant's
residence after the defendant had been placed under arrest. This exceeded the scope of a valid search incident to an
arrest.  

    Answer B is incorrect because permitting police officers to enter a residence does not allow the police to search the
entire residence. The police officers would have needed to obtain the consent to search as well as the consent to
enter if the evidence was not in plain sight. Since the evidence was in a closet and no consent to search was given,
the evidence should be excluded. Answer D is incorrect because dogs trained in drug detection can be used to
provide the basis for probable cause to search.  










Page 156

Question 480 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant is indicted in state court for bribing a public official.  During the course of the investigation, police had
demanded and received from the defendant's bank the records of the defendant's checking account for the preceding
two years.  The records contained incriminating evidence.  

 On the basis of a claim of violation of his constitutional rights, the defendant moves to prevent the introduction of
records in evidence.  His motion should be  

A: granted, because a search warrant should have been secured for seizure of the records. 
B: granted, because the records covered such an extensive period of time that their seizure unreasonably invaded the
defendant's right of privacy. 
C: denied, because the potential destructibility of the records, coupled with the public interest in proper enforcement of
the criminal laws, created an exigent situation justifying the seizure. 
D: denied, because the records were business records of the bank in which the defendant had no legitimate
expectation of privacy. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  The records sought were the records of the bank, not the defendant, and the Supreme Court
has held that a person has no reasonable expectation of privacy in the bank records of their account. See U.S. v.
Miller. Answer A is incorrect because, since there is no reasonable expectation of privacy in records that belong to the
bank, there is no constitutional requirement that the police obtain a search warrant before the records can be seized.
Answer B is incorrect because the period of time of the records seized is of little or no relevance to the determination
of the propriety of the seizure itself.  Because the defendant did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in his
bank records, obtaining those records, even for the previous two years, did not violate his rights.  Answer C is
incorrect because it misstates the reason the records can be seized.  There were no exigent circumstances to
authorize the seizure of the bank records.  However, the seizure is proper because the defendant did not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy. 









Page 157

Question 872 - Criminal Law - Constitutional Protection of Accused Persons (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant was arrested in the victim's apartment after her neighbors had reported sounds of a struggle, and the
police arrived to find the defendant bent over the victim's prostrate body.  The victim was rushed to the hospital where
she lapsed into a coma.  Despite the explanation that he was trying to revive the victim after she suddenly collapsed,
the defendant was charged with attempted rape and assault after a neighbor informed the police that she had heard
the victim sobbing, "No, please no, let me alone."  

 At trial, the forensic evidence was inconclusive.  The jury acquitted the defendant of attempted rape but convicted him
of assault.  While he was serving his sentence for assault, the victim, who had never recovered from the coma, died.
The defendant was then indicted and tried on a charge of felony murder.  In this common-law jurisdiction, there is no
statute that prevents a prosecutor from proceeding in this manner, but the defendant argued that a second trial for
attempted rape and assault would violate the double jeopardy clause.  

 His claim is  

A: correct, because he was acquitted of the attempted rape charge. 
B: correct, because he was convicted of the assault charge. 
C: incorrect, because the victim had not died at the time of the first trial and he was not placed in jeopardy for murder. 
D: incorrect, because he was convicted of the assault charge. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct.  The attempted rape charge cannot be the basis for the felony-murder charge because the
defendant has been acquitted of the charge and to use it would violate the double jeopardy clause.  The double
jeopardy clause forbids the state from prosecuting, or punishing, a defendant twice for the same action.  In this case,
the defendant was placed in jeopardy during the original trial for attempted rape, and to use that charge again as the
underlying felony in a felony murder charge would put him in jeopardy again.  Assault, at common law, is not a felony
and cannot be used as the basis for a felony-murder charge.  

 Answer B is incorrect because it is the acquittal on the attempted rape charge that violates the defendant's rights
under the double jeopardy clause and not the conviction of the assault charge.  Answer C is incorrect because the
defendant is charged with felony murder based on the felony of attempted rape.  He has been placed in jeopardy
already for the attempted rape.  Although the prosecutor may proceed on a different theory of murder, proceeding on
a felony-murder charge with the underlying felony being attempted rape would violate double jeopardy.  Answer D is
incorrect because the conviction on the assault charge ignores the acquittal on the felony charge of attempted rape,
which is the basis for the felony murder charge.  The conviction for one of the charged offenses does not mean that
the defendant was not subject to jeopardy on the other charge that he was acquitted of.  Because the defendant was
already placed in jeopardy for the attempted rape charge, it cannot be used as the basis of a new charge of felony
murder. 











Page 158

Question 1450 - Criminal Law - General Principles (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A defendant was charged with battery, defined as at common law. At trial, an expert witness testified for the defense
that the defendant, an athlete, was under the influence of a performance-enhancing drug at the time he committed the
battery and that he would not have done so had he not been so influenced. The defendant asked for an instruction to
the effect that if the jury believed that he was influenced by the drug at the time of the crime and would not have
committed it otherwise, it had to acquit him.  

 Which of the following circumstances would most aid the defendant's argument in favor of such an instruction?  

A: Evidence that the defendant is addicted to this drug and has an overwhelming urge to consume it. 
B: Evidence that the defendant's coach, who gave him the drug, told him it was only an aspirin. 
C: Evidence that the victim of the assault taunted the defendant about his use of the drug immediately before the
assault. 
D: Expert testimony that a reasonable person, on consuming this drug, may experience uncontrollable rages. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer B is correct. Battery is the unlawful application of force to the person of another resulting in either an offensive
touching or bodily injury. Battery is also a general intent crime. "General intent" is an awareness of all the factors
constituting the crime. Voluntary intoxication is not a valid defense to a general intent crime. Thus, the most helpful
fact supporting an intoxication defense would be evidence that the intoxication was involuntary, which could be shown
by evidence demonstrating that the defendant was tricked into taking a substance that he did not know was an
intoxicant. Answer B is correct.  

 As stated above, voluntary intoxication would not be a defense to the crime of battery, and the fact that a defendant
was addicted to a drug does not make intoxication with that drug involuntary for purposes of the criminal law. Thus,
Answer A is incorrect.  

 Nor would the victim's taunting constitute a valid defense. The victim's taunting would not support an intoxication
instruction, which would be proper only if there was evidence showing that the intoxication was involuntary. Thus,
Answer C is incorrect.  

 Answer D is incorrect. The expert testimony would not support an instruction because voluntary intoxication,
regardless of the intoxicant's effects, is not a defense to the crime of battery. 












Page 159

Question 831 - Criminal Law - General Principles (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A bartender is charged with the statutory offense of "knowingly violating a regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board" and that he knowingly violated regulation number 345-90 issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.  That regulation prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of 18 and also
prohibits the sale of any alcoholic beverage to a person over the age of 17 and under the age of 22 without the
presentation of such person's driver's license or other identification showing the age of the purchaser to be 18 or
older.  

 The evidence showed that the bartender worked in a tavern and sold a bottle of beer to a person who was 17 years
old and that the bartender did not ask for or see the purchaser's driver's license or any other identification.  

 Which of the following, if found by the jury, would be of the most help to the bartender?  

A: The purchaser had a driver's license that falsely showed his age to be 21. 
B: The bartender had never been told he was supposed to check identification of persons over 17 and under 22
before selling them alcohol. 
C: The bartender did not know that the regulations classified beer as an alcoholic beverage. 
D: The bartender mistakenly believed the purchaser to be 24 years old. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  The regulation stating that bartenders must require people between the ages of 18 and 21 to
show identification of their age carries with it the implication that people above the age of 21 are not required to show
identification.  The bartender's best argument is that, since he mistakenly believed the purchaser to be 24 years old,
he was allowed to sell them beer and was not required to obtain identification; in relying on that statute, he did not
ascertain the minor's age.  This may allow him to argue that the regulation contains a mens rea element requiring that
he knowingly violate the law.  Because the bartender did not knowingly sell alcohol to the minor, he should be
acquitted.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the fact that the purchaser could have presented a fake identification does not excuse
the bartender's not asking to see it; his only legitimate excuse would be that he believed the person to be over 21 and
that the statute includes a mens rea requirement.  Answer B is incorrect because ignorance of the law is generally not
an excuse, and the bartender's not being told that he has to check identification does not affect the offense's mens rea
requirement.  When a crime requires that the defendant act knowingly, he must have been aware that his conduct was
of a particular nature, or at least know that his conduct will necessarily or very likely cause a particular result.  Here,
he must have been aware of the fact that he was selling to a minor, or to someone between the ages of 18 and 21,
not the fact that his conduct was violating that regulation.  

 Answer C is incorrect because, again, ignorance of the law is no excuse, and not knowing that beer is an alcoholic
beverage does not excuse the bartender's actions.  If the jury found that the bartender mistakenly believed the
purchaser to be 24-years-old, the bartender could argue that he relied on the statute's requiring identification from 18
to 21 year olds, and thus did not meet the mens rea requirement of the regulation. 












Page 160

Question 808 - Criminal Law - General Principles (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

Plagued by neighborhood youths who had been stealing lawn furniture from his back yard, a homeowner remained
awake each night watching for them.  One evening the homeowner heard noises in his backyard.  He yelled out,
warning intruders to leave.  Receiving no answer, he fired a shotgun filled with nonlethal buckshot into bushes along
his back fence where he believed the intruders might be hiding.  A six-year-old child was hiding in the bushes and was
struck in the eye by some of the pellets, causing loss of sight.  

 If the homeowner is charged with second-degree assault, which is defined in the jurisdiction as "maliciously causing
serious physical injury to another," he is  

A: not guilty, because the child was trespassing and he was using what he believed was nondeadly force. 
B: not guilty, because he did not intend to kill or to cause serious physical injury. 
C: guilty, because he recklessly caused serious physical injury. 
D: guilty, because there is no privilege to use force against a person who is too young to be criminally responsible. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  Proof of malice does not need to be proof of an actual specific intent to kill or harm another;
it can be implied from a defendant's gross recklessness with regard to human life shown.  In this case, the homeowner
fired a shotgun into bushes where he believed people were hiding. This action would support a finding of malice. The
shooting caused the child to lose his sight, which is a serious injury. Therefore, the homeowner is guilty of second-
degree assault.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the child's status as a trespasser does not automatically allow the homeowner to inflict
serious bodily harm.  In addition, the homeowner's belief that the force would be non-deadly would not negate the
finding that he acted maliciously.  Answer B is incorrect because a finding of malice does not require the intent to kill
or to cause serious physical injury.  Malice can also be shown by the homeowner acting extremely recklessly with
regard to human life.  Answer D is incorrect because it is a misstatement of the law regarding the use of force.  The
homeowner, when he fired a shotgun into bushes by his back fence, acted maliciously and caused a serious injury to
another.  He should be found guilty of second degree assault.    










Page 161

Question 422 - Criminal Law - General Principles (2/6/2017) 

The question was: 

Which of the following is most likely to be found to be a strict liability offense?  

A: A city ordinance providing for a fine of not more than $200 for shoplifting. 
B: A federal statute making it a felony to possess heroin. 
C: A state statute making it a felony to fail to register a firearm. 
D: A state statute making the sale of adulterated milk a misdemeanor. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer and can be reached through the process of elimination.  A strict liability crime is a light-penalty
public welfare offense, which does not require that the actor have mens rea; rather, the actor need only perform the
action prohibited by statute.  Although for public policy concerns we impose punishment without mens rea, the
punishment is usually lighter than that for a crime where intent, recklessness, or knowledge has been proved.  

 Answers B and C can be eliminated immediately as they are both felony crimes, which are subject to more severe
penalties.  Answer A is not the best answer because it is not a public welfare offense, but an ordinance against theft.
This leaves choice D as the best answer.  The sale of adulterated milk is clearly a matter of public welfare and as such
could be subject to a strict liability statute.  A, B, and C are incorrect. 









Page 162

Question 1510 - Criminal Law - General Principles (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A woman charged with murder has entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. At her trial, in which the
questions of guilt and sanity are being tried together, the evidence shows that the woman stalked the victim for
several hours before following him to an isolated hiking trail where she shot and killed him. Expert witnesses for the
defense have testified that the woman knew that killing was illegal and wrong, but that she suffered from a serious
mental illness that left her in the grip of a powerful and irresistible compulsion to kill the victim.   

If the jury believes the testimony of the defense experts, under what circumstances could the jury properly acquit the
woman of murder?  

A: Only if the jurisdiction follows the M'Naghten test for insanity. 
B: Only if the jurisdiction follows the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity. 
C: If the jurisdiction follows either the M'Naghten or the ALI Model Penal Code test for insanity. 
D: Even if the jurisdiction has abolished the insanity defense. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect. The jury could not find the woman to be legally insane under the M'Naghten test, which requires either
that she did not know the nature and quality of the act she was committing or that she did not know the difference
between right and wrong.   

B is correct. The jury could find the woman to be legally insane under the ALI Model Penal Code test, because she
could not conform her conduct to the requirements of the law.   

C is incorrect. The jury could not find the woman to be legally insane under the M'Naghten test, which requires either
that she did not know the nature and quality of the act she was committing or that she did not know the difference
between right and wrong. The jury could find the woman to be legally insane under the ALI Model Penal Code test,
because she could not conform her conduct to the requirements of the law.   

D is incorrect. The woman committed all the elements of murder and can be excused from responsibility only if she
meets a recognized defense of insanity. 












Page 163

Question 529 - Criminal Law - Homicide (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

The defendant and his friend were fooling around with a pistol in the friend's den.  The defendant aimed the pistol in
the friend's direction and fired three shots slightly to the friend's right.  One shot ricocheted off the wall and struck his
friend in the back, killing him instantly.  

 The most serious crime of which the defendant can be convicted is  

A: murder. 
B: voluntary manslaughter. 
C: involuntary manslaughter. 
D: assault with a dangerous weapon. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  At common law, murder is defined as the unlawful killing of another human with malice
aforethought.  By firing multiple shots from a pistol extremely close to his friend, the defendant was acting with
reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life.  This reckless indifference would qualify as malice
aforethought, and would support a murder conviction. Because the defendant's actions could support a murder
conviction, B, C, and D are incorrect as they are less serious offenses.  









Page 164

Question 1042 - Criminal Law - Homicide (2/3/2017) 

The question was: 

At a party, the defendant and the victim agreed to play a game they called "spin the barrel."  The victim took an
unloaded revolver, placed one bullet in the barrel, and spun the barrel.  The victim then pointed the gun at the
defendant's head and pulled the trigger once.  The gun did not fire.  The defendant then took the gun, pointed it at the
victim, spun the barrel, and pulled the trigger once.  The gun fired, and the victim fell over dead.  

 A statute in the jurisdiction defines murder in the first degree as an intentional and premeditated killing or one
occurring during the commission of a common-law felony, and murder in the second degree as all other murder at
common law.  Manslaughter is defined as a killing in the heat of passion upon an adequate legal provocation or a
killing caused by gross negligence.  

 The most serious crime for which the defendant can properly be convicted is  

A: murder in the first degree, because the killing was intentional and premeditated and, in any event, occurred during
commission of the felony of assault with a deadly weapon. 
B: murder in the second degree, because the defendant's act posed a great threat of serious bodily harm. 
C: manslaughter, because the defendant's act was grossly negligent and reckless. 
D: no crime, because the victim and the defendant voluntarily agreed to play a game and each assumed the risk of
death. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The defendant's pointing a loaded weapon at the victim and pulling the trigger posed a great
threat of serious bodily injury to the victim, and, because it resulted in the victim's death, the defendant should be
convicted of murder in the second degree.  Murder in the second degree is murder with malice aforethought, done
without premeditation and deliberation.  The defendant's actions were done with reckless indifference to an
unjustifiably high risk to human life, and will support a finding of malice aforethought.   

 Answer A is incorrect because there is no evidence that the defendant intended to kill the victim.  Because the statute
defines first degree murder as the premeditated and intentional killing of another, and there is no evidence that the
defendant intended to kill the victim, she will not be convicted of murder in the first degree.  In addition, answer A is
also incorrect because the underlying felony in a felony murder charge must be sufficiently independent of the actual
killing.  In this case, the underlying felony of assault with a deadly weapon would merge into the homicide charge and
would not be independent enough to allow for a proper felony murder charge.  The defendant cannot be properly
convicted of first degree murder under either theory.  

 Answer C is incorrect because manslaughter is not the most serious crime for which the defendant can properly be
convicted.  In addition, the defendant's actions were beyond mere negligence, and the killing of the victim was done
with malice aforethought. The defendant should be convicted of murder in the second degree.  

 Answer D is incorrect because a victim's voluntarily playing the game and his assumption of risk are irrelevant to the
determination of criminal responsibility.  The most serious crime for which the defendant can be properly convicted is
second degree murder. 













Page 165

Question 696 - Criminal Law - Homicide (2/7/2017) 

The question was: 

A bank teller was fired by the president of a bank.  The teller wanted to take revenge against the president, but
decided against attempting it personally, because he knew the president was protected around the clock by bank
security guards.  The teller knew a man who had a violent temper and was very jealous.  The teller falsely told the
man that the man's wife was having an affair with the bank president.  Enraged, the man said, "What am I going to
do?"  The teller said, "If it were my wife, I'd just march into his office and blow his brains out."  The man grabbed a
revolver and rushed to the bank.  He walked into the bank, carrying the gun in his hand.  One of the security guards,
believing a holdup was about to occur, shot and killed the man.  

 If charged with murder of the man, the teller should be found  

A: guilty, based upon extreme recklessness. 
B: guilty, based upon transferred intent. 
C: not guilty, because he did not intend for the man to be shot by the security guard. 
D: not guilty, because he did not shoot the man, and he was not acting in concert with the security guard. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought.  Malice does not
require the intent to kill; in some cases, there may be "implied malice" if there was gross or extreme recklessness to
human life on the part of the defendant.  In the question, the teller, knowing the man to be violent and jealous, lied to
him, and suggested he commit murder.  By taking actions that ensured the man would be walking into a heavily
guarded bank with a gun, the teller acted with extreme recklessness; this is enough to show implied malice
aforethought.  Therefore, the teller should be found guilty of murder.  An additional facet of the question raises the
issue of whether the teller was a "proximate cause" of the man's death.  The general test is whether the death was
foreseeable; a defendant will be held criminally liable for the foreseeable consequences of their actions.  In this case,
by ensuring the man would enter a heavily guarded bank with the intent to kill the president and armed with a gun, it
was foreseeable that the man would be killed.  

 Answer B is incorrect because transferred intent does not apply in cases where the actor doing the killing is different
than the one who has the intent to kill the president.  The teller's intent to kill the president will not transfer to the
security guard's' action of killing the man.  Answer C is incorrect because the "implied malice" doctrine does not
require that the teller have the intent that the man be killed; it is sufficient that the death of the man was a foreseeable
result of the actions the teller put into motion, and that those actions were taken with extreme recklessness.  Answer
D is incorrect because the charge does not require that the teller be the one to shoot the man or that he act in concert
with the security guard.  Because the teller proximately caused the death of the man and did so with malice
aforethought, the teller should be found guilty of murder. 










Page 166

Question 1255 - Criminal Law - Homicide (2/7/2017) 

The question was: 

A man, despondent and angry over losing his job, was contemplating suicide. With his revolver in his pocket, he went
to a bar and drank until he was very intoxicated. He overheard a customer on the next barstool telling the bartender
how it was necessary for companies to downsize in order to keep the economy strong. The man turned to the
customer and said, "Why don't you shut the hell up." The customer responded, "This is a free country, and I can say
what I want," all the while shaking his finger at the man. The man became enraged, snatched his revolver from his
pocket, and shot the customer, killing him.  

 A state statute defines first-degree murder as "knowingly causing the death of another person after deliberation upon
the matter." Deliberation is defined as "cool reflection for any length of time, no matter how brief." Second-degree
murder is defined as "knowingly causing the death of another person." Manslaughter is defined as at common law.  

 What crime did the man commit?  

A: Manslaughter, because there was a reasonable explanation for his becoming enraged. 
B: First-degree murder, because deliberation can take place in an instant. 
C: First-degree murder, because he contemplated taking a human life before becoming intoxicated. 
D: Second-degree murder, because he knowingly caused the customer's death without deliberation. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct.  While the man's intoxication prevented the kind of "cool reflection" required for first-degree
murder, it did not preclude the mental state required for second-degree murder.  

 Answer A is incorrect.  There was no reasonable explanation for the man becoming enraged.  Although his
intoxication prevented the kind of "cool reflection" required for first-degree murder, it did not preclude the mental state
required for second-degree murder.  

 Answer B is incorrect.  Even assuming that deliberation can be instantaneous, the man's intoxicated anger prevented
the kind of "cool reflection" required for deliberation. However, while his intoxication prevented the mental state
required for first-degree murder, it did not preclude the mental state required for second-degree murder.  

 Answer C is incorrect.  The man did not deliberate upon taking the life "of another person" (as required by the statute)
before becoming intoxicated.  Although his intoxication prevented the kind of "cool reflection" required for first-degree
murder, it did not preclude the mental state required for second-degree murder. 













Page 167

Question 708 - Criminal Law - Homicide (2/14/2017) 

The question was: 

One evening, a bar patron had several drinks and then started to drive home.  As he was proceeding down Main
Boulevard, an automobile pulled out of a side street to his right.  The bar patron's car struck this automobile
broadside.  The driver of the other car was killed as a result of the collision.  A breath analysis test administered after
the accident showed that the bar patron satisfied the legal definition of intoxication.  

 If the bar patron is prosecuted for manslaughter, his best chance for acquittal would be based on an argument that  

A: the other driver was contributorily negligent. 
B: the collision would have occurred even if the bar patron had not been intoxicated. 
C: because of his intoxication he lacked the mens rea needed for manslaughter. 
D: driving while intoxicated requires no mens rea and so cannot be the basis for misdemeanor manslaughter. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The bar patron's best argument for acquittal is that, because the accident would have
occurred even if the bar patron had not been intoxicated, his reckless action giving rise to the manslaughter charge
was not a cause in fact ('but for' cause) of the other driver's death.  Because the action that the bar patron took was
not a cause in fact, he cannot be convicted of manslaughter.  

 Answer A is incorrect because contributory negligence is a civil issue and does not apply to criminal manslaughter
cases.  Answer C is incorrect because voluntary intoxication is only a defense to specific intent crimes, not to crimes
involving criminal negligence, such as manslaughter.  The bar patron's argument that he was too intoxicated to be
criminally negligent will not succeed.  Answer D is incorrect because the argument that the bar patron did not commit
manslaughter by virtue of there being no underlying misdemeanor ignores the possibility that the bar patron
committed manslaughter by virtue of carrying out a criminally negligent act.  Answer D is an ineffective defense.  The
bar patron's best chance for acquittal is to argue that, because the collision would have occurred even if the bar
patron had not been intoxicated, the criminally negligent acts he took were not the cause in fact of the death. 










Page 168

Question 700 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A girl told a man she would like to have sexual intercourse with him and that he should come to her apartment that
night at 7 p.m.  After the man arrived, he and the girl went into the bedroom.  As the man started to remove the girl's
blouse, the girl said she had changed her mind.  The man tried to convince her to have intercourse with him but after
ten minutes of her sustained refusals, the man left the apartment.  Unknown to the man, the girl was 15 years old.
Because she appeared to be older, the man believed her to be about 18 years old.  

    A statute in the jurisdiction provides: "A person commits rape in the second degree if he has sexual intercourse with
a girl, not his wife, who is under the age of 16 years."  

 If the man is charged with attempting to violate this statute, he is  

A: guilty, because no mental state is required as to the element of rape. 
B: guilty, because he persisted after she told him she had changed her mind. 
C: not guilty, because he reasonably believed she had consented and voluntarily withdrew after she told him she had
changed her mind. 
D: not guilty, because he did not intend to have intercourse with a girl under the age of 16. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  An attempt charge requires that the defendant have the intent to commit the crime and that
the defendant take substantial steps toward the commission of the crime.  The man did not have the intent to commit
rape in the second degree, and therefore, should be found not guilty.  

 Answer A is incorrect because, although the charge of rape in the second degree does not require the man to know
that the girl is under the age of 16, he cannot be found to have committed attempted rape because he did not have
the requisite intent to commit the crime.  Attempt is a specific intent crime.  Even if the underlying crime has a lesser
mens rea requirement, the man cannot be convicted of attempt without having the specific intent that rape in the
second degree be committed.  

 Answer B is incorrect because it ignores the specific intent requirement for an attempt charge and instead addresses
the issue of whether or not the man committed a "substantial step" toward the commission of the offense.  However,
he cannot be convicted of rape in the second degree even if he is found to have committed a substantial step toward
it, because he lacked the requisite mental state.  

 Answer C is incorrect because it ignores the specific intent requirement for an attempt charge, and because consent
is irrelevant to rape in the second degree or attempt to commit rape in the second degree.  Therefore, because the
man lacked the requisite mental state for an attempt charge, he should be found not guilty.     













Page 169

Question 405 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A man, his brother, and his cousin are charged in a common law jurisdiction with conspiracy to commit larceny.  The
state introduced evidence that they agreed to go to a neighbor's house to take stock certificates from a safe in the
neighbor's bedroom, that they went to the house, and that they were arrested as they entered the neighbor's
bedroom.  

 The man testified that he thought the stock certificates belonged to the cousin, that the neighbor was improperly
keeping them from the cousin, and that he went along to aid in retrieving the cousin's property.  

 The brother testified that he suspected the man and the cousin of being thieves and joined up with them in order to
catch them.  He also testified that he made an anonymous telephone call to the police alerting them to the crime and
that the call caused the police to be waiting for them when they walked into the neighbor's bedroom.  

 The cousin did not testify.  

 If the jury believes both the man and the brother, they should find the cousin  

A: guilty, because there was an agreement, and the entry into the bedroom is sufficient for the overt act. 
B: guilty, because he intended to steal. 
C: not guilty, because a conviction would penalize him for exercising his right not to be a witness. 
D: not guilty, because the man and the brother did not intend to steal. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  A charge of conspiracy requires an agreement between at least two individuals with the
intent to achieve the objective of the agreement.  Because neither the man nor the brother entered the agreement with
the intent to commit the larceny, there is no conspiracy to commit the crime, and the cousin cannot be found guilty of
conspiracy to commit larceny.  

   Answers A and B are incorrect because only the cousin entered into the agreement with the intent to achieve the
objective of the agreement (larceny). Therefore, there was no true conspiracy between two or more parties. Answer C
is incorrect as a misstatement of the law. A conviction would not be a penalty for failing to testify because the
conviction would not be based upon an inference drawn from the cousin's silence.   













Page 170

Question 595 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A jurisdiction has the following decisional law on questions of principal and accomplice liability:  

 CASE A: The defendant, a hardware store owner, sold several customers an item known as "SuperTrucker," which
detects police radar and enables speeders to avoid detection.  When one of the devices broke down and the speeder
was arrested, he confessed that he often sped, secure in the knowledge that his "SuperTrucker" would warn him of
police radar in the vicinity.  Held: The defendant guilty as an accomplice to speeding.  

 CASE B: The defendant told a man that the defendant had stored some stereo equipment in a self-storage locker.
He gave the man a key and asked the man to pick up the equipment and deliver it to the defendant's house.  The man
complied, and removed the equipment from the locker, using the key.  In fact, the equipment belonged to the
defendant's neighbor, whose locker key the defendant had found in the driveway.  Held: The defendant guilty as an
accomplice to burglary.  

 CASE C: A city council member accepted a bribe from the defendant in exchange for his vote on the defendant's
application for a zoning variance.  A statute prohibits the taking of bribes by public officials.  Held: The defendant not
guilty as an accomplice to the city council member's violation of the bribery statute.  

 CASE D: The defendant, an innkeeper, sometimes let his rooms to prostitutes, whom he knew to be using the rooms
to ply their trade.  He charged the prostitutes the same price as other guests at his inn.  Held: The defendant not guilty
as an accomplice to prostitution.  

 A plastic surgeon agreed to remove the fingerprints from the hands of "Fingers" Malloy, whom the surgeon knew to
be a safecracker.  The surgeon charged his usual hourly rate for the operation.  Afterward, Malloy burglarized a bank
safe and was convicted on burglary.  

 Charged with burglary, the surgeon should be  

A: convicted on the authority of Case A. 
B: convicted on the authority of Case B. 
C: acquitted on the authority of Case C. 
D: acquitted on the authority of Case D. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A. Case A illustrates the rule that a defendant is guilty as an accomplice if he provides an
individual with aid in committing an offense and the assistance could not be for a legitimate purpose. In this case the
surgeon is removing the fingerprints from a known safecracker. Therefore, the surgeon has given substantial aid to
the burglary and the surgeon can be convicted on the authority of case A.    

 Case B illustrates the rule that a defendant who provides substantial encouragement or assistance to an unwitting
third-person in the commission of a crime will be liable as an accomplice to the crime. The safecracker is not an
unwitting third person, so case B is not the proper authority. Case C presents an instance where the person being
charged as an accomplice is not the person the statute intended to penalize. The surgeon aided the safecracker's
burglarizing, and is the type of person the statute meant to cover. Thus, case C is not a proper source of authority.
Case D illustrates the rule that a defendant would not be guilty as an accomplice for providing a means for an offense
to occur when there is a legitimate purpose for providing the good or service. There was not a legitimate reason for
the surgeon to remove the safecracker's fingerprints, so case D is not the best source of authority.     















Page 171

Question 270 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

Two bullies hated a bartender and agreed to start a fight with the bartender and, if the opportunity arose, to kill him.  

 The two bullies met the bartender in the street outside a bar and began to push him around.  Three men who also
hated the bartender stopped to watch.  One of the men threw one of the bullies a knife.  A second man told the bully,
"Kill him."  The third man, who made no move and said nothing, hoped that the bully would kill the bartender with the
knife.  One bully held the bartender while the other bully stabbed and killed him.  

 On a charge of murdering the bartender, the third man who made no move and said nothing is  

A: not guilty, because mere presence, coupled with silent approval and intent, is not sufficient. 
B: not guilty, because he did not tell the bully ahead of time that he hoped the bully would murder the bartender. 
C: guilty, because he had a duty to stop the killing and made no attempt to do so. 
D: guilty, because he was present and approved of what occurred. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  Mere presence, even if accompanied by silent approval and intent, is insufficient actus reus
to make a person criminally responsible for the actions of another.  The man's mere presence, even if he had the
requisite intent, will not make him accountable, and he should be found not guilty.  Answer A is correct.  

 Answer C is incorrect because there is no affirmative duty to save the life of another, except in rare, usually familial,
relationships; mere failure to stop a murder does not make one accountable for the actions of the murderer.  Answer
D is incorrect; mere presence and approval lack the sufficient actus reus requirement for criminal liability for the
actions of another.  There must be some verbal encouragement made or aid given.  Answer B is incorrect; while
informing the actor beforehand that you approve of his actions may, in some rare circumstances, be sufficient to act
as "encouragement," it is not the only way for the man to be found accountable for the bully's actions. 











Page 172

Question 497 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A statute in a jurisdiction makes it a crime to sell ammunition to a minor (defined as a person under the age of
eighteen).  The courts have interpreted this statute as creating a strict liability offense that does not require knowledge
of the age of the purchaser and as creating vicarious liability.  A minor, who was sixteen years old, but looked four or
five years older, entered a store and asked a clerk for a box of .22 caliber shells.  The store owner had instructed her
employees not to sell ammunition to minors.  The clerk asked the minor his age.  The minor said he was twenty.  The
clerk then placed a box of shells on the counter and asked, "Anything else?"  The minor said that was all he wanted
but then discovered he did not have enough money to pay for the shells, so the clerk put the box back onto the shelf.  

 If the owner of the store is charged with attempting to violate the statute, her best argument would be that  

A: it was impossible for the sale to have occurred. 
B: she had strictly instructed her employees not to sell ammunition to minors. 
C: the minor lied about his age. 
D: the clerk did not have the mental state needed for attempt. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  To be convicted of attempt, a person must have the intent that the crime be committed, and
take a substantial step toward the commission of the offense.  In this case, the clerk did not have the intent to sell
ammunition to minors, and the store owner, as his accessory, should be found not guilty of attempting to sell
ammunition to minors.  

 Answer A is incorrect because it was not, in fact, impossible for the offense to occur and only legal impossibility is a
defense to an attempt charge.  Although the sale of the ammunition was not completed, that is insufficient for a
showing of impossibility, and factual impossibility is not a defense to an attempt charge.  

 Answer B is incorrect because, even though she instructed her employees not to sell ammunition to minors, the crime
is one of strict liability.  For strict liability crimes, it does not matter what the store owner's, or the clerk's as her agent,
state of mind was.  If they sold ammunition to a minor, they would be guilty of the offense.  However, for a charge of
attempt, there must exist the intent to commit the offense.  

 Answer C is incorrect because, once again, the crime is one of strict liability.  The minor's lie about his age, the clerk's
belief of his age, or whether that belief was reasonable, are all irrelevant for strict liability offenses.  The store owner's
best argument for acquittal would be that, since the clerk had no intent to commit the crime, there can be no proper
attempt charge. 












Page 173

Question 1589 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A state statute provides as follows: "The maintenance of any ongoing enterprise in the nature of a betting parlor or
bookmaking organization is a felony."   

A prosecutor has evidence that a woman has been renting an office to a man, that the man has been using the office
as a betting parlor within the meaning of the statute, and that the woman is aware of this use.   

Which of the following additional pieces of evidence would be most useful to the prosecutor's effort to convict the
woman as an accomplice to the man's violation of the statute?   

A: The woman was previously convicted of running a betting parlor herself on the same premises. 
B: The woman charges the man considerably more in rent than she charged the preceding tenant, who used the
office for legitimate activities. 
C: The woman has personally placed bets with the man at the office location. 
D: The man has paid the woman the rent in bills that are traceable as the proceeds of gambling activity. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect. The woman's prior conviction would not necessarily show that she has a personal stake in the
continuing success of the man's criminal venture (and thus an intent to aid in that venture).   

B is correct. Showing that the woman benefits from the gambling would indicate her personal stake in the continuing
success of the man's criminal venture (and thus her intent to aid in that venture).   

C is incorrect. Showing that the woman has placed bets would confirm that she knows that the premises are being
used for gambling. However, it would not necessarily show that she has a personal stake in the continuing success of
the man's criminal venture (and thus an intent to aid in that venture).   

D is incorrect. The source of the rent payments, assuming that the rent is not above the market price for the premises,
would not necessarily show that the woman has a personal stake in the continuing success of the man's criminal
venture (and thus an intent to aid in that venture). 















Page 174

Question 593 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A jurisdiction has the following decisional law on questions of principal and accomplice liability:  

 CASE A: The defendant, a hardware store owner, sold several customers an item known as "SuperTrucker," which
detects police radar and enables speeders to avoid detection.  When one of the devices broke down and the speeder
was arrested, he confessed that he often sped, secure in the knowledge that his "SuperTrucker" would warn him of
police radar in the vicinity.  Held: The defendant guilty as an accomplice to speeding.  

 CASE B: The defendant told a man that the defendant had stored some stereo equipment in a self-storage locker.
He gave the man a key and asked the man to pick up the equipment and deliver it to the defendant's house.  The man
complied, and removed the equipment from the locker, using the key.  In fact, the equipment belonged to the
defendant's neighbor, whose locker key the defendant had found in the driveway.  Held: The defendant guilty as an
accomplice to burglary.  

 CASE C: A city council member accepted a bribe from the defendant in exchange for his vote on the defendant's
application for a zoning variance.  A statute prohibits the taking of bribes by public officials.  Held: The defendant not
guilty as an accomplice to the city council member's violation of the bribery statute.  

 CASE D:  The defendant, an innkeeper, sometimes let his rooms to prostitutes, whom he knew to be using the rooms
to ply their trade.  He charged the prostitutes the same price as other guests at his inn.  Held: The defendant not guilty
as an accomplice to prostitution.  

 A college student purchased narcotics from a dealer whom he believed to be a "street person" but who was in fact an
undercover police agent. The student has been charged as an accomplice to the sale of narcotics.  

 He should be  

A: convicted on the authority of Case A. 
B: convicted on the authority of Case B. 
C: acquitted on the authority of Case C. 
D: acquitted on the authority of Case D. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C. Case C presents an instance where the person being charged as an accomplice is not the
person the statute intended to penalize. If a statue defines a crime that necessarily involves more than one person
and only provides for liability for one person, it is presumed that the legislative intent was to immunize the other
person from liability as an accomplice. In case C, the statute prohibits the  taking  of bribes by a public official. Since
the defendant was only a private person giving a bribe, he would not be guilty as an accomplice under the statute. In
the present case, the college student is purchasing narcotics, but is being charged as an accomplice to the  sale  of
narcotics. Therefore, the college student is not the person that the statute intends to target, and should be acquitted of
the accomplice charge based on the authority of case C.   

   Case A illustrates the rule that a defendant is guilty as an accomplice if he provides an individual with the means to
commit an offense and the assistance could not be for a legitimate purpose. The college student did not assist in the
sale of narcotics, so case A is not the proper authority. Case B illustrates the rule that a defendant who provides
substantial encouragement or assistance to an unwitting third-person in the commission of a crime will be liable as an
accomplice to the crime. The student did not sell narcotics through a third-person, so case B is not the proper
authority. Case D illustrates the rule that a defendant would not be guilty as an accomplice for providing a means for
an offense to occur when there is a legitimate purpose for providing the good or service. The college student did not
assist in the sale of narcotics, and had no legitimate purpose for buying narcotics off the street, so case D is not the
proper authority.    















Page 175

Question 1354 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (2/13/2017) 

The question was: 

A drug dealer agreed with another individual to purchase heroin from the individual in order to sell it on a city street
corner. Unbeknownst to the drug dealer, the other individual was an undercover police officer whose only purpose
was to arrest distributors of drugs. The drug dealer made a down payment for the heroin and agreed to pay the
remainder after he sold it on the street. As soon as the undercover officer handed over the heroin, other officers
moved in and arrested the dealer.   

The jurisdiction follows the common law approach to conspiracy.   

Could the dealer properly be convicted of conspiring to distribute drugs?  

A: No, because there was no overt act. 
B: No, because there was no plurality of agreement. 
C: Yes, because neither an overt act nor plurality of agreement is required at common law. 
D: Yes, because the dealer believed all the elements of conspiracy were present and cannot take advantage of a
mistake of fact or law. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer B is correct. The dealer cannot be convicted of conspiring to distribute drugs. The common law requires
plurality of agreement and does not criminalize "unilateral" conspiracy where only one person actually agreed to
commit the crime and the other only feigned agreement. Here, the drug dealer agreed to buy and distribute the heroin,
but the individual--an undercover police officer--merely feigned an intent to be a part of the crime as part of his
undercover operation. Thus, Answer B is correct.   

Answer A is incorrect. The common law does not require an overt act for conspiracy. In any event, payment for the
drugs likely would qualify as an overt act in jurisdictions imposing such a requirement.   

Answer C is incorrect. Plurality of agreement is required unless the question specifically states that the jurisdiction
follows the Modern Penal Code's unilateral approach to conspiracy. Because the undercover officer was feigning his
agreement to purchase and sell the heroin, there was no plurality of agreement and thus no conspiracy.   

  Answer D is incorrect. The dealer could not properly be convicted of conspiracy, because there was no plurality of
agreement. Accordingly, the dealer could not properly be convicted for conspiring with an undercover officer. 













Page 176

Question 854 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A man walked into a store that had a check-cashing service and tried to cash a $550 check which was payable to him.
The attendant on duty refused to cash the check because the man did not have two forms of identification, which the
store's policies required.  The man, who had no money except for the check and who needed cash to pay for food and
a place to sleep, became agitated.  He put his hand into his pocket and growled, "Give me the money or I'll start
shooting."  The attendant, who knew the man as a neighborhood character, did not believe that he was violent or had
a gun.  However, because he felt sorry for the man, he handed over the cash.  The man left the check on the counter
and departed.  The attendant picked up the check and found that the man had failed to endorse it.  

 If the man is guilty of any crime, he is most likely guilty of  

A: robbery. 
B: attempted robbery. 
C: theft by false pretenses. 
D: larceny by trick. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The man attempted to take the property of another, with the intent to permanently deprive
the owner of the property, by the threat of force.  The man had the intent to commit a robbery, and took substantial
steps, by putting his hand in his pocket and threatening the attendant, toward the commission of that robbery.
Although it was factually impossible for the man to have committed robbery, because the attendant was not afraid and
gave the money to the man out of sympathy rather than because of force or the threat of force, factual impossibility is
not a defense to an attempt charge.  The man committed attempted robbery.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the man did not commit a robbery.  The attendant did not give the man the money
because of force or the threat of force, but rather because he felt sorry for the man.  A conviction for robbery requires
the money be given due to force or the threat of force, and not because of sympathy.  

 Answer C is incorrect because, at common law, false pretenses requires the obtaining of the possession and title of
property of another through fraud or misrepresentation.  Regardless of whether the check was properly endorsed, the
man did not obtain the money through fraud, but rather through the sympathy of the attendant.  Therefore, he did not
commit false pretenses.  

 Answer D is incorrect for the same reason.  At common law, larceny by trick is obtaining the possession, with the
owner's consent, of the property of another by fraud or misrepresentation, with the intent to permanently deprive the
owner of said property.  The attendant did not give away the property because of misrepresentation, but rather
sympathy.  The man, however, did have the intent to commit a robbery, and took substantial steps towards the
commission of the offense, and is most likely guilty of attempted robbery. 












Page 177

Question 593 - Criminal Law - Inchoate Crimes (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A jurisdiction has the following decisional law on questions of principal and accomplice liability:  

 CASE A: The defendant, a hardware store owner, sold several customers an item known as "SuperTrucker," which
detects police radar and enables speeders to avoid detection.  When one of the devices broke down and the speeder
was arrested, he confessed that he often sped, secure in the knowledge that his "SuperTrucker" would warn him of
police radar in the vicinity.  Held: The defendant guilty as an accomplice to speeding.  

 CASE B: The defendant told a man that the defendant had stored some stereo equipment in a self-storage locker.
He gave the man a key and asked the man to pick up the equipment and deliver it to the defendant's house.  The man
complied, and removed the equipment from the locker, using the key.  In fact, the equipment belonged to the
defendant's neighbor, whose locker key the defendant had found in the driveway.  Held: The defendant guilty as an
accomplice to burglary.  

 CASE C: A city council member accepted a bribe from the defendant in exchange for his vote on the defendant's
application for a zoning variance.  A statute prohibits the taking of bribes by public officials.  Held: The defendant not
guilty as an accomplice to the city council member's violation of the bribery statute.  

 CASE D:  The defendant, an innkeeper, sometimes let his rooms to prostitutes, whom he knew to be using the rooms
to ply their trade.  He charged the prostitutes the same price as other guests at his inn.  Held: The defendant not guilty
as an accomplice to prostitution.  

 A college student purchased narcotics from a dealer whom he believed to be a "street person" but who was in fact an
undercover police agent. The student has been charged as an accomplice to the sale of narcotics.  

 He should be  

A: convicted on the authority of Case A. 
B: convicted on the authority of Case B. 
C: acquitted on the authority of Case C. 
D: acquitted on the authority of Case D. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C. Case C presents an instance where the person being charged as an accomplice is not the
person the statute intended to penalize. If a statue defines a crime that necessarily involves more than one person
and only provides for liability for one person, it is presumed that the legislative intent was to immunize the other
person from liability as an accomplice. In case C, the statute prohibits the  taking  of bribes by a public official. Since
the defendant was only a private person giving a bribe, he would not be guilty as an accomplice under the statute. In
the present case, the college student is purchasing narcotics, but is being charged as an accomplice to the  sale  of
narcotics. Therefore, the college student is not the person that the statute intends to target, and should be acquitted of
the accomplice charge based on the authority of case C.   

   Case A illustrates the rule that a defendant is guilty as an accomplice if he provides an individual with the means to
commit an offense and the assistance could not be for a legitimate purpose. The college student did not assist in the
sale of narcotics, so case A is not the proper authority. Case B illustrates the rule that a defendant who provides
substantial encouragement or assistance to an unwitting third-person in the commission of a crime will be liable as an
accomplice to the crime. The student did not sell narcotics through a third-person, so case B is not the proper
authority. Case D illustrates the rule that a defendant would not be guilty as an accomplice for providing a means for
an offense to occur when there is a legitimate purpose for providing the good or service. The college student did not
assist in the sale of narcotics, and had no legitimate purpose for buying narcotics off the street, so case D is not the
proper authority.    















Page 178

Question 996 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

An employee admired his supervisor's wristwatch and frequently talked about how much he wished he had one like it.
The supervisor decided to give the employee the watch for his birthday the following week.  

 On the weekend before the employee's birthday, the employee and supervisor attended a company picnic.  The
supervisor took his watch off and left it on a blanket when he went off to join in a touch football game.  The employee
strolled by, saw the watch on the blanket, and decided to steal it.  He bent over and picked up the watch.  Before he
could pocket it, however, his supervisor returned.  When he saw the employee holding the watch, he said, "I know
how much you like that watch.  I was planning to give it to you for your birthday.  Go ahead and take it now."  The
employee kept the watch.  

 The employee has committed  

A: larceny. 
B: attempted larceny. 
C: embezzlement. 
D: no crime. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The employee took possession of the watch without the owner's consent and with the intent
to permanently deprive the owner of it, and is thus guilty of larceny.  The fact that the supervisor later gave the
employee permission to take the watch does not change the fact that the employee, when he took the watch, did not
have the supervisor's permission to take it and had the intent to steal it.  Although he only picked the watch up, that
was enough asportation because it was part of the carrying away process.  

 Answer B is incorrect because the employee did not merely attempt to take the watch; he did take it with the intent to
steal it.  The attempted larceny charge merged into the larceny charge when the employee committed the larceny.
Answer C is incorrect because the employee, when he took the watch, did not have the supervisor's permission to
take it.  Answer D is incorrect because the employee committed the crime of larceny.  Although he later had the
owner's permission to take the property, when the employee took the watch, he did not have the owner's consent and
he intended to deprive the owner of the watch.  Therefore, the employee is guilty of larceny. 











Page 179

Question 1360 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A woman told a man to accompany her into her friend's unlocked barn and retrieve an expensive black saddle that
she said she had loaned to the friend. The man accompanied the woman to the friend's barn, opened the door, found
a black saddle hanging high above the ground, and climbed a ladder to reach it. He handed the saddle down to the
woman, and the two left with it together. In fact, the saddle belonged to the friend, and when the friend discovered the
saddle missing, she suspected that the woman was the thief. The friend used a screwdriver to break into the woman's
house to find the saddle. Upon discovering the saddle on the woman's kitchen table, the friend took it back and called
the police.   

The jurisdiction follows the common law, except that burglary covers structures in addition to dwellings and the
nighttime element has been eliminated.   

Which, if any, of these individuals is guilty of burglary?  

A: All of them. 
B: Only the friend. 
C: The man and the woman. 
D: Only the woman. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. Only the woman had the requisite criminal intent. Burglary requires unlawful entry with intent to
commit a felony (in this case, larceny). Persons taking back their own property or taking property in the honest but
mistaken belief that the property belongs to someone who has authorized them to take it lack the intent to steal
required for larceny.   

Answer A is incorrect. The friend and the man lacked the requisite criminal intent. Burglary requires unlawful entry with
intent to commit a felony (in this case, larceny). Persons taking back their own property or taking property in the
honest but mistaken belief that the property belongs to someone who has authorized them to take it lack the intent to
steal required for larceny.   

Answer B is incorrect. The friend lacked the requisite criminal intent. Burglary requires unlawful entry with intent to
commit a felony (in this case, larceny). Persons taking property in the honest belief that the property belongs to them
lack the intent to steal required for larceny.   

Answer C is incorrect. The man lacked the requisite criminal intent. Burglary requires unlawful entry with intent to
commit a felony (in this case, larceny). Persons taking property in the honest but mistaken belief that the property
belongs to them or to someone who has authorized them to take it lack the intent to steal required for larceny. 













Page 180

Question 883 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

The owner of a house told his neighbor that he was going away for two weeks and asked the neighbor to keep an eye
on his house.  The neighbor agreed.  The owner gave the neighbor a key to use to check on the house.  

 The neighbor decided to have a party in the owner's house.  He invited a number of friends.  One friend, a
pickpocket, went into the owner's bedroom, took some of the owner's rings, and put them in his pocket.  

 Which of the following is true?  

A: The neighbor and the pickpocket are guilty of burglary. 
B: The neighbor is guilty of burglary and the pickpocket is guilty of larceny. 
C: The neighbor is guilty of trespass and the pickpocket is guilty of larceny. 
D: The pickpocket is guilty of larceny and the neighbor is not guilty of any crime. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  The neighbor is not criminally responsible for the pickpocket's theft, and the neighbor had
permission to be in the residence.  The neighbor is not guilty of any crime.  The pickpocket, however, took the owner's
property, without the owner's consent, and put them in his pocket, and is thus guilty of larceny.  

 Answer A is incorrect because neither the neighbor, nor the pickpocket, committed a burglary.  At common law,
burglary is defined as the breaking and entering into a dwelling with the intent to commit a felony therein.  The
neighbor had the owner's permission to be in the residence, and there is no evidence that the neighbor had the intent
to commit a felony or theft in the residence.  The neighbor is not guilty of burglary.  Likewise, the pickpocket had
permission to be in the residence and, since he was invited into the dwelling, there is no evidence that the pickpocket
broke into the house.  There is also no evidence that the pickpocket entered the party with the intent to commit a
felony or a theft.  

 Answer B is incorrect because the neighbor did not commit a burglary and is not criminally responsible for the
pickpocket's actions, because he did not have the intent that the larceny occur, and he did not knowingly aid and abet
the pickpocket in the commission of the crime.  However, the pickpocket did take, and carry away, the owner's rings,
with the intent to deprive the owner of them, and is thus guilty of larceny.  

 Answer C is incorrect because the neighbor had permission to be in the residence by its owner.  Trespass does not
appear in the area of criminal law as a crime on its own, but as an element of other crimes, i.e. if a taking must be by
trespass, then it must occur without the victim's consent.  However, trespass is only a prima facie action by itself in
torts.  It is true that the neighbor likely committed that tort because having a party was likely outside the scope of the
owner's consent.  However, since trespass is generally a tort and not a crime, the neighbor committed no crime.  The
pickpocket is not guilty of trespass either.  The pickpocket is guilty of larceny, but the neighbor committed no crime. 













Page 181

Question 172 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be guilty of larceny?  

A: The defendant took a woman's television set, with the intention of returning it the next day. 
B: The defendant went into a man's house and took $100 in the belief that the man had damaged the defendant's car
to that amount. 
C: Mistakenly believing that larceny does not include the taking of a dog, the defendant took his neighbor's dog and
sold it. 
D: Unreasonably mistaking a man's car for his own, the defendant got into the man's car in a parking lot and drove it
home. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C. Larceny, at common law, is the taking of another's property without the owner's consent with
the intent to permanently deprive the owner of that property. The defendant in answer C took the neighbor's dog with
the intent to permanently deprive ownership. Mistake of law is not a defense to larceny, so the defendant will be found
guilty.  

   Answer A is incorrect. Larceny is a specific intent crime. If the defendant did not have the intent to permanently
deprive the owner of the property, the defendant cannot be found guilty of larceny.  Answer B is incorrect. If the
defendant honestly believes that he is entitled to the money or property of another for the payment of a debt, then the
defendant will not have the intent to take the property of another. The defendant in answer B believed he had a valid
claim to the property, and thus lacked the requisite intent to commit larceny. Answer D is incorrect. Larceny is a
specific intent crime. Therefore, the defendant's mistake of fact about the ownership of the car would preclude a
conviction for larceny as the defendant did not have the intent to take the property of another.  









Page 182

Question 1296 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A defendant was charged with assault and battery in a jurisdiction that followed the "retreat" doctrine, and he pleaded
self-defense. At his trial, the evidence established the following: A man and his wife were enjoying a drink at a tavern
when the defendant entered and stood near the door. The wife whispered to her husband that the defendant was the
man who had insulted her on the street the day before. The husband approached the defendant and said, "Get out of
here, or I'll break your nose." The defendant said, "Don't come any closer, or I'll hurt you." When the husband raised
his fists menacingly, the defendant pulled a can of pepper spray from his pocket, aimed it at the husband's face, and
sprayed. The husband fell to the floor, writhing in pain.  

 Should the defendant be convicted?  

A: No, because he had no obligation to retreat before resorting to nondeadly force. 
B: No, because there is no obligation to retreat when one is in an occupied structure. 
C: Yes, because he failed to retreat even though there was an opportunity available. 
D: Yes, because the husband did not threaten to use deadly force against him. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. The majority rule is that there is no duty to retreat prior to using deadly force. The non-aggressor
may use deadly force in self-defense even if the use of deadly force could be avoided by retreating. However, the
question states that the jurisdiction follows the "retreat" rule. In such a jurisdiction, a non-aggressor may use deadly
force only after making a proper retreat. No retreat is necessary if it cannot be made in complete safety. Additionally,
there is no obligation to retreat unless the defender intends to use deadly force. Here, the accused used pepper spray
on the victim--a nondeadly force--and therefore there was no need to retreat.  

 Answer B is incorrect. This answer correctly states that the defendant should not be convicted, but it misstates the
legal basis for this conclusion. The reason the defendant was not required to retreat was because he used nondeadly
force and not because he was in an occupied structure.  

 Answer C is incorrect. As explained above, even where safe retreat is possible, it is not required before using
nondeadly force in self-defense.  

 Answer D is incorrect. A response of nondeadly force is justified where the defender reasonably believes the other is
about to inflict unlawful bodily harm, which need not be deadly harm. 












Page 183

Question 1465 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A man asked his girlfriend to lend him something he could use to break into his neighbor's padlocked storage shed in
order to steal a lawn mower. She handed him a crowbar. He took the crowbar but then found a bolt cutter that the
neighbor had left outside the shed. Using the bolt cutter, he cut the padlock on the shed and took the mower, which he
then used to mow his girlfriend's lawn. She was surprised and pleased by this gesture.  

Burglary in the jurisdiction applies to any structure or building, and there is no nighttime element.  

 The girlfriend has been charged as an accomplice to burglary and larceny.   

 Of which crimes, if any, is she guilty?  

A: Burglary and larceny. 
B: Burglary, but not larceny, because she intended to assist only in the breaking. 
C: Larceny, but not burglary, because she provided no actual assistance to the breaking but received a benefit from
the larceny. 
D: Neither burglary nor larceny, because she provided no actual assistance. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. To be guilty as an accomplice, the alleged accomplice must give aid, counsel, or encouragement
to the principal with the intent to encourage the crime. Here, the girlfriend is guilty as an accomplice to both burglary
and larceny because she provided aid to the man with the intent of helping him not only to break into the shed but also
to steal the mower (the object of the breaking); the fact that the man ultimately used an alternative means to
accomplish his crimes does not eliminate the girlfriend's accomplice liability. Thus, Answer A is correct, and Answers
B, C, and D are incorrect.  













Page 184

Question 51 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A homeowner met a man, who was known to him to be a burglar, in a bar.  The homeowner told the man that he
needed money.  He promised to pay the man $500 if the man would go to the homeowner's house the following night
and take some silverware.  The homeowner explained to the man that, although the silverware was legally his, his
wife would object to his selling it.  

 The homeowner pointed out his home, one of a group of similar tract houses.  He drew a floor plan of the house that
showed the location of the silverware.  The homeowner said that his wife usually took several sleeping pills before
retiring, and that he would make sure that she took them the next night.  He promised to leave a window unlocked.  

 Everything went according to the plan except that the man, deceived by the similarity of the tract houses, went to the
wrong house.  He found a window unlocked, climbed in and found silver where the homeowner had indicated.  He
took the silver to the cocktail lounge where the payoff was to take place.  At that point police arrested the two men.  

 If the homeowner and the man are charged with a conspiracy to commit burglary, their best argument for acquittal is
that  

A: the man was the alter ego of the homeowner. 
B: they did not intend to commit burglary. 
C: there was no overt act. 
D: there was no agreement. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  A charge of conspiracy requires an agreement to commit a crime.  Specifically, at least two
of the co-conspirators must intend that the crime be committed.  Although the man and the homeowner did agree to
carry out certain actions, they did not have intent to commit a crime.  This lack of intent is their best defense to a
conspiracy charge.  

 Answer A is incorrect.  Even if the man were considered an alter ego of the homeowner, that would not be a defense
to a charge of conspiracy.  Conspiracy punishes the agreement, regardless of who has proposed it.  Answer C is
incorrect.  In some states, conspiracy requires the commission of an overt act, and the actions taken here by the man
and homeowner were sufficient.  The planning, the homeowner's encouragement and providing of the plans, and the
man's breaking into the house, were all overt actions done in the commission of the conspiracy.  Answer D is
incorrect; although lack of an agreement is a defense to conspiracy, the facts here clearly indicate that there was an
agreement. 












Page 185

Question 937 - Criminal Law - Other Crimes (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant was upset because he was going to have to close his liquor store due to competition from a discount
store in a new shopping mall nearby.  In desperation, he decided to set fire to his store to collect the insurance.  While
looking through the basement for flammable material, he lit a match to read the label on a can.  The match burned his
finger and, in a reflex action, he dropped the match.  It fell into a barrel and ignited some paper.  The defendant could
have put out the fire, but instead left the building because he wanted the building destroyed.  The fire spread and the
store was destroyed by fire.  The defendant was eventually arrested and indicted for arson.  

 The defendant is  

A: guilty, because he could have put out the fire before it spread and did not do so because he wanted the building
destroyed. 
B: guilty, because he was negligent in starting the fire. 
C: not guilty, because even if he wanted to burn the building there was no concurrence between his mens rea and the
act of starting the fire. 
D: not guilty, because his starting the fire was the result of a reflex action and not a voluntary act. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A. Arson is not a specific intent crime; instead it requires malice on the part of the defendant. To
establish malice in an arson case, the prosecution need only show that the defendant recklessly disregarded an
obvious or high risk that the burning of the structure would occur.  It is important to note that questions on the MBE
that are testing on other arson issues (such as malice) will often impliedly follow the modern trend that the structure
does not need to be the dwelling of another. Since the answer choices focus on intent, do not get hung up on the fact
that the defendant's actions do not fall within the common law definition of arson.  

   Answer B is incorrect because negligence alone is insufficient proof of malicious burning.  However, the defendant's
recklessness, combined with the obvious risk of the burning, demonstrates malice.  Answer C is incorrect because
arson requires only the malicious burning of the building, not the specific intent to burn the building down.  Answer D
is incorrect because the burning need not be intentional, as long as it is a foreseeable consequence of the defendant's
actions.  By allowing a minor fire that he started to spread throughout the building with the intent to destroy the
building, the defendant maliciously burned the property and is guilty of arson.  










Page 186

Question 729 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/22/2016) 

The question was: 

A man and his friend were charged with burglary of a warehouse.  They were tried separately.  At the man's trial, the
friend testified that he saw the man commit the burglary.  While the friend was still subject to recall as a witness, the
man calls the friend's cellmate to testify that the friend said, "I broke into the warehouse alone because [the man] was
too drunk to help."  

 The evidence of the friend's statement is  

A: admissible as a declaration against penal interest. 
B: admissible as a prior inconsistent statement. 
C: inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 
D: inadmissible, because the statement is not clearly corroborated. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B. The friend's statement to his cellmate is a prior inconsistent statement to his earlier testimony
that he saw the man commit the burglary. Although the cellmate's testimony is hearsay and not admissible for the
truth of the matter asserted, it may be used for impeachment purposes. As a foundational matter, the friend must be
given an opportunity to explain or deny the allegedly inconsistent statement, but this can occur after the cellmate
testifies.  

   Answer A is incorrect because the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule only applies when the
declarant is unavailable, and here the friend is still available as a witness. Answer C is incorrect because although
testimony about a witness's prior inconsistent unsworn statement is hearsay, it can still be used to impeach the
witness. Answer D is incorrect because a prior inconsistent statement can be used to impeach even if the statement is
not clearly corroborated. 










Page 187

Question 118 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A defendant is tried for armed robbery of a bank.  

 At the request of police, the teller who was robbed prepared a sketch bearing a strong likeness to the defendant, but
the teller died in an automobile accident before the defendant was arrested.  At trial the prosecution offers the sketch.
The sketch is  

A: admissible as an identification of a person after perceiving him. 
B: admissible as past recollection recorded. 
C: inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception. 
D: inadmissible as an opinion of the teller. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The sketch amounts to an out-of-court statement of an unavailable witness and is
inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.  The sketch is a statement by the teller that the man depicted
committed the robbery, and, since the teller is unavailable to testify, the sketch should be found to be inadmissible.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the exception to the hearsay rule that allows the introduction of a statement of
identification after perceiving the person requires that the declarant be available at the trial and subject to cross-
examination.  Since the teller is unavailable, the sketch would not meet the requirements of that exception to the
hearsay rule.  Answer B is incorrect because the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule only applies
if the witness is available on the stand to testify as to the sketch.  If the witness is unavailable, the prior statement, in
this case in the form of a sketch, remains an out-of-court statement that is being offered for the truth of the matter
asserted and should be held inadmissible.  Answer D is incorrect because it ignores the fact that the statement is
hearsay.  The sketch is inadmissible hearsay and should not be allowed into evidence. 










Page 188

Question 964 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a driver for damages for the death of the plaintiff's husband, resulting from an automobile collision.  At
trial, the driver calls the husband's doctor to testify that the day before his death, the husband, in great pain, said, "It
was my own fault; there's nobody to blame but me."    The doctor's testimony should be admitted as  

A: a statement against interest. 
B: a dying declaration. 
C: a statement of the husband's then existing state of mind. 
D: an excited utterance. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The husband's statement taking fault for the accident, at the time it was made, tended to
subject the husband to civil liability, and would render invalid any claim he had against the driver.  A reasonable
person in the husband's position would not have made the statement unless he believed it to be true.  The statement
is admissible under the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule.  

   Answer B is incorrect because there is no evidence that the husband made the statement knowing his death was
imminent or that the statement concerned the cause or circumstances of his death.  Although he was in great pain,
there is no indication that the husband knew he was going to die and was making the statement as a dying declaration
.  

 Answer C is incorrect because the husband's statement is being offered to prove he was at fault for the accident, not
to prove what was in his mind when he died.  In addition, the statement is a statement of memory or belief to prove
the fact remembered or believed - that he was at fault.  As such, it is specifically excluded from the definition of a
statement of then existing mental state and is inadmissible.  

 Answer D is incorrect because there is no evidence that the husband's statement related to a startling event and was
made while he was under the stress of excitement caused by the event or condition.  The husband may have been in
great pain, but his statement was not an excited utterance because of the accident.  The doctor's testimony should be
admitted as a statement against interest. 











Page 189

Question 1244 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A homeowner sued a plumber for damages resulting from the plumber's allegedly faulty installation of water pipes in
her basement, which caused flooding. At trial, the homeowner was prepared to testify that when she first detected the
flooding, she turned off the water and called the plumber at his emergency number for help and that the plumber
responded, "I'll come by tomorrow and redo the installation for free."  

 Is the homeowner's testimony regarding the plumber's response admissible?  

A: No, because the statement was an offer in compromise. 
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 
C: Yes, as a subsequent remedial measure. 
D: Yes, as evidence of the plumber's fault. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct.  This is a party admission, admissible as a hearsay exemption under Rule 801(d)(2)(A).  A
statement made by a party cannot be excluded as hearsay when offered against him by the opponent.  Moreover, the
statement is probative.  A person who makes a statement like this is likely to think he is at fault, and this is probative
evidence that indeed he is at fault.  Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer B is incorrect, because the statement is
not hearsay.  

 Answer A is incorrect.  Federal Rule of Evidence 408 protects statements concerning a claim that is disputed as to
validity or amount.  However, in this case there was no pending dispute at the time the statement was made.  The
homeowner was simply calling for help and had not complained about the plumber's work or in any other way
indicated that there was a dispute between the parties.  Accordingly, the statement does not qualify as an offer in
compromise.  

 Answer C is incorrect.  This answer correctly states that the statement is admissible, but it misstates the reason why
this is so.  Federal Rule of Evidence 407 excludes evidence of measures taken that, had they been taken prior to the
event that caused the injury, would have made the injury or harm less likely to occur.  Here, no "measure" was taken
at all.  The plaintiff wants to introduce a statement, not any action that would have made the injury less likely to occur.
Therefore Rule 407 is inapplicable. 











Page 190

Question 1021 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

At the defendant's trial for theft, a witness, called by the prosecutor, testified to the following: 1) that from his
apartment window, he saw thieves across the street break the window of a jewelry store, take jewelry, and leave in a
car, 2) that his wife telephoned police and relayed to them the license number of the thieves' car as the witness looked
out the window with binoculars and read it to her, and 3) that he has no present memory of the number, but that
immediately afterward he listened to a playback of the police tape recording giving the license number (which belongs
to the defendant's car) and verified that she had relayed the number accurately.  

 Playing the tape recording for the jury would be  

A: proper, because it is recorded recollection. 
B: proper, because it is a public record or report. 
C: improper, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 
D: improper, because the witness's wife lacked first-hand knowledge of the license number. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The witness has testified that he now has insufficient recollection to enable him to testify fully
and accurately, but that he once had knowledge of the license plate number.  The witness has also testified that the
tape recording is a record, which he adopted when the matter was fresh in his memory, in which the witness's
knowledge of the license plate number is correctly contained.  The tape recording is therefore admissible under the
recorded recollection exception to the hearsay rule.  

 Answer B is incorrect because records of law enforcement personnel are generally not admissible against a criminal
defendant.  Answer C is incorrect because the statement, although hearsay, is admissible under the prior recollection
recorded exception to the hearsay rule.  Answer D is incorrect because it is the witness who had first-hand knowledge
of the license plate number, and he adopted his wife's statement immediately after it was made.  The witness's first-
hand knowledge, combined with his adoption of his wife's statements into the tape, make the tape admissible as a
prior recollection recorded. 










Page 191

Question 256 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

The driver of a car and three passengers were injured when their car was struck by a truck owned by Mammoth
Corporation and driven by a Mammoth employee.  A second Mammoth employee was riding as a passenger in the
truck.  The issues in this case include the negligence of the Mammoth employee in driving too fast and failing to wear
glasses, and the negligence of the driver of the car in failing to yield the right of way.  

   The car driver's counsel seeks to introduce the written statement from the Mammoth truck's passenger that the
Mammoth employee had left his glasses (required by his operator's license) at the truck stop when they had left five
minutes before the accident.  The judge should rule the statement admissible only if  

A: The driver of the car first proves that the truck passenger is an agent of Mammoth and that the statement
concerned a matter within the scope of his agency. 
B: The driver of the car produces independent evidence that the Mammoth employee who was driving was not
wearing corrective lenses at the time of the accident. 
C: The truck passenger is shown to be beyond the process of the court and unavailable to testify. 
D: the statement was under oath in affidavit form. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A. The passenger's written statement is an out-of-court statement that is being offered for the
truth of the matter asserted, and would typically be considered inadmissible as hearsay. However, if the passenger's
statement is an admission by a party opponent, it would be admissible as nonhearsay under the federal rules. Here,
the passenger's statement would be admissible as a vicarious admission by a party opponent if the passenger is an
agent of Mammoth and the statement concerned a matter within the scope of the agency.  

   Answer B is incorrect because, even if there was independent evidence that the Mammoth employee was not
wearing corrective lenses at the time of the accident, that fact would not change the determination that the
passenger's written statement is inadmissible hearsay. Hearsay, even if corroborated, is still hearsay. Answer C is
incorrect because the passenger's availability to testify is irrelevant to the determination of whether the written
statement is inadmissible hearsay. Even if the passenger is unavailable, the statement would still be inadmissible.
Answer D is incorrect because affidavits are insufficient to be considered admissible as prior testimony. Unless the
driver of the car can show that the passenger's written hearsay statement amounted to an admission by a party
opponent, the statement should be held inadmissible.  










Page 192

Question 660 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A corporation sued a defendant for ten fuel oil deliveries not paid for.  The defendant denied that the deliveries were
made.  At trial, the corporation calls its office manager to testify that the corporation's employees always record each
delivery in duplicate, give one copy to the customer, and place the other copy in the corporation's files; that he (the
office manager) is the custodian of those files; and that his examination of the files before coming to court revealed
that the ten deliveries were made.  

 The office manager's testimony that the invoices show ten deliveries is  

A: admissible, because it is based on regularly kept business records. 
B: admissible, because the office manager has first-hand knowledge of the contents of the records. 
C: inadmissible, because the records must be produced in order to prove their contents. 
D: inadmissible, because the records are self-serving. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The business records themselves would be admissible under the business records
exception to the hearsay rule; however, the office manager's testimony regarding the content of the records would be
excluded under the best evidence rule.  Oral testimony regarding a writing's contents is only permitted after it has
been shown that the original document is unavailable.  

 Answer A is incorrect because, although the records themselves may be admissible, the office manager's testimony
regarding the content of the records is inadmissible.  Answer B is incorrect because the office manager's firsthand
knowledge of the records may provide the authentication and identification of the records themselves, but his
testimony about what is contained in the records must be shown by the original document if available.  Answer D is
incorrect because the self-serving nature of the records and the office manager's testimony is irrelevant in determining
whether the testimony is admissible.   










Page 193

Question 964 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a driver for damages for the death of the plaintiff's husband, resulting from an automobile collision.  At
trial, the driver calls the husband's doctor to testify that the day before his death, the husband, in great pain, said, "It
was my own fault; there's nobody to blame but me."    The doctor's testimony should be admitted as  

A: a statement against interest. 
B: a dying declaration. 
C: a statement of the husband's then existing state of mind. 
D: an excited utterance. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The husband's statement taking fault for the accident, at the time it was made, tended to
subject the husband to civil liability, and would render invalid any claim he had against the driver.  A reasonable
person in the husband's position would not have made the statement unless he believed it to be true.  The statement
is admissible under the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule.  

   Answer B is incorrect because there is no evidence that the husband made the statement knowing his death was
imminent or that the statement concerned the cause or circumstances of his death.  Although he was in great pain,
there is no indication that the husband knew he was going to die and was making the statement as a dying declaration
.  

 Answer C is incorrect because the husband's statement is being offered to prove he was at fault for the accident, not
to prove what was in his mind when he died.  In addition, the statement is a statement of memory or belief to prove
the fact remembered or believed - that he was at fault.  As such, it is specifically excluded from the definition of a
statement of then existing mental state and is inadmissible.  

 Answer D is incorrect because there is no evidence that the husband's statement related to a startling event and was
made while he was under the stress of excitement caused by the event or condition.  The husband may have been in
great pain, but his statement was not an excited utterance because of the accident.  The doctor's testimony should be
admitted as a statement against interest. 











Page 194

Question 256 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The driver of a car and three passengers were injured when their car was struck by a truck owned by Mammoth
Corporation and driven by a Mammoth employee.  A second Mammoth employee was riding as a passenger in the
truck.  The issues in this case include the negligence of the Mammoth employee in driving too fast and failing to wear
glasses, and the negligence of the driver of the car in failing to yield the right of way.  

   The car driver's counsel seeks to introduce the written statement from the Mammoth truck's passenger that the
Mammoth employee had left his glasses (required by his operator's license) at the truck stop when they had left five
minutes before the accident.  The judge should rule the statement admissible only if  

A: The driver of the car first proves that the truck passenger is an agent of Mammoth and that the statement
concerned a matter within the scope of his agency. 
B: The driver of the car produces independent evidence that the Mammoth employee who was driving was not
wearing corrective lenses at the time of the accident. 
C: The truck passenger is shown to be beyond the process of the court and unavailable to testify. 
D: the statement was under oath in affidavit form. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A. The passenger's written statement is an out-of-court statement that is being offered for the
truth of the matter asserted, and would typically be considered inadmissible as hearsay. However, if the passenger's
statement is an admission by a party opponent, it would be admissible as nonhearsay under the federal rules. Here,
the passenger's statement would be admissible as a vicarious admission by a party opponent if the passenger is an
agent of Mammoth and the statement concerned a matter within the scope of the agency.  

   Answer B is incorrect because, even if there was independent evidence that the Mammoth employee was not
wearing corrective lenses at the time of the accident, that fact would not change the determination that the
passenger's written statement is inadmissible hearsay. Hearsay, even if corroborated, is still hearsay. Answer C is
incorrect because the passenger's availability to testify is irrelevant to the determination of whether the written
statement is inadmissible hearsay. Even if the passenger is unavailable, the statement would still be inadmissible.
Answer D is incorrect because affidavits are insufficient to be considered admissible as prior testimony. Unless the
driver of the car can show that the passenger's written hearsay statement amounted to an admission by a party
opponent, the statement should be held inadmissible.  










Page 195

Question 282 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sues a department store for personal injuries, alleging that while shopping she was knocked to the floor by a
merchandise cart being pushed by a stock clerk and her back was injured as a result.  

 The stock clerk testified that the plaintiff fell near the cart but was not struck by it.  Thirty minutes after the plaintiff's
fall, the stock clerk, in accordance with regular practice at the department store, had filled out a printed form,
"Employee's Report of Accident," in which he stated that the plaintiff had been leaning over to spank her young child
and in so doing had fallen near his cart.  Counsel for the department store offers in evidence the report, which had
been given to him by the stock clerk's supervisor.  

 The judge should rule the report offered by the department store  

A: admissible as res gestae. 
B: admissible as a business record. 
C: inadmissible, because it is hearsay, not within any exception. 
D: inadmissible, because the stock clerk is available as a witness. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The stock clerk's written report is an out-of-court statement that is being offered for the truth
of the matter asserted - that the plaintiff fell and was not hit by the cart.  Thus, it is hearsay.  The stock clerk's written
report does not fall within any of the exceptions to the hearsay rule and is inadmissible.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the report is being offered for the truth of the matter asserted - that the plaintiff fell on
her own accord - and not to show any state of mind of the stock clerk.  Answer B is incorrect because the accident
report is the type of business record that the department store keeps in the regular course of business, but quotes the
stock clerk's own statement about the accident.  A business record that quotes parties or witnesses is generally not
within the exception because the person being quoted in the report is under no duty to accurately convey information
about the incident.  Answer D is incorrect because the stock clerk's availability as a witness is not the best choice for
the rationale of the judge when ruling on the admissibility of the report.  Further, whether the stock clerk is available or
not, the report is still hearsay and inadmissible. 











Page 196

Question 752 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

In the prosecution of a defendant for murdering a victim, the defendant testified that the killing had occurred in self-
defense when the victim tried to shoot him.  In rebuttal, the prosecution seeks to call a witness, the victim's father, to
testify that the day before the killing, the victim told her father that she loved the defendant so much she could never
hurt him.  

 The witness's testimony is  

A: admissible within the hearsay exception for statements of the declarant's then existing state of mind. 
B: admissible, because the victim is unavailable as a witness. 
C: inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception. 
D: inadmissible, because the victim's character is not at issue. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The victim's statement to her father that she loved the defendant and could never hurt him is
admissible as a statement of a then-existing mental or emotional condition.  The witness's testimony is being
introduced to show the victim's existing emotional and mental state when she made the statement, and is admissible
as an exception to the hearsay rule.  

 Answer B is incorrect because, for the purposes of the then-existing mental or emotional condition exception to the
hearsay rule, it is irrelevant whether the declarant is available or not.  Answer C is incorrect because, although the
statement may be hearsay, it is admissible under the then-existing emotional state exception to the hearsay rule.
Answer D is incorrect because the victim's character, as far as the self-defense claim goes, is at issue in the case.  In
addition, the statement itself goes to the victim's state of mind when the statement was made and not to her general
character for violence or non-violence. 










Page 197

Question 1062 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

In a jurisdiction without a Dead Man's Statute, a deceased man's estate sued the defendant claiming that the
defendant had borrowed $10,000 from the deceased man, which had not been repaid as of the man's death.  The
man was run over by a truck.  At the accident scene, while dying from massive injuries, the man told a police officer to
"make sure my estate collects the $10,000 I loaned to the defendant."  

 The police officer's testimony about the deceased man's statement is  

A: inadmissible, because it is more unfairly prejudicial than probative. 
B: inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 
C: admissible as an excited utterance. 
D: admissible as a statement under belief of impending death. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The deceased man's statement to the police officer is an out-of-court statement that is being
offered for the truth of the matter asserted - that the deceased man loaned the defendant $10,000.  As such, it is
hearsay, and it is inadmissible because it does not meet the requirements for any exception to the hearsay rule.  

   Answer A is incorrect because the statement is inadmissible as hearsay, not because the statement is not probative
.  Answer C is incorrect because the deceased man's statement was about the loan and not related to a startling event
or condition, so it is not an excited utterance.  Answer D is incorrect because the deceased man's statement was
about the loan and not concerning the cause or circumstances of what the declarant believed to be impending death.
As such, it is not a dying declaration.  Because the deceased man's statement is hearsay, and it does not meet the
requirements of any exception, it is inadmissible. 










Page 198

Question 151 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (7/22/2016) 

The question was: 

Re-direct examination of a witness must be permitted in which of the following circumstances?  

A: To reply to any matter raised in cross-examination. 
B: Only to reply to significant new matters raised in cross-examination. 
C: Only to reiterate the essential elements of the case. 
D: Only to supply significant information inadvertently omitted on direct examination. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  Re-direct examination must be permitted only if there were significant new matters raised on
cross-examination.  Answer A is incorrect because, although the extent of re-direct is in the sound discretion of the
court and the court may permit re-direct on some minor matters, the court is only required to permit re-direct on
matters that were not discussed on direct.  A court may limit re-direct examination at its discretion, but must allow it to
reply to new and significant matters raised on cross-examination.  Not every matter raised in cross-examination must
be permitted to be questioned about in re-direct, only those that raise significant new issues.  

 Answer C is incorrect because re-direct examination is not for the reiteration of prior testimony or the essential
elements of the crime.  Rather, re-direct examination is allowed to address new issues raised during cross-
examination.  Answer D is incorrect because supplying significant information inadvertently omitted on direct
examination is done by re-opening direct examination as opposed to re-direct examination. 









Page 199

Question 1381 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries allegedly suffered when he slipped and fell on the defendant's business
property. At trial, without asking that the defendant's property manager be declared a hostile witness, the plaintiff
called him solely to establish that the defendant was the owner of the property where the plaintiff fell. On cross-
examination of the manager, the defendant's attorney sought to establish that the defendant had taken reasonable
precautions to make the property safe for business invitees.  

 Should the defendant's cross-examination of the manager be permitted over the plaintiff's objection?  

A: No, because cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the direct examination and matters
affecting the credibility of the witness. 
B: No, because the court has not declared the manager hostile. 
C: Yes, because the cross-examiner is entitled to explore matters relevant to any issue in the case, including
credibility. 
D: Yes, because the manager is the agent of a party, as to whom the scope of cross-examination is unlimited. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. This is a correct statement of the scope of cross-examination, as set forth by Rule 611(b) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence, in the absence of any permission by the court to inquire into other matters. If a witness is
declared hostile, the examining party may be allowed to examine the witness by leading questions. But a declaration
that a witness is hostile does not mean that the cross-examination can go beyond the scope of direct examination.
The rule governing the scope of cross-examination is the same for hostile and non-hostile witnesses. Thus, Answer B
is incorrect.   

Under Rule 611(b) of the Federal Rules of Evidence, cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the
direct examination and matters affecting credibility. Thus, Answer A is correct. Although the court has discretion under
this rule to permit inquiry into additional matters, the defendant is not "entitled" to a wider scope of cross-examination.
Thus, Answer C is incorrect. Furthermore, there is no such rule permitting cross-examination of unlimited scope of an
agent of a party. The scope of cross-examination for all witnesses is controlled by Rule 611(b) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence. Thus, Answer D is incorrect. 










Page 200

Question 796 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

In the prosecution of a defendant for forgery, the defense objects to the testimony of a government expert on the
ground of inadequate qualifications.  The government seeks to introduce a letter from the expert's former criminology
professor, stating that the expert is generally acknowledged in his field as well qualified.  

 On the issue of the expert's qualifications, the letter may be considered by  

A: the jury, without regard to the hearsay rule. 
B: the judge, without regard to the hearsay rule. 
C: neither the judge nor the jury, because it is hearsay not within any exception. 
D: both the judge and the jury, because the letter is not offered for a hearsay purpose. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  Preliminary questions concerning the qualification of a person to be a witness shall be
determined by the court.  In making its determination, the court is not bound by the rules of evidence except those
with respect to privileges.  The letter, although hearsay, may be considered by the judge in determining whether the
witness is qualified as an expert.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the judge, not the jury, determines the qualifications of a person to be a witness.
Answer C is incorrect because the rules of evidence, including the rule against hearsay, do not apply to the judge's
making the initial determination whether the witness is qualified to testify as an expert.  Answer D is incorrect because
the determination is to be made by the judge only, and because the letter should be used outside the presence of the
jury. 










Page 201

Question 672 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

During litigation on a federal claim, a plaintiff had the burden of proving that a defendant received a notice.  The
plaintiff relied on the presumption of receipt by offering evidence that the notice was addressed to the defendant,
properly stamped, and mailed.  The defendant, on the other hand, testified that she never received the notice.  

 Which of the following is correct?  

A: The jury must find that the notice was received. 
B: The jury may find that the notice was received. 
C: The burden shifts to the defendant to persuade the jury of nonreceipt. 
D: The jury must find that the notice was not received, because the presumption has been rebutted and there is
uncontradicted evidence of nonreceipt. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B. The jury may, but is not required to, find that the notice was received. The plaintiff's
presumption under the mail box rule, that a properly addressed, stamped and mailed notice reached its destination,
imposes on the party against whom it is directed (here, the defendant) the burden of presenting evidence to rebut or
meet the presumption. In response to the presumption under the mail box rule, the defendant testified that she never
received the notice. The jury is thus empowered to judge the credibility of both sides and can, but is not required to,
find that the notice was received.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the plaintiff's presumption that notice was received was rebutted by the defendant's
testimony that she did not receive it. The jury is not required to find that the notice was received. Answer C is incorrect
because the burden of proof does not shift to the defendant; it remains throughout the trial upon the party on whom it
was originally cast (the plaintiff in this case). The defendant does not need to persuade the jury of non-receipt. Answer
D is incorrect because the rebuttal of a presumption does not require a finding for the rebutting party. In addition, the
evidence that the notice was not received was contradicted by evidence of the properly mailed notice. The jury, as fact
finder, may find the notice was received, but is not required to. 










Page 202

Question 1381 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries allegedly suffered when he slipped and fell on the defendant's business
property. At trial, without asking that the defendant's property manager be declared a hostile witness, the plaintiff
called him solely to establish that the defendant was the owner of the property where the plaintiff fell. On cross-
examination of the manager, the defendant's attorney sought to establish that the defendant had taken reasonable
precautions to make the property safe for business invitees.  

 Should the defendant's cross-examination of the manager be permitted over the plaintiff's objection?  

A: No, because cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the direct examination and matters
affecting the credibility of the witness. 
B: No, because the court has not declared the manager hostile. 
C: Yes, because the cross-examiner is entitled to explore matters relevant to any issue in the case, including
credibility. 
D: Yes, because the manager is the agent of a party, as to whom the scope of cross-examination is unlimited. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. This is a correct statement of the scope of cross-examination, as set forth by Rule 611(b) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence, in the absence of any permission by the court to inquire into other matters. If a witness is
declared hostile, the examining party may be allowed to examine the witness by leading questions. But a declaration
that a witness is hostile does not mean that the cross-examination can go beyond the scope of direct examination.
The rule governing the scope of cross-examination is the same for hostile and non-hostile witnesses. Thus, Answer B
is incorrect.   

Under Rule 611(b) of the Federal Rules of Evidence, cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter of the
direct examination and matters affecting credibility. Thus, Answer A is correct. Although the court has discretion under
this rule to permit inquiry into additional matters, the defendant is not "entitled" to a wider scope of cross-examination.
Thus, Answer C is incorrect. Furthermore, there is no such rule permitting cross-examination of unlimited scope of an
agent of a party. The scope of cross-examination for all witnesses is controlled by Rule 611(b) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence. Thus, Answer D is incorrect. 










Page 203

Question 1274 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The defendant, a young doctor, is charged with falsely claiming deductions on her federal income tax return. At trial, a
witness testified for the defendant that she has a reputation in the community for complete honesty. After a sidebar
conference at which the prosecutor gave the judge a record showing that the defendant's medical school had
disciplined her for altering her transcript, the prosecutor proposes to ask the witness on cross-examination: "Have you
ever heard that the defendant falsified her medical school transcript?"  

 Is the prosecutor's question proper?  

A: No, because it calls for hearsay not within any exception. 
B: No, because its minimal relevance on the issue of income tax fraud is substantially outweighed by the danger of
unfair prejudice. 
C: Yes, because an affirmative answer will be probative of the defendant's bad character for honesty and, therefore,
her guilt. 
D: Yes, because an affirmative answer will impeach the witness's credibility. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct.  The incident can be offered on cross-examination of the character witness, the proper purpose
being to show that the witness's assessment of the defendant's character for honesty is not credible.  The intent of the
question is to test the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation on the one hand, and the quality of the
community on the other.  If the witness hasn't heard about the falsification, he might not be very plugged in to the
community and so might be a poor reputation witness.  On the other hand, if the witness answers "yes," then the jury
might infer that the community in which the defendant has a reputation for complete honesty may be setting the
honesty bar pretty low.  In either case, the alleged falsification is probative impeachment whether or not it occurred.
Note that the courts require that the cross-examiner must have a good faith belief that the event actually occurred
before inquiring into the act on cross-examination.  In this case, that good faith standard is met by the evidence
presented at the sidebar conference that the defendant was disciplined in medical school.  

 The question does not call for a statement that would be used for its truth.  Therefore, it is not hearsay.  Likewise, the
alleged incident is not offered to prove income tax fraud.  Rather, the intent of the question is to test the witness's
knowledge of the defendant's reputation on the one hand, and the quality of the community on the other.  If the
witness hasn't heard about the falsification, he might not be very plugged in to the community and so might be a poor
reputation witness.  On the other hand, if the witness answers "yes," then the jury might infer that the community in
which the defendant has a reputation for complete honesty may be setting the honesty bar pretty low.  In either case,
the alleged falsification is probative impeachment whether or not it occurred.  Thus, answers A and B are incorrect.  

 Answer C is incorrect.  Federal Rule of Evidence 405 prohibits evidence of specific acts indicative of a person's
character when that character evidence is offered to prove that a person acted in accordance with the character trait
on the occasion in question at trial.  Thus, the prosecutor may not introduce the incident involving the medical school
transcript for the inference that, because the defendant acted dishonestly on that occasion, she likely acted
dishonestly with regard to her tax return. 











Page 204

Question 1413 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant, alleging that she was seriously injured when the defendant ran a red light and struck her
while she was walking in a crosswalk. During the defendant's case, a witness testified that the plaintiff had told him
that she was "barely touched" by the defendant's car.  

 On cross-examination, should the court allow the plaintiff to elicit from the witness the fact that he is an adjuster for
the defendant's insurance company?  

A: No, because testimony about liability insurance is barred by the rules of evidence. 
B: No, because the reference to insurance raises a collateral issue. 
C: Yes, for both substantive and impeachment purposes. 
D: Yes, for impeachment purposes only. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. Although FRE 411 generally bars evidence of liability insurance to prove negligence or wrongful
conduct, it contains an exception allowing the use of such evidence to prove bias. The fact that the witness is an
adjuster for the defendant's insurance company is a legitimate ground for impeachment for bias. Thus, Answer A is
incorrect. Furthermore, the witness's employment by the insurance company is therefore not collateral. Thus, Answer
B is incorrect.  

 Answer C is incorrect. The evidence is not admissible for substantive purposes. FRE 411 bars evidence of liability
insurance to prove negligence or wrongful conduct. However, the rule contains an exception allowing the use of such
evidence to prove bias. Thus, the fact that the witness is an adjuster for the defendant's insurance company is a
legitimate ground for impeachment for bias but not a basis for admission as substantive evidence. Thus, Answer D is
correct. 










Page 205

Question 674 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions (7/22/2016) 

The question was: 

The plaintiff sued the defendant for damages for physical injuries allegedly caused by the defendant's violation of the
federal civil rights law.  The incident occurred wholly within a particular state but the case was tried in federal court.
The state code says, "The common-law privileges are preserved intact in this state."  

 At trial, the defendant called the plaintiff's physician to testify to confidential statements made to him by the plaintiff in
furtherance of medical treatment for the injuries allegedly caused by the defendant.  The plaintiff objects, claiming a
physician-patient privilege.  

 The court should apply  

A: state law and recognize the claim of privilege. 
B: federal law and recognize the claim of privilege. 
C: state law and reject the claim of privilege. 
D: federal law and reject the claim of privilege. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  As a general rule, whether a privilege applies in federal court is governed by the federal
common law as it has been interpreted by the courts of the United States in the light of reason and experience.
However, in civil actions and proceedings, with respect to an element of a claim or defense as to which state law
supplies the rule of decision, whether a privilege applies shall be determined in accordance with state law.  Since this
case arose out of a violation of the federal civil rights law, the court should apply the federal common law in
determining the propriety of the physician-client privilege.  At common law, the federal courts do not recognize a
physician-client privilege, so the claim of privilege should be rejected.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the suit is in federal court based on a violation of a federal civil rights law, so the
federal common law is the applicable standard.  Answer B is incorrect because there is no physician-client privilege
recognized in federal common law.  Answer C is incorrect because the suit is in federal court based on a violation of a
federal civil rights law, so the federal common law is the applicable standard. 











Page 206

Question 954 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant was charged with the sale of narcotics.  The federal prosecutor arranged with the defendant's wife for her
to testify against her husband in exchange for leniency in her case.  At trial, the prosecution calls the wife, who had
been granted immunity from prosecution, to testify, among other things, that she saw her husband sell an ounce of
heroin.  

 Which of the following statements is most clearly correct in the federal courts?  

A: The defendant's wife cannot be called as a witness over her husband's objection. 
B: The defendant's wife can be called as a witness but cannot testify, over the defendant's objection, that she saw him
sell heroin. 
C: The defendant's wife can refuse to be a witness against her husband. 
D: The defendant's wife can be required to be a witness and to testify that she saw her husband sell heroin. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is C.  The wife's proposed testimony could lead to her invoking the adverse spousal privilege, a
privilege against testifying against her husband.  That privilege, however, only exists at the wife's discretion.  The
witness spouse, in this case the defendant's wife, alone has a privilege to refuse to testify adversely against her
husband; she may be neither compelled to testify nor foreclosed from testifying.  The choice is hers.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the adverse spousal privilege is the wife's, and the determination of whether to testify
or not is her decision to make.  The defendant cannot object and force his wife not to testify.  Answer B is incorrect
because the defendant's wife can testify, if she wishes, that she saw her husband sell heroin.  Her testimony about
her firsthand knowledge of the sale does not require that the wife disclose any privileged marital communication from
her husband.  She will testify as to what she saw.  Answer D is incorrect because the adverse spousal privilege still
exists.  If the wife wishes not to testify against her husband, she cannot be compelled, in federal court, to do so. 










Page 207

Question 674 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The plaintiff sued the defendant for damages for physical injuries allegedly caused by the defendant's violation of the
federal civil rights law.  The incident occurred wholly within a particular state but the case was tried in federal court.
The state code says, "The common-law privileges are preserved intact in this state."  

 At trial, the defendant called the plaintiff's physician to testify to confidential statements made to him by the plaintiff in
furtherance of medical treatment for the injuries allegedly caused by the defendant.  The plaintiff objects, claiming a
physician-patient privilege.  

 The court should apply  

A: state law and recognize the claim of privilege. 
B: federal law and recognize the claim of privilege. 
C: state law and reject the claim of privilege. 
D: federal law and reject the claim of privilege. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  As a general rule, whether a privilege applies in federal court is governed by the federal
common law as it has been interpreted by the courts of the United States in the light of reason and experience.
However, in civil actions and proceedings, with respect to an element of a claim or defense as to which state law
supplies the rule of decision, whether a privilege applies shall be determined in accordance with state law.  Since this
case arose out of a violation of the federal civil rights law, the court should apply the federal common law in
determining the propriety of the physician-client privilege.  At common law, the federal courts do not recognize a
physician-client privilege, so the claim of privilege should be rejected.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the suit is in federal court based on a violation of a federal civil rights law, so the
federal common law is the applicable standard.  Answer B is incorrect because there is no physician-client privilege
recognized in federal common law.  Answer C is incorrect because the suit is in federal court based on a violation of a
federal civil rights law, so the federal common law is the applicable standard. 











Page 208

Question 1258 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

In a personal injury case, the plaintiff sued a retail store for injuries she sustained from a fall in the store. The plaintiff
alleged that the store negligently allowed its entryway to become slippery due to snow tracked in from the sidewalk.
Before the lawsuit was filed, when the plaintiff threatened to sue, the store's manager said, "I know that there was
slush on that marble entry, but I think your four-inch-high heels were the real cause of your fall. So let's agree that
we'll pay your medical bills, and you release us from any claims you might have." The plaintiff refused the offer. At
trial, the plaintiff seeks to testify to the manager's statement that "there was slush on that marble entry."  

 Is the statement about the slush on the floor admissible?  

A: No, because it is a statement made in the course of compromise negotiations. 
B: No, because the manager denied that the slippery condition was the cause of the plaintiff's fall. 
C: Yes, as a statement by an agent about a matter within the scope of his authority. 
D: Yes, because the rule excluding offers of compromise does not protect statements of fact made during compromise
negotiations. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. Federal Rule of Evidence 408 excludes "[e]vidence of conduct or statements made in
compromise negotiations." Here, there was a dispute, and the manager's statement was made in an effort to settle
that dispute. Therefore, the entire statement is inadmissible under Rule 408. While normally an admission of fact
accompanying an offer to pay medical bills would be admissible, here, the offer to pay medical bills was part of a
settlement negotiation, making any accompanying admissions of fact inadmissible.  

   Answer B is incorrect. If not for Federal Rule of Evidence 408, which protects compromise negotiations, the
statement about the slippery condition would be admissible even though the manager denied that it was the cause.
Under Federal Rule of Evidence 801(d)(2)(A), party admissions are not considered hearsay when offered against the
party who made the admission. Therefore, the plaintiff would be allowed to offer the part of the statement that favors
the plaintiff's case, while the part that favors the defendant's case would be excluded as hearsay. The latter part would
not be admissible under Rule 801(d)(2)(A), because it would be offered by the manager who made the statement.  

   Answer C is incorrect.  The statement was by an agent about a matter within his authority, but that only means that
the statement is not excluded as hearsay. There is another ground for exclusion, so the statement is inadmissible
even though it satisfies the hearsay rule. Federal Rule of Evidence 408 excludes evidence of conduct or statements
made in compromise negotiations.  

   Answer D is incorrect. Federal Rule of Evidence 408 protects not only offers of compromise, but also "conduct or
statements made in the course of compromise negotiations." The rationale is to allow the parties and counsel to speak
freely during settlement negotiations, without having to worry that their statements will be used against them at trial.
Here, there is a dispute, and the manager's statement was made in an attempt to settle that dispute. Therefore, the
statement would be excluded under Rule 408. 












Page 209

Question 761 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The defendant is on trial for the crime of obstructing justice by concealing records subpoenaed May 1, in a
government investigation.  The government calls an attorney to testify that on May 3, the defendant asked him how to
comply with the regulations regarding the transfer of records to a safe-deposit box in Mexico.  

 The testimony of the attorney is  

A: privileged, because it relates to conduct outside the jurisdiction of the United States. 
B: privileged, because an attorney is required to keep the confidences of his clients. 
C: not privileged, provided the attorney knew of the concededly illegal purpose for which the advice was sought. 
D: not privileged, whether or not the attorney knew of the concededly illegal purpose for which the advice was sought. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  The attorney-client privilege covers confidential communications made during a legal
consultation between an attorney and client.  However, if the services of the lawyer were sought or obtained to enable
or aid anyone to commit or plan to commit a crime or a fraud, the privilege does not apply.  Because the defendant
sought the lawyer's advice to aid in the plan to commit the crime of obstructing justice, there is no valid attorney-client
privilege.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the location of the illegal conduct is irrelevant for the determination of whether the
attorney-client privilege applies.  The fact that the defendant was seeking to transfer records to a safe-deposit box in
Mexico is irrelevant.  Answer B is incorrect because, although an attorney is required to keep the confidences of his
clients, the attorney-client privilege does not apply to crimes or frauds being committed or planning to be committed.
Answer C is incorrect because the attorney does not need to know of the illegal purpose before the privilege will be
found not to apply.  The attorney's ignorance of his client's purpose is irrelevant. 










Page 210

Question 528 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for slander, alleging that the defendant had publicly accused the plaintiff of being a thief.
In his answer, the defendant admitted making the accusation, but alleged that it was a true statement.  

 At trial, the defendant offers evidence that the plaintiff stole a ring worth $10,000 from a jewelry store.  

 Evidence concerning this theft should be  

A: admitted, because specific instances of conduct may be proved when character is directly in issue. 
B: admitted, because the plaintiff's action constituted a felony. 
C: excluded, because character must be shown by reputation or opinion. 
D: excluded, because its relevance is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  Because the defendant is asserting that his statement was true, it must be determined
whether or not the plaintiff is a thief.  In cases in which character or a trait of character of a person is an essential
element, that element may be proven by specific instances of that person's conduct.  Therefore, evidence that the
plaintiff stole a ring on a prior occasion should be admissible to prove the truth of the defendant's statement.  

     Answer B is incorrect because the fact that the crime is a felony is only important if it is used for impeachment.  In
this case, the evidence that the plaintiff stole a ring is being used to prove the truth of an allegedly slanderous
statement and the plaintiff's character trait for thievery is an essential element of the defendant's defense.   

 Answer C is incorrect because, although character evidence is generally shown by reputation or opinion, in cases
where a character trait is essential to the defense of a claim, specific instances of conduct are admissible.  

 Answer D is incorrect because the issue of whether the plaintiff is a thief is an essential element of the defense to a
defamation charge. Therefore, the evidence that the plaintiff is a thief is highly probative and has very little danger of
unfair prejudice.  Because the plaintiff's prior theft is an essential to the defense of the alleged defamation, evidence of
specific instances of conduct can be used to prove the existence of that character trait.   













Page 211

Question 379 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The defendant is tried on a charge of driving while intoxicated.  When the defendant was booked at the police station,
a videotape was made that showed him unsteady, abusive, and speaking in a slurred manner.  If the prosecutor lays a
foundation properly identifying the tape, should the court admit it in evidence and permit it to be shown to the jury?  

A: Yes, because it is an admission. 
B: Yes, because its value is not substantially outweighed by unfair prejudice. 
C: No, because the privilege against self-incrimination is applicable. 
D: No, because specific instances of conduct cannot be proved by extrinsic evidence. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The videotape is relevant evidence on the issue of whether the defendant was intoxicated,
and it is more probative than prejudicial.  If a proper foundation is laid, there is no reason to exclude the videotape
from evidence.  

  Answer A is incorrect because the videotape is not hearsay.  It is not an out-of-court statement being offered for the
truth of the matter asserted.  In addition, a videotape is not an admission, it is evidence recounting the events of the
night in question.  Answer C is incorrect because the privilege against self-incrimination does not extend to physical
reactions or statements made without a custodial interrogation.  The defendant's unsteady appearance, his abusive
language, and his speaking in a slurred manner are not statements that would be protected by his privilege against
self-incrimination.  Answer D is incorrect because it is inapplicable to the issue in this question.  Specific incidents of
conduct regarding the underlying charge, in this case the defendant's appearance and actions, can certainly be
proven by the extrinsic evidence of the videotape.  The videotape, if a foundation is properly laid, is probative
evidence that should be admitted into evidence and shown to the jury. 









Page 212

Question 643 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

The defendant, charged with armed robbery of a store, denied that he was the person who had robbed the store.  

 In presenting the state's case, the prosecutor seeks to introduce evidence that the defendant had robbed two other
stores in the past year.  

 This evidence is  

A: admissible, to prove a pertinent trait of the defendant's character and the defendant's action in conformity
therewith. 
B: admissible, to prove the defendant's intent and identity. 
C: inadmissible, because character must be proved by reputation or opinion and may not be proved by specific acts. 
D: inadmissible, because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  Evidence of other crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admissible to prove the character of an
accused person in order to show action in conformity therewith.  The prosecutor is seeking to introduce evidence that
the defendant robbed two other stores in order to prove that the defendant robbed this particular store; this evidence
is inadmissible.  The probative value of the other robberies is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair
prejudice to the defendant.  

 Answer A is incorrect because the other robberies do not prove any "pertinent trait" to an armed robbery charge
beyond being evidence that, since the defendant robbed two other stores, he must have robbed this one.  The rules of
evidence specifically exclude the prior robberies from being used to show that the defendant's present actions were in
conformity with those prior robberies.  

 Answer B is incorrect because, although evidence of other crimes may be admissible to show intent or identity, these
prior crimes are not being offered for those purposes.  There are no facts to indicate that the prior robberies are being
used to prove anything other than that the defendant committed this particular robbery because he committed two
prior robberies; this is an impermissible use of evidence of other crimes.  Unless there are specific qualities present in
the prior convictions that tie the prior crimes to the particular robbery that the defendant is currently on trial for, the
evidence of the prior crimes is inadmissible.  

 Answer C is incorrect because specific acts, including prior crimes, can be used for some purposes; however, they
cannot be used to prove present action in conformity with the prior crimes. 













Page 213

Question 1145 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

At a defendant's murder trial, the defendant calls his first witness to testify that the defendant has a reputation in their
community as a peaceable and truthful person.  The prosecutor objects on the ground that the witness's testimony
would constitute improper character evidence.  

 The court should  

A: admit the testimony as to peaceableness, but exclude the testimony as to truthfulness. 
B: admit the testimony as to truthfulness, but exclude the testimony as to peaceableness. 
C: admit the testimony as to both character traits. 
D: exclude the testimony as to both character traits. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  Although evidence of a person's character or a trait of character is not admissible for the
purpose of proving action in conformity therewith on a particular occasion, there is an exception that allows the
accused to offer evidence of a trait of character that is pertinent to the trial.  In a case where the charge is murder, the
accused's reputation in the community as being a peaceable person would be a pertinent trait and should be
admissible if proposed by the accused.  However, the accused's reputation in the community as a truthful person
would not be pertinent to the murder charge, and should be inadmissible.  Because the defendant has not testified, his
reputation in the community as a truthful person would be irrelevant and inadmissible.  

 Answer B is incorrect because the evidence for truthfulness should be excluded and the evidence of peaceableness
should be admitted.  Answer C is incorrect because the evidence for truthfulness should be excluded and the
evidence of peaceableness should be admitted.  Answer D is incorrect because the evidence for truthfulness should
be excluded and the evidence of peaceableness should be admitted. 










Page 214

Question 1301 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

In a suit based on a will, the distribution of $1 million depends upon whether the wife survived her husband when both
died in the crash of a small airplane. An applicable statute provides that, for purposes of distributing an estate after a
common disaster, there is a rebuttable presumption that neither spouse survived the other. A witness has been called
to testify that as she approached the plane she heard what she thought was a woman's voice saying, "I'm dying,"
although by the time the husband and wife were removed from the wreckage they were both dead.   

Is the witness's testimony admissible?  

A: No, because the matter is governed by the presumption that neither spouse survived the other. 
B: No, because the witness's testimony is too speculative to support a finding. 
C: Yes, because the hearsay rule does not apply to statements by decedents in actions to determine rights under a
will. 
D: Yes, because it is relevant and not otherwise prohibited. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. The testimony is not barred by the hearsay rule or any other rule and is relevant on the issue of
whether the wife survived the husband. The dying woman's statement is not being offered for its truth but only to
prove that she could speak and therefore was alive. The witness's testimony is based on her perception and memory
and thus satisfies Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.   

Answer A is incorrect. The majority common law rule, which is followed by Rule 301 of the Federal Rules of Evidence,
adopts the "bursting bubble" view under which a presumption disappears when sufficient counterproof is offered about
the presumed fact. Here the testimony of the witness, although not conclusive, is sufficient to rebut the presumption
that neither spouse survived the other and to support a jury finding that the wife outlived the husband. Therefore, the
presumption is no longer controlling, and the witness's testimony is admissible.   

Answer B is incorrect. The testimony is not "too speculative." A witness need not be absolutely certain of matters
about which the witness testifies. Here the testimony is based on the perception and memory of the witness and thus
satisfies Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.   

Answer C is incorrect. The statement by the woman is not hearsay because it is not being offered to prove the truth of
the matter asserted. It is being offered to prove that the woman was alive at the time she made the statement and
hence is relevant on the issue of whether she survived her husband, even if by only a few minutes. 












Page 215

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver. The
insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and therefore
excluded from the policy's coverage.   

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which she was
injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating psychiatrist to give his
opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the time of the crash.   

Should the court admit the witness's opinion?  

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility. 
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense. 
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion. 
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do so, the
testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness is offering to
testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.   

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not have the
requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no absolute bar to
such testimony in a civil case such as this.   

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or data."   

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for qualification of
an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state. 













Page 216

Question 56 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

In a narcotics conspiracy prosecution against the defendant, the prosecutor offers in evidence a tape recording of a
telephone call allegedly made by the defendant.  A lay witness is called to testify that the voice on the recording is the
defendant's.  Her testimony to which of the following would be the LEAST sufficient basis for admitting the recording?  

A: She had heard the same voice on a similar tape recording identified to her by the defendant's brother. 
B: She had heard the defendant speak many times, but never over the telephone. 
C: She had, specifically for the purpose of preparing to testify, talked with the defendant over the telephone at a time
after the recording was made. 
D: She had been present with the defendant when he engaged in the conversation in question but had heard only the
defendant's side of the conversation. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  The recording can be authenticated by the testimony of a lay witness who, through first-hand
knowledge, is familiar with the defendant's voice.  However, the testimony of the witness in answer A is the least likely
to provide a sufficient basis for admitting the recording.  The witness's knowledge of the defendant's voice in answer A
is based solely on the hearsay statement of the defendant's brother.  The witness in answer A has no first-hand
knowledge of the defendant's voice.  

    Answer B is incorrect because first-hand knowledge of a voice, even if not over the telephone, is sufficient to
authenticate an audiotape identification.  Answer C is incorrect because the witness may become familiar with the
defendant's voice at any time.  Answer D is incorrect because the witness was present during the recording of the
conversation and can reliably identify the defendant's voice on the tape.  









Page 217

Question 793 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for unlawfully using the plaintiff's idea for an animal robot as a character in the defendant's
science fiction movie.  The defendant admitted that he had received a model of an animal robot from the plaintiff, but
he denied that it had any substantial similarity to the movie character.  After the model had been returned to the
plaintiff, the plaintiff destroyed it.  

 In order for the plaintiff to testify to the appearance of the model, the plaintiff  

A: must show that he did not destroy the model in bad faith. 
B: must give advance notice of his intent to introduce the oral testimony. 
C: must introduce a photograph of the model if one exists. 
D: need not do any of the above, because the "best evidence rule" applies only to writings, recordings, and
photographs. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  The best evidence rule only applies to writings, recordings and photographs, and the
plaintiff's robot is none of those.  The plaintiff, since he has personal knowledge of the appearance, can testify as to
the appearance of the model without having to introduce the model into evidence.  Answers A, B, and C are incorrect
because those requirements only apply for the introduction of writings, recordings, and photographs into evidence. 









Page 218

Question 279 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

In a trial between a farmer and an equestrian, an issue arose about the equestrian's ownership of a horse, which had
caused damage to the farmer's crops.  

 The farmer seeks to introduce in evidence a photograph of his cornfield in order to depict the nature and extent of the
damage done. The farmer testified that the photograph was taken within a week after the alleged occurrence, and
fairly and accurately portrays the condition of the cornfield after the damage was done. The judge should rule the
photograph  

A: admissible because the farmer testifies that it fairly and accurately portrays the condition of the cornfield after the
damage was done. 
B: admissible because the farmer testifies that the photograph was taken within a week after the alleged occurrence. 
C: inadmissible because the farmer failed to call the photographer to testify concerning the circumstances under
which the photograph was taken. 
D: inadmissible because it is possible to describe the damage to the cornfield through direct oral testimony. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is A.  To authenticate a photograph in order to introduce it into evidence requires the proponent to
establish that the photograph fairly and accurately portrays the scene it represents.  Because the farmer testified that
the photograph fairly and accurately portrays the condition of the cornfield after the damage was done, it should be
admitted into evidence.  

 Answer B is incorrect because the proximity in time to the incident is not the determining factor in the admissibility of
a photograph.  The determining factor is whether the photograph fairly and accurately depicts the scene it represents.
Answer C is incorrect because it is no longer necessary to show the circumstances around the taking of the
photograph before the photograph can be admitted into evidence.  Answer D is incorrect because testimony regarding
what is in the photograph does not preclude the admission of the photograph.  If the photograph fairly and accurately
depicts the nature and extent of damage done, the photograph should be admitted into evidence.  










Page 219

Question 214 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (7/23/2016) 

The question was: 

A defendant has denied his purported signature on a letter which has become critical in a breach of contract suit
between the defendant and the plaintiff.  At trial, the plaintiff's counsel calls a teacher who testifies that she taught the
defendant mathematics in school ten years earlier, knows his signature, and proposes to testify that the signature to
the letter is that of the defendant.  

 The defendant's counsel objects.  The trial judge should  

A: sustain the objection on the ground that identification of handwriting requires expert testimony and the teacher
does not, per se, qualify as an expert. 
B: sustain the objection on the ground that the best evidence of the defendant's handwriting would be testimony by a
person who had examined his writing more recently than ten years ago. 
C: overrule the objection on the ground that a schoolteacher qualifies as an expert witness for the purpose of
identifying handwriting. 
D: overrule the objection on the ground that a layman may identify handwriting if she has seen the person in question
write, and has an opinion concerning the writing in question. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D. A non-expert who is familiar with the handwriting in question is permitted to give an opinion
as to the identity of the handwriting. Handwriting is one of the areas in which courts will accept testimony regarding a
lay person's opinion, if the opinion is based on the perception of the witness and the opinion would be helpful to the
trier of fact.  

   Answer A is incorrect because identification of handwriting does not need to be given by expert testimony; any
person sufficiently familiar with another's handwriting is allowed to give his opinion. Answer B is incorrect because the
mere fact that there may be someone more familiar with the handwriting does not preclude the teacher from testifying
as to her opinion that the writing is the defendant's. The best evidence rule does not apply in this case as the original
writing is being used. The fact that the teacher has not seen the defendant's signature in ten years only goes to the
weight that the trier of fact should give the testimony. Answer C is incorrect because the teacher does not need to be
qualified as an expert before she is allowed to testify as to her opinion regarding the defendant's handwriting.  










Page 220

Question 131 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for a libelous letter received by an investigator.  The authenticity and contents of the letter
are disputed.  The investigator, if permitted, will testify that, "I received a letter that I cannot now find, which read:
'Dear investigator, You inquired about [the plaintiff].  We fired him last month when we discovered that he had been
stealing from the stockroom.  [The defendant].'"  The testimony should be admitted in evidence only if the  

A: jury finds that the investigator has quoted the letter precisely. 
B: jury is satisfied that the original letter is unavailable. 
C: judge is satisfied that the investigator has quoted the letter precisely. 
D: judge finds that the original letter is unavailable. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is D.  Preliminary questions concerning the admissibility of evidence shall be determined by the
court.  It is up to the judge to determine whether the investigator can testify as to the authenticity and contents of the
libelous letter.  Since the libelous letter is the one that's authenticity and contents are being challenged, the plaintiff
must prove the content of the writing by using the original letter, if available.  However, other evidence of the contents
of the letter would be admissible only if the judge finds that the original letter is unavailable.  

 Answer A is incorrect because it is the judge, not the jury, who determines the admissibility of the evidence.  Answer
B is incorrect for the same reason.  Answer C is incorrect because it misstates the applicable standard for the
determination of whether testimony is permitted as to the contents of a missing letter. 









Page 221

Question 1461 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs (2/15/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff, who had been injured in an automobile collision with the defendant, sued the defendant for damages. The
defendant denied negligence and denied that the plaintiff's injuries were severe. At trial, the plaintiff has offered in
evidence a color photograph of himself made from a videotape taken by a television news crew at the scene of the
collision. The plaintiff has demonstrated that the videotape has since been routinely reused by the television station
and that the footage of the plaintiff was erased. The photograph shows the plaintiff moments after the collision, with
his bloodied head protruding at a grotesque angle through the broken windshield of his car.  

 Should the photograph be admitted over the defendant's objection?   

A: No, because the plaintiff has failed to establish that a duplicate could not be found. 
B: No, because the plaintiff has failed to produce the original videotape or a duplicate. 
C: Yes, because it tends to prove a controverted fact. 
D: Yes, because a photograph that establishes a disputed fact cannot be excluded as prejudicial. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. Photographs are often useful evidence in establishing disputed facts. However, under FRE 403,
the judge always has the right to exclude such evidence if the danger of unfair prejudice substantially outweighs the
probative value of the photograph. In this case, the photograph is admissible. The defendant has denied that the
plaintiff's injuries were severe. Therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to show the severity of his injuries by introducing the
photograph. The evidence relates directly to the appropriate amount of damages and is not unfairly prejudicial. Thus,
Answer C is correct, and Answer D is incorrect.  

 Answers A and B are incorrect. A showing was made that the original videotape was erased, so it cannot be
produced. The photograph offered was made from the videotape. Therefore the photograph is either a duplicate of the
original or an original itself if it is found to be a print from a negative. FRE 1001(d) provides that "[a]n 'original' of a
photograph includes the negative or a print from it." Under this definition, if the photograph being offered is found to be
a print from the negative of the videotape, then it is itself an "original" and no showing of unavailability is required. 










Page 222

Question 23 - Real Property - Contracts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A buyer and seller entered into a valid, enforceable written contract by which the buyer agreed to purchase Blackacre,
which was the seller's residence.  One of the contract provisions was that after closing, the seller had the right to
remain in residence at Blackacre for up to 30 days before delivering possession to the buyer.  The closing took place
as scheduled.  Title passed to the buyer and the seller remained in possession.  

 Within a few days after the closing, the new house next door that was being constructed for the seller was burned to
the ground, and at the end of the 30-day period the seller refused to move out of Blackacre; instead, he tendered to
the buyer a monthly rental payment in excess of the fair rental value of Blackacre.  The buyer rejected the proposal
and that day brought an appropriate action to gain immediate possession of Blackacre.  The contract was silent as to
the consequences of the seller's failure to give up possession within the 30-day period, and the jurisdiction in which
Blackacre is located has no statute dealing directly with this situation, although the landlord-tenant law of the
jurisdiction requires a landlord to give a tenant 30 days notice before a tenant may be evicted.  The buyer did not give
the seller any such 30-day statutory notice.  

 The buyer's best legal argument in support of his action to gain immediate possession is that the seller is a  

A: trespasser ab initio. 
B: licensee. 
C: tenant at sufferance. 
D: tenant from month to month. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

The correct answer is B.  The buyer's best legal argument is that the seller is a mere licensee who does not hold any
property rights with regard to Blackacre.  A license is a contractual right to use land that is owned by another party.
Because it is a contractual right rather than a property right, the owner of the property is free to terminate or revoke
that license at any time.  While the licensee may have contractual remedies available to her where a wrongful
revocation occurs, these do not affect the property rights of the owner.  Therefore, answer B represents the buyer's
best argument.  

    Answer A is incorrect because the seller was contractually entitled to enter the land.  Answers C and D are incorrect
because the buyer's best argument is that the seller is a licensee without property rights rather than a tenant (since
tenants do have limited property rights). 











Page 223

Question 1100 - Real Property - Contracts (2/6/2017) 

The question was: 

A banker owned Goldacre, a tract of land, in fee simple.  The banker and a buyer entered into a written agreement
under which the buyer agreed to buy Goldacre for $100,000, its fair market value.  The agreement contained all the
essential terms of a real estate contract to sell and buy, including a date for closing.  The required $50,000 down
payment was made.  The contract provided that in the event of the buyer's breach, the banker could retain the
$50,000 deposit as liquidated damages.  

 Before the date set for the closing in the contract, the buyer died.  On the day that the administratrix of the buyer's
estate was duly qualified, which was after the closing date, the administratrix made demand for return of the $50,000
deposit.  The banker responded by stating that she took such demand to be a declaration that the administratrix did
not intend to complete the contract and that the banker considered the contract at an end.  The banker further
asserted that she was entitled to retain, as liquidated damages, the $50,000.  The reasonable market value of
Goldacre had increased to $110,000 at that time.  

 The administratrix brought an appropriate action against the banker to recover $50,000.  In answer, the banker made
no affirmative claim but asserted that she was entitled to retain the $50,000 as liquidated damages as provided in the
contract.  

 In such lawsuit, judgment should be for  

A: the administratrix, because the provision relied upon by the banker is unenforceable. 
B: the administratrix, because the death of the buyer terminated the contract as a matter of law. 
C: the banker, because the court should enforce the express agreement of the contracting parties. 
D: the banker, because the doctrine of equitable conversion prevents termination of the contract upon the death of a
party. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is correct.  A seller is entitled to keep a buyer's deposit as liquidated damages following the buyer's breach of the
contract, as long as that amount appears to be reasonable in light of the seller's anticipated and actual damages.
Many courts will uphold the retention of a deposit of 10% of the sale price or less without inquiry to its
reasonableness.  The facts indicate that the sale price of Goldacre was set at the "reasonable market value," which
was $100,000 at the time of contracting and had increased to $110,000 by the time set for closing.  Therefore, the
banker did not have actual damages, because she can sell it for $10,000 more, and the most the banker can legally
retain is $11,000.  Thus, she will not be able to enforce a liquidated damages clause in any higher amount.  

   The administratrix has not sought specific performance of the contract, so the only issue being considered by the
court is liquidated damages, so answer A is correct.  Answer B is incorrect because the doctrine of equitable
conversion would keep the contract alive after the buyer's death, and the banker would close with the buyer's estate.
Answer D is incorrect because the banker is not seeking to prevent termination of the contract (through specific
performance); she is merely seeking damages.  Answer C is incorrect because the court will not enforce an
agreement that violates the law, even if both parties have assented to it. 












Page 224

Question 143 - Real Property - Contracts (2/7/2017) 

The question was: 

A landlord, the owner in fee simple of a small farm consisting of thirty acres of land improved with a house and several
outbuildings, leased the same to a tenant for a ten-year period.  After two years had expired, the government
condemned twenty acres of the property and allocated the compensation award to the landlord and tenant according
to their respective interest so taken.  It so happened, however, that the twenty acres taken embraced all of the farm's
tillable land, leaving only the house, outbuildings, and a small woodlot.  There is no applicable statute in the
jurisdiction where the property is located nor any provision in the lease relating to condemnation.  The tenant quit
possession, and the landlord brought suit against him to recover rent.  The landlord will  

A: lose, because there has been a frustration of purpose which excuses the tenant from further performance of his
contract to pay rent. 
B: lose, because there has been a breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment by the landlord's inability to
provide the tenant with possession of the whole of the property for the entire term. 
C: win, because of the implied warranty on the part of the tenant to return the demised premises in the same condition
at the end of the term as they were at the beginning. 
D: win, because the relationship of landlord and tenant was unaffected by the condemnation, thus leaving the tenant
still obligated to pay rent. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct.  Where the government exercises its condemnation powers, the taking will affect not only the
owner of the land, but also any tenants who are leasing that land.  The extent of the effect on the tenant's rights
depends upon whether there was a complete or partial taking.  Where there has been a complete taking (meaning the
government has taken all of the property that the tenant was leasing), the lease is automatically terminated, and the
tenant has no further obligation to make payments.  If, however, there was only a partial taking (meaning some but not
all of the land being leased was taken), the tenant is still responsible for making payments, but only in an amount
proportionate to the land that was not taken.  Note that in the case of a partial taking, the tenant will share in the
monies paid by the government to the landlord for the taking to the extent of the tenant's rent liability in the portion of
land that was taken.  In this case, the facts indicate that part but not all of the land the tenant was leasing was taken
by the government.  Because there was only a partial taking, the tenant's lease is still in effect.  

 Answer A is incorrect because frustration of purpose is irrelevant to the tenant's contractual obligation to pay for the
land he is still leasing (whether he chooses to use that land or not).  Answers B and C are incorrect because a
government's exercise of its constitutional taking powers does not implicate the warranty of quiet enjoyment, nor does
it make a tenant liable for the land taken. 









Page 225

Question 1316 - Real Property - Mortgages (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A man borrowed money from a bank and executed a promissory note for the amount secured by a mortgage on an
office building that he owned. Several years later, the man sold the building. As specified in the contract of sale, the
deed to the buyer provided that the buyer agreed "to assume the existing mortgage debt" on the building.   

Subsequently, the buyer defaulted on the mortgage loan to the bank, and appropriate foreclosure proceedings were
initiated. The foreclosure sale resulted in a deficiency.   

There is no applicable statute.   

Is the buyer liable for the deficiency?  

A: No, because even if the buyer assumed the mortgage, the man is solely responsible for any deficiency. 
B: No, because the buyer did not sign a promissory note to the bank and therefore has no personal liability. 
C: Yes, because the buyer assumed the mortgage and therefore became personally liable for the mortgage loan and
any deficiency. 
D: Yes, because the transfer of the mortgage debt to the buyer resulted in a novation of the original mortgage and
loan and rendered the buyer solely responsible for any deficiency. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. With a mortgage assumption, a buyer who assumes a mortgage debt becomes primarily liable for
that debt. In this case, the man, absent a release by the bank, also is liable, although he is only secondarily liable.
This situation can be contrasted with one in which the buyer might have purchased "subject to the mortgage," in which
case only the man would be liable for any deficiency.   

Answer A is incorrect. An assumption of a mortgage makes a buyer primarily liable for any deficiency. Thus, in this
case, the buyer is primarily liable. Absent a release by the bank, the man also is liable, although he is only secondarily
liable. This situation can be contrasted to one in which the buyer might have purchased "subject to the mortgage," in
which case only the man would be liable for any deficiency.   

Answer B is incorrect. The agreement in the contract to assume the mortgage created the primary liability for the
deficiency in the buyer. The buyer did not have to sign the promissory note to become liable. Absent a release by the
bank, the man also is liable, although he is only secondarily liable for any deficiency.   

Answer D is incorrect. A novation occurs when the bank agrees to substitute the personal liability of the buyer for that
of the original debtor, who is then released. In that case there would be an assumption with novation. Here there was
no agreement by the bank to release the man from liability and to substitute the buyer as being solely liable for the
debt. The buyer assumed the mortgage debt and became primarily liable, while the man remains secondarily liable. 














Page 226

Question 1394 - Real Property - Ownership (2/6/2017) 

The question was:

A grantor owned two tracts of land, one of 15 acres and another of 5 acres. The two tracts were a mile apart.

Fifteen years ago, the grantor conveyed the smaller tract to a grantee. The grantor retained the larger tract. The deed
to the grantee contained, in addition to proper legal descriptions of both properties and identifications of the parties,
the following language:

"I, the grantor, bind myself and my heirs and assigns that in the event that the larger tract that I now retain is ever
offered for sale, I will notify the grantee and his heirs and assigns in writing, and the grantee and his heirs and assigns
shall have the right to purchase the larger tract for its fair market value as determined by a board consisting of three
qualified expert independent real estate appraisers."

With appropriate references to the other property and the parties, there followed a reciprocal provision that conferred
upon the grantor and her heirs and assigns a similar right to purchase the smaller tract, purportedly binding the
grantee and his heirs and assigns.

Ten years ago, a corporation acquired the larger tract from the grantor. At that time, the grantee had no interest in
acquiring the larger tract and by an appropriate written document released any interest he or his heirs or assigns
might have had in the larger tract.

Last year, the grantee died. The smaller tract passed by the grantee's will to his daughter. She has decided to sell the
smaller tract. However, because she believes the corporation has been a very poor steward of the larger tract, she
refuses to sell the smaller tract to the corporation even though she has offered it for sale in the local real estate
market.

The corporation has brought an appropriate action for specific performance of the right of first refusal after taking all of
the necessary preliminary steps in its effort to exercise its right to purchase the smaller tract.

The daughter has asserted all possible defenses.

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction, and there are no applicable statutes.

If the court rules for the daughter, what will be the likely reason?

A: The provision setting out the right to purchase violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.
B: The grantee's release 10 years ago operates as a waiver regarding any right to purchase that the corporation might
have.
C: The two tracts of land were not adjacent parcels of real estate, and thus the right to purchase is in gross and is
therefore unenforceable.
D: Noncompliance with a right to purchase gives rise to a claim for money damages, but not for specific performance.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Fifteen years ago, each of the parties granted a reciprocal right of first refusal (or a preemptive
right) to the other. A right of first refusal is a conditional option. It provides that if the owner ever decides to sell the
property, the person or entity holding the right of first refusal has the right to purchase the property on specified terms.
In this case, the purchase price was to be set by three qualified expert independent real estate appraisers and was
thus fair. These rights of first refusal, however, violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities. The right to
purchase is triggered by the decision to sell the land. In this case, that decision might occur more than 21 years after a
life in being at the time the right was granted. Thus, under the common law, the right of first refusal is struck ab initio.
The question notes that the common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in this jurisdiction. Thus, there are
no applicable statutory reforms to the rule. And because the daughter prevails, there must be no applicable
exceptions to the common law rule.

 Answer B is incorrect. Ten years ago, the grantee had the right to purchase the larger tract of land under the right of
first refusal (or a preemptive right) given to the grantee. The grantee chose not to exercise that right. The fact that the
grantee chose not to exercise the right of first refusal has no effect on whether the grantor can exercise the reciprocal
right of first refusal regarding the grantee's land. In this case, however, the reciprocal rights of first refusal violate the


Page 227

common law Rule Against Perpetuities and would be struck at once, with neither party able to enforce the right.   

Answer C is incorrect. Fifteen years ago each of the parties granted a reciprocal right of first refusal (or a preemptive
right) to the other. A right of first refusal is a conditional option. It provides that if the owner ever decides to sell the
property, the one holding the right of first refusal has the right to purchase it. A right of first refusal may have been
granted as to only one of the tracts of land. Here, the rights were reciprocal as to two tracts of land. It does not matter
that the tracts were not adjacent. The reciprocal rights of first refusal, however, violate the common law Rule Against
Perpetuities and would be struck at once, with neither party able to enforce the right. The right of first refusal is
triggered by the decision to sell the land. In this case, that decision might occur more than 21 years after a life in being
at the time the right was granted. Thus, under the common law, the right of first refusal is struck ab initio. The question
notes that the common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in this jurisdiction. Thus, there are no applicable
statutory reforms to the rule. And because the daughter prevails, there must be no applicable exceptions to the
common law rule.  

 Answer D is incorrect. Fifteen years ago each of the parties granted a reciprocal right of first refusal (or a preemptive
right) to the other. The reciprocal rights of first refusal, however, violate the common law Rule Against Perpetuities and
would be struck at once, with neither party able to enforce the right either for money damages or for specific
performance. The right of first refusal is triggered by the decision to sell the land. In this case, that decision might
occur more than 21 years after a life in being at the time the right was granted. Thus, under the common law, the right
of first refusal is struck ab initio. The question notes that the common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified.
Thus, there are no applicable statutory reforms to the rule. And because the daughter prevails, there must be no
applicable exceptions to the common law rule. 




Page 228

Question 315 - Real Property - Rights in Land (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A landowner held 500 acres in fee simple absolute.  In 2010 the owner platted and obtained all required governmental
approvals of two subdivisions of 200 acres each.  

 In 2010 and 2011 commercial buildings and parking facilities were constructed on one, Royal Center, in accordance
with the plans disclosed by the plat for each subdivision.  Royal Center continues to be used for commercial
purposes.  

 The plat of the other, Royal Oaks, showed 250 lots, streets, and utility and drainage easements.  All of the lots in
Royal Oaks were conveyed during 2010 and 2011.  The deeds contained provisions, expressly stated to be binding
upon the grantee, his heirs and assigns, requiring the lots to be used only for single-family, residential purposes until
2035.  The deeds expressly stated that these provisions were enforceable by the owner of any lot in the Royal Oaks
subdivision.  

 At all times since 1999, the 200 acres of Royal Center have been zoned for shopping center use, and the 200 acres
in Royal Oaks have been zoned for residential use in a classification which permits both single-family and multiple-
family use.  

 Assume that the owner now desires to open his remaining 100 acres as a residential subdivision of 125 lots (with
appropriate streets, etc.).  He has, as an essential element of his scheme, the feature that the restrictions are identical
with those he planned for the original Royal Oaks residential subdivision and, further, that lot owners in Royal Oaks
should be able to enforce (by lawsuits) restrictions on the lots in the 100 acres.  The zoning for the 100 acres is
identical with that for the 200 acres of Royal Oaks residential subdivision.  Which of the following best states the
chance of success for his scheme?  

A: He can restrict use only to the extent of that imposed by zoning (that is, to residential use by not more than four
dwelling units per lot). 
B: He cannot restrict the 100 acres to residential use because of the conflicting use for retail commercial purposes in
the 200 acres comprising the shopping center. 
C: He cannot impose any enforceable restriction to residential use only. 
D: Any chance of success depends upon the 100 acres being considered by the courts as part of a common
development scheme which also includes the 200 acres of Royal Oaks. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct.  The restrictions described in the facts constitute equitable servitudes.  An equitable servitude in a deed
is only enforceable where a party can establish: 1) intent for the restriction to be enforceable by subsequent grantees,
2) that the subsequent grantee had notice of the servitude, and 3) that the restriction touches and concerns the land.
In this case, the facts indicate that all three elements can be established.  The express language of the deeds
indicates that the restriction is intended to bind subsequent grantees.  The recording of those deeds would provide
later purchasers with record notice of the restriction.  And a restriction on what can be built on the land clearly meets
the requirement that the restriction touch and concern that land, so an enforceable equitable servitude was created.
For an equitable servitude to bind an entire subdivision, however, it must be found in the common building plan for
that subdivision.  If it is, then anyone who owns a plot of land within the subdivision is bound by the restrictions and
may file suit to enforce those restrictions against other owners.  

 In this case, the facts state that a subdivision plan outlining restrictions that would apply to all plats within it was
approved by the local government.  But that subdivision plan was only for the original 200 acres of Royal Oaks.  The
only way that owners in the new 100 acre development will be able to bind owners in the original 200 acres, and vice-
versa, is if they are all viewed as living in an area developed under a common plan.  Therefore, answer D is correct,
and the owner will only succeed if he convinces a court that the entire 300 acres is a subdivision developed under a
common plan.  

 Answer A is incorrect because zoning is irrelevant to determining whether the restrictions are binding.  Answer B is
incorrect because there are two separate subdivisions, and the owner is only trying to expand one of them.  Answer C
is incorrect because there is no explicit limit on the types of restriction a subdivision may impose. 














Page 229

Question 469 - Real Property - Rights in Land (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A realty company developed a residential development which included single-family dwellings, town houses, and high-
rise apartments for a total of 25,000 dwelling units.  Included in the deed to each unit was a covenant under which the
grantee's "heirs and assigns" agreed to purchase electrical power only from a plant the realty company promised to
build and maintain within the development.  The realty company constructed the plant and necessary power lines.
The plant did not supply power outside the development.  An appropriate and fair formula was used to determine
price.  

 After constructing and selling 12,500 of the units, the realty company sold its interest in the development to an
investor company.  The investor company operated the power plant and constructed and sold the remaining 12,500
units.  Each conveyance from the investor company contained the same covenant relating to electrical power that the
realty company had included in the 12,500 conveyances it had made.  

 A woman bought a dwelling unit from a man, who had purchased it from the realty company.  Subsequently, the
woman, whose lot was along the boundary of the development, ceased buying electrical power from the investor
company and began purchasing power from General Power Company, which provided such service in the area
surrounding the development.  Both General Power and the investor company have governmental authorization to
provide electrical services to the area.  The investor company instituted an appropriate action against the woman to
enjoin her from obtaining electrical power from General Power.  If judgment is for the woman, it will most likely be
because  

A: the covenant does not touch and concern the land. 
B: the mixture of types of residential units is viewed as preventing one common development scheme. 
C: the covenant is a restraint on alienation. 
D: there is no privity of estate between the woman and the investor company. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct.  The realty company has attempted to impose an equitable servitude on the residents of the
subdivision.  An equitable servitude in a deed is only enforceable where a party can establish: 1) intent for the
restriction to be enforceable by subsequent grantees, 2) that the subsequent grantees had notice of the servitude, and
3) that the restriction touches and concerns the land.  In this case, the facts clearly indicate that there was an intent for
the restriction to be enforceable, and that the language of the deeds put subsequent grantees on notice.  The
restriction, however, does not touch and concern the land; it does not serve to make the land more useful or valuable
in any way.  Therefore, the restriction will not bind the woman, and answer A is correct.  

 Answer B is incorrect because mixing types of residential units does not negate the provisions of a common
development scheme.  Answer C is incorrect because the attempted restriction does not purport to limit an owner's
alienation rights.  Answer D is incorrect because privity is a requirement for covenants running with the land, not
equitable servitudes. 











Page 230

Question 440 - Real Property - Rights in Land (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

The owner of Stoneacre entered into a written agreement with a miner.  Under this written agreement, which was
acknowledged and duly recorded, the miner, for a five-year-period, was given the privilege to enter on Stoneacre to
remove sand, gravel, and stone in whatever quantities the miner desired.  The miner was to make monthly payments
to the owner on the basis of the amount of sand, gravel, and stone removed during the previous month.  Under the
terms of the agreement, the miner's privilege was exclusive against all others except the owner, who reserved the
right to use Stoneacre for any purpose whatsoever including the removal of sand, gravel, and stone.  

 One year after the agreement was entered into, the state brought a condemnation action to take Stoneacre for a
highway interchange.  In the condemnation action, is the miner entitled to compensation?  

A: Yes, because he has a license, which is a property right protected by the due process clause. 
B: Yes, because he has a profit a prendre, which is a property right protected by the due process clause. 
C: No, because he has a license, and licenses are not property rights protected by the due process clause. 
D: No, because he has a profit a prendre, which is not a property right protected by the due process clause. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is correct.  The agreement between the owner and miner created a profit a prendre for the miner.  A profit gives the
holder a right to enter onto another's land for the purpose of removing some sort of natural resource.  Rather than a
license, a profit is a property right, and is thereby afforded all the usual statutory and constitutional protections
associated with such rights.  Because the miner has a property right in Stoneacre, a governmental taking will entitle
the miner to share in any condemnation award given to the owner.  Therefore, answer B is correct.  

   Answers A and C are incorrect because the miner's profit is a right, not a license.  Answer D is incorrect because
the profit is afforded constitutional protection like any other property right. 










Page 231

Question 15 - Real Property - Rights in Land (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A man owned Goldacre, a tract of land, in fee simple.  At a time when Goldacre was in the adverse possession of a
stranger, the man's neighbor obtained the oral permission of the man to use as a road or driveway a portion of
Goldacre to reach adjoining land, Twin Pines, which the neighbor owned in fee simple.  Thereafter, during all times
relevant to this problem, the neighbor used this road across Goldacre regularly for ingress and egress between Twin
Pines and a public highway.  

 The stranger quit possession of Goldacre before acquiring title by adverse possession.  Without any further
communication between the man and the neighbor, the neighbor continued to use the road for a total period, from the
time he first began to use it, sufficient to acquire an easement by prescription.  The man then blocked the road and
refused to permit its continued use.  The neighbor brought suit to determine his right to continue use of the road.  The
neighbor should  

A: win, because his use was adverse to the stranger's and once adverse it continued adverse until some affirmative
showing of a change. 
B: win, because the neighbor made no attempt to renew permission after the stranger quit possession of Goldacre. 
C: lose, because his use was with permission. 
D: lose, because there is no evidence that he continued adverse use for the required period after the stranger quit
possession. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. The neighbor had the man's express permission to use the road, so that use was never adverse.
The neighbor incorrectly argues that he has acquired an easement by prescription. To establish an easement by
prescription, a party must show: 1) adverse, 2) continuous, 3) visible, and 4) unpermitted use of the area for the length
of the statutory time period. Although the neighbor's use was continuous, visible, and lasted for the length of the
statutory time period, that use was not adverse or unpermitted. Answer A is incorrect because the use must be
adverse to the owner of the property. Answer B is incorrect because the man's original grant of permission was
sufficient, and did not need to be renewed because the stranger never acquired title by adverse possession. Answer
D is incorrect because despite the stranger's adverse possession, the neighbor's use was never adverse due to the
owner's permission.  









Page 232

Question 397 - Real Property - Titles (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

At a time when an owner held Lot 1 in the Fairoaks subdivision in fee simple, the owner's son executed a warranty
deed that recited that the owner's son conveyed Lot 1, Fairoaks, to his girlfriend.  The deed was promptly and duly
recorded.  

 After the recording of the deed from the owner's son to his girlfriend, the owner conveyed Lot 1 to his son by a
warranty deed that was promptly and duly recorded.  Later, the owner's son conveyed the property to a buyer by
warranty deed, and the deed was promptly and duly recorded.  The buyer paid the fair market value of Lot 1 and had
no knowledge of any claim of the girlfriend.  

 In an appropriate action, the buyer and the girlfriend contest title to Lot 1.  In this action, judgment should be for  

A: the girlfriend, because the girlfriend's deed is senior to the buyer's. 
B: the buyer, because the buyer paid value without notice of the girlfriend's claim. 
C: the girlfriend or the buyer, depending on whether a subsequent grantee is bound, at common law, by the doctrine
of estoppel by deed. 
D: the girlfriend or the buyer, depending on whether the girlfriend's deed is deemed recorded in the buyer's chain of
title. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is incorrect because it suggests that the girlfriend wins for being first in time. While this answer would be
correct in a jurisdiction with a race recording statute, the type of statute was not provided by the question.  

 Answer B is incorrect because it suggests that the buyer wins because he is a bona fide purchaser who paid value
and had no notice of the girlfriend's claim. Although this answer would be correct if the jurisdiction is governed by a
notice statute, the facts do not provide what statute is in effect.  Therefore, answer B may also be eliminated.  

 Answer C is incorrect. This question does involve estoppel by deed, but only as it applies between the grantor and
the original grantee (i.e., the son and the girlfriend). The doctrine of estoppel by deed states that if a grantor purports
to convey title that he does not actually hold, his subsequent acquisition of title to the property will automatically bring
into effect the the prior benefit conveyed to the grantee. In other words, even though the son did not have title at the
time of the conveyance to the girlfriend, when he did obtain title, the girlfriends title became valid. The grantor then
may be estopped by the grantee from denying he conveyed valid title. However, this right is only held by the grantee
against the grantor. The grantee has no such right against a subsequent purchaser. Therefore C is incorrect because
the subsequent grantee, here the buyer, is not bound by estoppel by deed. The girlfriend may only apply the doctrine
against the son, not the buyer.  

 Under the doctrine of estoppel, if the grantor transfers his later-acquired title to a subsequent purchaser, it will also be
valid title. The issue becomes whether the buyer is a subsequent bona fide purchaser, and what was his burden of
searching title. To be a subsequent bona fide purchaser, the buyer must not have had notice, actual or constructive, of
the original grantee. If the original grantee properly recorded, the subsequent buyer would have been on notice and
therefore cannot be a valid subsequent bona fide purchaser. Thus D is the correct answer because the issue turns on
whether the girlfriends deed was properly recorded. 













Page 233

Question 1140 - Real Property - Titles (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A landowner owned Blackacre in fee simple and conveyed Blackacre to a teacher by warranty deed.  An adjoining
owner asserted title to Blackacre and brought an appropriate action against the teacher to quiet title to Blackacre.  The
teacher demanded that the landowner defend the teacher's title under the deed's covenant of warranty, but the
landowner refused.  The teacher then successfully defended at her own expense.  

 The teacher brought an appropriate action against the landowner to recover the teacher's expenses incurred in
defending against the adjoining owner's action to quiet title to Blackacre.  

 In this action, the court should decide for   

A: the teacher, because in effect it was the landowner's title that was challenged. 
B: the teacher, because the landowner's deed to her included the covenant of warranty. 
C: the landowner, because the title the landowner conveyed was not defective. 
D: the landowner, because the adjoining owner may elect which of the landowner or the teacher to sue. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is correct.  The covenant of warranty is a guarantee by the seller that the title being conveyed is marketable, and
that the grantor will defend any valid claims against that title.  A breach of the covenant of warranty is established
when a third party interferes with possession of the land, not when a third party makes a claim against the grantee.
Consequently, the grantor is not required to defend the grantee or his heirs in any action against title; rather, he must
only defend against lawful or reasonable claims for title.  In this case, the facts do not indicate that any valid claim
existed because the teacher prevailed over the adjoining owner in an action to quiet title.  Because the landowner
conveyed good title, and did not fail to defend against any valid claims that existed at the time of the conveyance, the
landowner should prevail, and answer C is correct.  

 Answer B is incorrect because, although the landowner's deed to the teacher did include the covenant of warranty,
the teacher would only be entitled to recover if the adjoining owner's claim was successful.  Answers A and D are
incorrect because the teacher was the only party who held title and thereby the only party the adjoining owner could
have sued. 











Page 234

Question 1209 - Real Property - Titles (2/7/2017) 

The question was: 

A landowner executed an instrument in the proper form of a deed, purporting to convey his land to a friend. The
landowner handed the instrument to the friend, saying, "This is yours, but please do not record it until after I am dead.
Otherwise, it will cause me no end of trouble with my relatives." Two days later, the landowner asked the friend to
return the deed to him because he had decided that he should devise the land to the friend by will rather than by
deed. The friend said that he would destroy the deed and a day or so later falsely told the landowner that the deed
had been destroyed. Six months later, the landowner, who had never executed a will, died intestate, survived by a
daughter as his sole heir at law. The day after the landowner's death, the friend recorded the deed from him. As soon
as the daughter discovered this recording and the friend's claim to the land, she brought an appropriate action against
the friend to quiet title to the land.   

 For whom should the court hold?  

A: The daughter, because the death of the landowner deprived the subsequent recordation of any effect. 
B: The daughter, because the friend was dishonest in reporting that he had destroyed the deed. 
C: The friend, because the deed was delivered to him. 
D: The friend, because the deed was recorded by him. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. A deed must be delivered to be valid. Delivery is a question of intent. The words of the landowner
included "This is yours," showing the necessary intent to strip himself of dominion and control and to immediately
transfer the title. In addition, handing the deed to the friend raises a rebuttable presumption of delivery. Recording the
deed is not required to transfer title, and thus the request not to record the document until later is irrelevant so long as
delivery was made.   

Answer A is incorrect. The deed to the friend was valid because it was in the proper form and was delivered to him.
Delivery occurred at the time the landowner handed the deed to the friend. At that time the landowner was competent.
The friend's subsequent recording of the deed had no effect on the deed's validity.   

Answer B is incorrect. The deed to the friend was valid because it was in the proper form and was delivered to him.
Delivery occurred at the time the deed was handed to the friend with the words "This is yours." The subsequent
misrepresentation that the friend made that he had destroyed the deed had no effect on the prior valid delivery.   

Answer D is incorrect. Recording a document has no effect on its validity. In this case, the deed to the friend was valid
because it was in the proper form and was delivered to him. His subsequent recording of the deed had no effect on
his claim of ownership, although recording will now provide constructive notice of his ownership. 












Page 235

Question 995 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A pedestrian was crossing a street at a crosswalk.  A bystander, who was on the sidewalk nearby, thought he saw a
speeding automobile heading in the pedestrian's direction.  However, the automobile was obviously coming to a stop
at the traffic light.  Nevertheless, the bystander ran into the street and pushed the pedestrian onto the sidewalk.  The
pedestrian fell to the ground and broke her leg.  

 In an action for battery brought by the pedestrian against the bystander, will the pedestrian prevail?  

A: Yes, because the bystander could have shouted a warning instead of pushing the pedestrian out of the way. 
B: Yes, because the pedestrian was not actually in danger and the bystander should have realized it. 
C: No, because the driver of the car was responsible for the pedestrian's injury. 
D: No, because the bystander's intent was to save the pedestrian, not to harm her. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  The bystander acted intentionally to push the pedestrian.  That push resulted in a harmful
contact, and thus the bystander may be liable for battery.  The issue here is whether the bystander was privileged to
push the pedestrian for the pedestrian's safety.  A person is privileged to use reasonable force to protect another as
long as the "batterer" reasonably believes there is a threat to the other person's safety that requires contact to remove
her from harm's way.  Therefore, A is incorrect.  Under the facts, the bystander believed a speeding car was headed
for the pedestrian and a push was the only thing that would get her out of the way.  However, because the bystander's
belief was not reasonable, he has no privilege and will be liable for battery.  Thus B is the best choice.  C is incorrect
because the actions of the driver will not cut short the bystander's liability for an intentional harmful or offensive
contact.  Only the bystander's own privilege will do that.  D is incorrect because the bystanders motivation would not
provide a defense to the battery charge if his beliefs about the situation were unreasonable.   









Page 236

Question 1002 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

The police in a large city notified local gas station attendants that a woman recently had committed armed robberies at
five city gas stations.  The police said that the woman was approximately 75 years old, had white hair, and drove a
vintage, cream-colored Ford Thunderbird.  Attendants were advised to call the police if they saw her, but to not
attempt to apprehend her.  Armed robbery is a felony under state law.  

 A traveler was passing through the city on a cross-country journey.  The traveler was a 75-year-old woman who had
white hair and drove a vintage, cream-colored Ford Thunderbird.  When the traveler drove into a gas station, the
owner of the station thought the traveler must be the robber wanted by the police.  After checking the oil at the
traveler's request, the owner falsely informed the traveler that she had a broken fan belt, that her car could not be
driven without a new belt, that it would take him about an hour to replace it, and that she should stay in his office for
consultation about the repair.  The traveler was greatly annoyed that her journey was delayed, but she stayed in the
owner's office while she waited for her car.  The owner telephoned the police and, within the hour, the police came
and questioned the traveler.  The police immediately determined that the traveler was not the woman, and the traveler
resumed her journey without further delay.  

 In the traveler's action for false imprisonment against the owner, the traveler will  

A: not prevail, because the owner reasonably believed that the traveler was the wanted woman. 
B: not prevail, because the traveler suffered no physical or mental harm. 
C: prevail, because the traveler reasonably believed she could not leave the owner's premises. 
D: prevail, because the owner lied to the traveler about the condition of her car. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  False imprisonment occurs when the plaintiff is confined against her will and is aware of the
confinement, or has suffered actual injury.  Here, the traveler was not confined to the office, but was confined to the
gas station premises through the owner's misrepresentation  of fact.  Actual injury is not required if the plaintiff was
aware of her confinement.  Thus B can be eliminated.  

 This is an issue of legal justification.  In this case, the owner is protected by the privilege of arrest.  For a private
citizen to make an arrest without a warrant when a felony has occurred, two things must be true: (i) a felony must have
in fact been committed, and (ii) the private citizen must have reasonable grounds to believe that the person arrested
did commit the felony.  The privilege is also limited by three factors: the amount of time of the detention, the amount of
force used to detain, and the means of restraint must all be found reasonable.  A is the correct answer because a
felony has actually occurred, and the owner did reasonably believed that the traveler committed it. Therefore he was
legally justified in the detention of the traveler by the privilege of arrest.  

 C and D are incorrect because any claim the traveler may have of false imprisonment would be beat out by the
owner's privilege of arrest. 












Page 237

Question 488 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A well-known politician was scheduled to address a large crowd at a political dinner.  Just as he was about to sit down
at the head table, the defendant pushed the politician's chair to one side. As a result, the politician fell to the floor.
The politician was embarrassed at being made to look foolish before a large audience but suffered no physical harm.  

 Assume that the defendant knew that the politician was about to sit in the chair before he pushed it. If the politician
asserts a claim against the defendant for damages because of his embarrassment, will the politician prevail?  

A: Yes, because the defendant knew that the politician was about to sit on the chair. 
B: Yes, because the defendant negligently failed to notice that the politician would fall. 
C: No, because the politician suffered no physical harm along with his embarrassment. 
D: No, because the defendant intended moving the chair to be a good-natured practical joke on the politician. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The call of the question does not give a specific claim, but the key word here is
"embarrassment."  This is a dignitary tort claim.  A battery consists of the unlawful application of force to the person
resulting in bodily injury or offensive touching, without consent or privilege.  Battery is a general intent crime, and the
force need not be applied directly. Here, the defendant set into motion an action with purpose or knowledge to a
substantial certainty that the offensive contact would result. Therefore, the defendant committed a battery and the
politician can recover for the harm to his dignity.  

   B is incorrect.  Negligence allows pain and suffering, but only for actual damages.  A claim based on embarrassment
must necessarily involve a dignitary tort, such as battery, to succeed.   C is incorrect.  All that is required is an
offensive touching; physical harm is not required.  D is incorrect.  Because the defendant pushed the chair knowing
that the politician was about to sit on it, the defendant's intent to be funny is irrelevant as battery only requires a
general intent to bring about the harmful or offensive contact. The defendant is still liable for any unintended injuries
that may occur as a result. 










Page 238

Question 1437 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A farmer kept antiques in an uninhabited farmhouse on his property. The farmhouse had been broken into several
times in the past, and some of the farmer's goods had been stolen. Instead of posting "No Trespassing" signs, the
farmer decided to install an alarm system to deter intruders.  

 While the farmer was in the farmhouse installing the alarm system, he heard a window open in the adjoining room.
The farmer crept very quietly to the door of the room, threw the door open, and found an intruder, a young child. The
farmer immediately struck the child, a 10-year-old girl, very hard in the face, breaking her nose.  

 In an action on behalf of the child against the farmer to recover for the injury to her nose, is the child likely to prevail?  

A: No, because the farmer did not use deadly force. 
B: No, because the farmer had probable cause to believe that the child was a thief. 
C: Yes, because the farmer should have posted a "No Trespassing" sign. 
D: Yes, because the farmer used excessive force. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. The farmer was privileged to use reasonable force to prevent or end a trespasser's intrusion
upon his land or to protect his property, but he was not privileged to use force that threatened serious bodily injury
unless he was himself in danger of serious bodily harm. The force the farmer used was sufficient to and did in fact
cause serious bodily injury. The child appeared to pose no threat of bodily harm to the farmer and could have been
deterred by less forceful means.  

 Answer A is incorrect. The child can state a claim for battery because there was an intentional infliction of a harmful
contact. To support a battery action, the contact need not involve force so great as to threaten death.  

 Answer B is incorrect. The force the farmer used was likely to and did in fact inflict serious bodily harm. Even if the
child had been a thief, the privilege to use reasonable force to protect one's property does not extend to the use of
force likely to cause serious bodily harm when there is no threat of such harm to oneself. The child appeared to pose
no threat of bodily harm to the farmer and could have been deterred by less forceful means.  

 Answer C is incorrect. The farmer was not required to have posted a warning in order to have had a privilege to
protect his property by the use of reasonable force, although the absence of a warning sign may become a factor in
determining whether the steps he took were in fact reasonable. In evaluating whether his actions were reasonable as
a defense of his property, the court will ask whether the force he used was excessive. The child appeared to pose no
threat of bodily harm to the farmer and could have been deterred by less forceful means. Because the force the
farmer used was greater than necessary and was intended to cause serious bodily harm, it was excessive as a
defense of property. 













Page 239

Question 3 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A lender met an individual who had borrowed money from him on the street, demanded that the borrower pay a debt
owed to him, and threatened to punch the borrower in the nose.  A fight ensued between them.  A man came upon the
scene just as the lender was about to kick the borrower in the head.  Noting that the lender was getting the better of
the fight, the man pointed a gun at him and said, "Stop, or I'll shoot."  If the lender asserts a claim against the man
based on assault, will he prevail?  

A: Yes, because the man threatened to use deadly force. 
B: Yes, because the man was related to the borrower. 
C: No, because it was apparent that the lender was about to inflict serious bodily harm upon the borrower. 
D: No, because the lender was the original aggressor by threatening the borrower with a battery. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the best answer. The man has a privilege to defend the borrower as long as the man reasonably believes that the
borrower would also have the privilege of self-defense. In addition, the use of force in defense of another cannot
exceed the force that the victim is being threatened with. The key issue here is whether the man's use of threatened
deadly force (the gun) to defend against a kick by the lender would exceed that privilege. C is the best answer
because it provides the correct justification for the man's threat to use deadly force.  

   A is incorrect. The man's threat alone will not cause the lender to prevail because the man can assert the privilege
of defense of another, which, if successful, would negate the man's liability. B is incorrect for two reasons. First, it
relies on a fact not presented in the question. Furthermore, it refers to the outdated requirement that only family
members or those with a special duty to protect the victim were allowed the privilege of defense. Under the modern
view, anyone with a reasonable belief that the victim would have a right of self-defense is privileged to intervene. D is
incorrect because it incompletely states the rule of self-defense. Generally, only the force that reasonably appears to
be necessary to prevent the harm is privileged. If more force than necessary is used, the actor loses the privilege.
Therefore, if the lender had not been appearing to use substantial force likely to cause serious injury, his designation
as the initial aggressor would not bar his assault claim against the man.    









Page 240

Question 906 - Torts - Intentional Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A real estate developer was trying to purchase land on which he intended to build a large commercial development.
An elderly widow had rejected all of the developer's offers to buy her ancestral home, where she had lived all her life
and which was located in the middle of the developer's planned development.  Finally, the developer offered her
$250,000.  He told her that if she rejected it, state law authorized him to have her property condemned. He
subsequently parked a bulldozer in front of her house.  

 The widow then consulted her nephew, a law student, who researched the question and advised her that the
developer had no power of condemnation under state law.  The widow had been badly frightened by the developer's
threat, and was outraged when she learned that the developer had lied to her.  

 If the widow sues the developer for damages for emotional distress, will she prevail?  

A: Yes, because the developer's action was extreme and outrageous. 
B: Yes, because the widow was frightened and outraged. 
C: No, because the widow did not suffer emotional distress that was severe. 
D: No, because it was not the developer's purpose to cause emotional distress. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  The developer intentionally tried to frighten the widow into selling him her land with an
outrageous and extreme threat.  This is an intentional tort issue.  The elements of intentional infliction of emotional
distress ("IIED") are: (1) defendant's intentional (with purpose or knowledge to a substantial certainty) or reckless (2)
extreme and outrageous conduct (3) causes plaintiff severe emotional distress.  Severe emotional distress can be
evidenced physically, but physical injury is not required.   

 Here, the developer actions were extreme and outrageous.  However, the facts state only that the widow was
"frightened" and "outraged", and this is not sufficient to show "severe" emotional distress. Therefore, C is correct and
B is incorrect.  A is incorrect because extreme and outrageous conduct is not sufficient to support a claim of IIED
without the suffering of severe emotional distress. D is incorrect because causing the severe emotional distress
through recklessness will suffice.  











Page 241

Question 1176 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/3/2017) 

The question was: 

As a seller, an encyclopedia salesman, approached the grounds on which a homeowner's house was situated, he saw
a sign that said, "No salesmen.  Trespassers will be prosecuted.  Proceed at your own risk."  Although the seller had
not been invited to enter, he ignored the sign and drove up the driveway toward the house.  As he rounded a curve, a
powerful explosive charge buried in the driveway exploded, and the seller was injured.  

 Can the seller recover damages from the homeowner for his injuries?  

A: Yes, because the homeowner was responsible for the explosive charge under the driveway. 
B: Yes, because the homeowner, when he planted the charge, intended to harm a possible intruder. 
C: No, because the seller ignored the sign, which warned him against proceeding further. 
D: No, because the homeowner reasonably feared that intruders would come and harm him or his family. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer. The homeowner has committed the intentional tort of battery against the salesman. Battery
has three elements: (i) an act by the defendant which brings about harmful or offensive contact; (ii) intent on the part
of the defendant to bring about harmful or offensive contact; and (iii) causation. Here, the homeowner committed the
required act by placing the explosives under his driveway which caused the harm to the salesman. Causation is still
present even though the the contact was indirect. It is sufficient causation if the defendant sets in motion the force that
brings about the harmful contact. Therefore, A is the correct answer.  

 B is incorrect because it lists a motive. Battery requires only a general intent that the actor know with substantial
certainty that the consequences of his actions will likely result. Here, the homeowner had a general intent if he knew
with substantial certainty that his actions would likely bring about the consequences, i.e. that placing the explosives
would likely cause an explosion. He did not have to intend any injuries nor intent to harm trespassers, like the
salesman. Motive is distinguishable from intent. Motive impels a person to act to achieve a result. Intent denotes a
purpose to use a particular means to effect that result. Motive is not relevant for establishing the prima facie case.  

 C is incorrect because the homeowner may never use deadly force, such as explosives, to keep trespassers from
entering his property. The salesmans status as a trespasser is not relevant and not a defense here.  

 D is incorrect because nothing in the fact pattern suggests that the homeowner or his family is in danger. The
homeowner would have had a limited privilege to use direct force, equal to the threat against him, if there was a threat
to his own personal safety. Such facts would change the situation from defense of property to a self defense analysis.
However, the facts do not place the homeowner in any type of jeopardy at all. 












Page 242

Question 902 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A gardener's backyard, which is landscaped with expensive flowers and shrubs, is adjacent to a golf course.  While a
golfer was playing golf on the course, a thunderstorm suddenly came up.  As the golfer was returning to the clubhouse
in his golf cart, lightning struck a tree on the course, and the tree began to fall in the golfer's direction.  In order to
avoid being hit by the tree, the golfer deliberately steered his cart onto the gardener's property, causing substantial
damage to the gardener's expensive plantings.  

 In an action by the gardener against the golfer to recover damages for the harm to his plantings, the gardener will  

A: prevail, because, although occasioned by necessity, the golfer's entry onto the gardener's property was for the
golfer's benefit. 
B: prevail, for nominal damages only, because the golfer was privileged to enter the gardener's property. 
C: not prevail, because the lightning was an act of God. 
D: not prevail, because the golfer's entry onto the gardener's property was occasioned by necessity and therefore
privileged. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The golfer has the "incomplete" privilege of private necessity, which allows trespass (without
being branded the legal status of trespasser) onto the property of another to avoid a serious personal threat to life or
property, but keeps liability for any actual damage caused by the intrusion.  The golfer's need to escape a falling tree
in a thunderstorm qualifies as an emergency sufficient to invoke a necessity privilege.  The privilege of private
necessity means that the golfer is only liable for actual damages, thus A is the appropriate choice.  

 B is incorrect.  The golfer is not legally a trespasser due to the private emergency that caused him to take refuge on
the gardener's property.  The golfer's privilege to trespass is incomplete, however, so he must pay the gardener for
any actual damages to the property as a result of the golfer's actions.  

 C is incorrect.  An act of God is generally used as a defense (superseding cause) in negligence to cut short liability.
Instead, the sudden storm created an emergency situation that justified the golfer's intrusion onto the gardener's
property.  Because it was a personal emergency, however, the golfer is subject to the provisions of the incomplete
privilege of private necessity and must pay the gardener for any actual damage to the gardener's property as a result
of the entry.  

 D is incorrect.  If this had been a public emergency/necessity there would have been complete privilege with no
liability.  Private necessity, however, is an incomplete privilege, and the golfer is liable for any actual damages he
caused. 












Page 243

Question 488 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A well-known politician was scheduled to address a large crowd at a political dinner.  Just as he was about to sit down
at the head table, the defendant pushed the politician's chair to one side. As a result, the politician fell to the floor.
The politician was embarrassed at being made to look foolish before a large audience but suffered no physical harm.  

 Assume that the defendant knew that the politician was about to sit in the chair before he pushed it. If the politician
asserts a claim against the defendant for damages because of his embarrassment, will the politician prevail?  

A: Yes, because the defendant knew that the politician was about to sit on the chair. 
B: Yes, because the defendant negligently failed to notice that the politician would fall. 
C: No, because the politician suffered no physical harm along with his embarrassment. 
D: No, because the defendant intended moving the chair to be a good-natured practical joke on the politician. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The call of the question does not give a specific claim, but the key word here is
"embarrassment."  This is a dignitary tort claim.  A battery consists of the unlawful application of force to the person
resulting in bodily injury or offensive touching, without consent or privilege.  Battery is a general intent crime, and the
force need not be applied directly. Here, the defendant set into motion an action with purpose or knowledge to a
substantial certainty that the offensive contact would result. Therefore, the defendant committed a battery and the
politician can recover for the harm to his dignity.  

   B is incorrect.  Negligence allows pain and suffering, but only for actual damages.  A claim based on embarrassment
must necessarily involve a dignitary tort, such as battery, to succeed.   C is incorrect.  All that is required is an
offensive touching; physical harm is not required.  D is incorrect.  Because the defendant pushed the chair knowing
that the politician was about to sit on it, the defendant's intent to be funny is irrelevant as battery only requires a
general intent to bring about the harmful or offensive contact. The defendant is still liable for any unintended injuries
that may occur as a result. 










Page 244

Question 1304 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A landowner who owned a large tract of land in the mountains sought to protect a herd of wild deer that lived on part
of the land. Although the landowner had posted signs that said, "No HuntingNo Trespassing," hunters frequently
intruded to kill the deer. Recently, the landowner built an eight-foot-high chain-link fence, topped by three strands of
barbed wire, across a gully on her land that provided the only access to the area where the deer lived.   

A wildlife photographer asked the landowner for permission to enter the property to photograph the deer. Because the
landowner feared that any publicity would encourage further intrusions, she denied the photographer's request.
Frustrated, the photographer attempted to climb the fence. He became entangled in the barbed wire and suffered
extensive lacerations. The wounds became infected and ultimately caused his death. The photographer's personal
representative has sued the landowner.   

Is the personal representative likely to prevail?  

A: Yes, because the landowner may not use deadly force to protect her land from intrusion. 
B: Yes, because the landowner had no property interest in the deer that entitled her to use force to protect them. 
C: No, because the photographer entered the landowner's land after the landowner had refused him permission to do
so and therefore was a trespasser. 
D: No, because the potential for harm created by the presence of the barbed wire was apparent. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. The landowner is privileged to protect her property from intrusion by a means not intended or
likely to cause death or serious bodily harm. The fact that the barbed wire presents its own warning and is not a
hidden trap makes it a reasonable device for discouraging trespassers. The plaintiff will not recover because the
potential for harm created by the presence of the barbed wire was apparent, and the photographer assumed the risk
of injury by trespassing onto the landowner's property despite the barbed wire fence.   

Answer A is incorrect. Although barbed wire did cause death in this case, it is not considered to be "deadly force." The
statement is true but not applicable to these facts.   

Answer B is incorrect. The landowner had a property interest in the land, and she was entitled to protect that interest
even if her motive was primarily to protect the deer.   

Answer C is incorrect. The landowner's refusal to permit others to enter her land was clear both before and after she
denied the photographer's individual request to enter. Therefore, the photographer would have been a trespasser
whether or not the landowner had specifically told him not to enter. Also, even trespassers can sue for injuries caused
by some devices designed to protect land (e.g., hidden traps and deadly force). 













Page 245

Question 998 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff suffered a serious injury while participating in an impromptu basketball game at a public park.  The injury
occurred when the plaintiff and the defendant, on opposing teams, each tried to obtain possession of the ball when it
rebounded from the backboard after a missed shot at the basket.  During that encounter, the plaintiff was struck and
injured by the defendant's elbow.  The plaintiff now seeks compensation from the defendant.  

 At the trial, evidence was introduced tending to prove that the game had been rough from the beginning, that elbows
and knees had frequently been used to discourage interference by opposing players, and that the plaintiff had been
one of those making liberal use of such tactics.  

 In this action, will the plaintiff prevail?  

A: Yes, because the defendant intended to strike the plaintiff with his elbow. 
B: Yes, because the defendant intended to cause harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff. 
C: No, because the plaintiff impliedly consented to violent play. 
D: No, because the defendant did not intentionally use force that exceeded the players' consent. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct.  The plaintiff and the defendant were voluntarily participating in a basketball game that "had been rough
from the beginning."  By taking part in the physically interactive basketball game, the plaintiff gave his implied consent
to contact that, outside the game, might have otherwise been considered a harmful or offensive.  That consent,
however, is limited to ordinary game conduct.  If the defendant's intentional contact reached a level of force that fell
outside the scope of ordinary gamesmanship among the group of players, then he exceeded his privilege and the
plaintiff will prevail.  Thus, A, B and C are incorrect. 










Page 246

Question 881 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

The manager of a department store noticed that a customer was carrying a scarf with her as she examined various
items in the blouse department.  The manager recognized the scarf as an expensive one carried by the store.  The
customer was trying to find a blouse that matched a color in the scarf, and, after a while, found one.  The manager
then saw the customer put the scarf into her purse, pay for the blouse, and head for the door.  The manager, who was
eight inches taller than the customer, blocked the customer's way to the door and asked to see the scarf in the
customer's purse.  The customer produced the scarf, as well as a receipt for it, showing that it had been purchased
from the store on the previous day.  The manager then told the customer there was no problem and stepped out of
her way.  

 If the customer brings a claim against the store based on false imprisonment, the store's best defense would be that  

A: by carrying the scarf in public view and then putting it into her purse, the customer assumed the risk of being
detained. 
B: the manager had a reasonable belief that the customer was shoplifting and detained her only briefly for a
reasonable investigation of the facts. 
C: the customer should have realized that her conduct would create a reasonable belief that facts existed warranting a
privilege to detain. 
D: the customer was not detained, but was merely questioned about the scarf. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  The manager had a "shopkeeper's (or merchant's) privilege" to detain the customer.  For the
privilege to be valid, the manager must have had reasonable grounds to believe that the customer was stealing or
attempting to steal store property, the detention must be for a reasonable period of time, and it must be conducted in a
reasonable manner.  If the manager had held the customer after the issue of the stolen scarf had been settled, or after
the goods had been recovered in an attempt to obtain a signed confession, the customer's claim for false
imprisonment would prevail.  B is the best defense because it addresses the elements of the privilege as they pertain
to the facts of the situation.  

 Choice A does not describe a complete defense.  The statement only addresses reasonable grounds.  Choice C
incorrectly provides a negligence standard of comparative fault.  This is an intentional tort issue, however.  Choice D
does not describe a successful defense.  False imprisonment has no specific time requirement.  If the customer did
not feel free to leave, there is a false imprisonment issue that the manager must address to prevail. 










Page 247

Question 1582 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A boater, caught in a sudden storm and reasonably fearing that her boat would capsize, drove the boat up to a pier,
exited the boat, and tied the boat to the pier. The pier was clearly marked with "NO TRESPASSING" signs. The owner
of the pier ran up to the boater and told her that the boat could not remain tied to the pier. The boater offered to pay
the owner for the use of the pier. Regardless, over the boater's protest, the owner untied the boat and pushed it away
from the pier. The boat was lost at sea.   

Is the boater likely to prevail in an action against the owner to recover the value of the boat?   

A: No, because the owner told the boater that she could not tie the boat to the pier. 
B: No, because there was a possibility that the boat would not be damaged by the storm. 
C: Yes, because the boater offered to pay the owner for the use of the pier. 
D: Yes, because the boater was privileged to enter the owner's property to save her boat. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect. The boater was privileged to trespass on the owner's property under the doctrine of private necessity,
because the boater's property was at risk. Because the boater's intrusion onto the pier was privileged, the owner had
no right to exclude her or her boat from the pier. In telling the boater that she could not tie the boat to the pier, the
owner was asserting a right that he did not possess. When the owner untied the boat, he committed an unprivileged
trespass upon the boater's property, so the owner must pay for the loss of the boat.   

B is incorrect. The boater was privileged to trespass on the owner's property under the doctrine of private necessity,
because her property was at risk. In order to establish that privilege, the boater need not establish that harm to the
boat was inevitable, but only that her actions were reasonable given the circumstances. Because the boater's
intrusion onto the pier was privileged, the owner had no right to exclude her or her boat from the pier. When the owner
untied the boat, he committed an unprivileged trespass upon the boater's property, so the owner must pay for the loss
of the boat.   

C is incorrect. The boater is likely to prevail, but it is because the boater was privileged to trespass on the owner's
property under the doctrine of private necessity. Because the boater's property was at risk, her intrusion onto the pier
was privileged, and the owner had no right to exclude her or her boat from the pier. Whether or not the boater offered
to pay the owner is irrelevant to the privilege of private necessity. When the owner untied the boat, he committed an
unprivileged trespass upon the boater's property, so the owner must pay for the loss of the boat.   

D is correct. The boater was privileged to trespass on the owner's property under the doctrine of private necessity,
because the boater's property was at risk. Because the boater's intrusion onto the pier was privileged, the owner had
no right to exclude her or her boat from the pier. When the owner untied the boat, he committed an unprivileged
trespass upon the boater's property, so the owner must pay for the loss of the boat. 












Page 248

Question 1288 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A law student rented a furnished apartment. His landlord began to solicit his advice about her legal affairs, but he
refused to provide it. The landlord then demanded that he vacate the apartment immediately. The landlord also began
engaging in a pattern of harassment, calling the student at home every evening and entering his apartment without his
consent during times when he was at school. During these unauthorized visits she removed the handles from the
bathroom and kitchen sinks, but did not touch anything belonging to the student. The lease has a year to run, and the
student is still living in the apartment. The student has sued the landlord for trespass to land.  

 Is he likely to prevail?  

A: No, because he has no standing to sue for trespass. 
B: No, because the landlord caused no damage to his property. 
C: Yes, for compensatory damages only. 
D: Yes, for injunctive relief, compensatory damages, and punitive damages. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct.  The student is in legal possession of the apartment and thus has an interest that can be
vindicated in a trespass action.  Under these facts demonstrating a pattern of ongoing malicious behavior, the law
student is unlikely to be limited to compensatory damages.  In addition to compensatory damages for emotional
distress and the removal of the faucets, the student is entitled to punitive damages (demonstrated by the landlord's
malicious intent and ill will).  Because the lease is still in effect and the trespasses are repeated and ongoing,
injunctive relief should also be available.  Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answers A, B and C are incorrect. 









Page 249

Question 1250 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

An associate professor in the pediatrics department of a local medical school was denied tenure. He asked a national
education lobbying organization to represent him in his efforts to have the tenure decision reversed. In response to a
letter from the organization on the professor's behalf, the dean of the medical school wrote to the organization
explaining truthfully that the professor had been denied tenure because of reports that he had abused two of his
former patients. Several months later, after a thorough investigation, the allegations were proven false and the
professor was granted tenure. He had remained working at the medical school at full pay during the tenure decision
review process and thus suffered no pecuniary harm.  

 In a suit for libel by the professor against the dean of the medical school, will the professor prevail?  

A: No, because the professor invited the libel. 
B: No, because the professor suffered no pecuniary loss. 
C: Yes, because the dean had a duty to investigate the rumor before repeating it. 
D: Yes, because the dean's defamatory statement was in the form of a writing. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct.  The professor can state a prima facie case of defamation, but he cannot prevail because the
dean has a valid defense based on his reasonable belief that the professor invited him to speak.  By authorizing his
agents to investigate his case, the professor apparently consented to limited publication in response to their inquiries.
Ill will, if it existed, would be irrelevant to this defense.  

 Answer B is incorrect.  This answer correctly states that the professor will lose, but it misstates the legal basis for this
conclusion.  Some jurisdictions may require evidence of pecuniary loss for oral statements that are not slander per se,
but this is a written statement.  At common law, damages to the professor's reputation would be presumed.  As
explained above, the professor cannot prevail-despite stating a prima facie case of defamation because the dean has
a valid defense based on his reasonable belief that the professor invited him to speak.  

 Answer C is incorrect because the tort of defamation does not turn on whether an investigation, reasonable or not,
has been conducted.  

 Answer D is incorrect.  An written statement of this sort would ordinarily support an action for defamation if there were
no defense or privilege.  In this case, despite stating a prima facie case of defamation, the professor cannot prevail
because the dean has a valid defense based on his reasonable belief that the professor invited him to speak.  By
authorizing his agents to investigate the case, the professor apparently consented to limited publication in response to
their inquiries. 












Page 250

Question 642 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff and a defendant were in the habit of playing practical jokes on each other on their respective birthdays.  On
the plaintiff's birthday, the defendant sent the plaintiff a cake containing an ingredient that he knew had, in the past,
made the plaintiff very ill.  After the plaintiff had eaten a piece of the cake, he suffered severe stomach pains and had
to be taken to the hospital by ambulance.  On the way to the hospital, the ambulance driver suffered a heart attack,
which caused the ambulance to swerve from the road and hit a tree.  As a result of the collision, the plaintiff suffered a
broken leg.  

 In a suit by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover damages for the plaintiff's broken leg, the plaintiff will  

A: prevail, because the defendant knew that the cake would be harmful or offensive to the plaintiff. 
B: not prevail, because the ambulance driver was not negligent. 
C: not prevail, because the defendant could not reasonably be expected to foresee injury to the plaintiff's leg. 
D: not prevail, because the ambulance driver's heart attack was a superseding cause of the plaintiff's broken leg. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The defendant intentionally fed the plaintiff a substance that he knew would make the plaintiff
very ill.  Despite the red-herring stating that the two "were in a habit of playing practical jokes," this is a battery.  A
battery is caused by an intentional harmful or offensive contact to the plaintiff's person or an extension thereof, without
consent or privilege.  The actual touching need not be done personally by the defendant as long as the defendant set
into motion an action with purpose or knowledge to a substantial certainty that the offensive or harmful touching would
result.  

 B, C and D are incorrect.  Intentionally wrongful actions render the defendant liable for all consequences of those
acts, even if unintended and unforeseen.  Any possible negligence of the ambulance driver will likely have no effect on
the plaintiff's claim against the defendant. 










Page 251

Question 1448 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A rancher and his neighbor were involved in a boundary dispute. In order to resolve their differences, each drove his
truck to an open pasture area on his land where the two properties were separated by a fence. The rancher was
accompanied by four friends, and the neighbor was alone.  

 The neighbor got out of his truck and walked toward the fence. The rancher got out but simply stood by his truck.
When the neighbor came over the fence, the rancher shot him, inflicting serious injury.  

 In a battery action brought by the neighbor against the rancher, the rancher testified that he actually thought his
neighbor was armed, although he could point to nothing that would have reasonably justified this belief.  

 Is the neighbor likely to prevail?  

A: No, because the rancher was standing on his own property and had no obligation to retreat. 
B: No, because the rancher suspected that the neighbor was armed. 
C: Yes, because deadly force is never appropriate in a property dispute. 
D: Yes, because it was unreasonable for the rancher to consider the use of a gun necessary for self-defense. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer D is correct. While the rancher's belief that deadly force was necessary to protect himself from harm may
have been actual, it was not reasonable. To justify the use of force sufficient to cause death or serious bodily injury, a
defendant must have more than a subjective suspicion that such force is necessary. A defendant must have an actual
and reasonable belief that he himself is threatened with force of that sort. In this case, the rancher's belief that the
neighbor was armed was not reasonable, nor did he have a  reasonable  belief that the neighbor meant to harm him.
Thus, Answer D is correct and Answer B is incorrect.  

 Answer A is incorrect. The majority of states that recognize a right to stand one's ground rather than retreat limit the
right to an owner who is confronted in his home, not one simply standing outside on land that he owns. Also, even if
the rancher had no obligation to retreat, he used deadly force, which was not justifiable unless he had a reasonable
belief that he himself was threatened with that degree of force and needed to use deadly force to defend himself. The
disparity in numbers here, as well as the fact that the rancher's belief that the defendant was armed was not
supported by any evidence, indicate that his decision to shoot was unreasonable.  

 Answer C is incorrect. It is true that force sufficient to cause serious bodily injury cannot be used to protect property,
but a property dispute can escalate to a situation in which the participants are in danger of bodily harm. In this case,
the rancher will argue that he feared that the neighbor was going to shoot him. If he reasonably feared the use of
deadly force against his person, he could respond with the same degree of force even though the dispute began as a
fight over property. However, because the rancher's fear was not reasonable, he was not justified in using deadly
force. 













Page 252

Question 735 - Torts - Intentional Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant, an inexperienced driver, borrowed a car from the plaintiff, a casual acquaintance, for the express
purpose of driving it several blocks to the local drug store.  Instead, the defendant drove the car, which then was worth
$12,000, 100 miles to another city.  While the defendant was driving in the other city the next day, the car was hit by a
negligently driven truck and sustained damage that will cost $3,000 to repair.  If repaired, the car will be fully restored
to its former condition.  

 If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant based on conversion, the plaintiff should recover a judgment for  

A: $12,000. 
B: $3,000. 
C: $3,000 plus damages for the loss of the use of the car during its repair. 
D: nothing, because the defendant was negligent. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  When the defendant intentionally used the car to drive beyond the local drug store to the
other city, he interfered with the plaintiff's possessory interest in his car by using it beyond the scope of the plaintiff's
permission to do so.  When the defendant kept dominion of the car overnight and continued to drive it the next day in
the other city, the conduct constituted such a substantial possessory interference that the plaintiff had a claim for
conversion as a result.  The conversion occurred even if the defendant did not intend to get into an accident and was
not negligent while driving the car.  In a claim for conversion, the plaintiff may recover the fair market value of the car,
which was $12,000 before it was damaged.  

 B and C are incorrect.  The defendant's interference was substantial, so the plaintiff is entitled to full market value of
the car.  If the defendant had damaged the car while driving to the local drug store, he would only be liable for the
$3,000 in actual damages in a claim for trespass to chattels.  The facts, however, support a claim for conversion.  

 D is incorrect.  The defendant's interference was intentional and a conversion. Therefore, the defendant's lack of
negligence will not protect him from liability.  











Page 253

Question 750 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

An actress, who played the lead role in a television soap opera, was seriously injured in an automobile accident
caused by the defendant's negligent driving.  As a consequence of the actress's injury, the television series was
canceled, and a supporting actor was laid off. Although the supporting actor looked for other work, he remained
unemployed.  

 In an action against the defendant, can the supporting actor recover for his loss of income attributable to the
accident?  

A: Yes, because the defendant's negligence was the cause in fact of the supporting actor's loss. 
B: Yes, because the supporting actor took reasonable measures to mitigate his loss. 
C: No, because the defendant had no reason to foresee that by injuring the lead actress he would cause harm to the
supporting actor. 
D: No, because the defendant's liability does not extend to economic loss to the supporting actor that arises solely
from physical harm to the lead actress. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer. With the exception of a wrongful death claim allowed by statute, a negligence action for pure
economic loss to a plaintiff as the result of an injury suffered by a third party is generally not recoverable. Here,
because the supporting actor is seeking to recover damages as a result of the television series being cancelled and
being laid off, these damages constitute economic damages and therefore are not recoverable. Courts, as a policy
matter, will refuse to find proximate cause in such cases.  Thus A, B and C are incorrect. 









Page 254

Question 977 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff sustained personal injuries in a three-car collision caused by the concurrent negligence of all three drivers.
In the plaintiff's action for damages against the other two drivers, the jury apportioned the negligence 30% to the
plaintiff, 30% to driver #1, and 40% to driver #2.  The plaintiff's total damages were $100,000.  

 Assume that the state has retained the common-law rule pertaining to contribution and that the state's comparative
negligence statute provides for a system of pure comparative negligence but abolishes joint and several liability.  

 If the plaintiff chooses to pursue the claim against driver #1 alone, she will be entitled to collect at most  

A: $70,000 from driver #1, and then driver #1 will be entitled to collect $40,000 from driver #2. 
B: $30,000 from driver #1, and then driver #1 will be entitled to collect $10,000 from driver #2. 
C: $30,000 from driver #1, and then driver #1 will be entitled to collect nothing from driver #2. 
D: nothing from driver #1, because his percentage of fault is not greater than that of the plaintiff. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  The facts tell you that joint and several liability has been abolished, which means that each
defendant is liable only for his own share of the damages, not the entire award.  In addition, contribution between
tortfeasors is only available where one defendant has paid more than his determined share of the damages.  C is the
only answer that appropriately applies these principles.  

 A is incorrect.  It states a joint and several liability standard of application to the facts.  B is incorrect.  Driver #1 can
collect nothing from driver #2.  They are not jointly and severally liable and driver #1 has not paid out more than his
share of liability, so contribution is not available to him.  D is a misstatement of law.  In pure comparative negligence,
the plaintiff can recover all of her damages, minus the percentage attributed to her own fault.  The plaintiff is entitled to
$30,000 from driver #1. 











Page 255

Question 1240 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

The personnel director of an investment company told a job applicant during an interview that the company was worth
millions of dollars and that the company's portfolio would triple in the next several months. The applicant was very
excited about the company's prospects and accepted an offer to work for the company. Two days later, the applicant
read in the newspaper that the investment company had filed for bankruptcy reorganization. As a result of reading this
news, the applicant suffered severe emotional distress but he immediately found another comparable position.  

 Is the applicant likely to prevail in his action for negligent misrepresentation?  

A: No, because the applicant did not suffer any physical injury or pecuniary loss. 
B: No, because the personnel director's statement was purely speculative. 
C: Yes, because the applicant relied on the personnel director's misrepresentations about the investment company. 
D: Yes, because the personnel director should have foreseen that his misrepresentations would cause the applicant
to be distressed. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct.  The situations in which a plaintiff can recover for purely emotional distress caused by negligence
are limited, and this is not one of them.   Recovery for negligent misrepresentation is usually limited to pecuniary loss
unless it involves a risk of physical harm.  In this case, the applicant found a comparable position promptly, so he
suffered no harm from the personnel director's misrepresentation other than his emotional distress.  

 Answer B is incorrect.  This answer correctly states that the applicant will not prevail, but it misstates the legal basis
for this conclusion.  It is not the case that the director's statement is purely speculative.  Some of the information
conveyed to the job applicant was factual; it was clearly intended to assure the applicant that the company was in fact
at the time economically strong, and to induce reliance.  The applicant will lose because the situations in which a
plaintiff can recover for purely emotional distress caused by negligence are limited, and this is not one of them.
Recovery for negligent misrepresentation is usually limited to pecuniary loss unless it involves a risk of physical harm.  

 Answer C is incorrect.  Reliance is essential for recovery in negligent misrepresentation, but it is not sufficient.
Moreover, the situations in which a plaintiff can recover for purely emotional distress caused by negligence are limited,
and this is not one of them.  

 Answer D is incorrect.  Recovery for negligent misrepresentation does not extend to all foreseeable harms. The
applicant cannot prevail, because recovery for negligent misrepresentation is usually limited to pecuniary loss unless it
involves a risk of physical harm. In this case, the applicant found a comparable position promptly, so he suffered no
harm from the personnel directors misrepresentation other than his emotional distress. 












Page 256

Question 1532 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A man and his friend, who were both adults, went to a party. The man and the friend had many drinks at the party and
became legally intoxicated. They decided to play a game of chance called "Russian roulette" using a gun loaded with
one bullet. As part of the game, the man pointed the gun at the friend and, on her command, pulled the trigger. The
man shot the friend in the shoulder.   

The friend has brought a negligence action against the man. Traditional defenses based on plaintiff's conduct apply.    

What is likely to be the dispositive issue in this case?  

A: Whether the game constituted a joint venture. 
B: Whether the friend could validly consent to the game. 
C: Whether the friend was also negligent. 
D: Whether the man was legally intoxicated when he began playing the game. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect. The fact that the man and the friend might have been engaged in a joint venture would be relevant if the
action were being brought by a third party who was not part of the venture but who had been injured as a
consequence of their activities. It is irrelevant to a suit among participants in a joint venture unless it indicates an
assumption of risk.  

 B is incorrect. It is likely that consent to this activity would be routinely found to be against public policy, although the
consequences of such a determination would vary from state to state. But consent is a defense more appropriately
raised in an intentional tort case, not a case for negligence. There is no indication that the friend consented to any
negligence, and in any case she was too intoxicated to give a valid consent.  

 C is correct. Contributory negligence is an appropriate defense to a negligence action, and here both parties seem to
have been acting unreasonably in exactly the same way. Whether the argument is put in the form of the friend's
carelessness in engaging in the activity or in her unreasonable assumption of risk, many states would now evaluate
the defense under comparative negligence principles. It is irrelevant whether the jurisdiction is a contributory
negligence jurisdiction or a comparative negligence jurisdiction, whether the friend was negligent at all would be the
dispositive issue in the case.  

 D is incorrect. The man's intoxication would not insulate him from liability to those he injured while in that state. He
would still be held to the "reasonably prudent person" standard. 













Page 257

Question 59 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A property owner owns a hotel.  When the International Order of Badgers came to town for its convention, its
members rented 400 of the 500 rooms, and the hotel opened its convention facilities to them.  During their convention,
the members littered both the inside and the outside of the hotel with debris and bottles.  The hotel manager knew that
objects were being thrown out of the hotel windows.  At his direction, hotel employees patrolled the hallways telling
the guests to refrain from such conduct.  The owner was out of town and was not aware of the problems which were
occurring.  During the convention, as a pedestrian walked past the hotel on the sidewalk, he was hit and injured by an
ashtray thrown out of a window in the hotel by an unknown person.  The pedestrian sued the owner for damages for
his injuries.  

 Will the pedestrian prevail in his claim against the owner?  

A: Yes, because a property owner is strictly liable for acts on his premises if such acts cause harm to persons using
the adjacent public sidewalks. 
B: Yes, because the person who threw the ashtray cannot be identified. 
C: No, because the owner had no personal knowledge of the conduct of the hotel guests. 
D: No, because the hotel employees had taken reasonable precautions to prevent such an injury. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer. The injured person was not a guest, but a passerby, so the principle that innkeepers are liable
for slight negligence does not apply to this situation. Instead, the pedestrian was a licensee, so the owner had a duty
to exercise reasonable care in conducting active operations. Because the hotel employees took reasonable
precautions against injury to a passerby, the owner will not be found liable.  

   A is incorrect. The strict liability standard does not apply to active operations unless the activity being performed is
ultra-hazardous (such as demolition or the storage of hazardous waste). The hosting of a convention is not an ultra-
hazardous activity, so the owner is not strictly liable for any harm caused by active operations. B is incorrect because
the owner has not breached his duty of care, and is not liable even if the actual wrongdoer cannot be identified. C is
incorrect because if the owner's employees had not acted with reasonable care, then the owner could be vicariously
liable for the pedestrian's injury on a theory of respondeat superior even if the owner had no personal knowledge of
the conduct of the hotel guests.  










Page 258

Question 799 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A supermarket is in a section of town where there are sometimes street fights and where pedestrians are occasionally
the victims of pickpockets and muggers.  In recognition of the unusual number of robberies in the area, the
supermarket posted signs in the store that read:    

Warning:  There are pickpockets and muggers at work in this part of the city.  The supermarket is not responsible for
the acts of criminals. 

 Other than posting the signs, the supermarket took no other precautions to prevent criminal activity on the premises.  

 One evening, a customer drove to the supermarket to see about a special on turkeys that the supermarket was
advertising.  She decided that the turkeys were too large and left the store without purchasing anything.  In the parking
lot, she was attacked by an unknown man who raped her and then ran away.  

 If the customer sues the supermarket, the result should be for the  

A: plaintiff, because the supermarket failed to take reasonable steps to protect customers against criminal attack in its
parking lot. 
B: plaintiff, because the supermarket is liable for harm to business invitees on its premises. 
C: defendant, because the warning signs were visible to the customer. 
D: defendant, because the rapist was the proximate cause of the customer's injuries. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The supermarket has a duty to take reasonable steps to make the conditions on its premises,
indoors and outdoors, reasonably safe; to conduct active operations with reasonable care for the presence of its
invitees; and, under limited circumstances, to use reasonable care to protect its customers against the foreseeable
harmful/criminal acts of third persons or animals.  Because the supermarket had actual knowledge of violent crimes
occurring on the premises, the failure to take reasonable steps to protect customers will give rise to liability.  Thus, C
is incorrect.  

 B is incorrect.  The supermarket is not strictly liable.  Negligence must be proven for the customer to prevail in a claim
for damages.  

 D is incorrect.  The rapist was the actual cause of the customer's injuries.  The issue in this question, however, is
whether the supermarket acted reasonably to meet its burden of care in protecting the plaintiff, its customer, from the
known or discoverable dangerous conditions on its premises. 














Page 259

Question 623 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

In an action brought against a defendant by a pedestrian's legal representative, the only proof that the legal
representative offered on liability were that: (1) the pedestrian was killed instantly while walking on the shoulder of the
highway; (2) the defendant was driving the car that struck the pedestrian; and (3) there were no living witnesses to the
accident other than the defendant, who denied negligence.  

 The jurisdiction has adopted a rule of pure comparative negligence.  

 If, at the end of the plaintiff's case, the defendant moves for directed verdict, the trial judge should  

A: grant the motion, because the legal representative has offered no specific evidence from which reasonable jurors
may conclude that the defendant was negligent. 
B: grant the motion, because it is just as likely that the pedestrian was negligent as that the defendant was negligent. 
C: deny the motion, because the pedestrian was in violation of the state highway code. 
D: deny the motion, because, in the circumstances, negligence on the part of the defendant may be inferred. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct.  The pedestrian's personal representative made a claim based on res ipsa loquitur, because proof of
negligence must be inferred.  The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur is generally applied in situations where negligence
clearly occurred and (1) the defendant had exclusive control of the instrumentality during the relevant time and, (2) the
plaintiff shows that he was not responsible for the injury.  A directed verdict (also called Judgment as a Matter of Law)
allows judgment if the evidence, when viewed in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party, is such that a
reasonable person/jury could not disagree.  The pedestrian died after being struck by the defendant's car, driven by
the defendant.  The pedestrian was on the side of the road at the time he was hit.  A reasonable inference therefore is
that the defendant was driving negligently. Therefore, the pedestrian's estate will prevail because a reasonable person
could determine that the defendant was negligent.  Thus A is incorrect.  

 B is incorrect.  The facts will not be construed in favor of the defendant because he was the party that made the
motion.  

 C is incorrect.  This is a pure comparative negligence jurisdiction.  If the defendant's defense is that the pedestrian
violated a safety code, the subsequent issues of applicability and of comparative responsibility cannot be decided in a
directed verdict.  A directed verdict is only given if the evidence, when viewed in the light most favorable to the
nonmoving party, is such that a reasonable person/jury could not disagree. 












Page 260

Question 1568 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A shopper was riding on an up escalator in a department store when the escalator stopped abruptly. The shopper lost
her balance and fell down the escalator steps, sustaining injuries. Although the escalator had been regularly
maintained by an independent contractor, the store's obligation to provide safe conditions for its invitees was
nondelegable. The shopper has brought an action against the store for damages, and the above facts are the only
facts in evidence.   

The store has moved for a directed verdict.    

Should the court grant the motion?  

A: No, because the finder of fact could infer that the escalator malfunction was due to negligence. 
B: No, because the store is strictly liable for the shopper's injuries. 
C: Yes, because an independent contractor maintained the escalator. 
D: Yes, because the shopper has not produced evidence of negligence. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is correct. There is enough evidence here to support an inference of negligence on the part of the store. A jury could
find that the malfunction was due to the negligent installation, maintenance, or operation of the escalator; the store
would be responsible for all these possible causes under the nondelegable duty doctrine.   

B is incorrect. Landowners and occupiers are not strictly liable even for injuries to their business invitees. The court
should not grant the motion, but it is because the fact finder could infer negligence on the part of the store.   

C is incorrect. Even if the malfunction were due to the negligence of the independent contractor, the store would also
be responsible under the nondelegable duty doctrine. These facts illustrate a common situation in which that doctrine
is applied: the defendant owns a building and invites the public to enter the building for the defendant's financial
benefit. There is enough evidence here to support an inference of negligence on the part of the store. A jury could find
that the malfunction was due to the negligent installation, maintenance, or operation of the escalator; the store would
be responsible for all these possible causes under the nondelegable duty doctrine.   

D is incorrect. There is enough evidence here to support an inference of negligence on the part of the store. A jury
could find that the malfunction was due to the negligent installation, maintenance, or operation of the escalator; the
store would be responsible for all these possible causes under the nondelegable duty doctrine. 













Page 261

Question 795 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A defendant and a group of his friends are fanatical basketball fans who regularly meet at each others' homes to
watch basketball games on television.  Some of the group are fans of team A, and others are fans of team B.  When
the group has watched televised games between these two teams, fights sometimes have broken out among the
group.  Despite this fact, the defendant invited the group to his home to watch a championship game between teams
A and B.  

 During the game, the defendant's guests became rowdy and antagonistic.  Fearing that they would begin to fight, and
that a fight would damage his possessions, the defendant asked his guests to leave.  They refused to go and soon
began to fight.  The defendant called the police, and a police officer was sent to the defendant's home.  The officer
sustained a broken nose in his efforts to stop the fighting.  

 The officer brought an action against the defendant alleging that the defendant was negligent in inviting the group to
his house to watch this championship game.  The defendant has moved to dismiss the complaint.  

 The best argument in support of this motion would be that  

A: a rescuer injured while attempting to avert a danger cannot recover damages from the endangered person. 
B: a police officer is not entitled to a recovery based upon the negligent conduct that created the need for the officer's
professional intervention. 
C: as a matter of law, the defendant's conduct was not the proximate cause of the officer's injury. 
D: The defendant did not owe the officer a duty to use reasonable care, because the officer was a mere licensee on
the defendant's property. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer because it states what is known as "The Firefighter's Rule."  The officer was injured by a peril
that he was employed to confront.  If the peril was created through negligence or was caused by a strict liability
activity, the officer generally has no claim against the landowner (the defendant).  Most states use the rule to treat the
officer as a mere licensee who must take the premises as he finds them.  This would allow the officer to recover in
limited cases involving premises open to the public.  In the facts of this situation, however, the officer was called to the
defendant's private residence, where recovery would be barred.  Thus, D is incorrect.  

 A is incorrect.  If the policeman were an ordinary rescuer, he could recover damages if his injury was a foreseeable
result of negligent conduct by the individual he was rescuing.  It is the officer's status as a professional emergency
worker that creates the bar to recovery.  

 C is incorrect.  Generally, the Firefighters Rule has been interpreted to mean that the defendant had no duty to the
officer either to avoid creating the danger which needed the officer's services, or to protect the officer from any
associated harms that the defendant had no knowledge of.  If there is no duty, then the issue of proximate cause does
not arise. 













Page 262

Question 457 - Torts - Negligence (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A bicycle company manufactured a bicycle that was sold to a retail bicycle dealer which in turn sold it to a bicyclist.
Shortly thereafter, while the bicyclist was riding the bicycle along a city street, he saw a traffic light facing him turn
from green to yellow.  He sped up, hoping to cross the intersection before the light turned red.  However, the bicyclist
quickly realized that he could not do so and applied the brake, which failed.  To avoid the traffic that was then crossing
in front of him, the bicyclist turned sharply to his right and onto the sidewalk, where he struck a pedestrian.  Both the
pedestrian and the bicyclist sustained injuries.  

 Assume that it is found that the brake failure resulted from a manufacturing defect in the bicycle, and that the defect
would have been discovered by a reasonable inspection of the bicycle. If the pedestrian asserts a claim based on
negligence against the bicycle company, will the pedestrian prevail?  

A: Yes, because the bicycle company placed a defective bicycle into the stream of commerce. 
B: Yes, because the defect could have been discovered through the exercise of reasonable care by the bicycle
company. 
C: No, because the pedestrian was not a purchaser of the bicycle. 
D: No, because the bicyclist was negligent in turning into the sidewalk. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  The call of this question is negligence.  Under a negligence claim, if the bicycle company
failed to exercise due care, which caused the bike to be different than intended or more dangerous than others of its
kind, any person who was foreseeably and actually harmed by the defect can bring a negligence action.  The bicycle
company has a duty to exercise due care in its manufacturing, which would include a reasonable inspection.  Because
the bicycle company failed to provide a reasonable inspection of the bicycle, the pedestrian will prevail.  

 A is incorrect.  The call of the question is a negligence claim,  this is a strict liability standard. C is incorrect because
the pedestrian is a foreseeable plaintiff, and privity is not required.  D is incorrect because the bicyclist's negligence
could lead to an action for contribution by the bicycle company, but it would not cut short the bicycle company's
liability.     










Page 263

Question 1259 - Torts - Negligence (2/3/2017) 

The question was: 

In a civil action, a plaintiff sued a decedent's estate to recover damages for injuries she suffered in a collision between
her car and one driven by the decedent. At trial, the plaintiff introduced undisputed evidence that the decedent's car
had swerved across the centerline of the highway into oncoming traffic, where it had collided with the plaintiff's car.
The decedent's estate introduced undisputed evidence that, before he swerved across the centerline, the decedent
had suffered a fatal heart attack, which he had no reason to foresee, and that, just prior to the heart attack, the
decedent had been driving at a reasonable speed and in a reasonable manner. A statute makes it a traffic offense to
cross the median of a highway.  

 In this case, which party is likely to prevail?  

A: The decedent's estate, because its rebuttal evidence is undisputed. 
B: The decedent's estate, because the plaintiff has not established a prima facie case of liability. 
C: The plaintiff, because the accident was of a type that does not ordinarily happen in the absence of negligence on
the actor's part. 
D: The plaintiff, because the decedent crossed the median in violation of the statute. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct.  The plaintiff's evidence that the decedent violated the statute and crossed over the centerline
establishes a prima facie case of negligence.  However, the prima facie case of negligence may be rebutted by
showing that compliance with the statute was beyond the defendant's control.  Here, the decedent's estate
successfully rebutted the plaintiff's evidence by providing an undisputed explanation of how the accident happened
that is inconsistent with a finding of negligence (the decedent's unforeseeable heart attack made her unable to comply
with the statute or, indeed, with any standard of care).  

 Answer B is incorrect.  This answer correctly states that the decedent's estate will prevail, but it misstates the legal
basis for this conclusion.  As explained above, the decedent's estate successfully rebutted the plaintiff's prima facie
case of negligence by providing an uncontested explanation of how the accident happened that is inconsistent with a
finding of negligence (the decedent's unforeseeable heart attack made him unable to comply with the statute or,
indeed, with any standard of care).  

 Answer C is incorrect.  It may or may not be true that accidents of this type do not ordinarily happen in the absence of
negligence, but whether they do is irrelevant.  As explained above, the decedent's estate has successfully rebutted
the plaintiff's prima facie case of negligence by providing an undisputed explanation of how the accident happened
that is inconsistent with a finding of negligence (the decedent's unforeseeable heart attack made him unable to comply
with the statute or, indeed, with any standard of care).  

 Answer D is incorrect.  As explained above, the decedent's estate has successfully rebutted the plaintiff's evidence by
providing an undisputed explanation of how the accident happened that is inconsistent with a finding of negligence
(the decedent's unforeseeable heart attack made him unable to comply with the statute or, indeed with any standard
of care). 












Page 264

Question 884 - Torts - Negligence (2/6/2017) 

The question was: 

A man's father died in a hospital.  The hospital maintains a morgue with refrigerated drawers a bit larger than the
human body.  The decedent's body was placed in such a drawer awaiting pickup by a mortician.  Before the mortician
called for the body, a hospital orderly placed two opaque plastic bags in the drawer with the decedent's body.  One
bag contained the decedent's personal effects, and the other contained an amputated leg from some other hospital
patient.  It is stipulated that the hospital was negligent to allow the amputated leg to get into the decedent's drawer.
The mortician delivered the two opaque plastic bags to the man, assuming both contained personal effects.  The man
was shocked when he opened the bag containing the amputated leg.  The man sued the hospital to recover for
emotional distress.  At the trial, the man testified that the experience had been extremely upsetting, that he had had
recurring nightmares about it, and that his family and business relationships had been adversely affected for a period
of several months.  He did not seek medical or psychiatric treatment for his emotional distress.  

 Who should prevail?  

A: The man, because of the sensitivity people have regarding the care of the bodies of deceased relatives. 
B: The man, because hospitals are strictly liable for mishandling dead bodies. 
C: the hospital, because the man did not require medical or psychiatric treatment. 
D: the hospital, because the man suffered no bodily harm. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is correct.  The hospital assumed a duty of care regarding the decedent's body and in such cases, most courts
today would allow stand-alone emotional harm to be recoverable where: there has been mishandling of a dead body,
the person affected was in a special relationship to the deceased, and the emotional suffering was severe.  

 The hospital stipulated to its negligence.  Therefore, the man's special relationship to the decedent as his son, and
the evidence of his emotional distress, should be sufficient to prevail.  The standard is one of negligence and physical
harm is not required.  Thus B, C and D are incorrect. 










Page 265

Question 650 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

An eight-year-old child went to the grocery store with her mother.  The child pushed the grocery cart while her mother
put items into it.  The child's mother remained near the child at all times.  Another customer in the store noticed the
child pushing the cart in a manner that caused the customer no concern.  A short time later, the cart the child was
pushing struck the customer in the knee, inflicting serious injury.  

 Assume that the child was negligent and the child's mother did not adequately supervise the child.  If the customer
brings an action, based on negligence, against the child's mother, will the customer prevail?  

A: Yes, because the child was negligent. 
B: Yes, because the child's mother is responsible for any harm caused by the child. 
C: Yes, because the child's mother assumed the risk of her child's actions. 
D: Yes, because the child's mother did not adequately supervise the child's actions. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer.  Parents have a number of affirmative duties based on their special relationship to their minor
children.  This includes the duty to exercise reasonable care in the control of the parent's minor children.  A parent
who is physically present and who fails to exercise control of her child is generally not vicariously liable for the child's
tortious behavior; rather the parent may be liable for his or her own negligence in failing to control the child.  Because
the child's mother was not adequately supervising her daughter,  and it was foreseeable that the child could potentially
injure someone, the customer is likely to prevail.  

 A and B are incorrect.  Parents have a number of affirmative duties, based on their special relationship to their minor
children.  This includes the duty to exercise reasonable care in the control of their children.  Liability is generally
limited to actions that were foreseeable by the parent.  

 C is an incorrect statement of law.  Assumption of risk must be knowing and expressed or implied.  More importantly,
it is used as a defense by the defendant against a claim of negligence by the plaintiff.  The mother cannot "assume
the risk" of the child's behavior unless the mother was the plaintiff herself in an action.  This choice wants you to think
vicarious liability, but this is only meant to trick you. 











Page 266

Question 298 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A woman's 12-year-old daughter had some difficulty getting along with other children in the neighborhood, especially
with the younger ones.  Thinking the experience would be good for her, the woman recommended her daughter to a
parent as a baby sitter for his five-year-old child but did not mention her daughter's difficulties or her lack of prior
experience as a baby sitter.  The woman and the parents were longstanding social acquaintances.  On the evening
the daughter was to sit, the parents told the daughter that she should treat their child firmly, but that it would be
preferable not to spank him since he did not take kindly to it.  They did not tell the daughter sitter they had
experienced trouble retaining baby sitters because of their child's temper tantrums.  

 Later in the evening when the child became angry upon being told to go to his room for being naughty, the daughter
spanked him, but only moderately hard.  The child then threw a hardcover book at the daughter, hitting her in the eye.
As the daughter tried to catch the child to take him to his room, the child fled around the house and out the back door,
knocking over and breaking an expensive lamp.  

 The back yard was completely dark.  The daughter heard the child screaming and banging at the back door, which
had closed and locked automatically, but she did nothing.  After twenty minutes had passed, she heard a banging and
crying at the front door, but still she did nothing.  Then the noise stopped.  In a few minutes the daughter went outside
and found the child lying on the steps unconscious and injured.  

 If a claim is asserted on behalf of the child against the woman for damages based on her daughter's conduct, the
woman will probably be liable, because  

A: parents are vicariously liable for the intentional torts of their children. 
B: she has a nondelegable duty to control the actions of her child. 
C: respondeat superior applies. 
D: she was negligent. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer.  Parents have a number of affirmative duties, based on their special relationship to their minor
children.  This includes the duty to exercise reasonable care in the control of their minor children.  Liability is generally
limited to actions that were foreseeable by the parent.  A parent who fails to exercise control regarding a known
propensity of his child is generally not vicariously liable for the child's tortious behavior; rather the parent is liable for
their own negligence in failing to control the child.  In this case, the woman was aware that her daughter had trouble
dealing with younger children and had no experience as a babysitter.  It was, therefore, foreseeable that when she
recommended her daughter to babysit, the twelve year old would encounter difficulties that she could not handle,
which would result in harm to the child she was caring for.  The question states that the woman will (only) probably be
liable, because the conduct of her daughter must be specific in its foreseeability.  General concerns would not be
enough.  

 A is incorrect.  A parent who fails to exercise control regarding a known propensity of his child is generally not
vicariously liable for the child's tortious behavior; rather the parent is liable for their own negligence in failing to control
the child.  

   B is overly broad and thus incorrect.  A parent's duty to control can be delegable to other caretakers or custodians
(who must be physically present with the child before the duty attaches) to exercise care in control of the child.  

 C is incorrect.  Unless the child is actively an employee or agent of the parent, respondeat superior would not apply.
Even though the woman actively recommended her daughter as a babysitter, the daughter's actions as a babysitter
are not under her mother's control, and the daughter is not acting with her mother's authority as an agent. 














Page 267

Question 1121 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A passenger departed on an ocean liner knowing that it would be a rough voyage due to predicted storms.  The ocean
liner was not equipped with the type of lifeboats required by the applicable statute.  

 The passenger was swept overboard and drowned in a storm so heavy that even a lifeboat that conformed to the
statute could not have been launched.  

    In an action against the operator of the ocean liner brought by the passenger's representative, will the passenger's
representative prevail?  

A: Yes, because the ocean liner was not equipped with the statutorily required lifeboats. 
B: Yes, because in these circumstances common carriers are strictly liable. 
C: No, because the storm was so severe that it would have been impossible to launch a statutorily required lifeboat. 
D: No, because the passenger assumed the risk by boarding the ocean liner knowing that it would be a rough voyage. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  In an action for negligence, the plaintiff must allege duty, breach, causation and damages.
The key issue here is not whether the ocean liner breached a duty to have a specific type of lifeboat, but whether the
storm was so severe that its independent intervention superseded even the launching of a statutorily adequate
lifeboat.  This is an "act of god" situation.  The facts state that the storm was too rough for even a conforming lifeboat
to be launched, thus breaking the causal connection between the ship's duty to have a certain type of lifeboat and the
passenger's death.    

 A is incorrect.  The lifeboats could not have been launched in the storm even if the ocean liner had been properly
equipped.  B is incorrect.  Common carriers are subject to a higher standard of care, not strict liability.  Even a claim in
strict liability, however, must show that the defendant's activity or condition is a proximate (legal) cause of the harm in
order to prevail; this is a conclusion which is not supported by the facts.  D is incorrect.  Assumption of risk is no
longer a complete bar to recovery in a negligence claim, absent instructions to follow the common law.  Even if it could
be shown that the passenger was fully aware and expressedly or impliedly agreed to accept a known risk of deadly
storms, it would only go to damages and would not prevent the passenger from prevailing.   











Page 268

Question 758 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff's three-year-old daughter was killed in an automobile accident.  At the plaintiff's direction, the child's body
was taken to a mausoleum for interment.  Normally, the mausoleum's vaults are permanently sealed with marble
plates secured by "tamper-proof" screws.  After the child's body was placed in a mausoleum, however, only a
fiberglass panel secured by caulking compound covered her vault.  About a month later, the child's body was
discovered in a cemetery located near the mausoleum.  It had apparently been left there by vandals who had taken it
from the mausoleum.  

 As a result of this experience, the plaintiff suffered great emotional distress.   

 If the plaintiff sues the mausoleum for the damages arising from her emotional distress, will she prevail?  

A: No, because the plaintiff experienced no threat to her own safety. 
B: No, because the mausoleum's behavior was not extreme and outrageous. 
C: Yes, because the mausoleum failed to use reasonable care to safeguard the body. 
D: No, because the plaintiff suffered no physical harm as a consequence of her emotional distress. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is correct.  The mausoleum did not intentionally act in an extreme and outrageous way, so this is a negligent
infliction of emotional distress issue.  The mausoleum was negligent in its failure to adhere to its own standard in
securing the child's body, and it was foreseeable that its failure to do so would cause emotional harm to the child's
mother when the body of her three-year old daughter was mishandled.  The mausoleum breached its duty of care
regarding the child's body and the majority of courts allow standalone emotional harm to be recoverable where there
has been a mishandling of a dead body of a relative resulting in severe emotional distress.    

   A is incorrect because the mausoleum directly created a foreseeable risk of harm by directly causing severe
emotional distress through its failure to properly secure the vault. B is incorrect because extreme and outrageous
behavior is an element of an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim, and the mausoleum did not intentionally
act in an extreme and outrageous manner. D is incorrect because no physical harm is required when the negligent
infliction of emotional distress action arises from the mishandling of a relative's corpse.   











Page 269

Question 337 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A pedestrian started north across the street in a clearly marked north-south crosswalk with the green traffic light in her
favor.  The pedestrian was in a hurry, and so before reaching the north curb on the street, she cut to her left
diagonally across the street to the east-west crosswalk and started across it.  Just after reaching the east-west
crosswalk, the traffic light turned green in her favor.  She proceeded about five steps further across the street to the
west in the crosswalk when she was struck by a car approaching from her right that she thought would stop, but did
not.  The car was driven by a driver, 81 years of age, who failed to stop his car after seeing that the traffic light was
red against him.  The pedestrian had a bone disease, resulting in very brittle bones, that is prevalent in only 0.02
percent of the population.  As a result of the impact the pedestrian suffered a broken leg and the destruction of her
family heirloom, a Picasso original painting that she was taking to her bank for safekeeping.  The painting had been
purchased by the pedestrian's grandmother for $750 but was valued at $500,000 at the time of the accident.  

 The pedestrian had filed suit against the driver.  The driver's attorney has alleged that the pedestrian violated a state
statute requiring that pedestrians stay in crosswalks, and that if the pedestrian had not violated the statute she would
have had to walk 25 feet more to reach the impact point and therefore would not have been at a place where she
could have been hit by the driver.  The pedestrian's attorney ascertains that there is a statute as alleged by the driver,
that his measurements are correct, that there is a state statute requiring observance of traffic lights, and that the
driver's license expired two years prior to the collision.  

 The violation of the crosswalk statute by the pedestrian should not defeat her cause of action against the driver
because  

A: the driver violated the traffic light statute at a later point in time than the pedestrian's violation. 
B: pedestrians are entitled to assume that automobile drivers will obey the law. 
C: the pedestrian was hit while in the crosswalk. 
D: the risks that the statute was designed to protect against probably did not include an earlier arrival at another point. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer.  The question instructs an analysis based on the use of a safety statute.  To determine why
the pedestrian should prevail in her cause of action despite her violation of the crosswalk statute, look to the rule.
Safety statutes are used only if the statute violated was designed to protect the particular class of foreseeable victim
that the plaintiff belonged to, and the harm the plaintiff suffered was the type that the statute was designed to protect.
If the safety statute applies, in a majority jurisdiction it establishes duty and breach (negligence per se), while in a
minority jurisdiction it only serves as evidence of negligence.  Causation must still be argued to prevail.  The only
answer that addresses the rule itself is D.  

 A is irrelevant because it only addresses timing.  B is an overly broad assumption.  C, while a true statement, is
inapplicable to the call of the question.  A, B, and C are incorrect. 











Page 270

Question 932 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A defendant has a small trampoline in his backyard which, as he knows, is commonly used by neighbor children as
well as his own.  The trampoline is in good condition, is not defective in any way, and normally is surrounded by mats
to prevent injury if a user should fall off.  Prior to leaving with his family for the day, the defendant leaned the
trampoline up against the side of the house and placed the mats in the garage.  

 While the defendant and his family were away, the plaintiff, aged 11, a new boy in the neighborhood, wandered into
the defendant's yard and saw the trampoline.  The plaintiff had not previously been aware of its presence, but, having
frequently used a trampoline before, he decided to set it up, and started to jump.  He lost his balance on one jump and
took a hard fall on the bare ground, suffering a serious injury that would have been prevented by the mats.  

 An action has been brought against the defendant on the plaintiff's behalf to recover damages for the injuries the
plaintiff sustained from his fall.  In this jurisdiction, the traditional common-law rules pertaining to contributory
negligence have been replaced by a pure comparative negligence rule.  

 In his action against the defendant, will the plaintiff prevail?  

A: No, because children likely to be attracted by the trampoline would normally realize the risk of using it without mats. 
B: No, because the plaintiff failed to exercise reasonable care commensurate with his age, intelligence, and
experience. 
C: No, because the plaintiff entered the defendant's yard and used the trampoline without the defendant's permission. 
D: No, because the plaintiff did not know about the trampoline before entering the defendant's yard and thus was not
"lured" onto the premises. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer. Because all four conclusions start with "No," scrutiny must be directed at the reasoning for
why the plaintiff's claim cannot prevail against the defendant. The issue here is the defendant's duty to known child
trespassers (also referred to as the attractive nuisance doctrine). The defendant would be liable for dangers caused
by use of the trampoline on his land if he knew or should have known that: (1) children came to his property when the
defendant and his family were not home, (2) children played on the trampoline, (3) use of the trampoline would likely
cause injury because the children would not realize the danger of using the trampoline without the mats, and (4) the
expense of remedying the situation was slight compared to the probability of injury.  

   The facts indicate that while the neighborhood children commonly used the defendant's trampoline, the plaintiff was
new to the neighborhood and so was unknown to the defendant. The plaintiff is also 11, potentially old enough to
understand the risks. The defendant knew that the local children would be aware of the need for mats because the
neighborhood children "commonly" used it and would know better. Thus, A is the best response.  

   B is incorrect because it provides the test used for determining a child's standard of care in a negligence action and
is not applicable here. C is incorrect because lack of permission does not provide a defense for a claim based on the
attractive nuisance doctrine. D is incorrect because the courts now reject the traditional requirement that the child
must be "lured" onto the premises by the attractive nuisance.  













Page 271

Question 1080 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A man's car sustained moderate damage in a collision with a car driven by a woman.  The accident was caused solely
by the woman's negligence.  The man's car was still drivable after the accident.  Examining the car the next morning,
the man could see that a rear fender had to be replaced.  He also noticed that gasoline had dripped onto the garage
floor.  The collision had caused a small leak in the gasoline tank.  

 The man then took the car to a mechanic, who owns and operates a body shop, and arranged with the mechanic to
repair the damage.  During their discussion the man neglected to mention the gasoline leakage.  Thereafter, while the
mechanic was loosening some of the damaged material with a hammer, he caused a spark, igniting vapor and
gasoline that had leaked from the fuel tank.  The mechanic was severely burned.  

 The mechanic has brought an action to recover damages against the man and woman.  The jurisdiction has adopted
a pure comparative negligence rule in place of the traditional common-law rule of contributory negligence.  

 In this action, will the mechanic obtain a judgment against the woman?  

A: No, because there is no evidence that the woman was aware of the gasoline leak. 
B: No, because the mechanic would not have been harmed had the man warned him about the gasoline tank. 
C: Yes, because the mechanic was not negligent in failing to discover the gasoline leak himself. 
D: Yes, because the mechanic's injury was a proximate consequence of the woman's negligent driving. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer.  The key sentence is, "The collision had caused a small leak in the gasoline tank."  Also, the
woman's negligent driving "solely" caused the accident.  It is foreseeable that a car accident could rupture a gas tank
leading the gasoline to ignite and causing severe burn damage to anyone in or near the car.  The manner of the
accident is not determinative; the mechanic's injury was a foreseeable result of the accident.  The mechanic's injury
was not so removed in time and circumstance as to offend fundamental fairness.  In addition, courts consider
negligent conduct on the part of those who are hired to treat or repair injuries to be foreseeable consequences of the
original tortfeasor's negligent conduct, and will not find that the subsequent acts supersede the original liability unless
there is some unforeseeable, independently tortious conduct.  D is the best choice because it addresses the issue of
proximate cause, which will determine the woman's liability to the mechanic.  

 A is incorrect.  The woman is not required to know of the gas leak.  It is a foreseeable consequence of the car
accident.  

 B reaches the wrong conclusion.  While choice B may contain a true statement, the man's failure to warn the
mechanic will not be enough to supersede and preclude recovery from the woman.  The igniting gas was a
foreseeable injury; the manner in which it occurred is not determinative.  

 C is incorrect.  The mechanic's comparative negligence will affect the amount of damages he may recover from the
woman but will not prevent him from prevailing in his claim.  A pure comparative negligence jurisdiction allows a
plaintiff to recover all of his damages except the portion attributed, by the court, to his own negligence.  














Page 272

Question 941 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A college student purchased a large bottle of No-Flake dandruff shampoo, manufactured by a shampoo company.
The box containing the bottle stated in part: "CAUTION--Use only 1 capful at most once a day.  Greater use may
cause severe damage to the scalp."  The college student read the writing on the box, removed the bottle, and threw
the box away.  The college student's roommate asked to use the No-Flake, and the college student said, "Be careful
not to use too much."  The roommate thereafter used No-Flake twice a day, applying two or three capfuls each time,
notwithstanding the label statement that read: "Use no more than one capful per day.  See box instructions."  The
more he used No-Flake, the more inflamed his scalp became, the more it itched, and the more he used.  After three
weeks of such use, the roommate finally consulted a doctor who diagnosed his problem as a serious and irreversible
case of dermatitis caused by excessive exposure to the active ingredients by No-Flake.  These ingredients are
uniquely effective at controlling dandruff, but there is no way to remove a remote risk to a small percentage of persons
who may contract dermatitis as the result of applying, for prolonged periods of time, amounts of No-Flake substantially
in excess of the directions.  This jurisdiction adheres to the traditional common-law rules pertaining to contributory
negligence and assumption of risk.  

 If the roommate asserts a claim against the college student for his dermatitis injuries, the college student's best
defense will be that  

A: the roommate was contributorily negligent. 
B: the roommate assumed the risk. 
C: the college student had no duty toward the roommate, who was a gratuitous donee. 
D: the college student had no duty toward the roommate, because the shampoo company created the risk and had a
nondelegable duty to foreseeable users. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  The college student warned his roommate to "be careful" not to use "too much" of the
shampoo.  The college student has the duty of a reasonably prudent person to warn his roommate that the shampoo
has risks associated with it; this duty is unaffected by the fact that his roommate did not pay for the use of the
shampoo.  Thus C is incorrect.  Once he did, the roommate did not assume the risk because he was unaware of the
dangers and so could not expressly or impliedly agree to them by using the product.  Thus B is incorrect.  The
roommate, however, cannot take refuge in willful ignorance.  He had a duty to read the warning on the label of the
bottle, which clearly said no more than one capful per day should be used on his head.  The roommate had a duty to
himself to act in a reasonable and prudent way, which he breached.  Under the facts of this problem, a finding of
contributory negligence would be a complete bar to recovery because this is a common-law rule jurisdiction.  A is
correct because it is the college student's best chance at eliminating any liability to his roommate for damages.  B and
C are incorrect.  

 D is incorrect.  The roommate has a claim for products liability against the shampoo company.  The term
"nondelegable duty" does not apply to manufacturers in strict liability claims.  The shampoo company's duty does not
cut short the college student's duty to warn his roommate when loaning him the shampoo. 










Page 273

Question 649 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

An eight-year-old child went to the grocery store with her mother.  The child pushed the grocery cart while her mother
put items into it.  The child's mother remained near the child at all times.  Another customer in the store noticed the
child pushing the cart in a manner that caused the customer no concern.  A short time later, the cart the child was
pushing struck the customer in the knee, inflicting serious injury.  

 If the customer brings an action, based on negligence, against the grocery store, the store's best defense will be that  

A: a store owes no duty to its customers to control the use of its shopping carts. 
B: a store owes no duty to its customers to control the conduct of other customers. 
C: any negligence of the store was not the proximate cause of the customer's injury. 
D: a supervised child pushing a cart does not pose an unreasonable risk to other customers. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer and can be reached by the process of elimination.  D is the only choice that uses the language
of the negligence standard as it applies to the facts.  The other choices are overly broad generalizations of law and
can be eliminated immediately. The issue is not general cart use or customer behavior.  It is whether the actions of a
young, supervised child posed a foreseeable danger to other customers.  The grocery store has a duty to take
reasonable steps to make the conditions on the premises reasonably safe, to conduct active operations with
reasonable care for the presence of its invitees, and, under limited circumstances, to protect its customers against the
acts of third persons or animals.  The child was in the care and control of her mother at all times.  The store's best
defense is that the supervised child was not a foreseeable cause of severe harm such that the store had a duty to
intervene to protect the customer.  A, B and C are incorrect. 









Page 274

Question 340 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A pedestrian started north across the street in a clearly marked north-south crosswalk with the green traffic light in her
favor.  The pedestrian was in a hurry, and so before reaching the north curb on the street, she cut to her left
diagonally across the street to the east-west crosswalk and started across it.  Just after reaching the east-west
crosswalk, the traffic light turned green in her favor.  She proceeded about five steps further across the street to the
west in the crosswalk when she was struck by a car approaching from her right that she thought would stop, but did
not.  The car was driven by a driver, 81 years of age, who failed to stop his car after seeing that the traffic light was
red against him.  The pedestrian had a bone disease, resulting in very brittle bones, that is prevalent in only 0.02
percent of the population.  As a result of the impact, the pedestrian suffered a broken leg and the destruction of her
family heirloom, a Picasso original painting that she was taking to her bank for safekeeping.  The painting had been
purchased by the pedestrian's grandmother for $750 but was valued at $500,000 at the time of the accident.  

 The pedestrian had filed suit against the driver.  The driver's attorney has alleged that the pedestrian violated a state
statute requiring that pedestrians stay in crosswalks, and that if the pedestrian had not violated the statute, she would
have had to walk 25 feet more to reach the impact point and therefore would not have been at a place where she
could have been hit by the driver.  The pedestrian's attorney ascertains that there is a statute as alleged by the driver,
that his measurements are correct, that there is a state statute requiring observance of traffic lights, and that the
driver's license expired two years prior to the collision.  

 The pedestrian's violation of the crosswalk statute should not be considered by the jury because  

A: there is no dispute in the evidence about factual cause. 
B: as a matter of law the violation of the statute results in liability for all resulting harm. 
C: as a matter of law the driver's conduct was an independent intervening cause. 
D: as a matter of law the injury to the pedestrian was not the result of a risk the statute was designed to protect
against. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is incorrect.  Ultimately, the pedestrian's violation of the statute should not be a question for the jury because it is a
question of law and not fact.  The pedestrian's violation of the statute may qualify as negligence per se, meaning it
may serve as evidence of a duty and breach as a matter of law.  A is incorrect because there is no dispute that the
pedestrian breached the statute, thus, there is no question of fact regarding the violation of the statute.  However,
there is a dispute as to causation of the damages, thus A is incorrect.  

 B is incorrect because even if it is determined that the violation of the statute is negligence per se, this does not result
in liability for any and all damage that follows.  C is incorrect because the issue is the applicability of a safety statute in
determining a legal standard of care.  This answer deals with causation, which is still a question for the jury.  

 Finally, D is correct because safety statutes are used to establish duty and breach only if the violated statute was
designed to protect the particular class of foreseeable victim that the plaintiff belonged to, and the harm the plaintiff
suffered was the type that the statute was designed to protect.  Here, the pedestrian was hit by the driver when she
was already in the other crosswalk, so she was not in the class of people that the statute was designed to protect,
namely, pedestrians crossing streets outside of crosswalks.  D appropriately acknowledges the test and distinction
and is the correct response. 












Page 275

Question 40 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A homeowner owns a house in a city.  On the lawn in front of his home and within five feet of the public sidewalk there
was a large tree.  The roots of the tree caused the sidewalk to buckle severely and become dangerous.  An ordinance
of the city requires adjacent landowners to keep sidewalks in safe condition.  The homeowner engaged a contractor to
repair the sidewalk, leaving it to the contractor to decide how the repair should be made.  

 The contractor dug up the sidewalk, cut back the roots of the tree, and laid a new sidewalk.  Two days after the
homeowner had paid the contractor the agreed price of the repair, the tree fell over onto the street and damaged a
parked car belonging to a driver.  

 The driver has asserted claims against the homeowner and the contractor, and both defendants admit that cutting the
roots caused the tree to fall.  

 If the driver recovers a judgment against the homeowner due to the homeowner's vicarious liability, does the
homeowner have any recourse against the contractor?   

A: No, because payment by the homeowner was an acceptance of the work. 
B: No, because the homeowner selected the contractor to do the work. 
C: Yes, because the judgment against the homeowner was based on vicarious liability. 
D: Yes, because the homeowner's conduct was not a factual cause of the harm. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is correct. A judgment against an individual based on vicarious liability is a finding that the individual must pay for
the wrong committed by a third-party based on the special relationship between the parties. If the homeowner is held
for damages caused by the contractor based on a theory of vicarious liability, then the homeowner has the right to
seek indemnification from the contractor for the amount of the judgment.   

   A is incorrect. Being paid for services does not limit one's liability for negligence. B is incorrect because the selection
of the contractor by the homeowner would only be relevant if the judgment obtained by the driver was for negligent
hiring. D comes to the correct conclusion but is not the best answer. For the homeowner to bring a successful
indemnification claim against the contractor, there must have been a judgment against the homeowner based on
vicarious liability.    












Page 276

Question 945 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

While a driver was taking a leisurely spring drive, he momentarily took his eyes off the road to look at some colorful
trees in bloom.  As a result, his car swerved a few feet off the roadway, directly toward a pedestrian, who was
standing on the shoulder of the road waiting for a chance to cross.  When the pedestrian saw the car bearing down on
him, he jumped backwards, fell, and injured his knee.  

 The pedestrian sued the driver for damages, and the driver moved for summary judgment.  The foregoing facts are
undisputed.  

 The driver's motion should be  

A: denied, because the record shows that the pedestrian apprehended an imminent, harmful contact, with the driver's
car. 
B: denied, because a jury could find that the driver negligently caused the pedestrian to suffer a legally compensible
injury. 
C: granted, because the proximate cause of the pedestrian's injury was his own voluntary act. 
D: granted, because it is not unreasonable for a person to be distracted momentarily. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  A motion for summary judgment will be granted where there is no genuine issue of material
fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  A question of fact exists as to whether the driver's
negligence caused the pedestrian's reaction, or whether the pedestrian's injury was the result of his own act.  Since a
motion for summary judgment by the driver can only be rendered for the driver or denied, B is the only possible
answer.  

 A is incorrect.  The driver did not act with the purpose of causing the pedestrian to apprehend an imminent harmful or
offensive touching.  The driver was merely inattentive, which is negligent rather than intentional.  

 C is incorrect.  The pedestrian's action was a cause in fact of his injury, but not necessarily the proximate cause.  A
summary judgment can only be granted if, as a matter of law, the driver is entitled to judgment and no material fact is
in dispute.  Clearly the driver and the pedestrian are disputing which of them is responsible for the pedestrian's taking
the jump backwards.  

 D is incorrect.  While momentary distraction may not be unreasonable, the driver had a duty to drive safely, which
was breached. 













Page 277

Question 59 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A property owner owns a hotel.  When the International Order of Badgers came to town for its convention, its
members rented 400 of the 500 rooms, and the hotel opened its convention facilities to them.  During their convention,
the members littered both the inside and the outside of the hotel with debris and bottles.  The hotel manager knew that
objects were being thrown out of the hotel windows.  At his direction, hotel employees patrolled the hallways telling
the guests to refrain from such conduct.  The owner was out of town and was not aware of the problems which were
occurring.  During the convention, as a pedestrian walked past the hotel on the sidewalk, he was hit and injured by an
ashtray thrown out of a window in the hotel by an unknown person.  The pedestrian sued the owner for damages for
his injuries.  

 Will the pedestrian prevail in his claim against the owner?  

A: Yes, because a property owner is strictly liable for acts on his premises if such acts cause harm to persons using
the adjacent public sidewalks. 
B: Yes, because the person who threw the ashtray cannot be identified. 
C: No, because the owner had no personal knowledge of the conduct of the hotel guests. 
D: No, because the hotel employees had taken reasonable precautions to prevent such an injury. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer. The injured person was not a guest, but a passerby, so the principle that innkeepers are liable
for slight negligence does not apply to this situation. Instead, the pedestrian was a licensee, so the owner had a duty
to exercise reasonable care in conducting active operations. Because the hotel employees took reasonable
precautions against injury to a passerby, the owner will not be found liable.  

   A is incorrect. The strict liability standard does not apply to active operations unless the activity being performed is
ultra-hazardous (such as demolition or the storage of hazardous waste). The hosting of a convention is not an ultra-
hazardous activity, so the owner is not strictly liable for any harm caused by active operations. B is incorrect because
the owner has not breached his duty of care, and is not liable even if the actual wrongdoer cannot be identified. C is
incorrect because if the owner's employees had not acted with reasonable care, then the owner could be vicariously
liable for the pedestrian's injury on a theory of respondeat superior even if the owner had no personal knowledge of
the conduct of the hotel guests.  










Page 278

Question 691 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

The plaintiff was a passenger in a car that was struck in the rear by a car driven by a student.  The collision resulted
from the student's negligence in failing to keep a proper lookout.  The plaintiff's physician found that the collision had
aggravated a mild osteoarthritic condition in her lower back and had brought on similar, but new, symptoms in her
neck and upper back.  

 Six months after the first accident, the plaintiff was a passenger in a car that was struck in the rear by a car driven by
a doctor.  The collision resulted from the doctor's negligence in failing to keep a proper lookout.  The plaintiff's
physician found that the second collision had caused a general worsening of the plaintiff's condition, marked by a
significant restriction of movement and muscle spasms in her back and neck.  The physician believes the plaintiff's
worsened condition is permanent, and he can find no basis for apportioning responsibility for her present worsened
condition between the two automobile collisions.  

 The plaintiff brought an action for damages against the student and the doctor.  At the close of the plaintiff's evidence,
as outlined above, each of the defendants moved for a directed verdict in his favor on the ground that the plaintiff had
failed to produce evidence on which the jury could determine how much damage each defendant had caused.  The
jurisdiction adheres to the common law rules regarding joint and several liability.  

 The plaintiff's best argument in opposition to the defendants' motions would be that the defendants are jointly and
severally liable for the plaintiff's entire harm, because  

A: the wrongdoers, rather than their victim, should bear the burden of the impossibility of apportionment. 
B: the defendants breached a common duty that each of them owed to the plaintiff. 
C: each of the defendants was the proximate cause in fact of all of the plaintiff's damages. 
D: the defendants are joint tortfeasors who aggravated the plaintiff's preexisting condition. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer.  This choice may seem tricky because it is a policy argument, not a rule.  The reasoning in A,
however, dates back to Summers v. Tice, 33 Cal.2d 80, 199 P.2d 1 (1948), when two negligent hunters fired but only
one bullet hit the plaintiff.  The issue is cause-in-fact, which requires proof of actual cause of harm, and is impossible
for the plaintiff to prove under the facts of this question.  Without cause-in-fact, the plaintiff will not recover, despite
clear injury and evidence of negligence (breach of duty of ordinary care in driving) by the defendants.  Where the
requirement of actual proof under these facts would result in a harsh result on an innocent victim, courts have
traditionally held the defendants to be jointly and severally liable for the cause-in-fact, considering the injury to be
indivisible as a matter of policy.  Thus A, which states the applicable policy, is the better answer.  

 B is incorrect.  The issue is not duty, which was proven, but rather cause-in-fact.  C is a misstatement of the law.
Proximate, or legal causation, is a separate element from cause-in-fact.  If the plaintiff cannot show cause-in-fact, the
issue of legal (proximate) cause would not be reached to determine its merit.  D is an incorrect conclusion.  This is a
legal conclusion, which is a judicial determination.  The plaintiff is defending against a motion for directed verdict by
the defendants, which means that the status of the defendants as joint tortfeasors has not yet been decided. 












Page 279

Question 1035 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A plaintiff, who was driving at an excessive speed, applied her brakes to stop at a traffic light.  Due to damp, fallen
leaves, her car skidded and came to a halt perpendicular to the roadway.  The defendant, who was also driving at an
excessive speed and was immediately behind the plaintiff, saw the plaintiff's car perpendicular to the roadway.
Although the defendant had sufficient distance to come to a slow, controlled stop, he decided not to slow down but,
rather, to swerve to the left in an effort to go around the plaintiff's car.  Due to oncoming traffic, the space was
insufficient and the defendant's car collided with the plaintiff's car, severely injuring the plaintiff.  

 The plaintiff filed a personal injury action against the defendant in a jurisdiction in which contributory negligence is a
bar to recovery. At trial, the jury finds that the defendant was more at fault than the plaintiff, and that the defendant
had a last clear chance to avoid the accident. However, the jury also found that plaintiff was the legal cause of the
accident, and that she assumed the risk by speeding.   

 Will the plaintiff prevail?  

A: Yes, because the defendant was more than 50% at fault. 
B: Yes, because the defendant had the last clear chance. 
C: No, because the plaintiff's conduct was a legal cause of the accident. 
D: No, because, in speeding, the plaintiff assumed the risk. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Choice B is correct.  The facts stipulate that this is a contributory negligence jurisdiction.  Because the plaintiff was
speeding, they would fall within the contributory negligence rule. This is confirmed by the jury finding that the plaintiff
was a legal cause of the accident.  However, the jury also found that the defendant had the last clear chance to avoid
the accident, which means the plaintiffs contributory negligence will be disregarded as a defense. Therefore, the
plaintiff will win and B is the best answer.   

 A is incorrect. Answer A provides the modified (hybrid) form of comparative negligence (comparative responsibility)
and is an inappropriate standard to apply in a contributory negligence jurisdiction. C is incorrect because although the
plaintiff was contributorily negligent, the fact that the defendant had the last clear chance to avoid the accident
prevents the defendant from using that negligence to bar recovery. D is also incorrect. Any risk assumed by the
plaintiff's due to her speeding is wiped away by the defendants last clear chance to avoid to accident.   











Page 280

Question 1464 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A hotel employed a carefully selected independent contractor to rebuild its swimming pool. The hotel continued to
operate while the pool was being rebuilt. The contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to
indemnify the hotel for any liability arising from the contractor's negligent acts. A guest of the hotel fell into the
excavation, which the contractor had negligently left unguarded.  

 In an action by the guest against the hotel to recover for his injuries, what would be the most likely outcome?   

A: Liability, because the hotel had a nondelegable duty to the guest to keep a safe premises. 
B: Liability, because the contract between the hotel and the contractor required the contractor to indemnify the hotel
for any liability arising from the contractor's negligent acts. 
C: No liability, because the contractor was the actively negligent party. 
D: No liability, because the hotel exercised reasonable care in employing the contractor. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer A is correct. Ordinarily, someone who hires an independent contractor would not be vicariously liable for the
contractor's negligence. However, a landowner who holds his land open to the public has a nondelegable duty to keep
the premises safe for business visitors. Such a landowner is liable for any negligence that causes a guest to be
injured by unsafe conditions on the premises, even the negligence of an independent contractor.  

 Answer B is incorrect. While it is true that the hotel would most likely be liable, the contract between the hotel and the
contractor is irrelevant to the hotel's potential liability to the guest. Should the guest successfully sue the hotel, the
contract would allow the hotel to bring an action for indemnification against the contractor, but the contract does not
affect the hotel's liability to its guests. The hotel's liability, as stated above, would arise from its nondelegable duty to
the guest to keep a safe premises.  

 Answer C is incorrect. Because the hotel had a nondelegable duty to keep the premises safe for business visitors, the
court will hold the hotel liable for the contractor's negligence, whether that negligence was active or passive.
Distinctions based on active, as opposed to passive, negligence are outmoded, and, even if they applied, they
address the apportionment of damages between defendants, not the responsibility of a defendant to a plaintiff.  

 Answer D is incorrect. If the hotel had not exercised reasonable care in selecting a contractor, that would be an
alternative basis for imposing liability on the hotel. However, even when a hotel has carefully selected an independent
contractor, it still has a nondelegable duty to keep the premises safe for business visitors such as hotel guests and will
be held vicariously liable for the contractor's negligence. 












Page 281

Question 1013 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A company designed and built a processing plant for the manufacture of an explosive chemical.  An engineer was
retained by the company to design a filter system for the processing plant.  She prepared an application for a permit to
build the plant's filter system and submitted it to the state's Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).  As
required by DEP regulations, the engineer submitted a blueprint to the DEP with the application for permit.  The
blueprint showed the entire facility and was signed and sealed by her as a licensed professional engineer.  

 After the project was completed, a portion of the processing plant exploded, injuring the plaintiff.  During discovery in
an action by the plaintiff against the engineer, it was established that the explosion was caused by a design defect
that was unrelated to the filter system designed by the engineer. However, the defect was present in the blueprint
signed by the engineer.  

 In that action, will the plaintiff prevail?  

A: Yes, because the engineer signed, sealed, and submitted a blueprint that showed the design defect. 
B: Yes, because all of the plant's designers are jointly and severably liable for the defect. 
C: No, because the engineer owed no duty to the plaintiff to prevent the particular risk of harm. 
D: No, because the engineer was an independent contractor. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  While this looks like a products liability question, it is a professional malpractice issue.  The
company designed and built the processing plant.  The engineer was retained solely for the purpose of designing a
filter system for the plant.  She had a duty to exercise skill in the design of the filter system, commensurate with her
professional training and standards.  The engineer's use of the company's blueprint for the proper permit did not
impute liability onto the engineer for the entire facility, as a permit is nothing more than a license (permission) to
proceed with construction, not a guarantee against defect.  Thus A is incorrect.  While the manufacturer of a defective
product is subject to strict liability, strict liability does not apply to the performance of services.  The engineer provided
a service and will be held to a negligence standard.  Thus C is the correct answer, and A is incorrect.  

 B is incorrect.  The facts indicate that the processing plant was not a joint enterprise.  The engineer was not in
partnership with the company and was not in a business association with the company for the limited purpose of
building the plant.  The engineer was hired solely to perform a design service as an independent contractor.  The
engineer's design was not the cause of the injury, and she cannot be held liable for the company's design.  

 D is incorrect.  The plaintiff is suing the engineer directly; the engineer's status as an independent contractor will not
provide a defense.  












Page 282

Question 1446 - Torts - Negligence (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A driver negligently ran into a pedestrian who was walking along a road. The pedestrian sustained an injury to his
knee, causing it to buckle from time to time. Several months later, the pedestrian sustained an injury to his shoulder
when his knee buckled, causing him to fall down a flight of stairs. The pedestrian then brought an action against the
driver for the injuries to his knee and shoulder.  

 In the pedestrian's action against the driver, assume that the jury finds that the pedestrian's fall was a normal
consequence of the original injury, but that the driver could not have foreseen that his negligence would cause the
pedestrian's fall. For which of his injuries may the pedestrian recover damages?  

A: For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, because the driver takes the victim as he finds him. 
B: For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, because the pedestrian's fall down a flight of stairs was a normal
consequence of his original injury. 
C: For the injury to his knee only, because the injury to the pedestrian's shoulder is separable. 
D: For the injury to his knee only, because the driver could not have foreseen that his negligent driving would cause
the pedestrian to fall down a flight of stairs. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer B is correct. The driver is liable for the full extent of the consequential damages arising from injuries to the
pedestrian even if some of the injuries did not materialize for some time after the accident. While mere passage of
time may cause statute of limitations problems if substantially longer than several months is involved, the passage of
time in itself will not give rise to a proximate cause limitation.  

 Answer A is incorrect. The phrase "takes the victim as he finds him" refers to the principle that a negligent defendant
must pay for the full extent of the injuries to the plaintiff even if the plaintiff was unusually vulnerable to injury. There is
no indication in the facts that the pedestrian was unusually vulnerable before the accident.  

 Answer C is incorrect. The separability of an injury becomes an issue when two or more defendants cause harm to
the plaintiff; separability relates to the question of whether damages for specific injuries can be allocated among the
defendants. Here we are dealing with the consequences of multiple injuries caused by a single defendant, not the
question of whether responsibility should be apportioned among several defendants.  

 D is incorrect. In this case, there is no proximate cause or foreseeability limitation on the extent of damages.
However, whether the pedestrian's fall down the flight of stairs was a natural consequence of the original injury is a
question of fact for the jury to decide. Because the jury found that the fall was a natural consequence of the original
injury, the pedestrian can recover for both injuries. 












Page 283

Question 857 - Torts - Other Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

The owner of a truck leasing company asked one of his employees to deliver $1,000 to the dealership's main office.
The following week, as a result of a dispute over whether the money had been delivered, the owner instructed the
employee to come to the office to submit to a lie detector test.  

 When the employee reported to the owner's office for the test, it was not administered.  Instead, without hearing the
employee's story, the owner shouted at him, "You're a thief!" and fired him.  At the time the owner accused the
employee of stealing, the owner believed the charge to be true. The owner's shout was overheard by several other
employees who were in another office that was separated from the owner's office by a thin partition.  The next day, the
employee accepted another job at a higher salary.  Several weeks later, upon discovering that the money had not
been stolen, the owner offered to rehire the employee.  

 In a suit for slander by the employee against the owner, the employee will  

A: prevail, because the employee was fraudulently induced to go to the office for a lie detector test, which was not, in
fact, given. 
B: prevail, because the owner should have foreseen that the statement would be overheard by other employees. 
C: not prevail, because the owner made the charge in good faith, believing it to be true. 
D: not prevail, because the statement was made to the employee alone and intended for his ears only. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  Don't fall for the red-herring of the "fraudulent polygraph test."  The reason the employee
went to the office is not relevant to the analysis of the slander action. The key phrases are "You're a thief" and "was
overheard by several employees."  The employee must prove that the owner's statement about him was a false and
defamatory communication of fact, published knowingly or foreseeably to a third person who understood it was
defamatory and which, as a result, caused harm to the employee.  Because the statement was verbal (slander), the
employee would also normally need to plead and prove special damages (pecuniary).  The owner's accusation fell into
one of four categories of exceptions, however, which do not require special damages.  Exceptions include allegations
regarding (1) criminal activity, (2) misconduct or incompetence in the plaintiff's trade or occupation, (3) sexual
misconduct, and (4) the plaintiff's having a "loathsome" disease.  Choice B addresses the only issue that is in dispute,
which is whether the owner published the defamatory statement.  Thus C is incorrect.  In doing so, B also utilizes the
negligence test of foreseeability, which is the correct test (for private individuals) under the facts.  Choice D is
subjective and is not the appropriate "reasonable person" foreseeability test.  Thus, A, C, and D are incorrect. 










Page 284

Question 769 - Torts - Other Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A woman and a man, who were professional rivals, were attending a computer industry dinner where each was to
receive an award for achievement in the field of data processing.  The man engaged the woman in conversation away
from the rest of the party and expressed the opinion that if they joined forces, they could do even better.  The woman
replied that she would not consider the man as a business partner and when the man demanded to know why, she
told him that he was incompetent.  

 The exchange was overheard by another person who attended the dinner.  The man suffered emotional distress but
no pecuniary loss.  

 If the man asserts a claim against the woman based on defamation, will the man prevail?  

A: No, because the man suffered no pecuniary loss. 
B: No, because the woman's statement was made to the man and not to the person who overheard the statement. 
C: No, because the woman did not foresee that her statement would be overheard by another person. 
D: No, because the woman did not intend to cause the man emotional distress. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  The prima facie case for defamation requires defamatory language concerning the plaintiff,
publication of that language by the defendant to a third person, and damage to the reputation of the plaintiff.  Here, the
issue is whether there was publication by the defendant. The publication requirement is satisfied where there is
communication of the defamatory statement to a third person who understood it. That communication can be either
intentional, or the result of negligence. Therefore, if the woman had no reason to foresee that her statement would be
overheard by another person, then there was no negligent or intentional communication and the man will not prevail
on his defamation claim.   

    A is incorrect because the defamatory statement was verbal, so the man would also normally need to prove special
damages (pecuniary).  However, the woman's comment was one regarding the man's trade or occupation, making it
slander per se, and injury will be presumed.  B is incorrect because a defamatory communication can be made
negligently as well as intentionally.  D is incorrect because the man does not need to show that the woman intended
to cause him emotional distress; in this case injury is presumed.     











Page 285

Question 1075 - Torts - Other Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

When two parents were told that their child should repeat second grade, they sought to have him evaluated by a
psychologist.  The psychologist, who charged $300, determined that their child had a learning disability.  Based upon
the report, the school board placed the child in special classes.  At an open meeting of the school board, the parents
asked that the $300 they had paid to the psychologist be reimbursed by the school district.  A reporter attending the
meeting wrote a newspaper article about this request, mentioning the child by name. The parents were aware that the
reporter was at the meeting.  

 In a privacy action brought by the child's legal representative against the newspaper, the plaintiff will  

A: recover, because the story is not newsworthy. 
B: recover, because the child is under the age of consent. 
C: not recover, because the story is a fair and accurate report of what transpired at the meeting. 
D: not recover, because the parents knew that the reporter was present. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  While the call of the question does not specify which claim is being made, there are only two
possible privacy torts available under the facts.  The first is defamation, which is defendant's false and defamatory
communication of fact, published knowingly or foreseeably to a third person who understood it was defamatory and
which, as a result, caused harm to the plaintiff.  Truth, however, is an absolute defense to defamation.  The second
claim would be for public disclosure of private facts.  To prevail, the plaintiff must show that the defendant published
private information about the plaintiff, and that the private information being publicized is non-newsworthy and would
be highly offensive to a reasonable person.  This tort does not require that the information be false.  Here, the facts
indicate that the meeting was open, so the information disclosed was not private. Additionally, the facts do not indicate
that the information was so offensive that it would violate ordinary decency standards.  

     B is incorrect because the Supreme Court has held that a newspaper cannot be held liable for publicizing a name
that is a matter of public record.  A is incorrect because any fact disclosed at a public meeting is considered
newsworthy. D is incorrect because the parents' knowledge of the reporter's presence is irrelevant because the
meeting was open. 










Page 286

Question 157 - Torts - Other Torts (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

In 1970, a cattle company bought a 150-acre tract of agricultural land well suited for a cattle feed lot. The tract was ten
miles from the city and five miles from the nearest home. By 2006, the city limits extended to the cattle company's
feed lot. About 10,000 people lived within three miles of the cattle-feeding operation.  

   The cattle company land is outside the city limits and no zoning ordinance applies. The cattle company uses the
best and most sanitary feed lot procedures, including chemical sprays, to keep down flies and odors and frequently
removes manure. Despite these measures, residents of the city complain of flies and odors. An action has been filed
by five individual homeowners who live within half a mile of the cattle company feed lot. Flies in the area are five to ten
times more numerous than in other parts of the city, and extremely obnoxious odors are frequently carried by the wind
to the plaintiffs' homes. The odors do not affect any other part of the city. The flies and odors are a substantial health
hazard.   

   If plaintiffs assert a claim based on public nuisance, plaintiffs will   

A: prevail because plaintiffs sustained harm different from that suffered by the public at large. 
B: prevail because the cattle company's acts interfered with a person's enjoyment of his property. 
C: not prevail, because only the state may bring an action based on public nuisance. 
D: not prevail, because plaintiffs came to the nuisance. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

A is the correct answer. The cattle lot qualifies as a public nuisance because it unreasonably interferes with the health
and property rights of the community. Although public nuisances generally must be prosecuted by public authorities,
recovery for a public nuisance is possible if a private party suffered some unique damage not suffered by the general
public. Because the plaintiffs suffered a different harm than the public at large, they will prevail. Consequently, A is
correct and C is incorrect.  

   B is incorrect because interference with a plaintiff's private enjoyment of his land is insufficient, the interference must
cause unique damages. D is incorrect. Generally if the purchaser bought in good faith, the purchaser is entitled to the
reasonable use or enjoyment of the land. Therefore, coming to the nuisance does not automatically preclude a
nuisance action.  











Page 287

Question 1467 - Torts - Other Torts (2/6/2017) 

The question was: 

A newspaper published an editorial in which an editor asserted that a candidate for high political office was a user of
illegal drugs. The accusation was untrue. The editor acted unreasonably in not investigating the accusation before
publishing it; however, the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.   

 The candidate sued the editor for defamation.   

 Is the candidate entitled to recover?  

A: No, because the accusation appeared in an editorial and was, therefore, merely an opinion. 
B: No, because the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true. 
C: Yes, because calling someone an illegal drug user is defamatory per se. 
D: Yes, because the accusation was false and was injurious to the candidate's reputation. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer B is correct. To bring a claim for defamation, a plaintiff must establish the following common law elements: (i)
defamatory language, (ii) "of or concerning" the plaintiff, (iii) publication of the defamatory language by the defendant
to a third person, and (iv) damage to the plaintiff's reputation. However, in a defamation action that involves a matter
of public concern--here, a claim brought by a candidate for public office--the plaintiff must establish more than mere
negligence with regard to the truth or falsity of the allegedly defamatory statement of fact. The plaintiff must establish
that the defendant acted with actual malice, that is, that the defendant in fact knew the statement to be false or
entertained serious doubts as to the truth of the statement. Here, the candidate cannot establish actual malice on the
part of the editor in publishing the statement because the editor honestly believed the accusation was true. Thus,
Answer B is correct.  

 Answer A is incorrect. The assertion that the candidate used illegal drugs purported to be a statement of fact, not a
statement of opinion. Defamation turns on what is conveyed in the statement published by the defendant. The context
may influence what is conveyed, but facts may be stated in editorials or advertisements as well as in news reports. In
this case, it is true that the candidate will not recover, but the reason is that he cannot show the actual malice required
to defame a political candidate because the editor believed the statement about the candidate's drug use to be true.  

 Answer C is incorrect. The plaintiff in a defamation action must establish that a statement is defamatory, and
accusing someone of a criminal act is indeed "defamatory per se." However, a political candidate, like a political
official, must also establish that the defendant acted with actual malice, that is, that the defendant in fact knew the
statement to be false or entertained serious doubts as to the truth of the statement. Here, the candidate cannot
establish that essential element of his case.  

 Answer D is incorrect. A political candidate who brings a defamation action must establish not only that the statement
was defamatory but also that the defendant acted with actual malice. To show actual malice, the plaintiff must
demonstrate that the defendant in fact knew the statement to be false or entertained serious doubts as to the truth of
the statement. The evidence does not support a finding of actual malice in this case. 













Page 288

Question 68 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A labor leader in a city was divorced ten years ago.  Both he and his first wife have since married other persons.
Recently, a newspaper in another city ran a feature article on improper influences it asserted had been used by labor
officials to secure favorable rulings from government officials.  The story said that in 1990 the labor leader's first wife,
with his knowledge and concurrence, gave sexual favors to the mayor of the city and then persuaded him to grant
concessions to the labor leader's union, with which the city was then negotiating a labor contract.  The story named
the labor leader and identified his first wife by her former and current surnames.  The reporter for the newspaper
believed the story to be true, since it had been related to him by two very reliable sources. However, after publication
the story turned out to be false.  

 The labor leader's first wife suffered emotional distress and became very depressed.  If she asserts a claim based on
defamation against the newspaper, she will  

A: prevail, because the story concerned her personal, private life. 
B: prevail because the story was false. 
C: not prevail, because the newspaper did not print the story with knowledge of its falsity or with reckless disregard for
its truth or falsity. 
D: not prevail because the newspaper exercised ordinary care in determining the story was true or false. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct.  The labor leader's first wife is a private person suing for defamation on an issue of public concern.
Because the first wife is not a public figure, she does not need to prove the New York Times (New York Times v.
Sullivan) standard of malice, but rather the Gertz (Gertz v. Robert Welch) standard: that the newspaper (1) published
false information and (2) was negligent in investigating the accuracy of the information, resulting in (3) actual harm to
the first wife.  Here, the first wife will not prevail because the reporter believed the story was true and it was confirmed
by two very reliable sources. Therefore, the newspaper was not negligent in its publication and D is the correct
answer.  

    C is incorrect because it gives the New York Times standard which only applies to public figures. A is incorrect
because the matter is of public concern and is therefore newsworthy, requiring the use of the Gertz standard.   

 B is not the best answer because though the story turned out to be false, the plaintiff will not win unless she can also
show that the newspaper was negligent in determining whether the story was true, and that its negligence caused her
actual harm.   











Page 289

Question 1359 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A recently established law school constructed its building in a quiet residential neighborhood. The law school had
obtained all of the necessary municipal permits for the construction of the building, which included a large clock tower
whose clock chimed every hour. The chimes disturbed only one homeowner in the neighborhood, who had purchased
her house prior to the construction of the building. The homeowner was abnormally sensitive to ringing sounds, such
as bells and sirens, and found the chimes to be extremely annoying.   

In a nuisance action by the homeowner against the law school, will the homeowner be likely to prevail?  

A: Yes, because the chimes interfere with the homeowner's use and enjoyment of her property. 
B: Yes, because the homeowner purchased her house prior to the construction of the building. 
C: No, because the chimes do not disturb the other residents of the neighborhood. 
D: No, because the law school had obtained the requisite municipal permits to erect the clock tower. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. Private nuisance is a substantial, unreasonable interference with another's use or enjoyment of
property. The person claiming nuisance must actually possess, or have a right of immediate possession to, the
property. A substantial interference is an interference that is offensive or annoying to the average person in the
community--the plaintiff's hypersensitivities are irrelevant. An unreasonable interference is an interference where the
severity of the inflicted injury outweighs the utility of the defendant's conduct. Whether an invasion constitutes a
nuisance turns on whether it causes significant harm of a kind that would be suffered by a normal member of the
community. Here, the plaintiff is hypersensitive to the chimes. However, no other members of the community are
bothered by the noise, and thus, the chimes are not a nuisance.   

Answer A is incorrect. The interference with the homeowner's use and enjoyment of her property must be substantial
and unreasonable. Here, only one abnormally sensitive person was disturbed by the chimes.   

Answer B is incorrect. Priority in time may be a factor in determining the character of a neighborhood, but it is not
determinative of whether an invasion is a nuisance.   

Answer D is incorrect. Compliance with government requirements is not a defense to a claim of private nuisance. 












Page 290

Question 475 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A customer ordered some merchandise from a store.  When the merchandise was delivered, the customer decided
that it was not what he had ordered, and he returned it for credit.  The store refused to credit the customer's account,
continued to bill him, and, after 90 days, turned the account over to a bill collector for collection.  

 The bill collector showed up at the customer's house at 7 p.m. on a summer evening while many of the customer's
neighbors were seated on their porches.  When the customer opened the door, the bill collector, who was standing
just outside the door, raised an electrically amplified bullhorn to his mouth.  In a voice that could be heard a block
away, the bill collector called the customer a "deadbeat" and asked him when he intended to pay his bill to the store.  

 The customer, greatly angered, slammed the door shut.  The door struck the bullhorn and jammed it forcibly against
the bill collector's face.  As a consequence, the bill collector lost some of his front teeth.  

 If the customer asserts a claim based on defamation against the bill collector, will the customer prevail?   

A: Yes, because the bill collector's remarks were heard by the customer's neighbors. 
B: Yes, because the bill collector's conduct was extreme and outrageous. 
C: No, because the bill collector did not know that the customer owed no money to the store. 
D: No, because the customer did not suffer any special damages. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct.  A claim for defamation must prove that there was a defamatory communication of fact made about the
plaintiff, published to a third person who understood it was defamatory, and a resulting harm to the plaintiff.  In the
case of slander (verbal defamation), the plaintiff must plead and prove special damages (pecuniary).  Four exceptions,
which do not require special damages, include if the defendant made allegations regarding (1) criminal activity, (2)
misconduct regarding plaintiff's occupation, (3) sexual misconduct, and (4) plaintiff having a "loathsome" disease.  The
bill collector's verbal statements do not fit into any of the exceptions.  Therefore, because the customer suffered no
special damages, he will not prevail.  

 A is incorrect.  Publication is not the issue here.  The facts state that the customer's neighbors were out and that the
collector used a bullhorn.  The issue is whether the customer suffered pecuniary damages as a result of the action.  B
gives the test for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  This question specifically gives you a claim for defamation.
C is incorrect. Malice is not at issue here, so the bill collector's good faith belief about the truth of his statement is
irrelevant.  












Page 291

Question 1075 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

When two parents were told that their child should repeat second grade, they sought to have him evaluated by a
psychologist.  The psychologist, who charged $300, determined that their child had a learning disability.  Based upon
the report, the school board placed the child in special classes.  At an open meeting of the school board, the parents
asked that the $300 they had paid to the psychologist be reimbursed by the school district.  A reporter attending the
meeting wrote a newspaper article about this request, mentioning the child by name. The parents were aware that the
reporter was at the meeting.  

 In a privacy action brought by the child's legal representative against the newspaper, the plaintiff will  

A: recover, because the story is not newsworthy. 
B: recover, because the child is under the age of consent. 
C: not recover, because the story is a fair and accurate report of what transpired at the meeting. 
D: not recover, because the parents knew that the reporter was present. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

C is the correct answer.  While the call of the question does not specify which claim is being made, there are only two
possible privacy torts available under the facts.  The first is defamation, which is defendant's false and defamatory
communication of fact, published knowingly or foreseeably to a third person who understood it was defamatory and
which, as a result, caused harm to the plaintiff.  Truth, however, is an absolute defense to defamation.  The second
claim would be for public disclosure of private facts.  To prevail, the plaintiff must show that the defendant published
private information about the plaintiff, and that the private information being publicized is non-newsworthy and would
be highly offensive to a reasonable person.  This tort does not require that the information be false.  Here, the facts
indicate that the meeting was open, so the information disclosed was not private. Additionally, the facts do not indicate
that the information was so offensive that it would violate ordinary decency standards.  

     B is incorrect because the Supreme Court has held that a newspaper cannot be held liable for publicizing a name
that is a matter of public record.  A is incorrect because any fact disclosed at a public meeting is considered
newsworthy. D is incorrect because the parents' knowledge of the reporter's presence is irrelevant because the
meeting was open. 










Page 292

Question 969 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

Two law school classmates had competed for the position of editor of the law review. One of the students had a
higher grade point average, but the other student was elected editor, largely in recognition of a long and important
note that had appeared in the review over her name.   During the following placement interview season, the student
with the higher GPA was interviewed by a representative of a nationally prominent law firm. In response to the
interviewer's request for information about the authorship of the law review note, the student said that he had heard
that the note attributed to the law review editor was largely the work of another student. However, the student knew
that the law review editor had written the note on her own.   The firm told the law review editor that it would not
interview her because of doubts about the authorship of the note. This greatly distressed her. In fact the note had
been prepared by the law review editor without assistance from anyone else.   If the law review editor asserts a claim
against the other student based on defamation, she will  

A: recover, because the other student's statement was false. 
B: recover, because the other student had substantial doubts about the accuracy of the information he gave the
interviewer. 
C: not recover, because the law review editor did not prove pecuniary loss. 
D: not recover, because the statement was made by the other student only after the interviewer inquired about the
authorship of the note. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  The facts clearly indicate that the student with the higher GPA made a false statement about
the law review editor, which was published to a potential employer, and which damaged the law review editor.  The
issue is what level of proof the law review editor needs in order to prevail in her claim.  The two students are, at first
glance, private parties.  The student being interviewed, however, is speaking to a potential employer and within his
position as a member of the law review staff.  As such, he will most likely be found to have had a qualified privilege to
talk about the law review editor's authorship during his job interview.  Nevertheless, the student's qualified privilege is
lost if the statement was made with knowledge that it was false or with reckless disregard for its truth. Because the
student knew that the law review editor had written the note herself, B is the best answer.  

 A is incorrect because falsity alone is not sufficient where the speaker has a qualified privilege. When a plaintiff is
suing on a statement that does not involve a matter of public concern, the plaintiff is not required to prove falsity; while
the defendant may prove truth as an affirmative defense, the fact that something is false is not sufficient to prove a
defamation claim. C is incorrect because a claim for slander generally requires proof of special or pecuniary damages.
However, the allegation against the law review editor is one of trade or professional misconduct and special damages
are presumed.  D is incorrect because the question by the interviewer triggered the qualified privilege, but the privilege
is not absolute.  The law review editor will still prevail if she can show that the other student made the statement with
knowledge or in reckless disregard of its truth or falsity. 









Page 293

Question 852 - Torts - Other Torts (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A newspaper, printed an article that stated:  

 "Kitchen, the popular restaurant on the town square, has closed its doors.  Kitchen employees have told [the
newspaper] that the closing resulted from the owner's belief that Kitchen's general manager has embezzled thousands
of dollars from the restaurant over the last several years.  A decision on reopening the restaurant will be made after
the completion of an audit of Kitchen's books."  

 The plaintiff, who is Kitchen's general manager, brought a libel action against the newspaper based on the publication
of this article.  The parties stipulated that the plaintiff never embezzled any funds from Kitchen.  They also stipulated
that the plaintiff is well known among many people in the community because of his job with Kitchen.  

 The case went to trial before a jury.  

 The defendant's motion for a directed verdict in its favor, made at the close of the evidence, should be granted if the  

A: record contains no evidence that the plaintiff suffered special harm as a result of the publication. 
B: record contains no evidence that the defendant was negligent as to the truth or falsity of the charge of
embezzlement. 
C: evidence is not clear and convincing that the defendant published the article with "actual malice." 
D: record contains uncontradicted evidence that the article accurately reported what the employees told the
newspaper. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer. The plaintiff is a private party and not a public figure, despite being "well-known" in the
community, because the plaintiff is not an elected official or a celebrity, and has not placed himself at the forefront of a
public controversy. However, the matter involved is of public concern. To determine if a matter is of public concern,
the court will look at the content, form, and context of the publication. Here, the content was about the closing of a
popular local restaurant, the form was a newspaper article, and the context was a communication to the entire
readership of the newspaper. Because the matter is of public concern, the plaintiff must prove fault, i.e. that the
newspaper published the statement with at least negligence as to its truth or falsity. Therefore, if the plaintiff cannot
prove the defendant was negligent as to the truth or falsity of the embezzlement charge, the defendant's motion for a
directed verdict will be granted.   

 A is incorrect. Proof of special damages is only required for slander (verbal defamation) and libel (statement in print)
that is not defamatory on its face, which requires reference to extrinsic facts to show its defamatory content. Harm is
presumed when the libel is defamatory on its face (per se), as here, where the statement accused the plaintiff of
embezzlement.  C is an incorrect standard. Actual malice is only required if the plaintiff is a public figure.  D is
incorrect because the newspaper can still be held liable if it was negligent in determining the veracity of the
employee's statement.  













Page 294

Question 179 - Torts - Products Liability (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A water pipe burst in the basement of a grocery store, flooding the basement and damaging cases of canned goods
on the floor.  The plumbing contractor's workmen, in repairing the leak, knocked over several stacks of canned goods
in cases, denting the cans.  After settling its claims against the landlord for the water leak and against the plumbing
contractor for the damage done by his workmen, the grocery store put the goods on special sale.  

 Four weeks later, a customer was shopping in the grocery store.  Several tables in the market were covered with
assorted canned foods, all of which were dirty and dented.  A sign on each of the tables read: "Damaged Cans - Half
Price."  

 The customer was having a guest over for dinner that evening and purchased two dented cans of tuna, packed by a
canning company, from one of the tables displaying the damaged cans.  Before the guest arrived, the customer
prepared a tuna casserole which she and the guest later ate.  Both became ill, and the medical testimony established
that the illness was caused by the tuna's being unfit for consumption.  The tuna consumed by the customer and the
guest came from the case that was at the top of one of the stacks knocked over by the workmen.  The tuna in
undamaged cans from the same canning company's shipment was fit for consumption.  

 If the guest asserts a claim against the grocery store, the most likely result is that the guest will  

A: recover on the theory of res ipsa loquitur. 
B: recover on the theory of strict liability. 
C: not recover, because the grocery store gave proper warning. 
D: not recover, because the guest was not the purchaser of the cans. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer. Strict liability can be imposed upon the grocery store for the sale of any product which is in a
defective condition or is unreasonably dangerous to the user. Liability for physical harm to the guest is available
provided that: (1) the grocery store is engaged in the business of selling groceries, and (2) the dented tuna can was
not substantially changed by anyone else before the guest consumed it. The use of tuna within a casserole was a
reasonable and foreseeable use which would not cut short the grocery store's liability. In addition, any person who is
foreseeably (and in fact) injured by the grocery store's defective product can bring an action.  

   D is incorrect because privity of contract is not required; anyone who is injured by the product has standing to sue. A
is incorrect because while there is an inference of negligence from the spoilt tuna, the negligence could be attributable
to the canning company, the store, or the customer. Thus, the guest will not recover on a negligence theory based on
the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur.  

   C is incorrect because the grocery store did not give proper warning. It only stated the cans were dented, not that
they might (or did) contain spoiled food. Consequently, the grocery store will not be able to assert that customer had
assumed the risk because the customer had not been adequately warned. 













Page 295

Question 940 - Torts - Products Liability (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A college student purchased a large bottle of No-Flake dandruff shampoo, manufactured by a shampoo company.
The box containing the bottle stated in part: "CAUTION--Use only 1 capful at most once a day.  Greater use may
cause severe damage to the scalp."  The college student read the writing on the box, removed the bottle, and threw
the box away.  The college student's roommate asked to use the No-Flake, and college student said, "Be careful not
to use too much."  The roommate thereafter used No-Flake twice a day, applying two or three capfuls each time,
notwithstanding the label statement that read: "Use no more than one capful per day.  See box instructions."  The
more he used No-Flake, the more inflamed his scalp became, the more it itched, and the more he used.  After three
weeks of such use, the roommate finally consulted a doctor who diagnosed his problem as a serious and irreversible
case of dermatitis caused by excessive exposure to the active ingredients by No-Flake.  These ingredients are
uniquely effective at controlling dandruff, but there is no way to remove a remote risk to a small percentage of persons
who may contract dermatitis as the result of applying, for prolonged periods of time, amounts of No-Flake substantially
in excess of the directions.  This jurisdiction adheres to the traditional common-law rules pertaining to contributory
negligence and assumption of risk.  

 The roommate asserts a claim for his injuries against the shampoo company based on strict liability in tort. Three
important facts were established at trial: The roommate misused the No-Flake shampoo, the roommate was
contributorily negligent in continuing to use No-Flake shampoo when his scalp began to hurt and itch, and the
roommate was a remote user and not in privity with the shampoo company.  Which of the following would constitute a
defense for the shampoo company?  

A: The roommate misused the No-Flake shampoo. 
B: The roommate misused the shampoo and was contributorily negligent in continuing to use No-Flake shampoo
when his scalp began to hurt and itch. 
C: The roommate was not in privity with the shampoo company. 
D: The product was substantially changed from the condition in which it was sold 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is correct. Any user who is injured by a defective product can bring a products liability claim based on strict liability
in tort as long as they can satisfy the requirements for the prima facie case.  The four elements of the case are: (1) a
strict duty owed by a commercial supplier, (2) breach of that duty, (3) actual and proximate causation, and (4)
damages. In a products liability claim, the main difference between a negligence and strict liability claim is that the
negligence standard of care is replaced with an absolute duty to make safe.  In a strict liability case, the plaintiff need
only prove that the product was unreasonably dangerous to show a breach of duty.  Thus, in contrast to a negligence
action, a retailer in a strict liability action may be liable simply because it was a commercial supplier of a defective
product.  

 Additionally, in a strict liability claim, the product must be expected to, and must in fact, reach the user or consumer
without substantial change in the condition in which it is supplied.  In this case, since the college student removed and
disposed of the box containing the adequate warning before the shampoo reached the roommate, the product was
substantially changed from the condition in which it was sold, and there is not adequate causation to sustain the
roommate's claim.  

 Answer A is incorrect.  The roommate's misuse of the product would not provide a defense to a strict liability action in
a jurisdiction that maintains traditional contributory negligence rules.  Even if the misuse rose to the level that the
roommate was contributorily negligent, this is not a defense where the plaintiff simply failed to recognize the danger or
guard against its existence.  Therefore, B is also incorrect.  Answer C is incorrect because privity is not required in a
products liability claim based on strict liability, the injured party must only be a foreseeable user.  Thus, A, B, and C
are incorrect while D is the correct answer choice.  











Page 296

Question 293 - Torts - Products Liability (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A widow recently purchased a new uncrated electric range for her kitchen from a local retailer.  The range has a wide
oven with a large oven door.  The crate in which the manufacturer shipped the range carried a warning label that the
stove would tip over with a weight of 25 pounds or more on the oven door.  The widow has one child, aged 3.
Recently, the child was playing on the floor of the kitchen while the widow was heating water in a pan on the stove.
The widow left the kitchen for a moment, and the child opened the oven door and climbed on it to see what was in the
pan.  The child's weight (25 pounds) on the door caused the stove to tip over forward.  The child fell to the floor and
the hot water spilled over her, burning her severely.  The child screamed.  The widow ran to the kitchen and
immediately gave her first aid treatment for burns.  The child thereafter received medical treatment.  

 The child's burns were painful.  They have now healed and do not bother her, but she has ugly scars on her legs and
back.  The child's claim is asserted on her behalf by the proper party.  

 If the child asserts a claim based on strict liability against the local retailer, she must establish that  

A: the local retailer did not inform the widow of the warning on the crate. 
B: the stove was substantially in the same condition at the time it tipped over as when it was purchased from the local
retailer. 
C: the local retailer made some change in the stove design or had improperly assembled it so that it tipped over more
easily. 
D: the local retailer knew or should have known that the stove was dangerous because of the ease with which it
tipped over. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B provides the correct test.  Strict liability can be imposed upon the local retailer (and up the chain to manufacturer) for
the sale of any product which is in a defective condition or unreasonably dangerous to the user and results in physical
harm.  The retailer is liable for any resulting physical harm to the child, provided that (1) the retailer is engaged in the
business of selling stoves (and/or in addition to other products), and (2) the condition of the stove was not
substantially changed as from when it was sold.  The retailer is clearly a seller of stoves, so the second element must
be proven by the child to prevail on a strict liability claim.  The additional elements stated in A, C or D might have been
necessary to prove negligence, but are not required in a strict liability claim based on sale of defective product, so A,
C and D are incorrect. 










Page 297

Question 110 - Torts - Products Liability (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A storekeeper who owns a large hardware store sells power saws for both personal and commercial use.  He often
takes old power saws as trade-ins on new ones.  The old power saws are then completely disassembled and rebuilt
with new bearings by the storekeeper's employees and sold by the storekeeper as "reconditioned saws."  

 A purchaser, the owner and operator of a cabinet-making shop, informed the storekeeper that he wanted to buy a
reconditioned circular saw for use in his cabinet making business.  However, the blade that was on the saw he picked
out had very coarse teeth for cutting rough lumber.  The purchaser told the storekeeper that he wanted a saw blade
that would cut plywood.  The storekeeper exchanged the coarse blade for a new one with finer teeth that would cut
plywood smoothly, but used the original shaft.  The new blade was manufactured by Saw-Blade Company, which
uses all available techniques to inspect its products for defects.  The reconditioned saw had been manufactured by
Power Saw Company.  

 The week after the saw was purchased, an employee, who works for the purchaser in the purchaser's cabinet-making
shop, was injured while using the saw.  The employee's arm was severely cut.  As a result, the cabinetmaking shop
was shut down for a week until a replacement for the employee could be found.  

 If the employee was injured while cutting plywood when the shaft holding the saw blade came loose when a bearing
gave way and the shaft and blade flew off the saw, and if the employee asserts a claim based on strict liability in tort
against Power Saw Company, the employee will probably  

A: recover because the shaft that came loose was a part of the saw when it was new. 
B: recover, because Power Saw Company was in the business of manufacturing dangerous machines. 
C: not recover, because the employee was not the buyer of the power saw. 
D: not recover, because the saw has been rebuilt by the storekeeper. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the correct answer. A threshold requirement for a products liability claim is that the defect must have existed at
the time the product left the defendant's control. Here, the original saw blade was removed and replaced. Therefore,
the defect with the bearing did not exist at the time the saw left the Power Saw Company's control. Furthermore, the
reconditioning of the saw by the shopkeeper was a substantial alteration of the product, which will sever the strict
liability of the Power Saw Company.  

   A and B are incorrect because the product was substantially altered before reaching the consumer. C is incorrect
because any person who is within the foreseeable zone of risk can bring a products liability claim based on strict
liability.    












Page 298

Question 582 - Torts - Products Liability (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

A 16-year old boy purchased an educational chemistry set manufactured by Chemco.  

 The teenager invited his friend and classmate, the plaintiff, to assist him in a chemistry project.  Referring to a library
chemistry book on explosives and finding the chemistry set contained all of the necessary chemicals, the teenager
and the plaintiff agreed to make a bomb.  During the course of the project, the teenager carelessly knocked a lighted
Bunsen burner into a bowl of chemicals from the chemistry set.  The chemicals burst into flames, injuring the plaintiff.
Although the chemistry set was as safe as possible, and its educational benefits exceeded its risks, the set did not
contain a warning that it could be used to make dangerous explosives.   

 In a suit by the plaintiff against Chemco, based on strict liability, the plaintiff will  

A: prevail, because the chemistry set did not contain a warning that its contents could be combined to form dangerous
explosives. 
B: prevail, because manufacturers of chemistry sets are engaged in an abnormally dangerous activity. 
C: not prevail, because the teenager's negligence was the cause in fact of the plaintiff's injury. 
D: not prevail, because the chemistry set was as safe as possible, consistent with its educational purposes, and its
benefits exceeded its risks. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

D is the best answer.  The facts indicate that the chemistry set was exactly as it was designed.  This is a defective
design case.  For strict liability to apply in defective design, the plaintiff must prevail in a risk-utility balancing test
where the plaintiff must show that the risk and severity of his injuries were predictable.  In some jurisdictions, the court
would then consider the feasibility of alternative designs.  Other jurisdictions shift the burden to the defendant (once
plaintiff proves causation) requiring the manufacturer to show that the chemistry set was as safe as possible, with its
educational utility and benefits outweighing the risks.  

 A is incorrect because the students did not use the set directions, but rather a library book.  Failure to warn is not the
issue.  

 B is incorrect.  Abnormally dangerous activity on the part of the manufacturer is irrelevant to this question.  Ultra-
hazardous activities by landowners and occupiers give rise to strict liability or any resulting injury because the inherent
danger or peculiar risk is unreasonably high when compared to their social utility, even in the absence of negligence
and where all the proper precautions have been taken.  At issue in this question is the purchase of a product, not the
conditions on the land where the manufacturer resides.  

 C comes to the incorrect conclusion.  The teenager's actions will not determine whether a products liability claim will
prevail.  The actions may go to damages as a defense, but will not be part of the case in chief, which is at issue in this
question.  If the design is found to be defective, the teenager's negligence will not set aside Chemco's strict liability to
the plaintiff. 













Page 299

Question 838 - Torts - Strict Liability (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

A chemical company manufactured a liquid chemical product known as XRX.  Some XRX leaked from a storage tank
on the chemical company's property, seeped into the groundwater, flowed to a farmer's adjacent property, and
polluted the farmer's well.  Several of the farmer's cows drank the polluted well water and died.  

 If the farmer brings an action against the chemical company to recover the value of the cows that died, the farmer
will  

A: prevail, because a manufacturer is strictly liable for harm caused by its products. 
B: prevail, because the XRX escaped from the chemical company's premises. 
C: not prevail, unless the farmer can establish that the storage tank was defective. 
D: not prevail, unless the chemical company failed to exercise reasonable care in storing the XRX. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

B is the correct answer.  This is not a products liability question, but rather a strict liability question.  The chemical
company's storage of XRX was a use of the land which was not common to the area and which presented a serious
risk of harm that could not be eliminated even if undertaken with due care.  Because the chemicals were
ultrahazardous and in an unusual accumulation, the chemical company is strictly liable for all damages which are "the
natural consequences of its escape."  As an abnormally dangerous use of the land, B is the best choice because it
accurately reflects the determinative issue, which was the escape of the chemicals.  The farmer does not need to
show negligence or defect to recover against the chemical company.  Thus A, C and D are incorrect. 









Page 300

Question 1311 - Torts - Strict Liability (7/26/2016) 

The question was: 

Under the Federal Tort Claims Act, with certain exceptions not relevant here, the federal government is liable only for
negligence. A federally owned and operated nuclear reactor emitted substantial quantities of radioactive matter that
settled on a nearby dairy farm, killing the dairy herd and contaminating the soil. At the trial of an action brought against
the federal government by the farm's owner, the trier of fact found the following: (1) the nuclear plant had a sound
design, but a valve made by an engineering company had malfunctioned and allowed the radioactive matter to
escape; (2) the engineering company was universally regarded as a quality manufacturer of components for nuclear
plants; and (3) there was no way the federal government could have anticipated or prevented the emission of the
radioactive matter.   

If there is no other applicable statute, for whom should the trial judge enter judgment?  

A: The farm owner, on the ground that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur applies. 
B: The farm owner, on the ground that one who allows dangerous material to escape to the property of another is
liable for the damage done. 
C: The government, on the ground that a case under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved. 
D: The government, on the ground that the engineering company is the proximate cause of the farm owner's damage. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. There has been no finding of negligence on the part of the government. The trier of fact found
that the government had selected a reliable manufacturer for the component part and could not have anticipated or
prevented the malfunction. The court should therefore enter judgment for the defendant, on the ground that a case
under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved.  

 Answer A is incorrect. Res ipsa loquitur applies only to situations in which a lay jury could say that the accident would
not ordinarily occur in the absence of the defendant's negligence. This is not such a situation because it involves
complex machinery beyond the ordinary experience of a lay jury. Also, another potential defendant is involved, and
the findings of the jury are inconsistent with a conclusion that this is the sort of accident that would not ordinarily occur
in the absence of the government's negligence.  

 Answer B is incorrect. This is the principle of Rylands v. Fletcher, a case based on strict liability rather than on
negligence, and the Federal Tort Claims Act only permits actions based on negligence. See Rylands v. Fletcher,
[1868] All E.R. 1.  

 Answer D is incorrect. The actions of more than one defendant may be considered the proximate cause of the harm
to the plaintiff. Moreover, while proximate cause is necessary to establish liability in negligence, it is not sufficient.
Given the findings of the trier of fact, the farm owner has not established breach of a duty by the government. 












Page 301

Question 1311 - Torts - Strict Liability (2/10/2017) 

The question was: 

Under the Federal Tort Claims Act, with certain exceptions not relevant here, the federal government is liable only for
negligence. A federally owned and operated nuclear reactor emitted substantial quantities of radioactive matter that
settled on a nearby dairy farm, killing the dairy herd and contaminating the soil. At the trial of an action brought against
the federal government by the farm's owner, the trier of fact found the following: (1) the nuclear plant had a sound
design, but a valve made by an engineering company had malfunctioned and allowed the radioactive matter to
escape; (2) the engineering company was universally regarded as a quality manufacturer of components for nuclear
plants; and (3) there was no way the federal government could have anticipated or prevented the emission of the
radioactive matter.   

If there is no other applicable statute, for whom should the trial judge enter judgment?  

A: The farm owner, on the ground that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur applies. 
B: The farm owner, on the ground that one who allows dangerous material to escape to the property of another is
liable for the damage done. 
C: The government, on the ground that a case under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved. 
D: The government, on the ground that the engineering company is the proximate cause of the farm owner's damage. 

The explanation for the answer is: 

Answer C is correct. There has been no finding of negligence on the part of the government. The trier of fact found
that the government had selected a reliable manufacturer for the component part and could not have anticipated or
prevented the malfunction. The court should therefore enter judgment for the defendant, on the ground that a case
under the Federal Tort Claims Act has not been proved.  

 Answer A is incorrect. Res ipsa loquitur applies only to situations in which a lay jury could say that the accident would
not ordinarily occur in the absence of the defendant's negligence. This is not such a situation because it involves
complex machinery beyond the ordinary experience of a lay jury. Also, another potential defendant is involved, and
the findings of the jury are inconsistent with a conclusion that this is the sort of accident that would not ordinarily occur
in the absence of the government's negligence.  

 Answer B is incorrect. This is the principle of Rylands v. Fletcher, a case based on strict liability rather than on
negligence, and the Federal Tort Claims Act only permits actions based on negligence. See Rylands v. Fletcher,
[1868] All E.R. 1.  

Answer D is incorrect. The actions of more than one defendant may be considered the proximate cause of the harm to the plaintiff. Moreover, while proximate cause is necessary to establish liability in negligence, it is not sufficient. Given the findings of the trier of fact, the farm owner has not established breach of a duty by the government. 
