Page 167

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1225 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

A state constitution provides that in every criminal trial "the accused shall have the right to confront all
witnesses against him face to face." A defendant was convicted in state court of child abuse based on
testimony from a six-year-old child. The child testified while she was seated behind one-way glass, which
allowed the defendant to see the child but did not allow the child to see the defendant. The defendant
appealed to the state supreme court claiming that the inability of the witness to see the defendant while she
testified violated both the United States Constitution and the state constitution. Without addressing the federal
constitutional issue, the state supreme court reversed the defendant's conviction and ordered a new trial. The
state supreme court held that "the constitution of this state is clear, and it requires that while testifying in a
criminal trial, a witness must be able to see the defendant." The state petitioned the United States Supreme
Court for a writ of certiorari. 

On which ground should the United States Supreme Court DENY the state's petition? 

A: A state may not seek appellate review in the United States Supreme Court of the reversal of a criminal
conviction by its own supreme court.
B: The decision of the state supreme court was based on an adequate and independent state ground.
C: The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution does not require that a witness against a criminal
defendant be able to see the defendant while the witness testifies.
D: The state supreme court's decision requires a new trial, and therefore it is not a final judgment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The Supreme Court may not review a judgment by the highest court of a state if that
judgment is supported entirely by state law and is wholly independent of the interpretation and application of
federal law. In this case, although the defendant claimed a violation of the Sixth Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution, the state supreme court based its decision entirely on the state constitution without addressing
the federal constitutional issue. 

Answer A is incorrect. The Supreme Court may review a judgment of the highest court of a state if the state
court's decision turns on a question arising under federal law. The reason the Supreme Court will deny the
petition for certiorari is that the state supreme court based its decision entirely on state law. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Supreme Court would not reach the merits of the defendant's Sixth Amendment
claim. As explained above, the Supreme Court may not review a judgment by the highest court of a state if that
judgment is supported entirely by state law and is wholly independent of the interpretation and application of
federal law. 

Answer D is incorrect. Although the Supreme Court may only review final judgments and decrees from the
highest state courts, this judgment qualifies because it finally settled the confrontation issue. That issue would
not arise again on re-trial, and thus, the present petition provided the U.S. Supreme Court its only opportunity
to review the confrontation issue. The reason the Supreme Court will deny the petition for certiorari is that the
state supreme court based its decision entirely on state law.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 168

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1233 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Several public high school students asked the superintendent of the public school district whether the minister
of a local church could deliver an interdenominational prayer at their graduation ceremony in the school
auditorium. None of the students or their guests at graduation would be required to pray while the minister
delivered the prayer. 

Would the minister's delivery of such a prayer at the public high school graduation be constitutional? 

A: No, because it would be an unconstitutional establishment of religion.
B: No, because it would deny attendees who are not members of the minister's denomination the right to freely
exercise their religion.
C: Yes, because none of the students or their guests would be required to pray at the graduation ceremony.
D: Yes, because the idea for the prayer originated with the students and not with school officials.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Prayer and Bible readings in public schools violate the Establishment Clause. It does not
matter whether participation is voluntary or involuntary. The Supreme Court has held that officially sponsored
prayers as part of public high school commencement ceremonies, like the prayer at issue in this case, violate
the establishment clause of the First Amendment. 

Answer B is incorrect. This question does not implicate the free exercise clause of the First Amendment
because there is no state action here that restricts the religious beliefs or practices of those attending the
commencement ceremony. Instead, the offering of the prayer as part of a public high school commencement
ceremony constitutes the kind of official sponsorship of religious practice that violates the establishment clause
of the First Amendment. 

Answer C is incorrect. As explained above, the Supreme Court has held that officially sponsored prayers as
part of public high school commencement ceremonies violate the establishment clause of the First
Amendment even if the prayer at issue, like the one in this case, is voluntary in the sense that no one is
compelled to pray. 

Answer D is incorrect. The Supreme Court has held that officially sponsored prayers at activities of public
elementary and secondary schools, like the prayer at issue in this case, violate the establishment clause of the
First Amendment even if the idea for the prayer originates with the students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 169

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1236 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

Congress passed a statute directing the United States Forest Service, a federal agency, to issue regulations to
control campfires on federal public lands and to establish a schedule of penalties for those who violate the new
regulations. The statute provided that the Forest Service regulations should "reduce, to the maximum extent
feasible, all potential hazards that arise from campfires on Forest Service lands." The Forest Service issued
the regulations and the schedule of penalties directed by Congress. The regulations include a rule that
provides for the doubling of the fine for any negligent or prohibited use of fire if the user is intoxicated by
alcohol or drugs. 

Which of the following is the best argument for sustaining the constitutionality of the Forest Service's rule
providing for the fines? 

A: The executive branch of government, of which the Forest Service is part, has inherent rule-making authority
over public lands.
B: The rule is issued pursuant to a valid exercise of Congress's power to delegate rule-making authority to
federal agencies.
C: The rule is justified by a compelling governmental interest in safeguarding forest resources.
D: The rule relates directly to law enforcement, which is an executive rather than legislative function, and
hence it does not need specific congressional authorization.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Congress may delegate rule-making authority to federal agencies through statutes that
provide an intelligible principle governing the exercise of that authority. The Supreme Court has been very
deferential in applying the intelligible principle requirement, and the statute's provision of authority to the Forest
Service to issue regulations controlling campfires and establishing a penalty schedule likely satisfies the
requirement. 

Answer A is incorrect. The executive branch does not have inherent rule-making authority over public lands.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 17 gives Congress power to provide for the regulation of activity on such lands. The
executive's rule-making authority over public lands is limited to that which is provided by Congress. In this
case, it is Congress's proper delegation of rule-making authority to the Forest Service to issue campfire
regulations and penalties that best support the Service's rule. 

Answer C is incorrect. The compelling nature of the government's regulatory interest is neither necessary nor
sufficient to justify the Forest Service's regulation. The constitutional requirement is that the regulation be
pursuant to a valid act of Congress. In this case, it is Congress's proper delegation of rule-making authority to
the Forest Service to issue campfire regulations and penalties that best support the Service's rule. 

Answer D is incorrect. Although law enforcement is an executive function, the constitutional exercise of that
function requires that the executive act pursuant to congressional authorization provided by law. In this case, it
is Congress's proper delegation of rule-making authority to the Forest Service to issue campfire regulations
and penalties that best support the Service's rule.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 170

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1241 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A city zoning ordinance requires anyone who proposes to operate a group home to obtain a special use permit
from the city zoning board. The zoning ordinance defines a group home as a residence in which four or more
unrelated adults reside. An individual applied for a special use permit to operate a group home for convicts
during their transition from serving prison sentences to their release on parole. Although the proposed group
home met all of the requirements for the special use permit, the zoning board denied the individual's
application because of the nature of the proposed use. The individual sued the zoning board seeking
declaratory and injunctive relief on constitutional grounds. 

Which of the following best states the appropriate burden of persuasion in this action? 

A: Because housing is a fundamental right, the zoning board must demonstrate that denial of the permit is
necessary to serve a compelling state interest.
B: Because the zoning board's action has the effect of discriminating against a quasi-suspect class in regard
to a basic subsistence right, the zoning board must demonstrate that the denial of the permit is substantially
related to an important state interest.
C: Because the zoning board's action invidiously discriminates against a suspect class, the zoning board must
demonstrate that denial of the permit is necessary to serve a compelling state interest.
D: Because the zoning board's action is in the nature of an economic or social welfare regulation, the
individual seeking the permit must demonstrate that the denial of the permit is not rationally related to a
legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The zoning board's denial of the permit discriminated against neither a suspect class nor
a quasi-suspect class. Nor did it unduly burden the exercise of a fundamental right. The denial therefore
triggers rational basis scrutiny. 

Answer A is incorrect. The Supreme Court has not held that housing is a fundamental right. Therefore, the
zoning board's denial of the permit does not trigger strict scrutiny on that basis. The zoning board's denial of
the permit discriminated against neither a suspect class nor a quasi-suspect class. Nor did it unduly burden the
exercise of a fundamental right. The denial therefore triggers rational basis scrutiny. 

Answer B is incorrect. The Supreme Court has not held that convicts constitute a quasi-suspect class.
Therefore, the zoning board's denial of the permit does not trigger intermediate scrutiny on that basis. The
zoning board's denial of the permit discriminated against neither a suspect class nor a quasi-suspect class.
Nor did it unduly burden the exercise of a fundamental right. The denial therefore triggers rational basis
scrutiny. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Supreme Court has not held that convicts constitute a suspect class. Therefore, the
zoning board's denial of the permit does not trigger strict scrutiny on that basis. The zoning board's denial of
the permit discriminated against neither a suspect class nor a quasi-suspect class. Nor did it unduly burden the
exercise of a fundamental right. The denial therefore triggers rational basis scrutiny.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 171

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1246 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A purchaser bought land in the mountain foothills just outside a resort town and planned to build a housing
development there. Soon thereafter, the county in which the land was located unexpectedly adopted a
regulation that, for the first time, prohibited all construction in several foothill and mountain areas, including the
area of the purchaser's property. The purpose of the county's regulation was "to conserve for future
generations the unique natural wildlife and plant habitats" in the mountain areas. Since the adoption of the
regulation, the purchaser has been unable to lease or sell the property at any price. Several realtors have
advised the purchaser that the property is now worthless. The purchaser sued the county, claiming that the
regulation has taken the purchaser's property and that the county therefore owes the purchaser just
compensation. 

Is the court likely to rule in favor of the purchaser? 

A: No, because the county did not take title to the property from the purchaser.
B: No, because the regulation has not caused or authorized any uninvited physical invasion or intrusion onto
the property.
C: Yes, because the conservation objective of the county ordinance is not sufficiently compelling to justify the
substantial diminution in the property value.
D: Yes, because the effect of the county's regulation is to deny the purchaser's investment-backed expectation
and essentially all economically beneficial use of the property.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A government regulation that eliminates the investment-backed expectation and
economic value of an individual's property is a taking within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to
the county by the Fourteenth Amendment. Because the regulation has this effect, it constitutes a taking of the
purchaser's property, for which the county must pay just compensation. Because the county did not
compensate the purchaser for the land, the county has violated the takings clause. 

Answer A is incorrect. The government's acquisition of property is sufficient but not necessary to establish a
taking within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to the county by the Fourteenth Amendment. 

Answer B is incorrect. Physical invasion or intrusion of property is sufficient but not necessary to establish a
taking within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to the county by the Fourteenth Amendment. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Supreme Court does not use such a balancing test for determining whether a
governmental action is a taking within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, as applied to the county by the
Fourteenth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 172

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1251 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

A man bought an antique car from a car dealer in State A. Under State A law, a person who buys from such a
dealer acquires good title, even if the property was stolen from a previous owner. The man showed the car at
an antique car show in State B. A woman recognized the car as having been stolen from her. Under State B
law, a person whose property is stolen may reclaim it, even if the current possessor is an innocent purchaser.
The woman sued the man in a State B court to reclaim the car. The man defended, claiming that he had good
title under the law of State A. Nevertheless, the State B court applied State B law, and the woman prevailed.
The man did not appeal. The sheriff gave the woman possession of the car. Several months later, the woman
drove the car to State A. The man brought a new suit against the woman, claiming that the State B court in the
prior suit should have applied the State A law, which protected innocent purchasers. The woman appeared
and moved to dismiss the suit. 

What should the State A court do? 

A: Apply the federal law of sale of goods, because the car has moved in interstate commerce.
B: Apply the State A law, because the car is currently located in State A.
C: Dismiss the suit, because the State A court must give full faith and credit to the State B judgment.
D: Remove the case to federal court, because the car has moved in interstate commerce, and therefore the
case raises a federal question.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution (Article IV, Section 1) prohibits state
courts from re-litigating cases in which the courts of another state have rendered final judgment. Accordingly,
the court in State A should dismiss the suit. 

Answer A is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution (Article IV, Section 1) prevents the
court in State A from hearing the man's suit. The fact that the woman drove the car to State A has no effect on
the constitutional analysis of this problem. 

Answer B is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution (Article IV, Section 1) prevents the
court in State A from hearing the man's suit. The location of the car has no effect on the constitutional analysis
of this problem. 

Answer D is incorrect. The case arises under state law. The movement of the car across state lines does not
create a federal question. Moreover, the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution (Article IV, Section 1)
prevents the court in State A from hearing the man's suit.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 173

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1256 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state statute requires, without exception, that a woman under the age of 18 notify one of her parents at least
48 hours before having an abortion. A proper lawsuit challenges the constitutionality of this state statute. 

In that suit, should the court uphold the constitutionality of the statute? 

A: No, because a 48-hour waiting period is excessively long and, therefore, it imposes an undue burden on a
woman's right to procure an abortion.
B: No, because the state law does not provide a bypass procedure that would allow a court to authorize a
minor to obtain an abortion without prior parental notification under appropriate circumstances.
C: Yes, because parents' rights to supervise their minor daughter's health care outweighs any individual right
she may have.
D: Yes, because such parental notification and waiting-period requirements do not impose an undue burden
on a minor's right to procure an abortion.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The Supreme Court has held that parental notification requirements violate a minor's right
to an abortion unless there is a satisfactory judicial bypass procedure. Such a procedure must allow a court to
approve an abortion for a minor without parental notification if the court finds: (1) the minor is sufficiently
mature and informed to make an independent decision to obtain an abortion; or (2) the abortion would be in
the minor's best interest. Because no such bypass procedure is included in the statute at issue, the court will
hold the statute unconstitutional. Answer B is correct and answer D is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that the statute at issue is unconstitutional, but this answer misstates the basis
for this conclusion. The Supreme Court has held that a short waiting period does not constitute an undue
burden on a woman's right to an abortion. On the other hand, the Court has held that parental notification
requirements violate a minor's right to an abortion where, as in this case, there is not a satisfactory judicial
bypass procedure. 

Answer C is incorrect. The rights of parents to supervise the health care of their minor children do not always
prevail over the individual rights of their children. As explained above, the Supreme Court has held that
parental notification requirements violate a minor's right to an abortion unless there is a satisfactory judicial
bypass procedure, which is not included in the statute at issue. Accordingly, the court will hold the statute
unconstitutional.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 174

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1260 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A group of students at a state university's law school wished to debate the future of affirmative action in that
state and at that law school. For this debate they requested the use of a meeting room in the law school that is
available on a first-come, first-served basis for extracurricular student use. Speakers presenting all sides of the
issue were scheduled to participate. The law school administration refused to allow the use of any of its
meeting rooms for this purpose solely because it believed that "such a debate, even if balanced, would have a
negative effect on the morale of the law school community and might cause friction among the students that
would disrupt the institution's educational mission." 

Is the refusal of the law school administration to allow the use of its meeting room for this purpose
constitutional? 

A: No, because the law school administration cannot demonstrate that its action was necessary to vindicate a
compelling state interest.
B: No, because the law school administration cannot demonstrate that its action was rationally related to a
legitimate state interest.
C: Yes, because the law school administration's only concern was the adverse effect of such a discussion of
affirmative action on the immediate audience and the mission of the institution.
D: Yes, because the law students do not have a right to use a state-owned law school facility for a meeting
that is not organized and sponsored by the law school itself.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The law school's denial of the meeting room to the student group violates the speech
clause of the First Amendment. The meeting rooms are a limited public forum because the law school made
the rooms generally available for extracurricular student use. Because the meeting rooms are a limited public
forum, the law students had a First Amendment right to use a room for expressive activity consistent with their
purpose (i.e., extracurricular student use). Because the law school's denial of the room was based on the
content of the students' expression, the denial must be tested by strict scrutiny, which requires the law school
to prove that its denial was necessary to serve a compelling governmental interest. It is unusual for the courts
to uphold content-based speech restrictions at strict scrutiny, and the law school's concerns here are clearly
insufficient to meet that test. 

Answer B is incorrect. This answer correctly states that the law school's action was unconstitutional, but it
misstates the legal basis for that conclusion. Satisfying rational basis scrutiny is insufficient to justify the
school's denial of the meeting room to the student group. As explained above, the court will apply strict
scrutiny to evaluate the content-based restrictions. It is unusual for the courts to uphold content-based speech
restrictions at strict scrutiny, and the law school's concerns here are clearly insufficient to meet that test. 

Answers C and D are incorrect. The meeting rooms are a limited public forum because the law school made
the rooms generally available for extracurricular student use. Because the meeting rooms are a limited public
forum, the law students had a right under the speech clause of the First Amendment to use a room for
expressive activity consistent with their purpose (i.e., extracurricular student use). The law school's concerns
were based on feared effects stemming from the speech content of the debate (affirmative action). Because
the law school's denial of the room was based on the content of the student group's expression, the denial is a
presumptive violation of the speech clause of the First Amendment, and it must be tested by strict scrutiny. It is
unusual for the courts to uphold content-based speech restrictions at strict scrutiny, and the law school's
concerns here are clearly insufficient to meet that test.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 175

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1264 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

The president issued an executive order in an effort to encourage citizens to use the metric (Celsius) system of
temperatures. Section 1 of the executive order requires the United States Weather Bureau, a federal executive
agency, to state temperatures only in Celsius in all weather reports. Section 2 of the executive order requires
all privately owned federally licensed radio and television stations giving weather reports to report
temperatures only in Celsius. No federal statute is applicable. 

Is the president's executive order constitutional? 

A: Section 1 is constitutional, but Section 2 is not.
B: Section 2 is constitutional, but Section 1 is not.
C: Sections 1 and 2 are constitutional.
D: Sections 1 and 2 are unconstitutional.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Section 1 of the executive order is constitutional. The president, as the chief executive
officer of the U.S. government, has authority to direct the actions of federal executive agencies, so long as the
president's directives are not inconsistent with an act of Congress. (The facts state that there is no applicable
statute here.) Section 2 of the executive order is unconstitutional. At least as a general rule, the president does
not have authority to direct the actions of persons outside the executive branch unless the president's direction
is authorized by an act of Congress. There are no circumstances presented in the facts (such as a sudden
attack on the U.S.) that might justify an exception to this general rule. 

Answer B is incorrect. Section 2 of the executive order is unconstitutional. At least as a general rule, the
president does not have authority to direct the actions of persons outside the executive branch unless the
president's direction is authorized by an act of Congress. There are no circumstances presented in the facts
(such as a sudden attack on the U.S.) that might justify an exception to this general rule. Section 1 of the
executive order is constitutional. The president, as the chief executive officer of the U.S. government, has
authority to direct the actions of federal executive agencies, so long as the president's directives are not
inconsistent with an act of Congress. (The facts state that there is no applicable statute here.) 

Answers C and D are incorrect. As explained above, Section 1 of the executive order is constitutional, but
Section 2 of the executive order is unconstitutional. Thus, answer C is incorrect because Section 2 is
unconstitutional, and answer D is incorrect because Section 1 is constitutional.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 176

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1273 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

The childhood home of a former U.S. president is part of a national park located in a city. The National Park
Service entered into a contract with an independent antique collector to acquire items owned by residents of
the city during the president's lifetime. According to the contract, the collector purchases items and then sells
them to the Park Service at a price equal to the collector's cost plus a 10% commission. Purchases by antique
collectors are ordinarily subject to the sales tax of the state in which the city is located. The collector files suit
in state court to enjoin collection of the tax on these purchases, claiming that the sales tax is unconstitutional
as applied to them. 

Should the state court issue the injunction? 

A: No, because as the purchaser of these antiques, the collector rather than the federal government is liable
for the tax.
B: No, because the suit is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal courts.
C: Yes, because the federal government is contractually obligated to pay the amount of the sales tax when it
covers the collector's cost of these antiques.
D: Yes, because under the supremacy clause, the federal program to acquire these antiques preempts the
state sales tax on the purchase of these items.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The incidence of the state sales tax on the collector's purchases of antiques is on the
collector, who is independent of the National Park Service. 

Answer B is incorrect. This answer correctly states that the court should not issue the injunction, but it
misstates the legal basis for that conclusion. State courts generally have concurrent jurisdiction with federal
courts over cases arising under federal law, and no exception to that general rule is presented on these facts.
However, the incidence of the state sales tax on the collector's purchases of antiques is on the collector, who
is independent of the National Park Service. Accordingly, the court should not issue an injunction. 

Answer C is incorrect. The incidence of the state sales tax on the collector's purchases of antiques is on the
collector, who is independent of the National Park Service. The fact that the collector passes the cost of the tax
on to a federal agency when the collector sells an item to the agency does not change the incidence of the tax
on the collector's purchase. Accordingly, the court should not issue an injunction. 

Answer D is incorrect. There is no indication in the facts that the sales tax on the collector's purchases conflicts
with any federal law governing the Park Service's program. Moreover, the incidence of the state sales tax on
the collector's purchases of antiques is on the collector, who is independent of the National Park Service.
Accordingly, the court should not issue an injunction.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 177

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1280 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

A federal statute required the National Bureau of Standards to establish minimum quality standards for all beer
sold in the United States. The statute also provided that public proceedings must precede adoption of the
standards, and that once they were adopted, the standards would be subject to judicial review. No standards
have yet been adopted. Several officials of the National Bureau of Standards have indicated their personal
preference for beer produced by a special brewing process commonly referred to as pasteurization. However,
these officials have not indicated whether they intend to include a requirement for pasteurization in the
minimum beer quality standards to be adopted by the Bureau. A brewery that produces an unpasteurized beer
believes that its brewing process is as safe as pasteurization. The brewery is concerned that, after the
appropriate proceedings, the Bureau may adopt quality standards that will prohibit the sale of any
unpasteurized beer. As a result, the brewery sued in federal district court to enjoin the Bureau from adopting
any standards that would prohibit the sale of unpasteurized beer in this country. 

How should the district court dispose of the suit? 

A: Determine whether the Bureau could reasonably believe that pasteurization is the safest process by which
to brew beer, and if the Bureau could reasonably believe that, refuse to issue the injunction against the
Bureau.
B: Determine whether the process used by the brewery is as safe as pasteurization and, if it is, issue the
injunction against the Bureau.
C: Refuse to adjudicate the merits of the suit at this time and stay the action until the Bureau has actually
issued beer quality standards.
D: Refuse to adjudicate the merits of the suit, because it does not involve a justiciable case or controversy.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The federal courts lack power to entertain a suit that is not ripe for adjudication, because
such a suit does not present a "case" or "controversy" within the meaning of Article III, Section 2, Clause 1 of
the Constitution. The court should dismiss the suit because the Bureau has yet to announce the beer-quality
standards, and therefore the case is not ripe. The court may not maintain jurisdiction over the suit by issuing a
stay because it lacks the constitutional authority to retain control over the suit. Thus, answer D is correct, and
answers A, B, and C are incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.






Page 178

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1284 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

The United States Congress enacted a federal statute providing that any state may "require labeling to show
the state or other geographic origin of citrus fruit that is imported into the receiving state." Pursuant to the
federal statute, a state that produced large quantities of citrus fruit enacted a law requiring all citrus fruit
imported into the state to be stamped with a two-letter postal abbreviation signifying the state of the fruit's
origin. The law did not impose any such requirement for citrus fruit grown within the state. When it adopted the
law, the state legislature declared that its purpose was to reduce the risks of infection of local citrus crops by
itinerant diseases that have been found to attack citrus fruit. A national association of citrus growers sued to
have the state law declared unconstitutional. The association claims that the law is prohibited by the negative
implications of the commerce clause of the Constitution. 

Which of the following is the best argument in favor of the state's effort to have this lawsuit dismissed? 

A: Any burden on interstate commerce imposed by the state law is outweighed by a legitimate state interest.
B: Congress has the authority to authorize specified state regulations that would otherwise be prohibited by
the negative implications of the commerce clause, and it has done so in this situation.
C: The state law does not discriminate against out-of-state citrus growers or producers.
D: The state law furthers a legitimate state interest, the burden it imposes on interstate commerce is only
incidental, and the state's interest cannot be satisfied by other means that are less burdensome to interstate
commerce.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Congress may use its commerce power (Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution)
to permit states to discriminate against interstate commerce. The federal statute here explicitly authorizes
states to enact state-of-origin labeling requirements on imported citrus fruit. 

Answer A is incorrect. This balancing test is appropriate only if: (1) Congress has not enacted a statute
authorizing the state regulation at issue, and (2) the state law does not discriminate against interstate
commerce. In this case, however, Congress has authorized state-of-origin labeling requirements on imported
citrus fruit and the state law is discriminatory. The best argument in this case would rely on Congress's
express authorization of state-of-origin labeling requirements on imported citrus fruit. 

Answer C is incorrect. The state law discriminates against out-of-state citrus growers because the law requires
that all citrus fruit "imported" into the state be stamped with the state of origin, while the law imposes no such
requirement on citrus fruit grown within the state. The best argument in this case would be that Congress has
used its commerce power (Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution) to explicitly authorize the states to
enact state-of-origin labeling requirements on imported citrus fruit. 

Answer D is incorrect. This argument paraphrases the burden on the state to justify a law that discriminates
against interstate commerce. That burden is a heavy one, however, and states only rarely succeed in justifying
discriminatory commercial regulations. The far better argument for the state is that the federal statute here
expressly authorizes states to enact state-of-origin labeling requirements on imported citrus fruit.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 179

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1295 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A man intensely disliked his neighbors, who were of a different race. One night, intending to frighten his
neighbors, he spray-painted their house with racial epithets and threats that they would be lynched. The man
was arrested and prosecuted under a state law providing that "any person who threatens violence against
another person with the intent to cause that person to fear for his or her life or safety may be imprisoned for up
to five years." In defense, the man claimed that he did not intend to lynch his neighbors, but only to scare them
so that they would move away. 

Can the man constitutionally be convicted under this law? 

A: No, because he was only communicating his views and had not commenced any overt action against the
neighbors.
B: Yes, because he was engaged in trespass when he painted the words on his neighbors' house.
C: Yes, because his communication was a threat by which he intended to intimidate his neighbors.
D: Yes, because his communication was racially motivated and thus violated the protections of the Thirteenth
Amendment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The man communicated a threat with the intent to intimidate the recipient. The Supreme
Court has held that such threats are not protected by the speech clause of the First Amendment. Because
these threats are not constitutionally protected, states may outlaw them regardless of whether the speaker
acts on the threat. Thus, answer C is correct, and answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. This answer correctly states that the man may be convicted, but it misstates the legal
basis for that conclusion. The state may not punish an individual for the content of his speech simply because
he engages in unlawful conduct. The speech restriction itself must be consistent with the speech clause of the
First Amendment. In this case, the man may be convicted because the Supreme Court has held that a threat
communicated with the intent to intimidate the recipient, like the communication in this case, is not
constitutionally protected speech. 

Answer D is incorrect. The Supreme Court has not held racially motivated threats to violate the Thirteenth
Amendment's prohibition of involuntary servitude. The reason the man may be convicted is that the Supreme
Court has held that a threat communicated with the intent to intimidate the recipient, like the communication in
this case, is not constitutionally protected speech.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 180

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1308 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

With the advice and consent of the Senate, the President entered into a self-executing treaty with a foreign
country. The treaty provided that citizens of both nations were required to pay whatever torts damages were
awarded against them by a court of either nation. 

A man and a woman who were U.S. citizens and residents of the same state were traveling separately in the
foreign country when their cars collided. The foreign court awarded the woman a judgment for $500,000 in
damages for her injuries from the accident. 

In federal district court in their home state, the woman filed suit against the man to enforce the judgment. The
man filed a motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. 

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss? 

A: Yes, because the citizenship of the parties is not diverse.
B: Yes, because the traffic accident was a noncommercial transaction outside interstate commerce.
C: No, because the case falls within the federal question jurisdiction of the court.
D: No, because the treaty power is plenary and not subject to judicial review.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The court has federal question jurisdiction over the case because it "arises under" a treaty
of the United States, as provided for by Article III of the Constitution. The self-executing treaty is valid because
it was entered into by the President and a foreign country with the advice and consent of the Senate. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that the district court lacks diversity jurisdiction because the parties are citizens
of the same state. But the court nevertheless has federal question jurisdiction over the case because it "arises
under" a treaty of the United States, as provided for by Article III of the Constitution. 

Answer B is incorrect. The relationship of a matter to interstate commerce is relevant to the legislative power of
Congress pursuant to Article I, but not to the jurisdiction of federal courts pursuant to Article III. The court has
federal question jurisdiction over the case because it "arises under" a treaty of the United States, as provided
for by Article III of the Constitution. 

Answer D is incorrect. The scope of the President's power to enter into treaties with the advice and consent of
the Senate is quite broad, but it is irrelevant to this item, which concerns the power of a federal court to hear a
case. The court has federal question jurisdiction over the case because it "arises under" a treaty of the United
States, as provided for by Article III of the Constitution.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 181

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1314 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state legislature received complaints from accident victims who, in the days immediately following their
accidents, had received unwelcome and occasionally misleading telephone calls on behalf of medical care
providers. The callers warned of the risks of not obtaining prompt medical evaluation to detect injuries resulting
from accidents and offered free examinations to determine whether the victims had suffered any injuries. 

In response to these complaints, the legislature enacted a law prohibiting medical care providers from soliciting
any accident victim by telephone within 30 days of his or her accident. 

Which of the following is the most useful argument for the state to use in defending the constitutionality of the
law? 

A: Because the commercial speech that is the subject of this law includes some speech that is misleading, the
First Amendment does not limit the power of the state to regulate that speech.
B: Because the law regulates only commercial speech, the state need only demonstrate that the restriction is
rationally related to achieving the state's legitimate interests in protecting the privacy of accident victims and in
regulating the medical profession.
C: The state has substantial interests in protecting the privacy of accident victims and in regulating the practice
of medical care providers, and the law is narrowly tailored to achieve the state's objectives.
D: The law is a reasonable time, place, and manner regulation.

The explanation for the answer is:

The law regulates only commercial speech, and the First Amendment invalidates any law regulating such
speech unless the law is narrowly tailored to serve a substantial government interest. The U.S. Supreme Court
has held that a law barring the solicitation of accident victims within a limited time period following an accident
was narrowly tailored to serve the state's substantial interest in protecting the privacy of the victims. Thus,
Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. Although the law regulates only commercial speech and the First Amendment does not
protect commercial speech that is misleading, the facts state that the phone calls only "occasionally" were
misleading. The First Amendment protects truthful commercial speech subject to the law. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the law regulates only commercial speech, the First Amendment invalidates
any law regulating such speech unless the law is narrowly tailored to serve a substantial government interest.
The rational relationship between the restrictions imposed by the law and a legitimate state interest is not
sufficient to satisfy this standard. 

Answer D is incorrect. The law at issue is not a time, place, and manner regulation because it restricts speech
based on its content. Because the law is a content-based regulation of commercial speech, it is valid only if it
is narrowly tailored to serve a substantial government interest.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 182

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1321 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A report released by a Senate investigating committee named three U.S. citizens as helping to organize
support for terrorist activities. All three were employed by the U.S. government as park rangers. 

Congress enacted a statute naming the three individuals identified in the report and providing that they could
not hold any position of employment with the federal government. 

Which of the following constitutional provisions provides the best means for challenging the constitutionality of
the statute? 

A: The bill of attainder clause.
B: The due process clause.
C: The ex post facto clause.
D: The takings clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A bill of attainder is a legislative act that singles out particular individuals for punishment
without a trial; bills of attainder are explicitly prohibited by the Constitution. The U.S. Supreme Court held, in
United States v. Lovett, 328 U.S. 303 (1946), that a statute barring particular individuals from government
employment qualified as punishment within the meaning of the constitutional provision prohibiting bills of
attainder. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although due process entitles an individual to notice and hearing before being deprived
of an interest in liberty or property, these requirements do not apply to legislative acts. As explained above, it is
the bill of attainder clause that imposes these requirements on Congress. 

Answer C is incorrect. Although the statute at issue punishes individuals for past conduct, the ex post facto
clause applies only to criminal or penal measures. The statute at issue does not impose a criminal penalty on
the targeted individuals. It simply bars them from government employment. The U.S. Supreme Court held in
United States v. Lovett, 328 U.S. 303 (1946) that a statute barring particular individuals from government
employment qualified as punishment within the meaning of the constitutional provision prohibiting bills of
attainder. 

Answer D is incorrect. The takings clause prohibits the government from taking an individual's property without
paying just compensation. The statute at issue does not take property owned by the targeted individuals. It
simply bars the individuals from government employment. The U.S. Supreme Court held, in United States v.
Lovett, 328 U.S. 303 (1946), that a statute barring particular individuals from government employment qualified
as punishment within the meaning of the constitutional provision prohibiting bills of attainder.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 183

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1328 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Several sites on a mountain within federal public lands are regarded as sacred to a group that for years has
gathered there to perform religious ceremonies. The United States Forest Service recently issued a permit to a
private developer to construct a ski facility in an area that includes the sites that are sacred to the group. 

The group filed suit in federal district court against the Forest Service to force cancellation of the permit. The
group claimed solely that the permit violated its First Amendment right to the free exercise of religion. The
Forest Service conceded that the group's religious beliefs were sincere and that the ski facility would adversely
affect the group's religious practices. 

In order to prevail in its First Amendment claim, what must the group show? 

A: Construction of the ski facility will have a discriminatory impact on the group's religious practices in relation
to the practices of other religious groups.
B: The burden on the group's religious practices imposed by construction of the ski facility outweighs the
government's interest in allowing the facility.
C: The Forest Service can achieve its legitimate interest in allowing the ski facility by issuing a permit that is
less burdensome on the group's religious practices.
D: The permit issued by the Forest Service is aimed at suppressing the religious practices of the group.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. In order to prevail in its First Amendment claim, the challenger must show that the
government action targeted the religious practice in question. By doing so, the court will exercise strict scrutiny
over the government's actions. A court typically invalidates government action when it applies strict scrutiny.
Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The discriminatory impact of government action on a religious practice is insufficient to
establish a violation of the free exercise clause. In order to establish a free exercise violation, the challenger
must show that the government action targeted the religious practice in question. 

Answer B is incorrect. A simple benefit-burden balance of the government action at issue does not establish a
violation of the free exercise clause. In order to establish a free exercise violation, the challenger must show
that the government action targeted the religious practice in question. 

Answer C is incorrect. The government is required to select the least burdensome alternative only if a court
exercises strict scrutiny to evaluate the action at issue. The court will exercise strict scrutiny only if the
challenger can show that the government action targeted the religious practice in question.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 184

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1337 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100 cars had to ensure that at least 10
percent of those cars were electric-powered. 

A city filed suit in federal district court against the federal official who enforced this requirement. The city
sought an injunction prohibiting enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional. 

Should the court grant the injunction? 

A: No, because the statute is valid under the commerce clause and does not violate the Tenth Amendment.
B: No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot be sued without its explicit
consent.
C: Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under the Tenth Amendment.
D: Yes, because as applied to state and local governments, the statute exceeds Congress's power under the
commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The statute satisfies the commerce clause because it regulates a commercial activity (the
purchase of cars) that, when aggregated, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. The statute does
not violate the Tenth Amendment as applied to the city because it does not commandeer the city to regulate
the conduct of others pursuant to congressional direction. Instead, it directly regulates the city on the same
terms as other entities engaged in the same conduct, which is permissible under the Tenth Amendment. Thus,
Answer A is correct and Answer D is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the federal government does enjoy sovereign immunity from suit, this immunity
applies only to suits seeking compensatory monetary relief and not to suits seeking only prospective injunctive
relief. The suit at issue seeks only prospective injunctive relief. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statute does not violate the Tenth Amendment as applied to the city because it
does not commandeer the city to regulate the conduct of others pursuant to congressional direction. Instead, it
directly regulates the city's conduct on the same terms as other entities engaged in the same conduct, which is
permissible under the Tenth Amendment. The statute satisfies the commerce clause because it regulates a
commercial activity (the purchase of cars) that, when aggregated, has a substantial effect on interstate
commerce.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 185

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1341 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

The United States government demonstrated that terrorist attacks involving commercial airliners were
perpetrated exclusively by individuals of one particular race. In response, Congress enacted a statute
imposing stringent new airport and airline security measures only on individuals of that race seeking to board
airplanes in the United States. 

Which of the following provides the best ground for challenging the constitutionality of this statute? 

A: The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.
B: The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
C: The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.
D: The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held, in Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U.S. 497 (1954), that the equal
protection principles of the Fourteenth Amendment apply to actions of the federal government through the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The new security measures presumptively violate equal protection
because they contain a racial classification: the new security measures apply only to individuals of one race. A
court therefore would uphold the new security measures only if the government could prove that they are
necessary to serve a compelling public interest, a standard that the government typically cannot meet. Thus,
Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The commerce clause grants Congress plenary power to regulate the safety of air travel
because airlines are instrumentalities of interstate commerce. 

Answer C is incorrect. The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV prohibits actions by states that
improperly discriminate against the citizens of other states. The clause does not apply to actions of the federal
government. 

Answer D is incorrect. The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits states from
depriving individuals of the privileges or immunities of United States citizenship. The U.S. Supreme Court has
never applied the clause to actions of the federal government.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 186

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1343 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

Congressional committees heard testimony from present and former holders of licenses issued by state
vocational licensing boards. According to the testimony, the boards had unfairly manipulated their disciplinary
proceedings in order to revoke the licenses of some license holders as a means of protecting favored
licensees from competition. 

In response, Congress enacted a statute prescribing detailed procedural requirements for the disciplinary
proceedings of all state vocational licensing boards. For example, the statute required the state boards to
provide licensees with adequate notice and opportunity for an adjudicatory hearing in all disciplinary
proceedings. The statute also prescribed criteria for the membership of all state vocational licensing boards
that were designed to ensure that the boards were likely to be neutral. 

Which of the following provides the best source of authority for this federal statute? 

A: Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
B: The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.
C: The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV, Section 2.
D: The takings clause of the Fifth Amendment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment gives Congress the power to enforce the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment by appropriate legislation. Congressional legislation is appropriate
within the meaning of Section 5 if (1) it seeks to prevent or remedy actions by state or local governments that
violate provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, and (2) its requirements are congruent with and proportional
to the Fourteenth Amendment violations it addresses. In this case, the legislation seeks to prevent actions by
state agencies that violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the requirements of the
legislation appear to be proportional to and congruent with the Fourteenth Amendment violations Congress
has sought to prevent. 

Answer B is incorrect. Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution gives Congress the power to spend for the
general welfare, but this power is inapplicable because the legislation at issue is not a spending measure. 

Answer C is incorrect. The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV, Section 2 prohibits actions by states
that improperly discriminate against the citizens of other states. The clause does not apply to actions of the
federal government. 

Answer D is incorrect. The takings clause of the Fifth Amendment prohibits the federal government from taking
property from an individual without paying fair compensation for the property taken. The takings clause does
not apply because this legislation does not authorize the taking of anyone's property.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 187

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1347 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A state legislature conducted an investigation into a series of fatal accidents in the state involving commercial
trucks with trailer exteriors made of polished aluminum. The investigation revealed that the sun's glare off of
these trucks blinded the drivers of other vehicles. The state's legislature then enacted a law prohibiting
commercial trucks with polished aluminum trailer exteriors from traveling on the state's highways. 

Litigation over the state law resulted in a final decision by the United States Supreme Court that the law
impermissibly burdened interstate commerce and, therefore, was unconstitutional. Congress later enacted a
statute permitting any state to enact a law regulating the degree of light reflectiveness of the exteriors of
commercial trucks using the state's highways. 

Is this federal statute constitutional? 

A: No, because the U.S. Supreme Court has already determined that state laws of this type impermissibly
burden interstate commerce.
B: No, because Article III vests the judicial power in the federal courts, the essence of judicial power is the
ability to render a final judgment, and this statute overrules a final judgment of the federal Supreme Court.
C: Yes, because Article I, Section 8 grants Congress authority to enact statutes authorizing states to impose
burdens on interstate commerce that would otherwise be prohibited.
D: Yes, because Article I, Section 8 grants Congress authority to enact statutes for the general welfare, and
Congress could reasonably believe that state laws regulating the light reflectiveness of the exteriors of trucks
promote the general welfare.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The usual rule prohibiting Congress from enacting a statute overruling a constitutional
decision of the U.S. Supreme Court does not apply to enactments based on Congress's commerce power
because the Constitution gives Congress plenary authority to regulate conduct that is within the commerce
power. Thus, Answer A is incorrect. The congressional statute permitting any state to regulate the degree of
light reflectiveness of the exteriors of commercial trucks using the state's highways is a valid enactment of the
commerce power because commercial trucks are instrumentalities of interstate commerce. Thus, Answer C is
correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. The congressional statute permitting any state to regulate the degree of light
reflectiveness of the exteriors of trucks using the state's highways did not overrule the U.S. Supreme Court's
judgment. Thus, for example, if the Court had awarded damages or attorney's fees to the prevailing party,
those awards would remain in effect after Congress enacted the statute. Congress's statute simply changed
the law for future cases, which is an action that is within the legislative power of Congress and which does not
encroach on the Court's judicial power to decide cases within its jurisdiction. 

Answer D is incorrect. While the Constitution gives Congress the power to appropriate money to promote the
general welfare of the United States, it does not give Congress the power generally to enact statutes
promoting the general welfare.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 188

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1352 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A city passed an ordinance requiring individuals to obtain a license in order to care for children under the age
of 12 for pay. To receive such a license, the ordinance required the individuals to complete 10 hours of
instruction in child care, undergo a background check, and pay a $100 fee. The ordinance affected women
disproportionately to men, because female babysitters far outnumbered male babysitters in the city. City
officials who promoted the measure said that the certification process would ensure that babysitters were
adequately regulated for the health and safety of the city's children. 

Is the ordinance constitutional? 

A: No, because it has a disparate impact on women without a showing that the ordinance is necessary to
advance a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it infringes on the freedom of contract without a compelling government interest.
C: Yes, because any burden it imposes is clearly outweighed by an important government objective.
D: Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate government objective.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The disparate impact of a law on women, without more, does not constitute sex
discrimination and thus is insufficient by itself to trigger heightened judicial scrutiny of the constitutionality of
the law. In order for the ordinance to be considered discriminatory against women, a court must find that the
city adopted the ordinance because it would have a disparate impact on women, and there are no facts upon
which to base such a finding. The ordinance is constitutional because it is rationally related to a legitimate
government objective. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. As explained above, the disparate impact of a law on women, without more, does not
constitute sex discrimination, and thus is insufficient by itself to trigger heightened judicial scrutiny of the
constitutionality of the law. Even if a court would find (incorrectly) that the ordinance discriminates against
women, the appropriate standard of review would require the court to examine whether the ordinance is
substantially related to an important government interest, and not whether the ordinance is necessary to
advance a compelling government interest. The ordinance is constitutional because it is rationally related to a
legitimate government objective. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the ordinance infringes on the freedom of babysitters to contract for their
services, strict judicial scrutiny of the constitutionality of the ordinance is inappropriate because the freedom of
contract is not a fundamental right. The ordinance is constitutional because it is rationally related to a
legitimate government objective. 

Answer C is incorrect. The appropriate standard of judicial review is not whether the burdens imposed by the
ordinance outweigh the benefits of the ordinance. The ordinance is constitutional because it is rationally
related to a legitimate government objective.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 189

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1355 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Residents of a city complained that brightly colored signs detracted from the character of the city's historic
district and distracted motorists trying to navigate its narrow streets. In response, the city council enacted an
ordinance requiring any "sign or visual display" visible on the streets of the historic district to be black and
white and to be no more than four feet long or wide. 

A political party wanted to hang a six-foot-long red, white, and blue political banner in front of a building in the
historic district. The party filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the sign ordinance as applied to the
display of its banner. 

Which of the following would be the most useful argument for the political party? 

A: The ordinance is not the least restrictive means of promoting a compelling government interest.
B: The ordinance is not narrowly tailored to an important government interest, nor does it leave open
alternative channels of communication.
C: The ordinance imposes a prior restraint on political expression.
D: The ordinance effectively favors some categories of speech over others.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The political party's best argument is that the ordinance is not narrowly tailored to an
important government interest, nor does it leave open alternative channels of communication. Because the
ordinance is a content-neutral restriction of expression, it must satisfy intermediate scrutiny. Intermediate
scrutiny requires the city to prove that the ordinance is narrowly tailored to an important government interest
and that it leaves open alternative channels of communication. Thus, Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The city must prove that the ordinance is the least restrictive means of promoting a
compelling government interest only if the court exercises strict scrutiny. The city's ordinance does not trigger
strict scrutiny because it restricts signs regardless of their content. Because the ordinance is a content-neutral
restriction of expression, it must satisfy only intermediate scrutiny, as explained above. 

Answer C is incorrect. The ordinance does not impose a prior restraint because it does not require the
permission of a government official before signs may be posted. Because the ordinance is a content-neutral
restriction of expression, it must satisfy only intermediate scrutiny, as explained above. 

Answer D is incorrect. The text of the city's ordinance restricts signs regardless of their content, and there are
no facts to support a claim that the ordinance effectively operates as a content-based restriction on
expression. Moreover, even if the ordinance effectively favors some categories of speech over others, this fact
by itself would be insufficient to cause a court to invalidate the ordinance. Because the ordinance is a
content-neutral restriction of expression, it must satisfy only intermediate scrutiny, as explained above.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 190

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1366 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In one state, certain kinds of advanced diagnostic medical technology were located only in hospitals, where
they provided a major source of revenue. In many other states, such technology was also available at
"diagnostic centers" that were not affiliated with hospitals. 

A group of physicians announced its plan to immediately open in the state a diagnostic center that would not
be affiliated with a hospital. The state hospital association argued to the state legislature that only hospitals
could reliably handle advanced medical technologies. The legislature then enacted a law prohibiting the
operation in the state of diagnostic centers that were not affiliated with hospitals. 

The group of physicians filed suit challenging the constitutionality of the state law. 

What action should the court take? 

A: Uphold the law, because the provision of medical services is traditionally a matter of legitimate local
concern that states have unreviewable authority to regulate.
B: Uphold the law, because the legislature could rationally believe that diagnostic centers not affiliated with
hospitals would be less reliable than hospitals.
C: Invalidate the law, because it imposes an undue burden on access to medical services in the state.
D: Dismiss the suit without reaching the merits, because the suit is not ripe.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The law does not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny because it neither classifies
regulatory subjects on a constitutionally suspect basis nor unduly burdens the exercise of a fundamental right.
The appropriate constitutional standard of review therefore is whether the law is rationally related to a
legitimate government interest. The apparent legislative judgment that diagnostic centers not affiliated with
hospitals would be less reliable than hospitals is rational, regardless of whether it is in fact correct. Thus,
Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. Even if the provision of medical services is traditionally a matter of legitimate local
concern, states do not have unreviewable authority to regulate it. State regulation is always subject to
constitutional limits. As explained above, the law would be subject to rational basis review. 

Answer C is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has not held access to medical services to be a fundamental
right. Thus, even if the law unduly burdens such access, heightened judicial scrutiny would not be appropriate.
As explained above, the law would be subject to rational basis review. 

Answer D is incorrect. The suit is ripe because the facts state that the physicians' group has immediate plans
to open a diagnostic center in the state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 191

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1371 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

In order to reduce the federal deficit, Congress enacted a statute imposing a five percent national retail sales
tax. The tax was levied upon all retail sales in the United States and applied equally to the sales of all kinds of
goods. 

Is this tax constitutional as applied to retail sales of newspapers? 

A: Yes, because it is within Congress's power to tax.
B: Yes, because the tax is necessary to serve the compelling interest of balancing the federal budget.
C: No, because retail sales taxes are within the taxing power of the states.
D: No, because the imposition of a tax on the sale of newspapers violates the freedom of the press.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The tax clause of Article I, Section 8 gives Congress plenary power to raise revenue
through taxes. Application of the tax to the sale of newspapers does not violate the freedom of the press
protected by the First Amendment and trigger strict scrutiny because the tax is generally applicable and in no
way targets press operations. Thus, Answer A is correct, and Answers B and D are incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Constitution does not reserve retail sales taxes for the states. The tax clause of
Article I, Section 8 gives Congress plenary power to raise revenue through taxes.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.







Page 192

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1379 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

In response to the need for additional toxic waste landfills in a state, the state's legislature enacted a law
authorizing a state agency to establish five new state-owned and state-operated toxic waste landfills. The law
provided that the agency would decide the locations and sizes of the landfills after an investigation of all
potential sites and a determination that the particular sites chosen would not endanger public health and would
be consistent with the public welfare. 

A community in the state was scheduled for inspection by the agency as a potential toxic waste landfill site.
Because the community's residents obtained most of their drinking water from an aquifer that ran under the
entire community, a citizens' group, made up of residents of that community, sued the appropriate officials of
the agency in federal court. The group sought a declaratory judgment that the selection of the community as
the site of a toxic waste landfill would be unconstitutional and an injunction preventing the agency from
selecting the community as a site for such a landfill. The agency officials moved to dismiss. 

Which of the following is the most appropriate basis for the court to dismiss this suit? 

A: The case presents a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The interest of the state in obtaining suitable sites for toxic waste landfills is sufficiently compelling to justify
the selection of the community as a location for such a facility.
C: The Eleventh Amendment bars suits of this kind in the federal courts.
D: The case is not ripe for a decision on the merits.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The case is not ripe for adjudication because currently there is no harm, or immediate
threat of harm, to the residents due to agency's inspection of the community. The residents face a risk of harm
only if the agency selects their community as a site for a landfill, and as of now it is unclear whether the
community would be selected. 

Answer A is incorrect. While the Court will not decide political questions, the current suit does not present a
political question. A political question is one whose issues are either: (1) committed by the Constitution to
either the Executive or Legislative branch of government, or (2) inherently incapable of resolution and
enforcement by the judicial process. No such question is presented on these facts, which concern actions by a
state government. 

Answer B is incorrect. There are no facts to suggest that strict judicial scrutiny of the state's site-selection
decision is warranted. Therefore, the state need not show that the selection of the community is necessary to
serve a compelling interest. A more appropriate basis for a court dismissing the suit would be that the case is
not ripe for adjudication. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Eleventh Amendment does not bar the suit because it was brought against state
officers, not the state itself, and because it seeks only prospective declaratory and injunctive relief, not
compensatory monetary relief.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 193

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1384 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

National statistics revealed a dramatic increase in the number of elementary and secondary school students
bringing controlled substances to school for sale. In response, Congress enacted a statute requiring each state
legislature to enact a state law making it a crime for any person to sell, within 1,000 feet of any elementary or
secondary school, any controlled substance that had previously been transported in interstate commerce. 

Is the federal statute constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has no authority to require a state legislature to enact any specified legislation.
B: No, because the sale of a controlled substance in close proximity to a school does not have a sufficiently
close nexus to interstate commerce to justify its regulation by Congress.
C: Yes, because it contains a jurisdictional provision that will ensure, on a case-by-case basis, that any
particular controlled substance subject to the terms of this statute will, in fact, affect interstate commerce.
D: Yes, because Congress possesses broad authority under both the general welfare clause and the
commerce clause to regulate any activities affecting education that also have, in inseverable aggregates, a
substantial effect on interstate commerce.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Congress's statute is unconstitutional because the U.S. Supreme Court held, in New York
v. United States, 505 U.S. 144 (1992), that the concept of federalism embedded in the Tenth Amendment
disables Congress from requiring states to enact laws or to administer federal law. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. The commerce clause of Article I empowers Congress to regulate economic or
commercial activity that, in the aggregate, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. The sale of
controlled substances is a commercial activity. The facts disclose "a dramatic increase in the number of
elementary and secondary school students bringing controlled substances to school for sale," suggesting that,
in the aggregate, this activity has a sufficient effect on interstate commerce to bring the regulation within
Congress's commerce power. In addition, the statutory limitation requiring that any controlled substance must
have been previously transported in interstate commerce may provide a sufficient jurisdictional nexus with
interstate commerce to bring Congress's statute within the commerce power. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statutory limitation requiring that any controlled substance must have been
previously transported in interstate commerce may provide a sufficient jurisdictional nexus with interstate
commerce to bring Congress's statute within the commerce power. However, as explained above, Congress's
statute is unconstitutional because it violates the concept of federalism embedded in the Tenth Amendment
that disables Congress from requiring states to enact laws or to administer federal law. 

Answer D is incorrect. Although the spending clause of Article I gives Congress power to appropriate money
for the general welfare of the United States, there is no clause of the Constitution that gives Congress power
generally to regulate for the general welfare. Nor does the commerce clause of Article I give Congress power
to regulate any activity that, taken in the aggregate, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. The
regulated activity must be economic or commercial in nature to trigger Congress's commerce power. Although
the activity here (the sale of controlled substances in or near a school) is commercial activity and the activity,
in the aggregate, likely has a substantial effect on interstate commerce, Congress's statute is unconstitutional
because the U.S. Supreme Court held, in New York v. United States, 505 U.S. 144 (1992), that the concept of
federalism embedded in the Tenth Amendment disables Congress from requiring states to enact laws or to
administer federal law.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 194

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1395 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to combat terrorism, Congress enacted a statute authorizing the President to construct surveillance
facilities on privately owned property if the President determined that the construction of such facilities was
"necessary to safeguard the security of the United States." The statute provided no compensation for the
owner of the land on which such facilities were constructed and provided that the surveillance facilities were to
be owned and operated by the United States government. 

Pursuant to this statute, the President has determined that the construction of a surveillance facility on a very
small, unused portion of an owner's large tract of land is necessary to safeguard the security of the United
States. The construction and operation of the facility will not affect any of the uses that the owner is currently
making of the entire tract of land. 

The owner has filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of the construction of a surveillance facility on the
parcel of land at issue without compensation. 

How should the court rule? 

A: It would be a taking of the owner's property for which the owner must be compensated.
B: It would single out the owner for adverse treatment in violation of the equal protection component of the
Fifth Amendment.
C: It would not interfere with any use the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land and, therefore,
would not entitle the owner to any compensation.
D: It would be valid without any compensation, because it has been determined to be necessary to protect a
compelling government interest in national security.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Any permanent physical occupation by the government of private property is a taking for
which just compensation to the property owner is required. It is irrelevant that in this case the portion of the
owner's tract of land to be occupied by the government is unused and very small. Thus, Answer C is incorrect.
Nor is it relevant that in this case the construction and operation of the facility will not affect any of the uses
that the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land. Because in this case construction and operation of
the facility would constitute a permanent physical occupation by the government of the owner's land, the
government would have to compensate the owner for having taken his property. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. Constructing and operating the facility on the owner's land would not violate equal
protection because the decision to do so was rationally related to the protection of national security, which is a
legitimate government interest. 

Answer D is incorrect. Any permanent physical occupation by the government of private property is a taking for
which just compensation to the property owner is required. The takings clause does not exempt takings that
are necessary to protect a compelling government interest from the obligation to provide just compensation to
the property owner. Therefore, in this case, the taking would be invalid without just compensation even if the
government could show that construction and operation of the facility on the owner's land are necessary to
protect a compelling government interest in national security.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 195

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1408 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute prohibiting discrimination in the rental of residential property anywhere in the
United States on the basis of sexual orientation or preference by any person or entity, public or private. 

Which of the following provisions provides the strongest basis for Congress's authority to enact this statute? 

A: The enforcement clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
B: The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV.
C: The commerce clause of Article I, Section 8.
D: The general welfare clause of Article I, Section 8.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The commerce clause provides authority for enactment of the statute. Congress can
regulate the rental terms for residential property pursuant to the commerce clause because such rentals
constitute economic activity that, in the aggregate, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. 

Answer A is incorrect. The Fourteenth Amendment's enforcement clause supports only congressional
regulation of state action. The enforcement clause therefore would not support application of the statute to
private individuals and entities. 

Answer B is incorrect. The privileges and immunities clause of Article IV forbids certain types of discrimination
by states against the citizens of other states. It is not a source of congressional power. 

Answer D is incorrect. The general welfare clause applies only to taxing and spending legislation passed by
Congress.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 196

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1415 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law made it a criminal offense for any state employee to "knowingly provide educational services or
extend welfare benefits" to a foreign national who was in the United States in violation of U.S. immigration
laws. The principal of a public elementary school was prosecuted under the law for enrolling and providing
education to several foreign nationals he knew to be in the country illegally. All of these actions took place
before the new law was adopted. No federal statute applied to the principal's actions. 

What constitutional provision would be most helpful to the principal's defense? 

A: The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
B: The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
C: The ex post facto clause of Article I, Section 10.
D: The privileges or immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution prohibits states from passing ex post facto laws.
An ex post facto law punishes conduct that occurred before the law became effective. Because the principal
had enrolled the foreign nationals before the state adopted the law under which he was prosecuted, it was an
unconstitutional ex post facto law as applied to his prosecution. 

Answer A is incorrect. Although the state law deprives the principal of his freedom to enroll foreign nationals in
his school, this liberty interest is not fundamental. A court therefore might well reject a due process challenge
to the state's application of the law to the principal on the ground that the application is rationally related to a
legitimate government interest. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the state law classifies state employees who provide the prohibited services
and subjects them to a special penalty, the classification is not constitutionally suspect. Nor does it burden a
fundamental individual right. A court therefore would reject an equal protection challenge to the state's
application of the law to the principal because the classification is rationally related to a legitimate government
interest. 

Answer D is incorrect. U.S. Supreme Court precedent limits the protections of the privileges or immunities
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to a handful of rights especially associated with national citizenship,
none of which are applicable in this case.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 197

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1420 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

An unconstrued state law prohibited the distribution within the state of "seditious propaganda." The state
prosecuted United States Post Office letter carriers under this law for delivering propaganda from a foreign
country to state residents. 

Which of the following statements is an INACCURATE description of the state's law as applied to the letter
carriers? 

A: It is an unconstitutional bill of attainder.
B: It is void for vagueness.
C: It may not be applied to the letter carriers, because they are employees of a federal instrumentality carrying
out an authorized function.
D: It unconstitutionally abridges rights protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A bill of attainder is a legislative act that inflicts punishment on named individuals or on
easily identifiable members of groups. Because the statute proscribes a type of conduct when engaged in by
anyone, it is inaccurate to say that the statute is a bill of attainder. 

Answer B is incorrect. A law is void for vagueness if it does not provide individuals with fair and reasonable
notice of the boundaries between lawful and unlawful conduct. In this case, the statutory prohibition against
"seditious propaganda" would be unconstitutionally vague under that standard, especially since the prohibition
inhibits speech, a context in which the void-for-vagueness doctrine has special bite. Thus, it is accurate to say
that the statute is void for vagueness. 

Answer C is incorrect. Federal employees are immune from state laws that interfere with their obligation to
carry out an authorized function. Thus, it is accurate to say that the state statute may not be applied to the
letter carriers, because they are employees of a federal instrumentality carrying out an authorized function. 

Answer D is incorrect. The state law violates the constitutionally protected freedom of speech because it
prohibits subversive speech without requiring the government to prove that the speech at issue was directed to
inciting imminent unlawful action and was likely to do so. Thus, it is accurate to say that the statute
unconstitutionally abridges rights protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 198

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1424 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A protester entered an IRS office during business hours. He denounced the income tax and set fire to pages
from his copy of the Internal Revenue Code. The fire was extinguished before it caused any other damage.
The protester was arrested and charged with violating a state law that prohibited igniting a fire in a public
building. He claimed that his prosecution was unconstitutional under the First Amendment. 

May the protester constitutionally be convicted? 

A: No, because he was exercising his right to freedom of speech by burning a copy of the code.
B: No, because the copy of the code belonged to him, and thus burning it did not infringe upon a legitimate
government interest.
C: Yes, because the burning of the code was conduct rather than speech.
D: Yes, because the state law is narrowly drawn to further a substantial government interest in prohibiting the
noncommunicative aspects of the act in question.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The protester's burning of the tax code qualifies as expressive conduct protected by the
free speech clause of the First Amendment because (1) the protester intended to communicate a message
and (2) the audience was likely to understand the communication. But because the state's interest underlying
the law that the protester violated (preventing the burning of public buildings) is unrelated to the message
communicated by the burning of the tax code, a court will not subject the state law to strict scrutiny. Instead,
the court will uphold application of the law to the protester if the law is narrowly tailored to further a substantial
government interest, a standard of justification that this law should satisfy easily. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is correct that the protester's burning of the tax code qualifies as expressive conduct
protected by the free speech clause of the First Amendment. However, as stated above, the statue under
which the protester will be convicted is not aimed at curbing free speech. Thus, the mere fact that the protester
engaged in an act of free speech will not prevent a prosecution under the statute. Likewise, Answer C is
incorrect. Regardless of whether the protester's actions are characterized as conduct or speech, the applicable
statute in this case is not designed to deter free speech. 

Answer B is incorrect. The legitimacy (and substantiality) of the government's interest in preventing the burning
of public buildings is not undermined by the fact that the protester burned his own copy of the tax code.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.








Page 199

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1429 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

A private university is owned and operated by a religious organization. The university is accredited by the
department of education of the state in which it is located. This accreditation certifies that the university meets
prescribed educational standards. Because it is accredited, the university qualifies for state funding for certain
of its operating expenses. Under this funding program, 25 percent of the university's total operating budget
comes from state funds. 

A professor at the university was a part-time columnist for the local newspaper. In one of her published
columns, the professor argued that "religion has become a negative force in society." The university
subsequently discharged the professor, giving as its sole reason for the dismissal her authorship and
publication of this column. 

The professor sued the university, claiming only that her discharge violated her constitutional right to freedom
of speech. 

The university moved to dismiss the professor's lawsuit on the ground that the U.S. Constitution does not
provide the professor with a cause of action in this case. 

Should the court grant the university's motion to dismiss? 

A: Yes, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments protect the right of the university to employ only
individuals who share and communicate its views.
B: Yes, because the action of the university in discharging the professor is not attributable to the state for
purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: No, because the accreditation and partial funding of the university by the state are sufficient to justify the
conclusion that the state was an active participant in the discharge of the professor.
D: No, because the U.S. Constitution provides a cause of action against any state-accredited institution that
restricts freedom of speech as a condition of employment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The protections afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment apply only to conduct that is
attributable to the state. Because the professor was discharged by a private university and not by a state actor,
the Fourteenth Amendment does not apply. 

Answer A is incorrect. The First and Fourteenth Amendments do not grant a university any right to discharge
employees who do not share and communicate the views of the university. The university's motion to dismiss
nevertheless should be granted because the protections afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment apply only to
conduct that is attributable to the state. Because the professor was discharged by a private university and not
by a state actor, the Fourteenth Amendment does not apply. 

Answer C is incorrect. The protections afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment apply only to conduct that is
attributable to the state. U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that the accreditation, regulation, and
partial funding of a university by the state does not render the university's conduct state action, and thus the
Fourteenth Amendment does not apply. 

Answer D is incorrect. There is no provision of the Constitution creating a cause of action against a
state-accredited institution that restricts freedom of speech as a condition of employment. State accreditation
of an institution does not constitute sufficient involvement by the state to make the institution's conduct state
action. Therefore the protections afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment do not apply to the university's
discharge of the professor.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.












Page 200

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1438 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

A state law that restricted abortion was challenged in state court as a violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and as a violation of a similar due process provision of the
state constitution. The case made its way to the state's highest court, which ruled that the law violated the due
process provisions of both the U.S. and the state constitutions. 

If petitioned to do so, may the U.S. Supreme Court exercise jurisdiction to review the state court decision? 

A: No, because the state court's decision in this case rests on adequate and independent state law grounds.
B: No, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction only over state court decisions that
determine the constitutionality of federal laws.
C: Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over any ruling of a state's highest court
based on an interpretation of federal law.
D: Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over decisions that find state laws in
violation of the federal Constitution.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court does not have appellate jurisdiction over a decision by the
highest court of a state when that decision is supported by state law grounds that are (1) independent of
federal law and (2) adequate to sustain the result in the case. The result in this case is fully supported by the
state court's ruling that the law violated the state constitution, and this ruling is independent of any
consideration of the federal constitutional claim. Accordingly, even if the U.S. Supreme Court were to reverse
the state court's ruling on the federal constitutional issue, the result in the case would not change, and thus the
decision is not reviewable. 

Answer B is incorrect. This response correctly states that the U.S. Supreme Court may not review the decision
but inaccurately states the scope of the Court's appellate jurisdiction. 

Answer C and Answer D are incorrect for the same reason. The U.S. Supreme Court does not have appellate
jurisdiction over a decision of the highest court of a state involving the interpretation of federal law when, as
stated above, that decision is supported by state law grounds that are (1) independent of federal law and (2)
adequate to sustain the result in the case. 

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 201

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1444 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A recently enacted federal statute requires the President to make each appointment of a United States
ambassador to a foreign country from a list of three individuals. The list is to be compiled by the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee and approved by the full Senate in advance of the appointment. The statute also
provides that Senate confirmation of the appointment is deemed to occur automatically 30 days after the time
the President names an appointee from the list, unless the full Senate determines otherwise within the 30-day
period. 

Is this statute constitutional? 

A: No, because the statute violates the constitutional requirements for appointment of principal officers of the
United States.
B: No, because the statute impermissibly restricts the plenary foreign affairs powers of the President.
C: Yes, because the statute is consistent with the constitutional requirement that the presidential appointment
of ambassadors be with the advice and consent of the Senate.
D: Yes, because the statute is a necessary and proper measure in furtherance of Congress's power to
regulate commerce with foreign states.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Two provisions of the statute violate the appointments clause of the Constitution. First, the
provision limiting the President to a list of three potential nominees violates the President's power to nominate
principal officers. Second, the automatic confirmation provision violates the requirement that the Senate
consent to the appointment of a principal officer. 

Answer B is incorrect. The statute does not restrict the President's conduct of foreign affairs. It applies only to
the appointment of ambassadors. As stated above, however, two provisions of the statute violate the
appointments clause of the Constitution. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statute represents a misapplication of the Senate's advice and consent power. The
statute replaces the President's power to nominate ambassadors rather than provide the President with the
Senate's advice on who to appoint, or its consent to appoint an ambassador. 

Answer D is incorrect. The statutory scheme for the nomination and confirmation of ambassadors is not
"necessary" because it is not reasonably related to furthering any congressional statute regulating foreign
commerce. Moreover, the statutory scheme is not "proper" because two provisions of the statute violate the
appointments clause of the Constitution, as stated above.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 202

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1455 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A state owned a large natural gas field and took bids for its exploitation. The highest bid came from an
interstate pipeline company that distributed natural gas to providers throughout the country. A local gas
company submitted the next highest bid, which included the commitment that it would pass along to local
customers any savings if it was awarded the contract. The state awarded the contract to the local company.
The interstate company sued to overturn this decision. 

Should the interstate company prevail? 

A: No, because the state has a compelling interest in reducing the cost of gas for state citizens.
B: No, because the state acted as a market participant.
C: Yes, because the state acted irrationally by not choosing the highest bidder and thus denied the interstate
company due process of law.
D: Yes, because the state discriminated against interstate commerce.

The explanation for the answer is:

B is correct. When the state participates in the economic marketplace, it may decide with whom it wishes to
contract without regard to the restrictions of the dormant commerce clause. Here the state is a market
participant because it is selling the rights to exploit a natural gas field that it owns. The usual rules of the
dormant commerce clause restricting the power of the state to prefer local economic actors over interstate
companies therefore do not apply.  

Answer A is incorrect. The state does not need to demonstrate a compelling interest in order to justify its
decision to accept the local company's bid because it is acting as a market participant, not a market regulator.  

Answer C is incorrect. The commitment by the local company that it would pass along to local customers any
savings if it was awarded the contract provided a rational basis for the state's selection of the local company,
even though the local company's bid was lower than that of the interstate pipeline company.  

Answer D is incorrect. Although the state selected the local company's bid over that of the interstate pipeline
company, its action did not violate the dormant commerce clause. As discussed above, when the state
participates in the economic marketplace, it may decide with whom it wishes to contract without regard to the
restrictions of the dormant commerce clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 203

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1466 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute authorizing the denial of all federal funding to public school districts in which a
specified percentage of the students enrolled in the public schools fail to pass a national achievement test.
According to the terms of the federal statute, the first national achievement test was scheduled for
administration five years from the effective date of the statute.  

After reviewing then-current levels of public school student performance, the officials of a state became
concerned that several of its public school districts would lose their federal funding after the administration of
the first national achievement test. Then-current levels of private school student performance were
substantially higher.  

In order to improve the chances of those school districts retaining their federal funding, the state recently
enacted a law that requires all children of elementary and secondary school age to attend the schools
operated by their respective local public school districts. The law is to take effect at the beginning of the next
school year.  

Parents of children enrolled in private schools within the state have filed suit to challenge the constitutionality
of this state law. 

Should the court uphold the law? 

A: Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.
B: Yes, because it is necessary to further a compelling state interest.
C: No, because it is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest.
D: No, because it is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that a state law requiring children to attend
public schools infringes on the right of parents to control the upbringing of their children. Supreme Court
precedent also establishes that this right is a fundamental aspect of liberty protected by the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. A state law that infringes on that right must therefore undergo strict
judicial scrutiny, which requires the state to prove that the law is necessary to further a compelling state
interest. In this case, the state cannot satisfy strict scrutiny, because requiring private school students to attend
public schools in order to raise the test scores in public school districts is not necessary to further a compelling
state interest. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answers A and C are incorrect because they state the incorrect standard of review. Although the state law is
rationally related to a legitimate state interest, the court will apply a strict scrutiny standard of review because
the law infringes upon parents' fundamental right to control the upbringing of their children. 

Answer B is incorrect. Even though this response states the proper standard of review, it misstates the court's
likely finding using that standard. As explained above, the law is not necessary to further a compelling state
interest.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 204

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1473 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute establishing a program to protect areas in the United States that are rich in
biological diversity. The program is consistent with the terms of an environmental treaty that the President
objected to and did not sign.  

The statute creates an executive agency and authorizes it to designate parts of federal lands for inclusion in
the program in accordance with criteria taken from the treaty. In an inseverable provision, the statute further
provides that the agency must report each designation to a committee of Congress and that the committee
may overturn the agency's designation by a majority vote.  

Why is the statute unconstitutional? 

A: It constitutes an invalid delegation of legislative authority to an executive agency.
B: It interferes with the exercise of the President's paramount authority in foreign affairs.
C: It requires an executive agency to report its decisions to Congress.
D: It authorizes a committee of Congress to overturn an executive decision.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The provision of the statute authorizing a congressional committee to overturn the
agency's designations of federal lands is an unconstitutional legislative veto. Congress may overturn the action
of an executive agency only by enacting a statute. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The statute's grant of authority to the agency does not violate the non-delegation
doctrine because the statute's incorporation of the treaty criteria provides intelligible principles sufficient to
guide the agency's designations of federal lands. 

Answer B is incorrect. Congress has power to legislate regarding the control of federal lands, and the statute
does not affect the President's conduct of foreign affairs. 

Answer C is incorrect. The necessary and proper clause authorizes Congress to require that executive
agencies report their decisions to Congress if such a requirement reasonably implements a statutory program.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 205

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1478 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A city ordinance prohibited individuals from picketing in residential neighborhoods unless the picketing related
to the neighborhood zoning requirements. This exception to the ordinance was adopted in response to local
citizens' strong views about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods. 

A group that wished to picket in front of a business owner's home because of the business owner's
employment practices challenged the ordinance as unconstitutional under the First Amendment.  

Will the group's challenge likely prevail? 

A: No, because the ordinance is a content-neutral regulation of speech.
B: No, because the ordinance regulates conduct rather than speech.
C: Yes, because the ordinance irrationally discriminates between different types of protesters.
D: Yes, because the ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech because it permits an expressive
activity (picketing) on one subject (neighborhood zoning requirements) and prohibits it on all other subjects.
Such a content-based restriction on expression presumptively violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment. To justify a content-based restriction, the government must satisfy strict judicial scrutiny,
proving that the restriction is necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The city would be unable to
meet that burden in this case. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although picketing is conduct, U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that it is
expressive conduct because (1) the picketer intends to communicate a message, and (2) the audience is likely
to understand the message. Expressive conduct is protected by the free speech clause of the First
Amendment. As stated above, the ordinance in this scenario is a content-based regulation of speech. To justify
a content-based restriction, the government must satisfy strict judicial scrutiny, proving that the restriction is
necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The city would be unable to meet that burden in this
case. 

Answer C is incorrect. The distinction in the city ordinance between picketing in residential neighborhoods that
is related to the neighborhood zoning requirements and picketing in residential neighborhoods on other
subjects is rational in light of local citizens' strong views about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods.
However, as stated above, because the ordinance in this case is a content-based restriction on speech, a
rational basis for the distinction would not be sufficient to sustain the ordinance.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 206

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1478 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A city ordinance prohibited individuals from picketing in residential neighborhoods unless the picketing related
to the neighborhood zoning requirements. This exception to the ordinance was adopted in response to local
citizens' strong views about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods. 

A group that wished to picket in front of a business owner's home because of the business owner's
employment practices challenged the ordinance as unconstitutional under the First Amendment.  

Will the group's challenge likely prevail? 

A: No, because the ordinance is a content-neutral regulation of speech.
B: No, because the ordinance regulates conduct rather than speech.
C: Yes, because the ordinance irrationally discriminates between different types of protesters.
D: Yes, because the ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech because it permits an expressive
activity (picketing) on one subject (neighborhood zoning requirements) and prohibits it on all other subjects.
Such a content-based restriction on expression presumptively violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment. To justify a content-based restriction, the government must satisfy strict judicial scrutiny,
proving that the restriction is necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The city would be unable to
meet that burden in this case. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although picketing is conduct, U.S. Supreme Court precedent establishes that it is
expressive conduct because (1) the picketer intends to communicate a message, and (2) the audience is likely
to understand the message. Expressive conduct is protected by the free speech clause of the First
Amendment. As stated above, the ordinance in this scenario is a content-based regulation of speech. To justify
a content-based restriction, the government must satisfy strict judicial scrutiny, proving that the restriction is
necessary to serve a compelling government interest. The city would be unable to meet that burden in this
case. 

Answer C is incorrect. The distinction in the city ordinance between picketing in residential neighborhoods that
is related to the neighborhood zoning requirements and picketing in residential neighborhoods on other
subjects is rational in light of local citizens' strong views about proposed rezoning of residential neighborhoods.
However, as stated above, because the ordinance in this case is a content-based restriction on speech, a
rational basis for the distinction would not be sufficient to sustain the ordinance.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 207

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1483 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A state law prohibits the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within the state for use in another state. The
express purpose of the law is to safeguard the supply of water for state citizens. Adoption of this state law
followed enactment of a federal statute providing that "the transport of groundwater from one state to another
may be restricted or prohibited in accordance with the laws of the state in which the water originates." 

An association of water users in a neighboring state has filed suit to have the state law declared
unconstitutional and enjoined on the ground that it violates the negative implications of the commerce clause.  

Which of the following is the best argument supporting a motion to dismiss the lawsuit? 

A: The law promotes a compelling state interest that outweighs any burden on interstate commercial activity
that might result from this state regulation of its groundwater.
B: Groundwater located within a state is not itself an article of interstate commerce, and therefore state
regulation of the withdrawal of such groundwater does not implicate the commerce clause.
C: The Tenth Amendment reserves to the states plenary authority over the regulation of the natural resources
located within their respective borders.
D: The federal statute explicitly consents to a state's regulation of its groundwater in a way that would
otherwise violate the negative implications of the commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Congress may exercise its authority under the commerce clause to permit a state
regulation that would otherwise violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, as long as the
congressional legislation unmistakably grants such permission. The federal statute that permits states to
restrict or prohibit the transport of groundwater from one state to another qualifies as such legislation. Thus,
Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. A state law prohibiting the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within the state for
use in another state discriminates against interstate commerce because it establishes a preference for in-state
uses of groundwater over out-of-state uses. This response incorrectly describes the state's burden in justifying
a state law that discriminates against interstate commerce. In order to justify such a law, the state must prove
that it promotes a legitimate state interest and that there is no nondiscriminatory alternative. In this case,
however, the state need not shoulder that burden because a federal statute explicitly permits preferences for
in-state uses of groundwater. 

Answer B is incorrect. Any item that can be bought, sold, or transported across state lines is an article of
interstate commerce. The state law is constitutional because a federal statute permits preferences for in-state
uses of groundwater. 

Answer C is incorrect. The Tenth Amendment does not protect state laws that violate a provision of the federal
Constitution. A state law prohibiting the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within the state for use in
another state discriminates against interstate commerce because it establishes a preference for in-state uses
of groundwater over out-of-state uses. A court likely would hold such a discriminatory state law to be
unconstitutional under most circumstances; in this case, however, a federal statute explicitly permits
preferences for in-state uses of groundwater.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 208

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1491 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress passed a statute providing that parties could no longer seek review in the U.S. Supreme Court of
final judgments in criminal matters made by the highest court in each state.  

What is the best argument supporting the constitutionality of the statute? 

A: Congress has the power to make exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
B: Criminal matters are traditionally governed by state law.
C: The proper means of federal judicial review of state criminal matters is by habeas corpus.
D: The review of state court judgments is not within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The text of the exceptions clause of Article III does not limit congressional power to strip
the U.S. Supreme Court of its appellate jurisdiction to hear particular types of cases, and the Court's own
decisions arguably support the view that the exceptions clause grants Congress this power. Thus, Answer A is
correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. While it is true that criminal matters are traditionally governed by state law, a decision of
the highest court of a state in a criminal case is subject to appellate review in the U.S. Supreme Court if the
case includes a claim arising under federal law or if the case otherwise is within the federal judicial power. 

Answer C is incorrect. A habeas corpus petition is not a means of direct federal judicial review of a state
criminal case but rather constitutes a separate civil suit for the release of a prisoner who has been unlawfully
imprisoned. 

Answer D is incorrect. While it is true that the review of state court judgments is not within the original
jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court, the Court can review such judgments by exercising its appellate
jurisdiction.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 209

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1497 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state adopted a rule denying admission to its bar to anyone who was currently or had previously been a
member of a subversive group. The state's bar application form was modified to ask applicants whether they
were or had previously been members of any subversive organization. An applicant refused to answer the
question and was denied bar admission on that basis. The applicant challenged the decision, arguing that the
question infringed upon his freedom of association.  

Is the applicant likely to prevail? 

A: No, because membership in a subversive group constitutes endorsement of the group's illegal activities.
B: No, because the Constitution does not apply to the bar.
C: Yes, because denying bar admission based on any association with a subversive organization violates the
First Amendment.
D: Yes, because denying bar admission based solely on past membership in a subversive organization
violates the First Amendment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the freedom of association protected by the First
Amendment prohibits a state from inquiring about an individual's associations in order to withhold a right or
benefit because of the individual's beliefs. Although the state has a legitimate interest in determining the
character and professional competence of bar applicants, the Court has held that the state has other means of
making these determinations that are less restrictive of First Amendment freedoms. Thus, Answer D is
correct. 

Furthermore, the U.S. Supreme Court has held that an individual's membership in an association may not be
deemed an endorsement of the illegal activities of the association unless the individual has a specific intention
to further those illegal activities. Thus, Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The rule at issue in this case was adopted by the state, and thus it constitutes state
action and must comply with the First Amendment. As stated above, the U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
freedom of association protected by the First Amendment prohibits a state from inquiring about an individual's
associations in order to withhold a right or benefit because of the individual's beliefs. 

Answer C is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that states may deny bar admission to individuals
who are members of subversive organizations if, but only if, they have a specific intention to further the illegal
activities of the organization. The applicant is still likely to prevail, however, because the Court also has held
that the freedom of association protected by the First Amendment prohibits a state from inquiring about an
individual's associations in order to withhold a right or benefit because of the individual's beliefs.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 210

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1501 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal civil statute prohibited fishing in any body of water that was located within a national park and
contained a particular endangered species of fish. The statute authorized federal district courts to enjoin
knowing violators of the statute from the use of all national park facilities for up to two years. After a vacationer
was found by a federal district court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction
against his use of all national park facilities for two years. The vacationer appealed.  

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly
made the repeal effective retroactive to a date one month before the vacationer's violation of the statute. The
law also directly cited the vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory
prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions" such as that rendered against the vacationer.  

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against
him. Counsel for the United States has objected, contending that, as applied to the specific case pending in
the appeals court, the law is unconstitutional.  

How should the appeals court rule? 

A: For the United States, because Congress defied the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws by
retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.
B: For the United States, because the law's citation to the vacationer's case demonstrates that Congress
intended to compel the appeals court to reach a particular result and, therefore, sought to exercise judicial
powers vested exclusively in the courts by Article III.
C: For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal
courts and to require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.
D: For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes
and to direct that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet
been rendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws applies only to retroactive changes in
statutes that result in the punishment of individuals for conduct that was legal before the changes. Congress's
retroactive repeal of the statute in this case had the opposite effect. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

B is incorrect. Congress may not direct the outcome of a particular case under existing law, but Congress may
effect a change in the law with retroactive application to pending actions. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

C is incorrect. Although Congress may change the laws to be applied in federal courts, Congress may not
direct federal courts to apply the new laws to reverse final judgments in already-decided actions. While it is
correct that the appeals court should rule for the vacationer, it should do so because the vacationer's appeal of
the district court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction.
Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes to all actions
in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

D is correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district
court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress
may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a
final judgment has not been rendered.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 211

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1501 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal civil statute prohibited fishing in any body of water that was located within a national park and
contained a particular endangered species of fish. The statute authorized federal district courts to enjoin
knowing violators of the statute from the use of all national park facilities for up to two years. After a vacationer
was found by a federal district court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction
against his use of all national park facilities for two years. The vacationer appealed.  

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly
made the repeal effective retroactive to a date one month before the vacationer's violation of the statute. The
law also directly cited the vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory
prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions" such as that rendered against the vacationer.  

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against
him. Counsel for the United States has objected, contending that, as applied to the specific case pending in
the appeals court, the law is unconstitutional.  

How should the appeals court rule? 

A: For the United States, because Congress defied the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws by
retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.
B: For the United States, because the law's citation to the vacationer's case demonstrates that Congress
intended to compel the appeals court to reach a particular result and, therefore, sought to exercise judicial
powers vested exclusively in the courts by Article III.
C: For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal
courts and to require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.
D: For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes
and to direct that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet
been rendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws applies only to retroactive changes in
statutes that result in the punishment of individuals for conduct that was legal before the changes. Congress's
retroactive repeal of the statute in this case had the opposite effect. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

B is incorrect. Congress may not direct the outcome of a particular case under existing law, but Congress may
effect a change in the law with retroactive application to pending actions. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

C is incorrect. Although Congress may change the laws to be applied in federal courts, Congress may not
direct federal courts to apply the new laws to reverse final judgments in already-decided actions. While it is
correct that the appeals court should rule for the vacationer, it should do so because the vacationer's appeal of
the district court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction.
Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes to all actions
in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

D is correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district
court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress
may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a
final judgment has not been rendered.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 212

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1501 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal civil statute prohibited fishing in any body of water that was located within a national park and
contained a particular endangered species of fish. The statute authorized federal district courts to enjoin
knowing violators of the statute from the use of all national park facilities for up to two years. After a vacationer
was found by a federal district court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction
against his use of all national park facilities for two years. The vacationer appealed.  

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly
made the repeal effective retroactive to a date one month before the vacationer's violation of the statute. The
law also directly cited the vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory
prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions" such as that rendered against the vacationer.  

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against
him. Counsel for the United States has objected, contending that, as applied to the specific case pending in
the appeals court, the law is unconstitutional.  

How should the appeals court rule? 

A: For the United States, because Congress defied the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws by
retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.
B: For the United States, because the law's citation to the vacationer's case demonstrates that Congress
intended to compel the appeals court to reach a particular result and, therefore, sought to exercise judicial
powers vested exclusively in the courts by Article III.
C: For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal
courts and to require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.
D: For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes
and to direct that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet
been rendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws applies only to retroactive changes in
statutes that result in the punishment of individuals for conduct that was legal before the changes. Congress's
retroactive repeal of the statute in this case had the opposite effect. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

B is incorrect. Congress may not direct the outcome of a particular case under existing law, but Congress may
effect a change in the law with retroactive application to pending actions. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

C is incorrect. Although Congress may change the laws to be applied in federal courts, Congress may not
direct federal courts to apply the new laws to reverse final judgments in already-decided actions. While it is
correct that the appeals court should rule for the vacationer, it should do so because the vacationer's appeal of
the district court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction.
Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes to all actions
in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

D is correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district
court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress
may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a
final judgment has not been rendered.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 213

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1501 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal civil statute prohibited fishing in any body of water that was located within a national park and
contained a particular endangered species of fish. The statute authorized federal district courts to enjoin
knowing violators of the statute from the use of all national park facilities for up to two years. After a vacationer
was found by a federal district court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction
against his use of all national park facilities for two years. The vacationer appealed.  

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly
made the repeal effective retroactive to a date one month before the vacationer's violation of the statute. The
law also directly cited the vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory
prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions" such as that rendered against the vacationer.  

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against
him. Counsel for the United States has objected, contending that, as applied to the specific case pending in
the appeals court, the law is unconstitutional.  

How should the appeals court rule? 

A: For the United States, because Congress defied the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws by
retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.
B: For the United States, because the law's citation to the vacationer's case demonstrates that Congress
intended to compel the appeals court to reach a particular result and, therefore, sought to exercise judicial
powers vested exclusively in the courts by Article III.
C: For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal
courts and to require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.
D: For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes
and to direct that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet
been rendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws applies only to retroactive changes in
statutes that result in the punishment of individuals for conduct that was legal before the changes. Congress's
retroactive repeal of the statute in this case had the opposite effect. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

B is incorrect. Congress may not direct the outcome of a particular case under existing law, but Congress may
effect a change in the law with retroactive application to pending actions. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

C is incorrect. Although Congress may change the laws to be applied in federal courts, Congress may not
direct federal courts to apply the new laws to reverse final judgments in already-decided actions. While it is
correct that the appeals court should rule for the vacationer, it should do so because the vacationer's appeal of
the district court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction.
Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes to all actions
in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

D is correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district
court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress
may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a
final judgment has not been rendered.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 214

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1501 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

A federal civil statute prohibited fishing in any body of water that was located within a national park and
contained a particular endangered species of fish. The statute authorized federal district courts to enjoin
knowing violators of the statute from the use of all national park facilities for up to two years. After a vacationer
was found by a federal district court to have knowingly violated the statute, the court issued an injunction
against his use of all national park facilities for two years. The vacationer appealed.  

Before the appeals court heard the vacationer's case, Congress repealed the statute by a law that expressly
made the repeal effective retroactive to a date one month before the vacationer's violation of the statute. The
law also directly cited the vacationer's case and stated that it was intended to "repeal all the statutory
prohibitions that formed the basis for decisions" such as that rendered against the vacationer.  

On the basis of this law, the vacationer has asked the appeals court to vacate the injunction issued against
him. Counsel for the United States has objected, contending that, as applied to the specific case pending in
the appeals court, the law is unconstitutional.  

How should the appeals court rule? 

A: For the United States, because Congress defied the constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws by
retroactively changing the consequences for violating the statute after the violation was proved in a trial court.
B: For the United States, because the law's citation to the vacationer's case demonstrates that Congress
intended to compel the appeals court to reach a particular result and, therefore, sought to exercise judicial
powers vested exclusively in the courts by Article III.
C: For the vacationer, because Congress has the power to determine the laws to be applied by the federal
courts and to require retroactive application of those laws to any specifically identified case that it chooses.
D: For the vacationer, because Congress is authorized to make substantive changes to federal civil statutes
and to direct that those changes be applied by the courts to all actions in which a final judgment has not yet
been rendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws applies only to retroactive changes in
statutes that result in the punishment of individuals for conduct that was legal before the changes. Congress's
retroactive repeal of the statute in this case had the opposite effect. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

B is incorrect. Congress may not direct the outcome of a particular case under existing law, but Congress may
effect a change in the law with retroactive application to pending actions. The appeals court should rule for the
vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district court's injunction was pending when Congress
repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct
federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

C is incorrect. Although Congress may change the laws to be applied in federal courts, Congress may not
direct federal courts to apply the new laws to reverse final judgments in already-decided actions. While it is
correct that the appeals court should rule for the vacationer, it should do so because the vacationer's appeal of
the district court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction.
Congress may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes to all actions
in which a final judgment has not been rendered.  

D is correct. The appeals court should rule for the vacationer, because the vacationer's appeal of the district
court's injunction was pending when Congress repealed the statute that authorized the injunction. Congress
may change federal civil statutes and may direct federal courts to apply those changes in all actions in which a
final judgment has not been rendered.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 215

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

The United States had long recognized the ruling faction in a foreign country as that country's government,
despite an ongoing civil war. Throughout the civil war, the ruling faction controlled the majority of the country's
territory, and the United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the
foreign country and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States
within 10 days. The ambassador filed an action in federal district court for a declaration that the ruling faction
was the true government of the foreign country and for an injunction against enforcement of the President's
order that she leave the United States. The United States has moved to dismiss the action.  

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason? 

A: The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The action is not ripe.
C: The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.
D: The ambassador does not have standing.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The action likely satisfies the political question doctrine and therefore should be dismissed as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually
demonstrable commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments.
Moreover, Article II provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the
constitutionality of a President's decision on whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the
action involves the President's administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question
doctrine also indicate that the court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

B is incorrect. The action is ripe for adjudication even though the ambassador may remain in the United States
for 10 days. The ambassador has suffered immediate harm because she no longer represents the foreign
country in the United States, she has lost her diplomatic immunity, and she is facing expulsion within a very
short period of time. Also, the constitutional issues are fit for review without waiting for the ambassador's
expulsion.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

C is incorrect. Although Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction
over actions involving ambassadors, federal district courts also may exercise original jurisdiction over actions
within the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 216

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

D is incorrect. The ambassador has standing, because she has been injured by the President's decision that
her faction is no longer the government of her country, her injury is fairly traceable to this decision, and the
injury is likely redressable by a court order invalidating the decision.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 217

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

The United States had long recognized the ruling faction in a foreign country as that country's government,
despite an ongoing civil war. Throughout the civil war, the ruling faction controlled the majority of the country's
territory, and the United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the
foreign country and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States
within 10 days. The ambassador filed an action in federal district court for a declaration that the ruling faction
was the true government of the foreign country and for an injunction against enforcement of the President's
order that she leave the United States. The United States has moved to dismiss the action.  

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason? 

A: The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The action is not ripe.
C: The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.
D: The ambassador does not have standing.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The action likely satisfies the political question doctrine and therefore should be dismissed as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually
demonstrable commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments.
Moreover, Article II provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the
constitutionality of a President's decision on whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the
action involves the President's administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question
doctrine also indicate that the court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

B is incorrect. The action is ripe for adjudication even though the ambassador may remain in the United States
for 10 days. The ambassador has suffered immediate harm because she no longer represents the foreign
country in the United States, she has lost her diplomatic immunity, and she is facing expulsion within a very
short period of time. Also, the constitutional issues are fit for review without waiting for the ambassador's
expulsion.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

C is incorrect. Although Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction
over actions involving ambassadors, federal district courts also may exercise original jurisdiction over actions
within the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 218

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

D is incorrect. The ambassador has standing, because she has been injured by the President's decision that
her faction is no longer the government of her country, her injury is fairly traceable to this decision, and the
injury is likely redressable by a court order invalidating the decision.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 219

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

The United States had long recognized the ruling faction in a foreign country as that country's government,
despite an ongoing civil war. Throughout the civil war, the ruling faction controlled the majority of the country's
territory, and the United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the
foreign country and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States
within 10 days. The ambassador filed an action in federal district court for a declaration that the ruling faction
was the true government of the foreign country and for an injunction against enforcement of the President's
order that she leave the United States. The United States has moved to dismiss the action.  

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason? 

A: The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The action is not ripe.
C: The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.
D: The ambassador does not have standing.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The action likely satisfies the political question doctrine and therefore should be dismissed as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually
demonstrable commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments.
Moreover, Article II provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the
constitutionality of a President's decision on whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the
action involves the President's administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question
doctrine also indicate that the court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

B is incorrect. The action is ripe for adjudication even though the ambassador may remain in the United States
for 10 days. The ambassador has suffered immediate harm because she no longer represents the foreign
country in the United States, she has lost her diplomatic immunity, and she is facing expulsion within a very
short period of time. Also, the constitutional issues are fit for review without waiting for the ambassador's
expulsion.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

C is incorrect. Although Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction
over actions involving ambassadors, federal district courts also may exercise original jurisdiction over actions
within the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 220

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

D is incorrect. The ambassador has standing, because she has been injured by the President's decision that
her faction is no longer the government of her country, her injury is fairly traceable to this decision, and the
injury is likely redressable by a court order invalidating the decision.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 221

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

The United States had long recognized the ruling faction in a foreign country as that country's government,
despite an ongoing civil war. Throughout the civil war, the ruling faction controlled the majority of the country's
territory, and the United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the
foreign country and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States
within 10 days. The ambassador filed an action in federal district court for a declaration that the ruling faction
was the true government of the foreign country and for an injunction against enforcement of the President's
order that she leave the United States. The United States has moved to dismiss the action.  

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason? 

A: The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The action is not ripe.
C: The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.
D: The ambassador does not have standing.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The action likely satisfies the political question doctrine and therefore should be dismissed as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually
demonstrable commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments.
Moreover, Article II provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the
constitutionality of a President's decision on whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the
action involves the President's administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question
doctrine also indicate that the court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

B is incorrect. The action is ripe for adjudication even though the ambassador may remain in the United States
for 10 days. The ambassador has suffered immediate harm because she no longer represents the foreign
country in the United States, she has lost her diplomatic immunity, and she is facing expulsion within a very
short period of time. Also, the constitutional issues are fit for review without waiting for the ambassador's
expulsion.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

C is incorrect. Although Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction
over actions involving ambassadors, federal district courts also may exercise original jurisdiction over actions
within the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 222

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

D is incorrect. The ambassador has standing, because she has been injured by the President's decision that
her faction is no longer the government of her country, her injury is fairly traceable to this decision, and the
injury is likely redressable by a court order invalidating the decision.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 223

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

 The question was: 

The United States had long recognized the ruling faction in a foreign country as that country's government,
despite an ongoing civil war. Throughout the civil war, the ruling faction controlled the majority of the country's
territory, and the United States afforded diplomatic immunity to the ambassador representing the ruling faction.

A newly elected President of the United States decided to recognize a rebel group as the government of the
foreign country and notified the ambassador from the ruling faction that she must leave the United States
within 10 days. The ambassador filed an action in federal district court for a declaration that the ruling faction
was the true government of the foreign country and for an injunction against enforcement of the President's
order that she leave the United States. The United States has moved to dismiss the action.  

If the court dismisses the action, what will be the most likely reason? 

A: The action involves a nonjusticiable political question.
B: The action is not ripe.
C: The action is within the original jurisdiction of the U.S. Supreme Court.
D: The ambassador does not have standing.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The action likely satisfies the political question doctrine and therefore should be dismissed as
nonjusticiable. The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually
demonstrable commitment by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments.
Moreover, Article II provides no judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the
constitutionality of a President's decision on whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the
action involves the President's administration of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question
doctrine also indicate that the court should dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

B is incorrect. The action is ripe for adjudication even though the ambassador may remain in the United States
for 10 days. The ambassador has suffered immediate harm because she no longer represents the foreign
country in the United States, she has lost her diplomatic immunity, and she is facing expulsion within a very
short period of time. Also, the constitutional issues are fit for review without waiting for the ambassador's
expulsion.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

C is incorrect. Although Article III of the Constitution provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction
over actions involving ambassadors, federal district courts also may exercise original jurisdiction over actions
within the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 224

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1505 - Constitutional Law - Judicial Review

D is incorrect. The ambassador has standing, because she has been injured by the President's decision that
her faction is no longer the government of her country, her injury is fairly traceable to this decision, and the
injury is likely redressable by a court order invalidating the decision.  

The reason the action should be dismissed is that it likely is nonjusticiable under the political question doctrine.
The President's Article II power to receive foreign ambassadors is likely a textually demonstrable commitment
by the Constitution of exclusive authority to recognize foreign governments. Moreover, Article II provides no
judicially manageable standards by which a court could review the constitutionality of a President's decision on
whether to recognize a foreign government. Finally, because the action involves the President's administration
of foreign affairs, the prudential elements of the political question doctrine also indicate that the court should
dismiss the action as nonjusticiable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 225

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1515 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the
employee reside and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for
unpaid wages within 10 days of filing.  

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy
petition in federal bankruptcy court. In the bankruptcy proceeding, the employer sought to stay further
proceedings in the unpaid wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files
a federal bankruptcy petition receives an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and
state courts. No other federal laws apply.  

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the
imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim in the state court? 

A: Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.
B: Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.
C: Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.
D: Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Congress's power to provide for the general welfare authorizes only taxing and spending laws.
Because the statute requiring the imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim concerns neither taxing nor
spending, it is not authorized by the general welfare clause.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

B is correct. Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional
basis for a federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal
bankruptcy petition.  

C is incorrect. The constitutional provisions that give Congress the power to regulate the jurisdiction and
procedures of federal courts do not authorize Congress to regulate state courts.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

D is incorrect. A federal statute providing for a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a
federal bankruptcy petition is not authorized by the commerce clause, because it is not a regulation of the
channels or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, nor does it regulate an economic or commercial activity.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 226

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1515 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the
employee reside and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for
unpaid wages within 10 days of filing.  

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy
petition in federal bankruptcy court. In the bankruptcy proceeding, the employer sought to stay further
proceedings in the unpaid wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files
a federal bankruptcy petition receives an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and
state courts. No other federal laws apply.  

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the
imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim in the state court? 

A: Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.
B: Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.
C: Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.
D: Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Congress's power to provide for the general welfare authorizes only taxing and spending laws.
Because the statute requiring the imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim concerns neither taxing nor
spending, it is not authorized by the general welfare clause.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

B is correct. Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional
basis for a federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal
bankruptcy petition.  

C is incorrect. The constitutional provisions that give Congress the power to regulate the jurisdiction and
procedures of federal courts do not authorize Congress to regulate state courts.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

D is incorrect. A federal statute providing for a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a
federal bankruptcy petition is not authorized by the commerce clause, because it is not a regulation of the
channels or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, nor does it regulate an economic or commercial activity.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 227

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1515 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the
employee reside and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for
unpaid wages within 10 days of filing.  

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy
petition in federal bankruptcy court. In the bankruptcy proceeding, the employer sought to stay further
proceedings in the unpaid wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files
a federal bankruptcy petition receives an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and
state courts. No other federal laws apply.  

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the
imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim in the state court? 

A: Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.
B: Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.
C: Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.
D: Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Congress's power to provide for the general welfare authorizes only taxing and spending laws.
Because the statute requiring the imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim concerns neither taxing nor
spending, it is not authorized by the general welfare clause.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

B is correct. Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional
basis for a federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal
bankruptcy petition.  

C is incorrect. The constitutional provisions that give Congress the power to regulate the jurisdiction and
procedures of federal courts do not authorize Congress to regulate state courts.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

D is incorrect. A federal statute providing for a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a
federal bankruptcy petition is not authorized by the commerce clause, because it is not a regulation of the
channels or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, nor does it regulate an economic or commercial activity.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 228

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1515 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the
employee reside and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for
unpaid wages within 10 days of filing.  

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy
petition in federal bankruptcy court. In the bankruptcy proceeding, the employer sought to stay further
proceedings in the unpaid wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files
a federal bankruptcy petition receives an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and
state courts. No other federal laws apply.  

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the
imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim in the state court? 

A: Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.
B: Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.
C: Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.
D: Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Congress's power to provide for the general welfare authorizes only taxing and spending laws.
Because the statute requiring the imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim concerns neither taxing nor
spending, it is not authorized by the general welfare clause.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

B is correct. Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional
basis for a federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal
bankruptcy petition.  

C is incorrect. The constitutional provisions that give Congress the power to regulate the jurisdiction and
procedures of federal courts do not authorize Congress to regulate state courts.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

D is incorrect. A federal statute providing for a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a
federal bankruptcy petition is not authorized by the commerce clause, because it is not a regulation of the
channels or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, nor does it regulate an economic or commercial activity.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 229

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1515 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

An employer owed an employee $200 in unpaid wages. A law of the state in which the employer and the
employee reside and in which the employee works provides that the courts of that state must decide claims for
unpaid wages within 10 days of filing.  

After the employee filed a claim in state court pursuant to this law, the employer filed a voluntary bankruptcy
petition in federal bankruptcy court. In the bankruptcy proceeding, the employer sought to stay further
proceedings in the unpaid wages claim on the basis of a federal statute which provides that a person who files
a federal bankruptcy petition receives an automatic stay of all proceedings against him or her in all federal and
state courts. No other federal laws apply.  

In addition to the supremacy clause of Article VI, what is the most obvious constitutional basis for the
imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim in the state court? 

A: Congress's power to provide for the general welfare.
B: Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy.
C: Congress's power to regulate the jurisdiction and procedures of the courts.
D: Congress's power to regulate commerce among the states.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Congress's power to provide for the general welfare authorizes only taxing and spending laws.
Because the statute requiring the imposition of a stay of the unpaid wages claim concerns neither taxing nor
spending, it is not authorized by the general welfare clause.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

B is correct. Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional
basis for a federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal
bankruptcy petition.  

C is incorrect. The constitutional provisions that give Congress the power to regulate the jurisdiction and
procedures of federal courts do not authorize Congress to regulate state courts.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.  

D is incorrect. A federal statute providing for a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a
federal bankruptcy petition is not authorized by the commerce clause, because it is not a regulation of the
channels or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, nor does it regulate an economic or commercial activity.  

Congress's power to provide uniform rules of bankruptcy offers the most obvious constitutional basis for a
federal statute requiring a stay of court proceedings against a person who has filed a federal bankruptcy
petition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 230

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1522 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute directing U.S. ambassadors to send formal letters to the governments of their host
countries, protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The
President prefers to handle violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed
ambassadors not to comply with the statute.  

Is the President's action constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the
President.
B: No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute
is binding on the President.
C: Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.
D: Yes, because the President and his subordinates are the exclusive official representatives of the United
States in foreign affairs.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Although Congress has the power, under the necessary and proper clause, to enact legislation
in support of treaties, the President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute
intrudes on that authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

B is incorrect. Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, but this statute does not
concern commercial relationships between the United States and foreign nations. The President's action is
constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to
represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes on that authority, it is
unconstitutional and has no effect.  

C is incorrect. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress several powers concerning matters outside the U.S.
borders, including the power to declare war and the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
However, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to represent
the United States in foreign affairs, the President's action is constitutional. Because the statute intrudes on the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

D is correct. The President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes
on the President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 231

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1522 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute directing U.S. ambassadors to send formal letters to the governments of their host
countries, protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The
President prefers to handle violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed
ambassadors not to comply with the statute.  

Is the President's action constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the
President.
B: No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute
is binding on the President.
C: Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.
D: Yes, because the President and his subordinates are the exclusive official representatives of the United
States in foreign affairs.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Although Congress has the power, under the necessary and proper clause, to enact legislation
in support of treaties, the President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute
intrudes on that authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

B is incorrect. Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, but this statute does not
concern commercial relationships between the United States and foreign nations. The President's action is
constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to
represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes on that authority, it is
unconstitutional and has no effect.  

C is incorrect. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress several powers concerning matters outside the U.S.
borders, including the power to declare war and the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
However, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to represent
the United States in foreign affairs, the President's action is constitutional. Because the statute intrudes on the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

D is correct. The President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes
on the President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 232

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1522 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute directing U.S. ambassadors to send formal letters to the governments of their host
countries, protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The
President prefers to handle violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed
ambassadors not to comply with the statute.  

Is the President's action constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the
President.
B: No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute
is binding on the President.
C: Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.
D: Yes, because the President and his subordinates are the exclusive official representatives of the United
States in foreign affairs.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Although Congress has the power, under the necessary and proper clause, to enact legislation
in support of treaties, the President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute
intrudes on that authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

B is incorrect. Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, but this statute does not
concern commercial relationships between the United States and foreign nations. The President's action is
constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to
represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes on that authority, it is
unconstitutional and has no effect.  

C is incorrect. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress several powers concerning matters outside the U.S.
borders, including the power to declare war and the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
However, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to represent
the United States in foreign affairs, the President's action is constitutional. Because the statute intrudes on the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

D is correct. The President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes
on the President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 233

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1522 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute directing U.S. ambassadors to send formal letters to the governments of their host
countries, protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The
President prefers to handle violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed
ambassadors not to comply with the statute.  

Is the President's action constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the
President.
B: No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute
is binding on the President.
C: Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.
D: Yes, because the President and his subordinates are the exclusive official representatives of the United
States in foreign affairs.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Although Congress has the power, under the necessary and proper clause, to enact legislation
in support of treaties, the President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute
intrudes on that authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

B is incorrect. Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, but this statute does not
concern commercial relationships between the United States and foreign nations. The President's action is
constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to
represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes on that authority, it is
unconstitutional and has no effect.  

C is incorrect. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress several powers concerning matters outside the U.S.
borders, including the power to declare war and the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
However, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to represent
the United States in foreign affairs, the President's action is constitutional. Because the statute intrudes on the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

D is correct. The President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes
on the President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 234

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1522 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute directing U.S. ambassadors to send formal letters to the governments of their host
countries, protesting any violations by those governments of international treaties on weapons sales. The
President prefers to handle violations by certain countries in a less formal manner and has directed
ambassadors not to comply with the statute.  

Is the President's action constitutional? 

A: No, because Congress has the power to implement treaties, and therefore the statute is binding on the
President.
B: No, because Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and therefore the statute
is binding on the President.
C: Yes, because Congress has no jurisdiction over matters outside the U.S. borders.
D: Yes, because the President and his subordinates are the exclusive official representatives of the United
States in foreign affairs.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Although Congress has the power, under the necessary and proper clause, to enact legislation
in support of treaties, the President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that
the President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute
intrudes on that authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

B is incorrect. Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, but this statute does not
concern commercial relationships between the United States and foreign nations. The President's action is
constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to
represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes on that authority, it is
unconstitutional and has no effect.  

C is incorrect. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress several powers concerning matters outside the U.S.
borders, including the power to declare war and the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations.
However, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the President alone has the authority to represent
the United States in foreign affairs, the President's action is constitutional. Because the statute intrudes on the
President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.  

D is correct. The President's action is constitutional, because the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the
President alone has the authority to represent the United States in foreign affairs. Because the statute intrudes
on the President's authority, it is unconstitutional and has no effect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 235

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1526 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the
United States in liberating a particular foreign nation during World War II. Another statute appropriated $3
million for the construction. When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign
nation, the President announced that he was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not
spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason for the President's decision was the trade dispute,
the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the federal deficit.  

Assume that no other statutes apply.  

Is the President's decision constitutional? 

A: No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.
B: No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.
C: Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.
D: Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutionality of the President's decision does not depend on whether he invoked a
constitutional power to support the decision. While it is correct that the decision is unconstitutional, it is so
because Article II of the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed.
Because the appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide
by the requirements of the statute.  

B is correct. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.  

C is incorrect. The Constitution does not give the President power to control federal expenditures by refusing
to authorize spending directed by Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of
the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the
appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the
requirements of the statute.  

D is incorrect. The President's foreign affairs powers do not justify his refusal to authorize spending directed by
Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 236

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1526 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the
United States in liberating a particular foreign nation during World War II. Another statute appropriated $3
million for the construction. When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign
nation, the President announced that he was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not
spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason for the President's decision was the trade dispute,
the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the federal deficit.  

Assume that no other statutes apply.  

Is the President's decision constitutional? 

A: No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.
B: No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.
C: Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.
D: Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutionality of the President's decision does not depend on whether he invoked a
constitutional power to support the decision. While it is correct that the decision is unconstitutional, it is so
because Article II of the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed.
Because the appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide
by the requirements of the statute.  

B is correct. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.  

C is incorrect. The Constitution does not give the President power to control federal expenditures by refusing
to authorize spending directed by Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of
the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the
appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the
requirements of the statute.  

D is incorrect. The President's foreign affairs powers do not justify his refusal to authorize spending directed by
Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 237

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1526 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the
United States in liberating a particular foreign nation during World War II. Another statute appropriated $3
million for the construction. When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign
nation, the President announced that he was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not
spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason for the President's decision was the trade dispute,
the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the federal deficit.  

Assume that no other statutes apply.  

Is the President's decision constitutional? 

A: No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.
B: No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.
C: Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.
D: Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutionality of the President's decision does not depend on whether he invoked a
constitutional power to support the decision. While it is correct that the decision is unconstitutional, it is so
because Article II of the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed.
Because the appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide
by the requirements of the statute.  

B is correct. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.  

C is incorrect. The Constitution does not give the President power to control federal expenditures by refusing
to authorize spending directed by Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of
the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the
appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the
requirements of the statute.  

D is incorrect. The President's foreign affairs powers do not justify his refusal to authorize spending directed by
Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 238

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1526 - Constitutional Law - Separation of Powers

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that authorized the construction of a monument commemorating the role of the
United States in liberating a particular foreign nation during World War II. Another statute appropriated $3
million for the construction. When the United States became involved in a bitter trade dispute with the foreign
nation, the President announced that he was canceling the monument's construction and that he would not
spend the appropriated funds. Although the actual reason for the President's decision was the trade dispute,
the announcement stated that the reason was an unexpected rise in the federal deficit.  

Assume that no other statutes apply.  

Is the President's decision constitutional? 

A: No, because the President failed to invoke his foreign affairs powers in his announcement.
B: No, because the President is obligated to spend funds in accordance with congressional directions.
C: Yes, because the President is vested with inherent executive power to control federal expenditures.
D: Yes, because the President's decision is a valid exercise of his foreign affairs powers.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The constitutionality of the President's decision does not depend on whether he invoked a
constitutional power to support the decision. While it is correct that the decision is unconstitutional, it is so
because Article II of the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed.
Because the appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide
by the requirements of the statute.  

B is correct. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.  

C is incorrect. The Constitution does not give the President power to control federal expenditures by refusing
to authorize spending directed by Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of
the Constitution obligates the President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the
appropriations statute is a valid exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the
requirements of the statute.  

D is incorrect. The President's foreign affairs powers do not justify his refusal to authorize spending directed by
Congress. The President's decision is unconstitutional, because Article II of the Constitution obligates the
President to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. Because the appropriations statute is a valid
exercise of Congress's spending power, the President must abide by the requirements of the statute.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 239

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A motorist who resided in State A was severely injured in a traffic accident that occurred in State B. The other
vehicle involved in the accident was a truck owned by a furniture manufacturer and driven by one of its
employees. The manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it
has no office, plant, or agent for service of process there.  

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer
appeared specially to contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the
manufacturer by virtue of State A's long-arm statute.  

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a
basis for reducing an award of damages but not for denying recovery altogether. Under State B law,
contributory negligence is a complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its
negligence was a cause of the motorist's injuries. It also found that the motorist was negligent, though to a
lesser degree than the manufacturer, and that the motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned
a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million in damages.  

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on
jurisdiction and in its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal
constitutional claims pertinent to these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's
judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.  

The motorist has brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State B to collect on the
judgment. The manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.  

How should the State B court rule? 

A: For the manufacturer, because a judgment entered by a court that lacks jurisdiction over one of the parties
is not entitled to full faith and credit, and the State A court could not constitutionally assert jurisdiction over the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.
B: For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State
B law to an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.
C: For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State
A court, and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.
D: For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest
court in State A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The jurisdiction of the State A court was litigated in the State A court, and the ruling by that court
in favor of jurisdiction is final and must be recognized by the State B court. The State B court should rule for
the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to
recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is
final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

B is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates states to recognize laws enacted by
other states, but it does not obligate a state court to apply the laws of another state in cases before it. The
State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates
the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the
judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

C is correct. The State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other
state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 240

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

D is incorrect. The Supreme Court's denial of certiorari is not a ruling on the merits of the case; it is simply a
decision not to review the case. The State B court should rule for the motorist, however, because the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the
courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and
credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 241

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A motorist who resided in State A was severely injured in a traffic accident that occurred in State B. The other
vehicle involved in the accident was a truck owned by a furniture manufacturer and driven by one of its
employees. The manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it
has no office, plant, or agent for service of process there.  

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer
appeared specially to contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the
manufacturer by virtue of State A's long-arm statute.  

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a
basis for reducing an award of damages but not for denying recovery altogether. Under State B law,
contributory negligence is a complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its
negligence was a cause of the motorist's injuries. It also found that the motorist was negligent, though to a
lesser degree than the manufacturer, and that the motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned
a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million in damages.  

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on
jurisdiction and in its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal
constitutional claims pertinent to these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's
judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.  

The motorist has brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State B to collect on the
judgment. The manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.  

How should the State B court rule? 

A: For the manufacturer, because a judgment entered by a court that lacks jurisdiction over one of the parties
is not entitled to full faith and credit, and the State A court could not constitutionally assert jurisdiction over the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.
B: For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State
B law to an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.
C: For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State
A court, and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.
D: For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest
court in State A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The jurisdiction of the State A court was litigated in the State A court, and the ruling by that court
in favor of jurisdiction is final and must be recognized by the State B court. The State B court should rule for
the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to
recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is
final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

B is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates states to recognize laws enacted by
other states, but it does not obligate a state court to apply the laws of another state in cases before it. The
State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates
the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the
judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

C is correct. The State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other
state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 242

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

D is incorrect. The Supreme Court's denial of certiorari is not a ruling on the merits of the case; it is simply a
decision not to review the case. The State B court should rule for the motorist, however, because the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the
courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and
credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 243

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A motorist who resided in State A was severely injured in a traffic accident that occurred in State B. The other
vehicle involved in the accident was a truck owned by a furniture manufacturer and driven by one of its
employees. The manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it
has no office, plant, or agent for service of process there.  

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer
appeared specially to contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the
manufacturer by virtue of State A's long-arm statute.  

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a
basis for reducing an award of damages but not for denying recovery altogether. Under State B law,
contributory negligence is a complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its
negligence was a cause of the motorist's injuries. It also found that the motorist was negligent, though to a
lesser degree than the manufacturer, and that the motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned
a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million in damages.  

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on
jurisdiction and in its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal
constitutional claims pertinent to these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's
judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.  

The motorist has brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State B to collect on the
judgment. The manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.  

How should the State B court rule? 

A: For the manufacturer, because a judgment entered by a court that lacks jurisdiction over one of the parties
is not entitled to full faith and credit, and the State A court could not constitutionally assert jurisdiction over the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.
B: For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State
B law to an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.
C: For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State
A court, and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.
D: For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest
court in State A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The jurisdiction of the State A court was litigated in the State A court, and the ruling by that court
in favor of jurisdiction is final and must be recognized by the State B court. The State B court should rule for
the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to
recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is
final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

B is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates states to recognize laws enacted by
other states, but it does not obligate a state court to apply the laws of another state in cases before it. The
State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates
the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the
judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

C is correct. The State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other
state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 244

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

D is incorrect. The Supreme Court's denial of certiorari is not a ruling on the merits of the case; it is simply a
decision not to review the case. The State B court should rule for the motorist, however, because the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the
courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and
credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 245

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A motorist who resided in State A was severely injured in a traffic accident that occurred in State B. The other
vehicle involved in the accident was a truck owned by a furniture manufacturer and driven by one of its
employees. The manufacturer's headquarters are in State B. Its products are sold by retailers in State A, but it
has no office, plant, or agent for service of process there.  

The motorist brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State A. The manufacturer
appeared specially to contest that court's jurisdiction over it. The court ruled that it had jurisdiction over the
manufacturer by virtue of State A's long-arm statute.  

At trial, the court instructed the jury to apply State A law, under which a plaintiff's contributory negligence is a
basis for reducing an award of damages but not for denying recovery altogether. Under State B law,
contributory negligence is a complete defense. The jury found that the manufacturer was negligent and that its
negligence was a cause of the motorist's injuries. It also found that the motorist was negligent, though to a
lesser degree than the manufacturer, and that the motorist's negligence contributed to the accident. It returned
a verdict in favor of the motorist and awarded her $1 million in damages.  

The manufacturer appealed the judgment entered on this verdict, asserting error in the court's ruling on
jurisdiction and in its application of State A law instead of State B law. The manufacturer raised all federal
constitutional claims pertinent to these claims of error. The highest court in State A affirmed the trial court's
judgment, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied the manufacturer's petition for a writ of certiorari.  

The motorist has brought an action against the manufacturer in a state court in State B to collect on the
judgment. The manufacturer has defended on all relevant federal constitutional grounds.  

How should the State B court rule? 

A: For the manufacturer, because a judgment entered by a court that lacks jurisdiction over one of the parties
is not entitled to full faith and credit, and the State A court could not constitutionally assert jurisdiction over the
manufacturer because of the manufacturer's lack of a presence in that state.
B: For the manufacturer, because the State A court was bound by the full faith and credit clause to apply State
B law to an accident that occurred in State B and in which a State B company was involved.
C: For the motorist, because the manufacturer litigated the issues of jurisdiction and choice of law in the State
A court, and the final judgment of that court is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.
D: For the motorist, because the Supreme Court's denial of certiorari to review the judgment of the highest
court in State A conclusively establishes that the manufacturer's federal constitutional claims are invalid.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The jurisdiction of the State A court was litigated in the State A court, and the ruling by that court
in favor of jurisdiction is final and must be recognized by the State B court. The State B court should rule for
the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to
recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is
final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

B is incorrect. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates states to recognize laws enacted by
other states, but it does not obligate a state court to apply the laws of another state in cases before it. The
State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution obligates
the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other state. Because the
judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.  

C is correct. The State B court should rule for the motorist, because the full faith and credit clause of the
Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the courts of every other
state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 246

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1535 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

D is incorrect. The Supreme Court's denial of certiorari is not a ruling on the merits of the case; it is simply a
decision not to review the case. The State B court should rule for the motorist, however, because the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution obligates the courts of each state to recognize the final judgments of the
courts of every other state. Because the judgment of the State A court is final, it is entitled to full faith and
credit in the State B court.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 247

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers
who had been unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to
fund loans made pursuant to the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which
applicants were to receive the loans.  

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency
officials promptly reviewed her application and summarily denied it.  

The farmer has sued the agency in federal district court, claiming only that the denial of her application without
the opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that
she could have proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her
farm.  

Should the court uphold the agency's decision? 

A: No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual
determination that adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.
B: No, because the denial of a loan may deprive the farmer of an established liberty interest to pursue her
chosen occupation.
C: Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.
D: Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the
distribution of appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The due process clause obligates agencies to provide an individual with an opportunity for a
hearing only when the agency makes an adjudicatory decision that deprives the individual of a property or
liberty interest that is protected by the clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial
of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.  

B is incorrect. The farmer's decision to pursue her chosen occupation does not qualify as a liberty interest
protected by the due process clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process
clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on
her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the
agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's
loan application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process
clause.  

C is correct. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process clause does not require
the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on her loan application. The
farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the agency discretion to
decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's application therefore did
not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process clause.  

D is incorrect. Although Congress has broad authority to control the distribution of appropriated funds, that
authority is subject to many constitutional limitations on the legislative power, including the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. While the court should uphold the agency's decision, it should do so because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 248

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 249

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers
who had been unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to
fund loans made pursuant to the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which
applicants were to receive the loans.  

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency
officials promptly reviewed her application and summarily denied it.  

The farmer has sued the agency in federal district court, claiming only that the denial of her application without
the opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that
she could have proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her
farm.  

Should the court uphold the agency's decision? 

A: No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual
determination that adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.
B: No, because the denial of a loan may deprive the farmer of an established liberty interest to pursue her
chosen occupation.
C: Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.
D: Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the
distribution of appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The due process clause obligates agencies to provide an individual with an opportunity for a
hearing only when the agency makes an adjudicatory decision that deprives the individual of a property or
liberty interest that is protected by the clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial
of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.  

B is incorrect. The farmer's decision to pursue her chosen occupation does not qualify as a liberty interest
protected by the due process clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process
clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on
her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the
agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's
loan application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process
clause.  

C is correct. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process clause does not require
the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on her loan application. The
farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the agency discretion to
decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's application therefore did
not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process clause.  

D is incorrect. Although Congress has broad authority to control the distribution of appropriated funds, that
authority is subject to many constitutional limitations on the legislative power, including the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. While the court should uphold the agency's decision, it should do so because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 250

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 251

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers
who had been unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to
fund loans made pursuant to the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which
applicants were to receive the loans.  

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency
officials promptly reviewed her application and summarily denied it.  

The farmer has sued the agency in federal district court, claiming only that the denial of her application without
the opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that
she could have proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her
farm.  

Should the court uphold the agency's decision? 

A: No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual
determination that adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.
B: No, because the denial of a loan may deprive the farmer of an established liberty interest to pursue her
chosen occupation.
C: Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.
D: Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the
distribution of appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The due process clause obligates agencies to provide an individual with an opportunity for a
hearing only when the agency makes an adjudicatory decision that deprives the individual of a property or
liberty interest that is protected by the clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial
of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.  

B is incorrect. The farmer's decision to pursue her chosen occupation does not qualify as a liberty interest
protected by the due process clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process
clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on
her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the
agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's
loan application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process
clause.  

C is correct. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process clause does not require
the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on her loan application. The
farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the agency discretion to
decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's application therefore did
not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process clause.  

D is incorrect. Although Congress has broad authority to control the distribution of appropriated funds, that
authority is subject to many constitutional limitations on the legislative power, including the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. While the court should uphold the agency's decision, it should do so because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 252

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 253

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress recently enacted a statute creating a program that made federal loans available to family farmers
who had been unable to obtain loans from private lenders. Congress appropriated a fixed sum of money to
fund loans made pursuant to the program and gave a designated federal agency discretion to decide which
applicants were to receive the loans.  

Two weeks after the program was established, a family farmer applied to the agency for a loan. Agency
officials promptly reviewed her application and summarily denied it.  

The farmer has sued the agency in federal district court, claiming only that the denial of her application without
the opportunity for a hearing violated the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. The farmer claims that
she could have proved at such a hearing that without the federal loan it would be necessary for her to sell her
farm.  

Should the court uphold the agency's decision? 

A: No, because due process requires federal agencies to provide a hearing before making any factual
determination that adversely affects an identified individual on the basis of his or her particular circumstances.
B: No, because the denial of a loan may deprive the farmer of an established liberty interest to pursue her
chosen occupation.
C: Yes, because the applicable statute gives the farmer no legitimate claim of entitlement to receive a loan.
D: Yes , because the spending clause of Article I, Section 8, gives Congress plenary power to control the
distribution of appropriated funds in any manner it wishes.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The due process clause obligates agencies to provide an individual with an opportunity for a
hearing only when the agency makes an adjudicatory decision that deprives the individual of a property or
liberty interest that is protected by the clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial
of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.  

B is incorrect. The farmer's decision to pursue her chosen occupation does not qualify as a liberty interest
protected by the due process clause. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process
clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on
her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the
agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's
loan application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process
clause.  

C is correct. The court should uphold the agency's decision, because the due process clause does not require
the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative hearing on her loan application. The
farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the statute gave the agency discretion to
decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial of the farmer's application therefore did
not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due process clause.  

D is incorrect. Although Congress has broad authority to control the distribution of appropriated funds, that
authority is subject to many constitutional limitations on the legislative power, including the due process clause
of the Fifth Amendment. While the court should uphold the agency's decision, it should do so because the due
process clause does not require the government to provide the farmer an opportunity for an administrative
hearing on her loan application. The farmer had no legitimate claim of entitlement to a loan, because the
statute gave the agency discretion to decide which applicants were to receive the loans. The agency's denial

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 254

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1538 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

of the farmer's application therefore did not deprive her of a property or liberty interest protected by the due
process clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 255

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 256

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 257

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 258

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 259

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 260

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1540 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law provides that only U.S. citizens may serve as jurors in the state courts of that state. A woman who
is a lawful resident alien and who has resided in the state for many years was summoned for jury duty in a
state court. The woman's name was selected from a list of potential jurors that was compiled from a
comprehensive list of local residents. She was disqualified from service solely because she is not a U.S.
citizen.  

The woman has filed an action for a declaratory judgment that the state law is unconstitutional.  

Who should prevail in this action? 

A: The state, because a state may limit to U.S. citizens functions that are an integral part of the process of
self-government.
B: The state, because jury service is a privilege, not a right, and therefore it is not a liberty interest protected
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
C: The woman, because the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to make classifications with respect to
aliens.
D: The woman, because the state has not articulated a legitimate reason for prohibiting resident aliens from
serving as jurors in the state's courts.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.  

B is incorrect. Application of the due process clause no longer turns on whether the individual interest involved
is a right or a privilege. In any event, the woman's constitutional challenge to the state law should be based on
the equal protection clause rather than on the due process clause. While the state should prevail, it is because
the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that
only citizens perform functions that are central to self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to
state laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications
restrict the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office,
or serving on a jury.  

C is incorrect. Although the Constitution gives Congress plenary power to control immigration, states may
exercise their police powers to regulate the conduct of aliens within their borders unless the regulation is
preempted by federal law or otherwise violates the Constitution. While strict scrutiny generally applies to state
laws that discriminate against aliens, rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict
the right to participate in functions that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or
serving on a jury. The state should prevail here, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government.  

D is incorrect. The state should prevail, because the law excluding aliens from jury service is rationally related
to the state's legitimate interest in ensuring that only citizens perform functions that are central to
self-government. Although strict scrutiny generally applies to state laws that discriminate against aliens,
rational basis scrutiny is appropriate when alienage classifications restrict the right to participate in functions
that are central to self-government, such as voting, running for office, or serving on a jury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 261

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1545 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer,
to post on the Internet any information concerning the employer." The purpose of the statute was to prevent
employees from revealing their employers' trade secrets.  

Is the statute constitutional? 

A: No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.
C: Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.
D: Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets
speech based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

B is incorrect. The statute does target one medium of communication--Internet postings--and this focus may
cause a court to look more closely at the restriction when evaluating its constitutionality. However, a statute
does not violate the First Amendment simply because it targets a particular medium. In this case, the statute
violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it targets speech based on its
content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the employer" on the Internet.
Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech
restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to further
a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in preventing employees from revealing
trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive
means to protect trade secrets.  

C is incorrect. The statute leaves open channels of communication other than the Internet, but this fact does
not save the statute. The availability of ample alternative channels of communication is an element of the First
Amendment test for evaluating speech restrictions that are content-neutral, but it is not as important with
respect to content-based restrictions. In this case, the statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment because it targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only
"information concerning the employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on
speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government
must prove that the restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the
government's interest in preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling,
Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

D is incorrect. The statute may prevent employees from engaging in unethical conduct, but this fact does not
save the statute. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it
targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 262

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1545 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer,
to post on the Internet any information concerning the employer." The purpose of the statute was to prevent
employees from revealing their employers' trade secrets.  

Is the statute constitutional? 

A: No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.
C: Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.
D: Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets
speech based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

B is incorrect. The statute does target one medium of communication--Internet postings--and this focus may
cause a court to look more closely at the restriction when evaluating its constitutionality. However, a statute
does not violate the First Amendment simply because it targets a particular medium. In this case, the statute
violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it targets speech based on its
content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the employer" on the Internet.
Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech
restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to further
a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in preventing employees from revealing
trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive
means to protect trade secrets.  

C is incorrect. The statute leaves open channels of communication other than the Internet, but this fact does
not save the statute. The availability of ample alternative channels of communication is an element of the First
Amendment test for evaluating speech restrictions that are content-neutral, but it is not as important with
respect to content-based restrictions. In this case, the statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment because it targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only
"information concerning the employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on
speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government
must prove that the restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the
government's interest in preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling,
Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

D is incorrect. The statute may prevent employees from engaging in unethical conduct, but this fact does not
save the statute. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it
targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 263

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1545 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer,
to post on the Internet any information concerning the employer." The purpose of the statute was to prevent
employees from revealing their employers' trade secrets.  

Is the statute constitutional? 

A: No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.
C: Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.
D: Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets
speech based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

B is incorrect. The statute does target one medium of communication--Internet postings--and this focus may
cause a court to look more closely at the restriction when evaluating its constitutionality. However, a statute
does not violate the First Amendment simply because it targets a particular medium. In this case, the statute
violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it targets speech based on its
content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the employer" on the Internet.
Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech
restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to further
a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in preventing employees from revealing
trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive
means to protect trade secrets.  

C is incorrect. The statute leaves open channels of communication other than the Internet, but this fact does
not save the statute. The availability of ample alternative channels of communication is an element of the First
Amendment test for evaluating speech restrictions that are content-neutral, but it is not as important with
respect to content-based restrictions. In this case, the statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment because it targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only
"information concerning the employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on
speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government
must prove that the restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the
government's interest in preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling,
Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

D is incorrect. The statute may prevent employees from engaging in unethical conduct, but this fact does not
save the statute. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it
targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 264

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1545 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer,
to post on the Internet any information concerning the employer." The purpose of the statute was to prevent
employees from revealing their employers' trade secrets.  

Is the statute constitutional? 

A: No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.
C: Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.
D: Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets
speech based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

B is incorrect. The statute does target one medium of communication--Internet postings--and this focus may
cause a court to look more closely at the restriction when evaluating its constitutionality. However, a statute
does not violate the First Amendment simply because it targets a particular medium. In this case, the statute
violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it targets speech based on its
content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the employer" on the Internet.
Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech
restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to further
a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in preventing employees from revealing
trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive
means to protect trade secrets.  

C is incorrect. The statute leaves open channels of communication other than the Internet, but this fact does
not save the statute. The availability of ample alternative channels of communication is an element of the First
Amendment test for evaluating speech restrictions that are content-neutral, but it is not as important with
respect to content-based restrictions. In this case, the statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment because it targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only
"information concerning the employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on
speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government
must prove that the restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the
government's interest in preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling,
Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

D is incorrect. The statute may prevent employees from engaging in unethical conduct, but this fact does not
save the statute. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it
targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 265

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1545 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

Congress enacted a statute that made it illegal for "any employee, without the consent of his or her employer,
to post on the Internet any information concerning the employer." The purpose of the statute was to prevent
employees from revealing their employers' trade secrets.  

Is the statute constitutional? 

A: No, because it is not narrowly tailored to further a compelling government interest.
B: No, because it targets a particular medium of communication for special regulation.
C: Yes, because it leaves open ample alternative channels of communication.
D: Yes, because it prevents employees from engaging in unethical conduct.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The statute targets
speech based on its content, because it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

B is incorrect. The statute does target one medium of communication--Internet postings--and this focus may
cause a court to look more closely at the restriction when evaluating its constitutionality. However, a statute
does not violate the First Amendment simply because it targets a particular medium. In this case, the statute
violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it targets speech based on its
content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the employer" on the Internet.
Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech
restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the restriction is necessary to further
a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in preventing employees from revealing
trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive
means to protect trade secrets.  

C is incorrect. The statute leaves open channels of communication other than the Internet, but this fact does
not save the statute. The availability of ample alternative channels of communication is an element of the First
Amendment test for evaluating speech restrictions that are content-neutral, but it is not as important with
respect to content-based restrictions. In this case, the statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the
First Amendment because it targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only
"information concerning the employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on
speech, it is subject to strict judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government
must prove that the restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the
government's interest in preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling,
Congress could enact legislation utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.  

D is incorrect. The statute may prevent employees from engaging in unethical conduct, but this fact does not
save the statute. The statute violates the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment because it
targets speech based on its content; it prohibits employees from posting only "information concerning the
employer" on the Internet. Because the statute is a content-based restriction on speech, it is subject to strict
judicial scrutiny. Speech restrictions rarely survive strict scrutiny; the government must prove that the
restriction is necessary to further a compelling government interest. Even if the government's interest in
preventing employees from revealing trade secrets were deemed compelling, Congress could enact legislation
utilizing less speech-restrictive means to protect trade secrets.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.









Page 266

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1553 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to
their rates, cash reserves, and financial practices.  

A privately owned insurance company operating within the state advertised that it wanted to hire a new data
processor. After reviewing applications for that position, the company hired a woman who appeared to be well
qualified. The company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman,
because he was known to have radical political views.  

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of
expression.  

Is the man likely to prevail?  

A: No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.
B: No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
C: Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.
D: Yes, because the company is substantially regulated by the state, and thus its employment decisions may
fairly be attributed to the state.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The First Amendment applies to discretionary decisions of governments and government
officials. The man is unlikely to prevail, but it is because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

B is correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

C is incorrect. The question whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments apply to the actions of a privately
owned company does not turn on whether the company is affected with a public interest. The man is unlikely
to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments
and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.  

D is incorrect. The fact that the company is substantially regulated by the state does not make the company's
actions subject to the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and
Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to
the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 267

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1553 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to
their rates, cash reserves, and financial practices.  

A privately owned insurance company operating within the state advertised that it wanted to hire a new data
processor. After reviewing applications for that position, the company hired a woman who appeared to be well
qualified. The company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman,
because he was known to have radical political views.  

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of
expression.  

Is the man likely to prevail?  

A: No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.
B: No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
C: Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.
D: Yes, because the company is substantially regulated by the state, and thus its employment decisions may
fairly be attributed to the state.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The First Amendment applies to discretionary decisions of governments and government
officials. The man is unlikely to prevail, but it is because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

B is correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

C is incorrect. The question whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments apply to the actions of a privately
owned company does not turn on whether the company is affected with a public interest. The man is unlikely
to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments
and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.  

D is incorrect. The fact that the company is substantially regulated by the state does not make the company's
actions subject to the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and
Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to
the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 268

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1553 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to
their rates, cash reserves, and financial practices.  

A privately owned insurance company operating within the state advertised that it wanted to hire a new data
processor. After reviewing applications for that position, the company hired a woman who appeared to be well
qualified. The company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman,
because he was known to have radical political views.  

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of
expression.  

Is the man likely to prevail?  

A: No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.
B: No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
C: Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.
D: Yes, because the company is substantially regulated by the state, and thus its employment decisions may
fairly be attributed to the state.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The First Amendment applies to discretionary decisions of governments and government
officials. The man is unlikely to prevail, but it is because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

B is correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

C is incorrect. The question whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments apply to the actions of a privately
owned company does not turn on whether the company is affected with a public interest. The man is unlikely
to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments
and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.  

D is incorrect. The fact that the company is substantially regulated by the state does not make the company's
actions subject to the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and
Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to
the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 269

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1553 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to
their rates, cash reserves, and financial practices.  

A privately owned insurance company operating within the state advertised that it wanted to hire a new data
processor. After reviewing applications for that position, the company hired a woman who appeared to be well
qualified. The company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman,
because he was known to have radical political views.  

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of
expression.  

Is the man likely to prevail?  

A: No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.
B: No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
C: Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.
D: Yes, because the company is substantially regulated by the state, and thus its employment decisions may
fairly be attributed to the state.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The First Amendment applies to discretionary decisions of governments and government
officials. The man is unlikely to prevail, but it is because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

B is correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

C is incorrect. The question whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments apply to the actions of a privately
owned company does not turn on whether the company is affected with a public interest. The man is unlikely
to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments
and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.  

D is incorrect. The fact that the company is substantially regulated by the state does not make the company's
actions subject to the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and
Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to
the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 270

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1553 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A state law imposed substantial regulations on insurance companies operating within the state with respect to
their rates, cash reserves, and financial practices.  

A privately owned insurance company operating within the state advertised that it wanted to hire a new data
processor. After reviewing applications for that position, the company hired a woman who appeared to be well
qualified. The company refused to consider the application of a man who was better qualified than the woman,
because he was known to have radical political views.  

The man sued the company, alleging only a violation of his federal constitutional right to freedom of
expression.  

Is the man likely to prevail?  

A: No, because hiring decisions are wholly discretionary and thus are not governed by the First Amendment.
B: No, because the company is not subject to the provisions of the First and Fourteenth Amendments.
C: Yes, because the company is affected with a public interest.
D: Yes, because the company is substantially regulated by the state, and thus its employment decisions may
fairly be attributed to the state.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The First Amendment applies to discretionary decisions of governments and government
officials. The man is unlikely to prevail, but it is because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

B is correct. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply
only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies
such as the insurance company.  

C is incorrect. The question whether the First and Fourteenth Amendments apply to the actions of a privately
owned company does not turn on whether the company is affected with a public interest. The man is unlikely
to prevail, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments
and government officials, not to the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.  

D is incorrect. The fact that the company is substantially regulated by the state does not make the company's
actions subject to the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The man is unlikely to prevail, because the First and
Fourteenth Amendments generally apply only to the actions of governments and government officials, not to
the actions of privately owned companies such as the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 271

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1559 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited
all public high school students from wearing in school shorts cut above the knee. Because female students at
the school considered it unfashionable to wear shorts cut at or below the knee, they no longer wore shorts to
school. On the other hand, male students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because
they considered such shorts to be fashionable.  

Female students sued to challenge the constitutionality of the dress code on the ground that it denied them the
equal protection of the laws.  

Should the court uphold the dress code? 

A: No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.
B: No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.
C: Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.
D: Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

B is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

C is incorrect. While the court should uphold the dress code, it should do so because the code is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should
not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to
discriminate against female students.  

D is correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 272

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1559 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited
all public high school students from wearing in school shorts cut above the knee. Because female students at
the school considered it unfashionable to wear shorts cut at or below the knee, they no longer wore shorts to
school. On the other hand, male students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because
they considered such shorts to be fashionable.  

Female students sued to challenge the constitutionality of the dress code on the ground that it denied them the
equal protection of the laws.  

Should the court uphold the dress code? 

A: No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.
B: No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.
C: Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.
D: Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

B is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

C is incorrect. While the court should uphold the dress code, it should do so because the code is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should
not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to
discriminate against female students.  

D is correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 273

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1559 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited
all public high school students from wearing in school shorts cut above the knee. Because female students at
the school considered it unfashionable to wear shorts cut at or below the knee, they no longer wore shorts to
school. On the other hand, male students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because
they considered such shorts to be fashionable.  

Female students sued to challenge the constitutionality of the dress code on the ground that it denied them the
equal protection of the laws.  

Should the court uphold the dress code? 

A: No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.
B: No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.
C: Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.
D: Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

B is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

C is incorrect. While the court should uphold the dress code, it should do so because the code is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should
not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to
discriminate against female students.  

D is correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 274

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1559 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited
all public high school students from wearing in school shorts cut above the knee. Because female students at
the school considered it unfashionable to wear shorts cut at or below the knee, they no longer wore shorts to
school. On the other hand, male students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because
they considered such shorts to be fashionable.  

Female students sued to challenge the constitutionality of the dress code on the ground that it denied them the
equal protection of the laws.  

Should the court uphold the dress code? 

A: No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.
B: No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.
C: Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.
D: Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

B is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

C is incorrect. While the court should uphold the dress code, it should do so because the code is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should
not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to
discriminate against female students.  

D is correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 275

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1559 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

In order to foster an environment conducive to learning, a school board enacted a dress code that prohibited
all public high school students from wearing in school shorts cut above the knee. Because female students at
the school considered it unfashionable to wear shorts cut at or below the knee, they no longer wore shorts to
school. On the other hand, male students at the school regularly wore shorts cut at or below the knee because
they considered such shorts to be fashionable.  

Female students sued to challenge the constitutionality of the dress code on the ground that it denied them the
equal protection of the laws.  

Should the court uphold the dress code? 

A: No, because the dress code is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.
B: No, because the dress code is not substantially related to an important state interest.
C: Yes, because the dress code is narrowly tailored to further an important state interest.
D: Yes, because the dress code is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

B is incorrect. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.  

C is incorrect. While the court should uphold the dress code, it should do so because the code is rationally
related to the state's legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should
not trigger heightened judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to
discriminate against female students.  

D is correct. The court should uphold the dress code, because the code is rationally related to the state's
legitimate interest in fostering a proper educational environment. The dress code should not trigger heightened
judicial scrutiny, because there are no facts to suggest that the purpose of the code is to discriminate against
female students.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 276

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1563 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A company owned a large tract of land that contained coal deposits that the company intended to mine. The
company acquired mining equipment and began to plan its mining operations. Just as the company was about
to begin mining, Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and
land-reclamation requirements on all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the
company's planned mining operations economically infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land
to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover its original investment in the land, it did not
cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased or the profits it had expected to
earn from its mining operations on the land.  

In an action filed against the appropriate federal official, the company claims that the statute effected a taking
of its property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining
equipment it purchased and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.  

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action? 

A: The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.
B: The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.
C: The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.
D: The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

B is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

C is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute
did not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not
deny all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by
selling it to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining
equipment or use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining
operations do not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

D is correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 277

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1563 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A company owned a large tract of land that contained coal deposits that the company intended to mine. The
company acquired mining equipment and began to plan its mining operations. Just as the company was about
to begin mining, Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and
land-reclamation requirements on all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the
company's planned mining operations economically infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land
to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover its original investment in the land, it did not
cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased or the profits it had expected to
earn from its mining operations on the land.  

In an action filed against the appropriate federal official, the company claims that the statute effected a taking
of its property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining
equipment it purchased and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.  

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action? 

A: The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.
B: The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.
C: The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.
D: The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

B is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

C is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute
did not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not
deny all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by
selling it to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining
equipment or use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining
operations do not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

D is correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 278

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1563 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A company owned a large tract of land that contained coal deposits that the company intended to mine. The
company acquired mining equipment and began to plan its mining operations. Just as the company was about
to begin mining, Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and
land-reclamation requirements on all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the
company's planned mining operations economically infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land
to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover its original investment in the land, it did not
cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased or the profits it had expected to
earn from its mining operations on the land.  

In an action filed against the appropriate federal official, the company claims that the statute effected a taking
of its property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining
equipment it purchased and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.  

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action? 

A: The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.
B: The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.
C: The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.
D: The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

B is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

C is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute
did not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not
deny all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by
selling it to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining
equipment or use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining
operations do not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

D is correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 279

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1563 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A company owned a large tract of land that contained coal deposits that the company intended to mine. The
company acquired mining equipment and began to plan its mining operations. Just as the company was about
to begin mining, Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and
land-reclamation requirements on all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the
company's planned mining operations economically infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land
to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover its original investment in the land, it did not
cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased or the profits it had expected to
earn from its mining operations on the land.  

In an action filed against the appropriate federal official, the company claims that the statute effected a taking
of its property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining
equipment it purchased and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.  

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action? 

A: The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.
B: The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.
C: The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.
D: The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

B is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

C is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute
did not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not
deny all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by
selling it to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining
equipment or use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining
operations do not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

D is correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 280

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1563 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A company owned a large tract of land that contained coal deposits that the company intended to mine. The
company acquired mining equipment and began to plan its mining operations. Just as the company was about
to begin mining, Congress enacted a statute that imposed a number of new environmental regulations and
land-reclamation requirements on all mining operations within the United States. The statute made the
company's planned mining operations economically infeasible. As a result, the company sold the tract of land
to a farmer. While the sale price allowed the company to recover its original investment in the land, it did not
cover the additional cost of the mining equipment the company had purchased or the profits it had expected to
earn from its mining operations on the land.  

In an action filed against the appropriate federal official, the company claims that the statute effected a taking
of its property for which it is entitled to just compensation in an amount equal to the cost of the mining
equipment it purchased and the profits it expected to earn from its mining operations on the land.  

Which of the following is the most appropriate result in the action? 

A: The company should prevail on its claims for the cost of the mining equipment and for its lost profits.
B: The company should prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment, but not for its lost profits.
C: The company should prevail on its claim for lost profits, but not for the cost of the mining equipment.
D: The company should not prevail on its claim for the cost of the mining equipment or for its lost profits.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

B is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

C is incorrect. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute
did not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not
deny all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by
selling it to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining
equipment or use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining
operations do not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.  

D is correct. The company should not prevail on any aspect of its claim for just compensation. The statute did
not effect a taking of the company's land or of the mining equipment, because the new regulations did not deny
all economically viable use of the land. The company recovered its original investment in the land by selling it
to the farmer, and the land is economically viable as farmland. The company may sell the mining equipment or
use it for mining on other land. Finally, the profits the company expected to earn from its mining operations do
not constitute a property interest subject to the takings clause.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.










Page 281

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the
possibility of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as the result of the accidents, and offering
psychotherapy services. Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.  

Many accident victims in a particular state who received the mailings complained that the mailings were
disturbing and were an invasion of their privacy. These victims also reported that as a result of the mailings,
their regard for psychotherapists and for psychotherapy as a form of treatment had diminished. In response,
the state enacted a law prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern
of PTSD to any car accident victim in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an
effort to address the victims' complaints as well as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of
treatment.  

Is this law constitutional? 

A: No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.
B: No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.
C: Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are
misleading.
D: Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy
without being substantially more restrictive than necessary.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing other types.
Such content-based restrictions on speech typically are subjected to strict judicial scrutiny and are invalidated.
This law, however, is subject to a less exacting form of judicial scrutiny because it restricts commercial speech.

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the mailings provide information to consumers entitles the mailings to First
Amendment protection. However, because the mailings advertise the services of psychotherapists, they
contain commercial speech and therefore are entitled to less constitutional protection than other forms of
speech.  

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

C is incorrect. Misleading commercial speech is not protected by the First Amendment, and governments
therefore are free to restrict such speech. The mailings in this case are not misleading, however, because the
facts state that "PTSD is a possible result" of car accidents.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 282

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

D is correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government
restrictions on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services
provided by the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate
judicial scrutiny, requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important
government interest and that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that
interest. The law here satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings
narrowly serves the government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and
the public regard for psychotherapy.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 283

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the
possibility of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as the result of the accidents, and offering
psychotherapy services. Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.  

Many accident victims in a particular state who received the mailings complained that the mailings were
disturbing and were an invasion of their privacy. These victims also reported that as a result of the mailings,
their regard for psychotherapists and for psychotherapy as a form of treatment had diminished. In response,
the state enacted a law prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern
of PTSD to any car accident victim in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an
effort to address the victims' complaints as well as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of
treatment.  

Is this law constitutional? 

A: No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.
B: No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.
C: Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are
misleading.
D: Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy
without being substantially more restrictive than necessary.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing other types.
Such content-based restrictions on speech typically are subjected to strict judicial scrutiny and are invalidated.
This law, however, is subject to a less exacting form of judicial scrutiny because it restricts commercial speech.

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the mailings provide information to consumers entitles the mailings to First
Amendment protection. However, because the mailings advertise the services of psychotherapists, they
contain commercial speech and therefore are entitled to less constitutional protection than other forms of
speech.  

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

C is incorrect. Misleading commercial speech is not protected by the First Amendment, and governments
therefore are free to restrict such speech. The mailings in this case are not misleading, however, because the
facts state that "PTSD is a possible result" of car accidents.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 284

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

D is correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government
restrictions on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services
provided by the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate
judicial scrutiny, requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important
government interest and that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that
interest. The law here satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings
narrowly serves the government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and
the public regard for psychotherapy.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 285

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the
possibility of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as the result of the accidents, and offering
psychotherapy services. Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.  

Many accident victims in a particular state who received the mailings complained that the mailings were
disturbing and were an invasion of their privacy. These victims also reported that as a result of the mailings,
their regard for psychotherapists and for psychotherapy as a form of treatment had diminished. In response,
the state enacted a law prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern
of PTSD to any car accident victim in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an
effort to address the victims' complaints as well as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of
treatment.  

Is this law constitutional? 

A: No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.
B: No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.
C: Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are
misleading.
D: Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy
without being substantially more restrictive than necessary.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing other types.
Such content-based restrictions on speech typically are subjected to strict judicial scrutiny and are invalidated.
This law, however, is subject to a less exacting form of judicial scrutiny because it restricts commercial speech.

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the mailings provide information to consumers entitles the mailings to First
Amendment protection. However, because the mailings advertise the services of psychotherapists, they
contain commercial speech and therefore are entitled to less constitutional protection than other forms of
speech.  

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

C is incorrect. Misleading commercial speech is not protected by the First Amendment, and governments
therefore are free to restrict such speech. The mailings in this case are not misleading, however, because the
facts state that "PTSD is a possible result" of car accidents.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 286

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

D is correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government
restrictions on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services
provided by the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate
judicial scrutiny, requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important
government interest and that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that
interest. The law here satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings
narrowly serves the government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and
the public regard for psychotherapy.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 287

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the
possibility of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as the result of the accidents, and offering
psychotherapy services. Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.  

Many accident victims in a particular state who received the mailings complained that the mailings were
disturbing and were an invasion of their privacy. These victims also reported that as a result of the mailings,
their regard for psychotherapists and for psychotherapy as a form of treatment had diminished. In response,
the state enacted a law prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern
of PTSD to any car accident victim in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an
effort to address the victims' complaints as well as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of
treatment.  

Is this law constitutional? 

A: No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.
B: No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.
C: Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are
misleading.
D: Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy
without being substantially more restrictive than necessary.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing other types.
Such content-based restrictions on speech typically are subjected to strict judicial scrutiny and are invalidated.
This law, however, is subject to a less exacting form of judicial scrutiny because it restricts commercial speech.

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the mailings provide information to consumers entitles the mailings to First
Amendment protection. However, because the mailings advertise the services of psychotherapists, they
contain commercial speech and therefore are entitled to less constitutional protection than other forms of
speech.  

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

C is incorrect. Misleading commercial speech is not protected by the First Amendment, and governments
therefore are free to restrict such speech. The mailings in this case are not misleading, however, because the
facts state that "PTSD is a possible result" of car accidents.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 288

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

D is correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government
restrictions on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services
provided by the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate
judicial scrutiny, requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important
government interest and that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that
interest. The law here satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings
narrowly serves the government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and
the public regard for psychotherapy.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 289

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A number of psychotherapists routinely send mailings to victims of car accidents informing the victims of the
possibility of developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as the result of the accidents, and offering
psychotherapy services. Although PTSD is a possible result of a car accident, it is not common.  

Many accident victims in a particular state who received the mailings complained that the mailings were
disturbing and were an invasion of their privacy. These victims also reported that as a result of the mailings,
their regard for psychotherapists and for psychotherapy as a form of treatment had diminished. In response,
the state enacted a law prohibiting any licensed psychotherapist from sending mailings that raised the concern
of PTSD to any car accident victim in the state until 30 days after the accident. The state justified the law as an
effort to address the victims' complaints as well as to protect the reputation of psychotherapy as a form of
treatment.  

Is this law constitutional? 

A: No, because the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing others.
B: No, because the mailings provide information to consumers.
C: Yes, because mailings suggesting the possibility of developing PTSD as the result of an accident are
misleading.
D: Yes, because the law protects the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for psychotherapy
without being substantially more restrictive than necessary.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the law singles out one type of message for prohibition while allowing other types.
Such content-based restrictions on speech typically are subjected to strict judicial scrutiny and are invalidated.
This law, however, is subject to a less exacting form of judicial scrutiny because it restricts commercial speech.

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech, because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

B is incorrect. The fact that the mailings provide information to consumers entitles the mailings to First
Amendment protection. However, because the mailings advertise the services of psychotherapists, they
contain commercial speech and therefore are entitled to less constitutional protection than other forms of
speech.  

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

C is incorrect. Misleading commercial speech is not protected by the First Amendment, and governments
therefore are free to restrict such speech. The mailings in this case are not misleading, however, because the
facts state that "PTSD is a possible result" of car accidents.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.













Page 290

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1567 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government restrictions on
commercial speech. The mailings qualify as commercial speech because they advertise services provided by
the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate judicial scrutiny,
requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important government interest and
that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that interest. The law here
satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings narrowly serves the
government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and the public regard for
psychotherapy.  

D is correct. The law is constitutional, because it satisfies the First Amendment standards for government
restrictions on commercial speech. The mailings contain commercial speech, because they advertise services
provided by the psychotherapists. A restriction on commercial speech is subject to a form of intermediate
judicial scrutiny, requiring the government to show that the restriction directly advances an important
government interest and that the restriction is not substantially more extensive than necessary to protect that
interest. The law here satisfies that standard; the 30-day waiting period for the psychotherapists' mailings
narrowly serves the government's substantial interests in protecting both the privacy of accident victims and
the public regard for psychotherapy.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.


Page 291

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1574 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His
work in this respect had always been satisfactory.  

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had
supported his sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee
solely because his support for the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter
provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the mayor."  

Is the mayor's action constitutional? 

A: No, because public employees have a property interest in their employment, which gives them a right to a
hearing prior to discharge.
B: No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.
C: Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds
the job "at the pleasure of the mayor."
D: Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A public employee has a property interest in his or her employment if the employee can be fired
only for cause. Because the city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the
mayor," the clerical employee does not have a property interest in his employment.  

Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

B is correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the employee has no property interest in his job, and therefore he is not entitled to
the constitutional protections of procedural due process. Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional,
because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected by the First
Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may not fire an employee because of the
employee's political views or affiliations unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective
performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water
department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

D is incorrect. The mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her only if
political loyalty is required for the effective performance of the job in question. The U.S. Supreme Court has
held that the government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations
unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job.
The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the
employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them. The mayor's action is
unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected
by the First Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 292

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1574 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His
work in this respect had always been satisfactory.  

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had
supported his sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee
solely because his support for the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter
provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the mayor."  

Is the mayor's action constitutional? 

A: No, because public employees have a property interest in their employment, which gives them a right to a
hearing prior to discharge.
B: No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.
C: Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds
the job "at the pleasure of the mayor."
D: Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A public employee has a property interest in his or her employment if the employee can be fired
only for cause. Because the city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the
mayor," the clerical employee does not have a property interest in his employment.  

Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

B is correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the employee has no property interest in his job, and therefore he is not entitled to
the constitutional protections of procedural due process. Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional,
because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected by the First
Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may not fire an employee because of the
employee's political views or affiliations unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective
performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water
department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

D is incorrect. The mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her only if
political loyalty is required for the effective performance of the job in question. The U.S. Supreme Court has
held that the government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations
unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job.
The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the
employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them. The mayor's action is
unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected
by the First Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 293

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1574 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His
work in this respect had always been satisfactory.  

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had
supported his sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee
solely because his support for the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter
provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the mayor."  

Is the mayor's action constitutional? 

A: No, because public employees have a property interest in their employment, which gives them a right to a
hearing prior to discharge.
B: No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.
C: Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds
the job "at the pleasure of the mayor."
D: Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A public employee has a property interest in his or her employment if the employee can be fired
only for cause. Because the city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the
mayor," the clerical employee does not have a property interest in his employment.  

Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

B is correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the employee has no property interest in his job, and therefore he is not entitled to
the constitutional protections of procedural due process. Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional,
because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected by the First
Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may not fire an employee because of the
employee's political views or affiliations unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective
performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water
department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

D is incorrect. The mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her only if
political loyalty is required for the effective performance of the job in question. The U.S. Supreme Court has
held that the government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations
unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job.
The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the
employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them. The mayor's action is
unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected
by the First Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 294

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1574 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His
work in this respect had always been satisfactory.  

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had
supported his sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee
solely because his support for the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter
provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the mayor."  

Is the mayor's action constitutional? 

A: No, because public employees have a property interest in their employment, which gives them a right to a
hearing prior to discharge.
B: No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.
C: Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds
the job "at the pleasure of the mayor."
D: Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A public employee has a property interest in his or her employment if the employee can be fired
only for cause. Because the city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the
mayor," the clerical employee does not have a property interest in his employment.  

Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

B is correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the employee has no property interest in his job, and therefore he is not entitled to
the constitutional protections of procedural due process. Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional,
because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected by the First
Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may not fire an employee because of the
employee's political views or affiliations unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective
performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water
department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

D is incorrect. The mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her only if
political loyalty is required for the effective performance of the job in question. The U.S. Supreme Court has
held that the government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations
unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job.
The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the
employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them. The mayor's action is
unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected
by the First Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 295

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1574 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

A clerical employee of a city water department was responsible for sending out water bills to customers. His
work in this respect had always been satisfactory.  

The employee's sister ran in a recent election against the incumbent mayor, but she lost. The employee had
supported his sister in the election campaign. After the mayor found out about this, she fired the employee
solely because his support for the sister indicated that he was "disloyal" to the mayor. The city's charter
provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the mayor."  

Is the mayor's action constitutional? 

A: No, because public employees have a property interest in their employment, which gives them a right to a
hearing prior to discharge.
B: No, because the mayor's action violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association.
C: Yes, because the employee has no property interest in his job since the city charter provides that he holds
the job "at the pleasure of the mayor."
D: Yes, because the mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A public employee has a property interest in his or her employment if the employee can be fired
only for cause. Because the city's charter provides that "all employees of the city work at the pleasure of the
mayor," the clerical employee does not have a property interest in his employment.  

Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

B is correct. The mayor's action is unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of
expression and association protected by the First Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the
government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations unless certain
political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job. The political
views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the employee's job,
and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the employee has no property interest in his job, and therefore he is not entitled to
the constitutional protections of procedural due process. Nevertheless, the mayor's action is unconstitutional,
because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected by the First
Amendment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the government may not fire an employee because of the
employee's political views or affiliations unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective
performance of the employee's job. The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water
department are not relevant to the employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them.  

D is incorrect. The mayor may require members of her administration to be politically loyal to her only if
political loyalty is required for the effective performance of the job in question. The U.S. Supreme Court has
held that the government may not fire an employee because of the employee's political views or affiliations
unless certain political views or affiliations are required for the effective performance of the employee's job.
The political views or affiliations of a clerical employee of a city water department are not relevant to the
employee's job, and thus the employee may not be fired because of them. The mayor's action is
unconstitutional, because it violates the employee's right to freedom of expression and association protected
by the First Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 296

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

An environmental organization's stated mission is to support environmental causes. The organization's
membership is generally open to the public, but its bylaws permit its officers to refuse to admit anyone to
membership who does not adhere to the organization's mission statement.  

In a recent state administrative proceeding, the organization opposed plans to begin mining operations in the
mountains surrounding a small town. Its opposition prevented the mine from being opened on schedule. In an
effort to force the organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of
the organization and tried to become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the
organization, claiming that the refusal to admit them was discriminatory and violated a local ordinance that
prohibits any organization from discriminating on the basis of an individual's political views. The organization
responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its membership decisions.  

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim? 

A: No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.
B: No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential
members who do not adhere to its mission statement.
C: Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal
protection of the laws.
D: Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the membership policies of a private organization are not state action. The local
ordinance on which the residents base their suit is state action, however, and it is subject to the requirements
of the First Amendment.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

B is correct. The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental
organization's First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to
accept the residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to refuse membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.  

C is incorrect. The action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members is not subject to the
equal protection clause, because the environmental organization is a private entity, and therefore the conduct
of the organization's officers does not constitute state action.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 297

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

D is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that even statutes that support compelling interests do not
justify the severe burden on an organization's freedom of association that would result from forcing an
organization to accept members who would significantly affect the organization's ability to express its
viewpoints.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.



Page 298

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

An environmental organization's stated mission is to support environmental causes. The organization's
membership is generally open to the public, but its bylaws permit its officers to refuse to admit anyone to
membership who does not adhere to the organization's mission statement.  

In a recent state administrative proceeding, the organization opposed plans to begin mining operations in the
mountains surrounding a small town. Its opposition prevented the mine from being opened on schedule. In an
effort to force the organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of
the organization and tried to become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the
organization, claiming that the refusal to admit them was discriminatory and violated a local ordinance that
prohibits any organization from discriminating on the basis of an individual's political views. The organization
responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its membership decisions.  

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim? 

A: No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.
B: No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential
members who do not adhere to its mission statement.
C: Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal
protection of the laws.
D: Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the membership policies of a private organization are not state action. The local
ordinance on which the residents base their suit is state action, however, and it is subject to the requirements
of the First Amendment.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

B is correct. The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental
organization's First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to
accept the residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to refuse membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.  

C is incorrect. The action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members is not subject to the
equal protection clause, because the environmental organization is a private entity, and therefore the conduct
of the organization's officers does not constitute state action.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 299

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

D is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that even statutes that support compelling interests do not
justify the severe burden on an organization's freedom of association that would result from forcing an
organization to accept members who would significantly affect the organization's ability to express its
viewpoints.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.



Page 300

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

An environmental organization's stated mission is to support environmental causes. The organization's
membership is generally open to the public, but its bylaws permit its officers to refuse to admit anyone to
membership who does not adhere to the organization's mission statement.  

In a recent state administrative proceeding, the organization opposed plans to begin mining operations in the
mountains surrounding a small town. Its opposition prevented the mine from being opened on schedule. In an
effort to force the organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of
the organization and tried to become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the
organization, claiming that the refusal to admit them was discriminatory and violated a local ordinance that
prohibits any organization from discriminating on the basis of an individual's political views. The organization
responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its membership decisions.  

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim? 

A: No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.
B: No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential
members who do not adhere to its mission statement.
C: Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal
protection of the laws.
D: Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the membership policies of a private organization are not state action. The local
ordinance on which the residents base their suit is state action, however, and it is subject to the requirements
of the First Amendment.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

B is correct. The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental
organization's First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to
accept the residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to refuse membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.  

C is incorrect. The action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members is not subject to the
equal protection clause, because the environmental organization is a private entity, and therefore the conduct
of the organization's officers does not constitute state action.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 301

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

D is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that even statutes that support compelling interests do not
justify the severe burden on an organization's freedom of association that would result from forcing an
organization to accept members who would significantly affect the organization's ability to express its
viewpoints.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.



Page 302

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

An environmental organization's stated mission is to support environmental causes. The organization's
membership is generally open to the public, but its bylaws permit its officers to refuse to admit anyone to
membership who does not adhere to the organization's mission statement.  

In a recent state administrative proceeding, the organization opposed plans to begin mining operations in the
mountains surrounding a small town. Its opposition prevented the mine from being opened on schedule. In an
effort to force the organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of
the organization and tried to become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the
organization, claiming that the refusal to admit them was discriminatory and violated a local ordinance that
prohibits any organization from discriminating on the basis of an individual's political views. The organization
responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its membership decisions.  

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim? 

A: No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.
B: No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential
members who do not adhere to its mission statement.
C: Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal
protection of the laws.
D: Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the membership policies of a private organization are not state action. The local
ordinance on which the residents base their suit is state action, however, and it is subject to the requirements
of the First Amendment.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

B is correct. The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental
organization's First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to
accept the residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to refuse membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.  

C is incorrect. The action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members is not subject to the
equal protection clause, because the environmental organization is a private entity, and therefore the conduct
of the organization's officers does not constitute state action.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 303

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

D is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that even statutes that support compelling interests do not
justify the severe burden on an organization's freedom of association that would result from forcing an
organization to accept members who would significantly affect the organization's ability to express its
viewpoints.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.



Page 304

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

 The question was: 

An environmental organization's stated mission is to support environmental causes. The organization's
membership is generally open to the public, but its bylaws permit its officers to refuse to admit anyone to
membership who does not adhere to the organization's mission statement.  

In a recent state administrative proceeding, the organization opposed plans to begin mining operations in the
mountains surrounding a small town. Its opposition prevented the mine from being opened on schedule. In an
effort to force the organization to withdraw its opposition, certain residents of the town attended a meeting of
the organization and tried to become members, but the officers refused to admit them. The residents sued the
organization, claiming that the refusal to admit them was discriminatory and violated a local ordinance that
prohibits any organization from discriminating on the basis of an individual's political views. The organization
responded that the ordinance is unconstitutional as applied to its membership decisions.  

Are the residents likely to prevail in their claim? 

A: No, because the membership policies of a private organization are not state action.
B: No, because the organization's right to freedom of association allows it to refuse to admit potential
members who do not adhere to its mission statement.
C: Yes, because the action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members violates equal
protection of the laws.
D: Yes, because the ordinance serves the compelling interest of protecting the residents' free speech rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. It is true that the membership policies of a private organization are not state action. The local
ordinance on which the residents base their suit is state action, however, and it is subject to the requirements
of the First Amendment.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

B is correct. The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental
organization's First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to
accept the residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted
person in a group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect
the group's ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization
to refuse membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's
viewpoint on the mining operations.  

C is incorrect. The action of the officers in refusing to admit the residents as members is not subject to the
equal protection clause, because the environmental organization is a private entity, and therefore the conduct
of the organization's officers does not constitute state action.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.  

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 305

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1580 - Constitutional Law - Individual Rights

D is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that even statutes that support compelling interests do not
justify the severe burden on an organization's freedom of association that would result from forcing an
organization to accept members who would significantly affect the organization's ability to express its
viewpoints.  

The residents are not likely to prevail in their claim, because it would violate the environmental organization's
First Amendment right to freedom of association if the state were to force the organization to accept the
residents as members. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a
group violates the group's freedom of association if including that person would significantly affect the group's
ability to express its viewpoints. The freedom of association entitles the environmental organization to refuse
membership to the residents, because admitting them would effect a change in the organization's viewpoint on
the mining operations.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.



Page 306

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1588 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A fatal virus recently infected poultry in several nations. Some scientific evidence indicates that the virus can
be transmitted from poultry to humans.  

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law
imposing a fee of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose
of the fee is to pay for a state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is
infected with the virus.  

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the
fee.  

Is the fee constitutional? 

A: No, because although it attaches only to intrastate activity, in the aggregate, the fee substantially affects
interstate commerce.
B: No, because it places an undue burden on interstate commerce in violation of the negative implications of
the commerce clause.
C: Yes, because it applies only to activities that take place wholly within the state, and it does not unduly
burden interstate commerce.
D: Yes, because it was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, which takes precedence over the
negative implications of the commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Having a substantial effect on interstate commerce does not make the fee unconstitutional. The
fee in this case is constitutional, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause:
it does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

B is incorrect. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state. The fee is therefore
constitutional.  

C is correct. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

D is incorrect. The fee was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, but the supremacy clause of the
Constitution prohibits state laws that violate federal constitutional limits on state authority. The fee is
constitutional, nonetheless, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause: it
does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 307

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1588 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A fatal virus recently infected poultry in several nations. Some scientific evidence indicates that the virus can
be transmitted from poultry to humans.  

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law
imposing a fee of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose
of the fee is to pay for a state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is
infected with the virus.  

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the
fee.  

Is the fee constitutional? 

A: No, because although it attaches only to intrastate activity, in the aggregate, the fee substantially affects
interstate commerce.
B: No, because it places an undue burden on interstate commerce in violation of the negative implications of
the commerce clause.
C: Yes, because it applies only to activities that take place wholly within the state, and it does not unduly
burden interstate commerce.
D: Yes, because it was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, which takes precedence over the
negative implications of the commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Having a substantial effect on interstate commerce does not make the fee unconstitutional. The
fee in this case is constitutional, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause:
it does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

B is incorrect. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state. The fee is therefore
constitutional.  

C is correct. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

D is incorrect. The fee was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, but the supremacy clause of the
Constitution prohibits state laws that violate federal constitutional limits on state authority. The fee is
constitutional, nonetheless, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause: it
does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 308

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1588 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A fatal virus recently infected poultry in several nations. Some scientific evidence indicates that the virus can
be transmitted from poultry to humans.  

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law
imposing a fee of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose
of the fee is to pay for a state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is
infected with the virus.  

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the
fee.  

Is the fee constitutional? 

A: No, because although it attaches only to intrastate activity, in the aggregate, the fee substantially affects
interstate commerce.
B: No, because it places an undue burden on interstate commerce in violation of the negative implications of
the commerce clause.
C: Yes, because it applies only to activities that take place wholly within the state, and it does not unduly
burden interstate commerce.
D: Yes, because it was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, which takes precedence over the
negative implications of the commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Having a substantial effect on interstate commerce does not make the fee unconstitutional. The
fee in this case is constitutional, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause:
it does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

B is incorrect. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state. The fee is therefore
constitutional.  

C is correct. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

D is incorrect. The fee was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, but the supremacy clause of the
Constitution prohibits state laws that violate federal constitutional limits on state authority. The fee is
constitutional, nonetheless, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause: it
does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.











Page 309

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1588 - Constitutional Law - Relations Between Federal and State Governments

 The question was: 

A fatal virus recently infected poultry in several nations. Some scientific evidence indicates that the virus can
be transmitted from poultry to humans.  

Poultry farming is a major industry in several U.S. states. In one such state, the legislature has enacted a law
imposing a fee of two cents per bird on all poultry farming and processing operations in the state. The purpose
of the fee is to pay for a state inspection system to ensure that no poultry raised or processed in the state is
infected with the virus.  

A company that has poultry processing plants both in the state and in other states has sued to challenge the
fee.  

Is the fee constitutional? 

A: No, because although it attaches only to intrastate activity, in the aggregate, the fee substantially affects
interstate commerce.
B: No, because it places an undue burden on interstate commerce in violation of the negative implications of
the commerce clause.
C: Yes, because it applies only to activities that take place wholly within the state, and it does not unduly
burden interstate commerce.
D: Yes, because it was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, which takes precedence over the
negative implications of the commerce clause.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Having a substantial effect on interstate commerce does not make the fee unconstitutional. The
fee in this case is constitutional, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause:
it does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

B is incorrect. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state. The fee is therefore
constitutional.  

C is correct. The fee does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause, because it does not
discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly excessive in
relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.  

D is incorrect. The fee was enacted pursuant to the state's police power, but the supremacy clause of the
Constitution prohibits state laws that violate federal constitutional limits on state authority. The fee is
constitutional, nonetheless, because it does not violate the negative implications of the commerce clause: it
does not discriminate against interstate commerce, and its burden on interstate commerce is not clearly
excessive in relation to the legitimate public health benefit the inspection system will bring to the state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.