Page 103

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 766 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A wallpaper hanger sent a general contractor, this telegram: Will do all paperhanging on new Doctors' Building,
per owner's specs, for $14,000 if you accept within reasonable time after main contract awarded. 

/s/ the wallpaper hanger Three other competing hangers sent the general contractor similar bids in the
respective amounts of $18,000, $19,000, and $20,000. The general contractor used the wallpaper hanger's
$14,000 figure in preparing and submitting her own sealed bid on Doctors' Building. Before the bids were
opened, the wallpaper hanger truthfully advised the general contractor that the former's telegraphic sub-bid
had been based on a $4,000 computational error and was therefore revoked. Shortly thereafter, the general
contractor was awarded the Doctors' Building construction contract and subsequently contracted with another
paperhanger for a price of $18,000. The general contractor now sues the wallpaper hanger to recover $4,000. 

Which of the following, if proved, would most strengthen the general contractor's prospect of recovery? 

A: After the wallpaper hanger's notice of revocation, the general contractor made a reasonable effort to
subcontract with another paperhanger at the lowest possible price.
B: The general contractor had been required by the owner to submit a bid bond and could not have withdrawn
or amended her bid on the main contract without forfeiting that bond.
C: The wallpaper hanger was negligent in erroneously calculating the amount of his sub-bid.
D: The general contractor dealt with all of her subcontractors in good faith and without seeking to renegotiate
(lower) the prices they had bid.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Unless the promisor has given an option promise supported by consideration, generally
an offer is freely revocable until the time of acceptance. However, an offer may be irrevocable to the extent
necessary to avoid injustice if the offeror should reasonably expect the offer to induce substantial reliance on
the part of the offeree and where there is reliance in fact. The terms of the wallpaper hanger's offer suggest
that the wallpaper hanger expected the general contractor to rely on his bid by utilizing it in calculating the
general contractor's overall bid, and the general contractor in fact did rely on his bid. The fact that the general
contractor was required to submit a bid bond to guarantee her bid demonstrates the substantial nature of the
general contractor's reliance, because it shows the general contractor cannot pass the additional wallpapering
cost on to the owner. Therefore this fact, if proved, would most strengthen the general contractor's case for
recovery. 

A, C and D are incorrect because, although each of these factors (mitigation of damages, the wallpaper
hanger's negligence and the general contractor's good faith) may weigh in the general contractor's favor, the
wallpaper hanger revoked her bid prior to the general contractor's acceptance. Therefore the general
contractor cannot recover from the wallpaper hanger for breach of contract unless she can demonstrate that
the wallpaper hanger's bid was irrevocable on a reliance theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 104

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 774 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

For several weeks, a wealthy, unemployed widow, and Nirvana Motors, Inc., negotiated unsuccessfully over
the purchase price of a new Mark XX Rolls-Royce Sedan, which, as Nirvana knew, the widow wanted her son
to have as a wedding gift. On April 27, Nirvana sent the widow a signed, dated memo saying, "If we can arrive
at the same price within the next week, do we have a deal?" The widow wrote "Yes" and her signature at the
bottom of his memo and delivered it back to Nirvana on April 29. 

On May 1, the widow wrote Nirvana a signed letter offering to buy "one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan, with
all available equipment, for $180,000 cash on delivery not later than June 1." By coincidence, Nirvana wrote
the widow a signed letter on May 1 offering to sell her "one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan, with all available
equipment, for $180,000 cash on delivery not later than June 1." These letters crossed in the mail and were
respectively received and read by the widow and Nirvana on May 2. 

If the widow subsequently asserts and Nirvana denies that the parties had a binding contract on May 3, which
of the following most persuasively supports the widow's position? 

A: A sale-of-goods contract may be made in any manner sufficient to show agreement, even though the
moment of its making is undetermined.
B: A sale-of goods contract does not require that an acceptance be a mirror image of the offer.
C: With respect both to the making of an agreement and the requirement of consideration, identical
cross-offers are functionally the same as an offer followed by a responsive acceptance.
D: Since Nirvana was a merchant in the transaction and the widow was not, Nirvana is estopped to deny that
the parties' correspondence created a binding contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Under the UCC, appropriate conduct between the parties may be sufficient to show
agreement to a contract for the sale of goods, even if an exchange of correspondence between the parties
makes the exact moment of contract formation indeterminate. Nirvana and the widow agreed to enter into a
contract for the sale of one new Mark XX Rolls-Royce sedan if they could reach agreement on a price within a
week. Five days later, each party received a letter from the other proposing the exact same terms. Although it
is unclear which communication was the offer and which was the acceptance, the exchange of
correspondence proposing identical terms demonstrates that the condition was met and that the parties'
conduct manifested agreement. 

Choice B is incorrect because the mirror image rule is not at issue, since the parties' proposed terms were
identical. Choice C is incorrect because it does not provide as accurate an explanation as choice A of the
relevant rule of contract formation. Choice D is incorrect because Nirvana's status as a merchant is not
relevant to the issue of estoppel.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 105

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 779 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

On June 1, a widget manufacturer entered into a written agreement with a tool maker in which the tool maker
agreed to produce and sell to the manufacturer 12 sets of newly designed dies to be delivered August 1 for the
price of $50,000, payable ten days after delivery. Encountering unexpected expenses in the purchase of
special alloy steel required for the dies, the tool maker advised the manufacturer that production costs would
exceed the contract price; and on July 1, the manufacturer and the tool maker signed a modification to the
June 1 agreement increasing the contract price to $60,000. After timely receipt of 12 sets of dies conforming to
the contract specifications, the manufacturer paid the tool maker $50,000 but refused to pay more. 

Which of the following concepts of the Uniform Commercial Code, dealing expressly with the sale of goods,
best supports an action by the tool maker to recover $10,000 for breach of the manufacturer's July 1 promise? 

A: Bargained-for exchange.
B: Promissory estoppel.
C: Modification of contracts without consideration.
D: Unconscionability in the formation of contracts.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the UCC, a modification to a contract for the sale of goods needs no additional
consideration to be binding if the modification was made in good faith. Although the modification increasing the
purchase price under the tool maker-manufacturer contract was unilateral, and therefore not supported by
consideration, the modification was made in light of unexpected increased production costs, which suggests
that it was proposed in good faith rather than to coerce the manufacturer into paying a higher price. Answer A
is incorrect because of the UCC rule dispensing with consideration for good faith modifications. Answers B and
D are incorrect because the facts do not show either detrimental reliance or unconscionability.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 106

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 785 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A construction company contracted with a warehouse owner to construct for $500,000 a warehouse and an
access driveway at highway level. Shortly after commencing work on the driveway, which required for the
specified level some excavation and removal of surface material, the construction company unexpectedly
encountered a large mass of solid rock. 

The construction company informed the warehouse owner (accurately) that because of the rock, the driveway
as specified would cost at least $20,000 more than figured, and demanded that for that reason a total contract
price of $520,000. Since the warehouse owner was expecting warehousing customers immediately after the
agreed completion date, he signed a writing promising to pay the additional $20,000. Following timely
completion of the warehouse and driveway, which conformed to the contract in all respects, the warehouse
owner refused to pay the construction company more than $500,000. 

What is the maximum amount to which the construction company is entitled? 

A: $500,000, because there was no consideration for warehouse owner's promise to pay the additional
$20,000.
B: $500,000, because the warehouse owner's promise to pay the additional $20,000 was exacted under
duress.
C: $520,000, because modification was fair and was made in the light of circumstances not anticipated by the
parties when the original contract was made.
D: $520,000, because the reasonable value of the construction company's total performance was that much or
more.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the common law, a modification of a contract is unenforceable for lack of
consideration (since performance of a pre-existing duty is not sufficient consideration to support the
modification). However, where there is an unforeseen difficulty so severe it rises to the level of impracticability,
the consideration requirement for a modification will be considered satisfied by the party's promise to complete
their pre-existing contractual duty. To be impracticable, the performing party needs to have encountered
extreme and unreasonable difficulty or expense that was not anticipated at the time of formation. Here, the
construction company ran into an expensive difficulty that caused an increase of $20,000 in the expense to
build the driveway. This difficulty was not foreseen by either party, and the increase was an accurate reflection
of the cost to deal with the unforeseen difficulty. Therefore, the written modification is valid and the
construction company is entitled to a maximum amount of $520,000. 

Choice A is incorrect because it fails to take into account the exception to the general common law rule.
Choice B is incorrect because the facts do not show that the modification was coercive. Choice D is incorrect
because it is the terms of the contract, not the reasonable value of the performance, which governs the
recovery in this situation.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 107

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 786 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A construction company contracted with a warehouse owner to construct for $500,000 a warehouse and an
access driveway at highway level. Shortly after commencing work on the driveway, which required for the
specified level some excavation and removal of surface material, the construction company unexpectedly
encountered a large mass of solid rock. 

Upon encountering the rock formation, the construction company, instead of incurring additional costs to
remove it, built the access driveway over the rock with a steep grade down to the highway. The warehouse
owner, who was out of town for several days, was unaware of this nonconformity until the driveway had been
finished. As built, it is too steep to be used safely by trucks or cars, particularly in the wet or icy weather
frequently occurring in the area. It would cost $30,000 to tear out and rebuild the driveway at highway level. As
built, the warehouse, including the driveway, has a fair market value of $550,000. The warehouse owner has
paid $470,000 to the construction company, but refuses to pay more because of the nonconforming driveway,
which the construction company has refused to tear out and rebuild. 

If the construction company sues the warehouse owner for monetary relief, what is the maximum amount that
the construction company is entitled to recover? 

A: $30,000, because the fair market value of the warehouse and driveway "as is" exceeds the contract price
by $50,000 (more than the cost of correcting the driveway).
B: $30,000, because the construction company substantially performed and the cost of correcting the driveway
would involve economic waste.
C: $30,000, minus whatever amount the construction company saved by not building the driveway at the
specified level.
D: Nothing, because the warehouse owner is entitled to damages for the cost of correcting the driveway.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The general damages rule for measuring loss to an owner for breach of a construction
contract is that owner is entitled to damages in an amount equivalent to the cost to complete the work as
promised. An exception to the rule is where cost to complete damages would be grossly and unfairly out of
proportion to the performance contracted for, in which case damages will be limited to the diminution in market
value of the construction due to the defect. Although the fair market value of the warehouse and the defective
driveway exceeds the contract price, the warehouse owner nonetheless is entitled to the cost to complete
damages, because these damages fairly reflect his loss resulting from the defective construction. The
warehouse owner therefore was justified in withholding $30,000 from the contract price paid to the construction
company. 

Choices A and C are incorrect because the warehouse owner is entitled to deduct the $30,000 cost to
complete damages from the contract price, as explained above. Choice B is incorrect because the warehouse
owner can recover damages for breach regardless of whether the construction company substantially
performed the contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 108

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 797 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

Responding to the county's written advertisement for bids, a tire salesman was the successful bidder for the
sale of tires to the county for the county's vehicles. The tire salesman and the county entered into a signed,
written agreement that specified, "It is agreed that the tire salesman will deliver all tires required by this
agreement to the county in accordance with the attached bid form and specifications, for a one-year period
beginning September 1, 1990." Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form and specifications. In
the written advertisement to which the tire salesman had responded, but not in the bid form, the county had
stated, "Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best interests of the county." No definite quantity of
tires to be bought by the county from the tire salesman was specified in any of these documents. 

In January 1991, the tire salesman learned that the county was buying some of its tires from one of the tire
salesman's competitors. Contending that the tire salesman-county agreement was a requirements contract,
the tire salesman sued the county for the damages caused by the county buying some of its tires from the
competitor. 

If the county defends by offering proof of the advertisement concerning the possibility of multiple awards,
should the court admit the evidence? 

A: Yes, because the provision in the written agreement, "all tires required by this agreement," is ambiguous.
B: Yes, because the advertisement was in writing.
C: No, because of the parol evidence rule.
D: No, because it would make the contract illusory.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The parol evidence rule bars the introduction of evidence of a prior agreement that
contradicts the terms of a final written contract. Notwithstanding the parol evidence rule, however, such
evidence may be introduced to explain an ambiguity in the written contract. The written contract between the
tire salesman and the county provided for the sale to the county of "all tires required by this agreement." It is
not clear whether this language manifests an intent by the parties to enter into a requirements contract, which
is a type of sales contract that obligates the buyer to purchase all of its requirements of a good from the seller.
Because the written contract is ambiguous on this issue, the advertisement may be admitted to demonstrate
that the county was not obligated to purchase tires exclusively from the tire salesman. 

Answer B is incorrect because the parol evidence rule also applies to written promises made prior to the
adoption of a final writing. Answer C is incorrect because an exception to the parol evidence rules applies
here. Answer D is incorrect because the admissibility of evidence does not depend on whether a contract is
illusory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 109

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 798 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

Responding to the county's written advertisement for bids, a tire salesman was the successful bidder for the
sale of tires to the county for the county's vehicles. The tire salesman and the county entered into a signed,
written agreement that specified, "It is agreed that the tire salesman will deliver all tires required by this
agreement to the county in accordance with the attached bid form and specifications, for a one-year period
beginning September 1, 1990." Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form and specifications. In
the written advertisement to which the tire salesman had responded, but not in the bid form, the county had
stated, "Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best interests of the county." No definite quantity of
tires to be bought by the county from the tire salesman was specified in any of these documents.  

In January 1991, the tire salesman learned that the county was buying some of its tires from one of the tire
salesman's competitors. Contending that the tire salesman-county agreement was a requirements contract,
the tire salesman sued the county for the damages caused by the county buying some of its tires from the
competitor. 

If the court concludes that the tire salesman-county contract is an agreement by the county to buy its tire
requirements from the tire salesman, the tire salesman probably will 

A: recover under the contracts clause of the United States Constitution.
B: recover under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code.
C: not recover, because the agreement lacks mutuality of obligation.
D: not recover, because the agreement is indefinite as to quantity.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, a contract for the sale of a good that measures the quantity by the
requirements of the buyer for that good means such actual requirements that may occur in good faith. At a
minimum this means that the buyer must purchase all of its requirements for the good exclusively from the
seller. If the court concludes that the tire salesman-county contract is a requirements contract, then the fact
that the county is buying some of its tires from a competitor would mean that the county has breached the
requirements contract, entitling the tire salesman to damages. A is incorrect because the contracts clause is
not at issue. C is incorrect because the UCC rules regarding requirements contracts make clear that such
agreements impose binding obligations on both the buyer and the seller. D is incorrect because, although the
quantity term in a requirements contract is flexible, it is sufficiently definite for a court to enforce.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 110

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 805 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

An automobile retailer had an adult daughter who needed a car in her employment but had only $3,000 with
which to buy one. The retailer wrote to his daughter, "Give me your $3,000 and I'll give you the car on our lot
that we have been using as a demonstrator." The daughter thanked her father and paid him the $3,000. As
both the retailer and his daughter knew, the demonstrator was reasonably worth $10,000. After the daughter
had paid the $3,000, but before the car had been delivered to her, one of retailer's sales staff sold and
delivered the same car to a customer for $10,000. Neither the salesperson nor the customer was aware of the
transaction between the retailer and his daughter. 

Does the daughter, after rejecting a tendered return of the $3,000 by her father, have an action against him for
breach of contract? 

A: Yes, because the retailer's promise was supported by bargained-for consideration.
B: Yes, because retailer's promise was supported by the moral obligation a father owes his child as to the
necessities of modern life.
C: No, because the payment of $3,000 was inadequate consideration to support the retailer's promise.
D: No, because the salesperson's delivery of the car to the customer made it impossible for the retailer to
perform.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by bargained-for consideration.
Consideration is bargained for if it is sought by the promisor in exchange for the promise. The retailer's
promise to give his daughter the car was supported by consideration because the promise was conditioned
upon the daughter's promise to pay her father $3,000. Answer B is incorrect because moral obligation does not
suffice as consideration. Answer C is incorrect because courts at law do not inquire into the adequacy of
considerations exchanged. Answer D is incorrect because the fact that the car was sold to a third party does
not discharge the retailer's contractual obligation to sell the car to his daughter, although the daughter may be
limited to recovering monetary damages.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 111

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 810 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

An owner and operator of a small business encourages "wellness" on the part of his employees and supports
various physical-fitness programs to that end. Learning that one of his employees was a dedicated jogger, the
business owner promised to pay her a special award of $100 if she could and would run one mile in less than
six minutes on the following Saturday. The employee thanked him and did in fact run a mile in less than six
minutes on the day specified. Shortly thereafter, however, the business owner discovered that for more than a
year the employee had been running at least one mile in less than six minutes every day as a part of her
personal fitness program. He refused to pay the $100. 

In an action by the employee against the business owner for breach of contract, which of the following best
summarizes the probable decision of the court? 

A: The business owner wins, because it is a compelling inference that his promise did not induce the
employee to run the specified mile.
B: The business owner wins, because the employee's running of the specified mile was beneficial, not
detrimental, to her in any event.
C: The employee wins, because running a mile in less than six minutes is a significantly demanding enterprise.
D: The employee wins, because she ran the specified mile as requested, and her motives for doing so are
irrelevant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by bargained-for consideration.
Consideration is bargained for if it is given by the promisee in exchange for the promise. It does not matter that
the promisee may have benefited from the requested performance, or that her motives for furnishing the
requested performance were different from the promisor's, so long as the promisee restrained her freedom of
action in some way in reliance on the promise. Because the employee's right to collect the $100 is conditioned
upon her running the mile in under six minutes, the business owner's promise is enforceable so long as the
employee furnishes the requested act. 

Answer A is incorrect because the employee's motives for furnishing the consideration are irrelevant. Answer
B is incorrect because consideration does not need to be detrimental to the promisee. Answer C is incorrect
because courts at law do not inquire into the adequacy of the consideration exchanged.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 112

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 812 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct for a homeowner a garage for $10,000.
Nothing was said in the parties' negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of
the work. 

After completing 25% of the garage strictly according to the homeowner's specifications, the builder demanded
payment of $2,000 as a "reasonable progress payment." The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned
the job. 

If each party sues the other for breach of contract, which of the following will the court decide? 

A: Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from the other.
B: Only the builder is in breach and liable for the homeowner's damages, if any.
C: Only the homeowner is in breach and liable for the builder's damages, if any.
D: Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the doctrine of constructive conditions, a party's contractual obligation is
conditioned upon the other party's substantial performance. However, where one party's performance requires
a period of time (such as the builder's obligation to construct the garage), that performance is due before the
other party is obligated to perform, unless the contract specifies otherwise. Because the contract was silent
with respect to progress payments, the homeowner was not obligated to pay any portion of the contract price
until the builder had substantially performed his promise to build the garage. The builder therefore was not
justified in abandoning the job, and his doing so after completing only 25% of the requested work was itself a
material breach of the contract. 

Choices A and C are incorrect because the homeowner's refusal to pay when asked was not a breach
(although the builder may be able to recover in restitution). Choice D is incorrect because the builder's
abandonment of the job without justification amounted to a breach.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 113

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 813 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct for a homeowner a garage for $10,000.
Nothing was said in the parties' negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of
the work. 

After completing 25% of the garage strictly according to the homeowner's specifications, the builder assigned
his rights under the contract to a bank as security for an $8,000 loan. The bank immediately notified the
homeowner of the assignment. The builder thereafter, without legal excuse, abandoned the job before it was
half-complete. The builder subsequently defaulted on the loan from the bank. The builder has no assets. It will
cost the homeowner at least $8,000 to get the garage finished by another builder. 

If the bank sues the homeowner for $8,000, which of the following will the court decide? 

A: The bank wins, because the builder-homeowner contract was in existence and the builder was not in
breach when the bank gave the homeowner notice of the assignment.
B: The bank wins, because the bank as a secured creditor over the builder is entitled to priority over the
homeowner's unsecured claim against the builder.
C: The homeowner wins, because his right to recoupment on account of the builder's breach is available
against the bank as the builder's assignee.
D: The homeowner wins, because his claim against the builder arose prior to the builder's default on his loan
from the bank.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. When contract rights are assigned, the assignee acquires a right against the obligor only
to the extent that the obligor is under a duty to the assignor. In other words, the assignee acquires no greater
rights against the obligor than the assignor had. When the builder (assignor) assigned his contract right to the
bank (assignee), the bank's right to payment remained subject to any defense that the homeowner (obligor)
could raise against the builder. Therefore, the builder's material breach of the construction contract is a
defense that the homeowner can raise against the bank. 

Answer A is incorrect because the bank's rights remain vulnerable to any defense that the homeowner can
raise, regardless of whether the facts giving rise to the defense occur after the assignment or after the bank
gives notice of the assignment. Answer B is incorrect because the rights the bank acquired are subject to the
same defenses that the builder's were. Answer D is incorrect because the bank's status as the builder's
creditor is irrelevant to whether the homeowner can raise the defense of the builder's breach against the bank.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 114

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 821 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A developer obtained a bid of $10,000 to tear down her old building and another bid of $90,000 to replace it
with a new structure in which she planned to operate a sporting goods store. Having only limited cash
available, the developer asked a lender for a $100,000 loan. After reviewing the plans for the project, the
lender in a signed writing promised to lend the developer $100,000 secured by a mortgage on the property and
repayable over ten years in equal monthly installments at 10% annual interest. The developer promptly
accepted the demolition bid and the old building was removed, but the lender thereafter refused to make the
loan. Despite diligent efforts, the developer was unable to obtain a loan from any other source. 

Does the developer have a cause of action against the lender? 

A: Yes, because by having the building demolished, she accepted the lender's offer to make the loan.
B: Yes, because her reliance on the lender's promise was substantial, reasonable, and foreseeable.
C: No, because there was no bargained-for exchange of consideration for the lender's promise to make the
loan.
D: No, because the developer's inability to obtain a loan from any other source demonstrated that the project
lacked the financial soundness that was a constructive condition to the lender's performance.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. A promise may be enforceable even if not bargained-for where (i) the promisor should
reasonably have expected the promise to induce reliance, (ii) there is reliance in fact, and (iii) enforcement of
the promise is necessary to prevent injustice. Because the lender reviewed the plans for the project, the lender
should reasonably have expected that its promise to lend would induce the developer to accept the bid and to
tear down her old building. The substantial nature of the developer's reliance and the fact that she could not
obtain financing elsewhere suggests that enforcement of the promise is necessary to avoid injustice. 

Answer A is incorrect because the lender's letter cannot reasonably be interpreted as an offer inviting such an
acceptance. Answer C is incorrect because a promise can be enforced on a detrimental reliance theory in the
absence of a bargained-for exchange. Answer D is incorrect because a court would not imply such a condition;
if the lender intended to condition the loan on the financial soundness of the project, it should have expressly
stated so in the letter.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 115

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 822 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A developer obtained a bid of $10,000 to tear down her old building and another bid of $90,000 to replace it
with a new structure in which she planned to operate a sporting goods store. Having only limited cash
available, the developer asked the lender for a $100,000 loan. After reviewing the plans for the project, the
lender in a signed writing promised to lend the developer $100,000 secured by a mortgage on the property and
repayable over ten years in equal monthly installments at 10% annual interest. The developer promptly
accepted the demolition bid and the old building was removed, but the lender thereafter refused to make the
loan. Despite diligent efforts, the developer was unable to obtain a loan from any other source. 

Assume that the developer has a cause of action against the lender. 

If she sues him for monetary relief, what is the probable measure of her recovery? 

A: Expectation damages, measured by the difference between the value of the new building and the old
building, less the amount of the proposed loan ($100,000).
B: Expectation damages, measured by the estimated profits from operating the proposed sporting goods store
for ten years, less the cost of repaying a $100,000 loan at 10% interest over ten years.
C: Reliance damages, measured by the $10,000 expense of removing the old building, adjusted by the
decrease or increase in the market value of the developer's land immediately thereafter.
D: Nominal damages only, because both expectation and reliance damages are speculative, and there is no
legal or equitable basis for awarding restitution.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Because there was no consideration for the lender's promise, any recovery would have to
based on a promissory estoppel theory (due to the developer's detrimental reliance). Therefore, the remedy for
breach of the promise may be limited as justice requires. A court may limit damages by awarding the injured
party the amount necessary to remedy the loss incurred due to the reliance, rather than awarding plaintiff's
expectation damages (i.e., damages equivalent to the value of full performance). When the lender breached its
promise to make the loan, the developer was injured because she had already torn down the old building. The
damages necessary to restore her to the status quo before the promise was made would include the cost of
demolition, plus any loss that the developer incurred from the depreciation of the property resulting from the
demolition. A and B are incorrect because a court need not award full expectation damages in an action based
on detrimental reliance. D is incorrect because the developer's reliance damages can be ascertained with
reasonable certainty.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 116

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 833 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

In a writing signed by both parties on December 1, a man agreed to buy from a distributor a gasoline engine
for $1,000, delivery to be made on the following February 1. Through a secretarial error, the writing called for
delivery on March 1, but neither party noticed the error until February 1. Before signing the agreement, the
man and the distributor orally agreed that the contract of sale would be effective only if the man notified the
distributor in writing no later than January 2 that the man had arranged to resell the engine to a third person.
Otherwise, they agreed orally, "There is no deal." On December 15, the man entered into a contract with a
mechanic to resell the engine to the mechanic at a profit. 

On December 16, the man notified the distributor by telephone of the man's resale agreement with the
mechanic, and explained that a written notice was not feasible because the man's secretary was ill. The
distributor replied, "That's okay. I'll get the engine to you on February 1, as we agreed." Having learned,
however, that the engine had increased in value about 75% since December 1, the distributor renounced the
agreement on February 1. 

If the man sues the distributor on February 2 for breach of contract, which of the following concepts best
supports the man's claim? 

A: Substantial performance.
B: Nonoccurrence of a condition subsequent.
C: Waiver of condition.
D: Novation of buyers.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A condition is an event that is not certain to occur, which must occur, unless excused,
before performance under a contract becomes due. The man and the distributor's agreement was subject to
an express condition. They agreed that the contract of sale would not come into effect unless the man
provided written notice of resale on or before January 2; this condition in fact did not occur. Although
nonoccurrence of the condition normally would excuse each party's obligation under the contract, in this case
the distributor waived the nonoccurrence of the condition when she verbally agreed on December 16 to send
the engine without written notice. 

Answer A is incorrect because substantial performance of a condition is not sufficient when the condition is
express. Answer B is incorrect because the nonoccurrence of the condition was waived (in any event, the
condition at issue here is a condition precedent). Answer D is incorrect because the facts do not indicate a
novation.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 117

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 844 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A son, who knew nothing about horses, inherited a thoroughbred colt whose disagreeable behavior made him
a pest around the barn. The son sold the colt for $1,500 to an experienced racehorse-trainer who knew of the
son's ignorance about horses. At the time of the sale, the son said to the trainer, "I hate to say it, but this horse
is bad-tempered and nothing special." 

Which one of the following scenarios would best support an action by the trainer, rather than the son, to
rescind the sale? 

A: In his first race after the sale, the horse galloped to a huge lead but dropped dead 100 yards from the finish
line because of a rare congenital heart defect that was undiscoverable except by autopsy.
B: The horse won $5 million for the trainer over a three-year racing career but upon being retired was found to
be incurably sterile and useless as a breeder.
C: After the horse had won three races for the trainer, it was discovered that by clerical error, unknown to
either party, the horse's official birth registration listed an undistinguished racehorse as the sire rather than the
famous racehorse that in fact was the sire.
D: A week after the sale, the horse went berserk and inflicted serious injuries upon the trainer that required his
hospitalization for six months and a full year for his recovery.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of mutual mistake where the mistake relates to a
fundamental assumption of the contract that has a material effect on the exchange, and where the party
seeking rescission is found by the court not to bear the risk of the mistake. If in his first race after the sale, the
horse dropped dead of a rare, undiscoverable heart condition, the trainer could make a plausible argument
that the contract be rescinded on grounds of mistake. The condition related to a fundamental assumption (the
horse's suitability for racing) that destroyed the subject matter of the contract, and since the heart condition
was not expected or discoverable, a court might find that the trainer should not bear the risk of the mistake. 

B and C are incorrect because neither of these factors relate to a fundamental assumption of the contract,
since the facts suggest that the horse was purchased as a racehorse and not a breeder. D is incorrect
because the risk that the horse might go beserk was one of which the trainer had notice, and was therefore a
risk that he should bear.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 118

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 855 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

The owner of a fleet of taxis contracted with a dealer in petroleum products for the purchase and sale of the
taxi fleet owner's total requirements of gasoline and oil for one year. As part of that agreement, the petroleum
dealer also agreed with the taxi fleet owner that for one year the petroleum dealer would place all his
advertising with the taxi fleet owner's wife who owned her own small advertising agency. When the wife was
informed of the owner-dealer contract, she declined to accept an advertising account from the soap company
because she could not handle both the petroleum dealer and the soap company accounts during the same
year. 

During the first month of the contract, the taxi fleet owner purchased substantial amounts of his gasoline from
a supplier other than the petroleum dealer, and the petroleum dealer thereupon notified the wife that he would
no longer place his advertising with her agency. 

In an action against the petroleum dealer for breach of contract, the wife probably will 

A: succeed, because she is a third-party beneficiary of the owner-dealer contract.
B: succeed, because the taxi fleet owner was acting as the wife's agent when he contracted with the
petroleum dealer.
C: not succeed, because the failure of a constructive condition precedent excused the petroleum dealer's duty
to place his advertising with the wife.
D: not succeed, because the wife did not provide any consideration to support the petroleum dealer's promise
to place his advertising with her.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the doctrine of constructive conditions, where one performance will take a period of
time to complete while the other can be completed in an instant, completion of the longer performance is a
condition precedent to the shorter performance. A party's obligation to perform a contractual duty is excused if
the other party fails to satisfy a condition precedent. Implicit in a requirements contract for the purchase and
sale of a good is the buyer's obligation to purchase all of its requirements for the good exclusively from the
seller for the duration of the contract. Because the taxi fleet owner agreed to purchase its total requirements
for gasoline and oil from the petroleum dealer for one year, its purchase of substantial amounts of gasoline
from a competitor amounted to a material breach, thereby justifying the petroleum dealer's repudiation of its
obligation to place advertising with the wife. 

Choice A is incorrect because even if the wife was an intended beneficiary, the petroleum dealer can raise any
defense against her that he can raise against the taxi fleet owner (i.e., that the taxi fleet owner committed a
material breach). Choice B is incorrect because the facts show that only the taxi fleet owner was party to the
contract with the petroleum dealer; the wife was, if anything, only an incidental beneficiary. Choice D is
incorrect because the consideration supporting the petroleum dealer's obligation to the wife was the taxi fleet
owner's promise pursuant to the requirements contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 119

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 868 - Contracts - Impracticability and Frustration of Purpose

 The question was: 

A woman owns an exceptionally seaworthy boat that she charters for sport fishing at a $500 daily rate. The fee
includes the use of the boat with the woman as the captain, and one other crew member, as well as fishing
tackle and bait. On May 1, a father agreed with the woman that the father would have the full-day use of the
boat on May 15 for himself and his family for $500. The father paid an advance deposit of $200 and signed an
agreement that the deposit could be retained by the woman as liquidated damages in the event the father
canceled or failed to appear. 

On May 15 at 1 a.m., the Coast Guard had issued offshore "heavy weather" warnings and prohibited all small
vessels the size of the woman's from leaving the harbor. This prohibition remained in effect throughout the
day. The father did not appear at all on May 15, because he had heard the weather warnings on his radio. 

Which of the following is an accurate statement? 

A: The contract is discharged because of impossibility, and the father is entitled to return of his deposit.
B: The contract is discharged because of mutual mistake concerning an essential fact, and the father is
entitled to return of his deposit.
C: The contract is not discharged, because its performance was possible in view of the exceptional
seaworthiness of the woman's boat, and the father is not entitled to return of his deposit.
D: The contract is not discharged and the father is not entitled to return of his deposit because the
liquidated-damage clause in effect allocated the risk of bad weather to the father.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of supervening impossibility where a party's
performance is made impossible without his fault due to the occurrence of an event, the non-occurrence of
which was a basic assumption on which the contract was made. Where a contract has been rescinded on
grounds of supervening impossibility, a party may obtain restitution of any benefit conferred by way of part
performance of the contract. Because the Coast Guard prohibited vessels such as the woman's from leaving
the harbor on the afternoon of May 15 as a consequence of bad weather, performance of the woman-father
contract was rendered impossible, and the father should successfully obtain restitution of the $200 deposit. 

B is incorrect because the impossibility of performance was due to a supervening event (the occurrence of
inclement weather on May 15) and not a mistake of the parties at the time of the contract (May 1). C is
incorrect because the Coast Guard's prohibition effectively prevents the woman from performing the contract.
D is incorrect because the liquidated damages clause cannot be construed as an allocation of risk of bad
weather, as it specifies that the deposit is to be retained by the woman only in the event of breach by the
father.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 120

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 880 - Contracts - Impracticability and Frustration of Purpose

 The question was: 

The manager of a state fair contracted with a renowned hog breeder to exhibit the breeder's world champion
animal for the three weeks of the annual fair, at the conclusion of which the breeder would receive an
honorarium of $300. Two days before the opening of the fair, the champion animal took sick with boarsitis, a
communicable disease among swine, and, under the applicable state quarantine law, very probably could not
be exhibited for at least a month. 

Upon learning this, the manager can legally pursue which of the following courses of action with respect to his
contract with the breeder? 

A: Suspend his own performance, demand assurances from the breeder, and treat a failure by the breeder to
give them as an actionable repudiation.
B: Suspend his own performance and recover damages from the breeder for breach of contract unless the
breeder at once supplies an undiseased hog of exhibition quality as a substitute for the champion animal.
C: Terminate his own performance and treat the animal's illness as discharging all remaining duties under the
contract.
D: Terminate the contract, but only if he (the manager) seeks promptly to obtain for the exhibit a suitable
substitute for the champion animal from another hog owner.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of supervening impracticability where a party's
performance is made impracticable without his fault due to the occurrence of an event, the non-occurrence of
which was a basic assumption on which the contract was made. Such event may include the destruction or
deterioration of a specific thing necessary for the performance of a duty or the necessity to comply with a
governmental order. Because the breeder undertook to exhibit his world champion animal(and not any other
hog), the animal's availability for exhibition is a basic assumption of the contract. The animal's illness, which
requires him to be quarantined for a month under state law, renders the breeder's performance impracticable.
Therefore the manager should treat both parties' obligations under the contract as discharged. 

A, B and D are incorrect because the animal's illness provides a basis for excuse of the breeder's obligation.
Specifically, as explained above, the breeder is not obligated to provide a substitute hog because the contract
only contemplated exhibiting the champion animal.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 121

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 887 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

In a signed writing, a retired general contracted to purchase a 25-foot travel trailer from a trailer company for
$15,000, cash on delivery no later than June 1. The general arrived at the trailer company's sales lot on
Sunday, May 31, to pay for and take delivery of the trailer, but refused to do so when he discovered that the
spare tire was missing. 

The trailer company offered to install a spare tire on Monday when its service department would open, but the
general replied that he did not want the trailer and would purchase another one elsewhere. 

Which of the following is accurate? 

A: The general had a right to reject the trailer, but the trailer company was entitled to a reasonable opportunity
to cure the defect.
B: The general had a right to reject the trailer and terminate the contract under the perfect tender rule.
C: The general was required to accept the trailer, because the defect could be readily cured.
D: The general was required to accept the trailer, because the defect did not substantially impair its value.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Under the UCC's perfect tender rule, when a delivery under a contract for the sale of
goods fails to conform in any respect to the contract, the buyer has the right to reject the delivery. The seller,
however, must be given an opportunity to cure the defective delivery if the time for performance has not yet
expired. When the trailer company presented to the general a trailer that was missing a spare tire, the general
was entitled to reject the trailer because of its nonconformity with the contract. The trailer company's offer to
install a spare tire was a seasonable offer to cure the defect since the contract specified a June 1 delivery. B is
incorrect because the buyer would not have the right to terminate if the seller seasonably cured the defect. C
and D are incorrect because the perfect tender rule entitles the buyer to reject goods on the basis of material
as well as immaterial defects.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 122

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 896 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

A flour wholesaler contracted to deliver to a producer of fine baked goods her flour requirements for a one-year
period. Before delivery of the first scheduled installment, the flour wholesaler sold its business and "assigned"
all of its sale contracts to Miller, Inc., another reputable and long-time flour wholesaler. The original flour
wholesaler informed the baked goods producer of this transaction. 

Assume that when Miller tendered the first installment to the baked goods producer in compliance with the
flour wholesaler-baked goods contract, the baked goods producer refused to accept the goods. 

Which of the following arguments, if any, legally support(s) the baked goods producer's rejection of the
goods? 

A: Executory requirements contracts are nonassignable.
B: Duties under an executory bilateral contract are assumable only by an express promise to perform on the
part of the delegatee.
C: Language of "assignment" in the transfer for value of bilateral sale-of-goods contract affects only a transfer
of rights, not a delegation of duties.
D: None of the above.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, a party may perform his duty through a delegatee unless the other party
has a substantial interest in having the original party perform the contract. Although assignment of a
requirements contract may potentially affect the burden of the seller in certain cases (such as where the
assignee has substantially different requirements than the assignor), courts will still uphold the assignment of
such contracts because the UCC rules on requirements contracts impose reasonably objective standards of
good faith in specifying requirements. In any event the flour wholesaler-Miller assignment will not have such an
effect, because the party assigning its contract is the seller. Because Miller is comparable to the flour
wholesaler in terms of reputation and experience, the baked goods producer should not have a particular
interest in having the flour wholesaler perform the contract. Therefore A is incorrect. B is incorrect because
performance by the delegatee is sufficient. C is incorrect because under the UCC, general language of
assignment of a contract will be construed as a delegation of performance as well as an assignment of rights.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 123

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 904 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A client consulted a lawyer about handling the sale of the client's building, and asked the lawyer what her legal
fee would be. The lawyer replied that her usual charge was $100 per hour, and estimated that the legal work
on behalf of the client would cost about $5,000 at that rate. The client said, "Okay, let's proceed with it," and
the lawyer timely and successfully completed the work. Because of unexpected title problems, the lawyer
reasonably spent 75 hours on the matter and shortly thereafter mailed the client a bill for $7,500, with a letter
itemizing the work performed and time spent. The client responded by a letter expressing his good-faith belief
that the lawyer had agreed to a total fee of no more than $5,000. The client enclosed a check in the amount of
$5,000 payable to the lawyer and conspicuously marked, "Payment in full for legal service in connection with
the sale of the client's building." Despite reading the "Payment in full. . ." language, the lawyer, without any
notation of protest or reservation of rights, endorsed and deposited the check to her bank account. The check
was duly paid by the client's bank. A few days later, the lawyer unsuccessfully demanded payment from the
client of the $2,500 difference between the amount of her bill and the check, and now sues the client for that
difference. 

What, if anything, can the lawyer recover from the client? 

A: Nothing, because the risk of unexpected title problems in a real-property transaction is properly allocatable
to the seller's attorney and thus to the lawyer in this case.
B: Nothing, because the amount of the lawyer's fee was disputed in good faith by the client, and the lawyer
impliedly agreed to an accord and satisfaction.
C: $2,500, because the client agreed to an hourly rate for as many hours as the work reasonably required, and
the sum of $5,000 was merely an estimate.
D: The reasonable value of the lawyer's services in excess of $5,000, if any, because there was no specific
agreement on the total amount of the lawyer's fee.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under rules of accord and satisfaction, a debtor may make an offer to settle a dispute by
offering a check marked "payment in full." If the notation was sufficiently plain that the creditor should have
understood it, and if the amount owed to the creditor is an unliquidated sum, then cashing the check without
protest amounts to an acceptance of the offer of an accord and satisfaction of the debt. Although mere
payment of a lesser sum would not be sufficient consideration to support the accord, consideration is furnished
where the amount owed to the creditor is genuinely in dispute. Even if the client lacked sufficient legal basis to
prevail on his claim, his good-faith belief in the validity of the claim makes his promise to settle sufficient
consideration to support the modification. Therefore, when the lawyer read the "payment in full" language on
the client's $5,000 check and then cashed it without protest, the lawyer accepted the accord and satisfaction of
the debt. A, C and D are incorrect because they fail to take into account the effect of the discharge of the
client's debt through accord and satisfaction.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 124

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 914 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

On November 1, an accountant and a lawyer contracted for the sale by the accountant to the lawyer of the law
books the accountant had inherited from his father. The lawyer agreed to pay the purchase price of $10,000
when the accountant delivered the books on December 1. 

On November 10, the lawyer received a signed letter from the accountant that stated: "I have decided to
dispose of the book stacks containing the law books you have already purchased. If you want the stacks, I will
deliver them to you along with the books on December 1 at no additional cost to you. Let me know before
November 15 whether you want them. I will not sell them to anyone else before then." On November 14, the
lawyer faxed and the accountant received the following message: "I accept your offer of the stacks." The
accountant was not a merchant with respect to either law books or book stacks. 

The accountant is contractually obligated to deliver the stacks because 

A: The lawyer provided a new bargained-for exchange by agreeing to take the stacks.
B: The accountant's letter (received by the lawyer on November 10) and the lawyer's fax-message of
November 14 constituted an effective modification of the original sale-of-books contract.
C: The lawyer's fax-message of November 14 operated to rescind unilaterally the original sale-of-books
contract.
D: The accountant's letter (received by the lawyer on November 10) waived the bargained-for consideration
that would otherwise be required.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. This is a contract for the sale of goods, thus governed by the UCC. Under the UCC,
modification of a contract for the sale of goods needs no additional consideration to be binding. When the
accountant proposed on November 10 to supply the book stacks along with the law books at no additional
cost, his offer proposed a unilateral modification of the contract, which the lawyer accepted before the offer
lapsed. Because the contract involves a sale of goods (books), the modification is enforceable notwithstanding
the lack of consideration. A is incorrect because the modification was gratuitous. C is incorrect because the
lawyer's November 14 communication was merely an acceptance of the modification and did not discharge the
original obligation. D is incorrect because consideration is not required for modification of a sales contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 125

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 915 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

On November 1, an accountant and a lawyer contracted for the sale by the accountant to the lawyer of the law
books the accountant had inherited from his father. The lawyer agreed to pay the purchase price of $10,000
when the accountant delivered the books on December 1. 

On November 10, the lawyer received a signed letter from the accountant that stated: "I have decided to
dispose of the book stacks containing the law books you have already purchased. If you want the stacks, I will
deliver them to you along with the books on December 1 at no additional cost to you. Let me know before
November 15 whether you want them. I will not sell them to anyone else before then." On November 14, the
lawyer faxed and the accountant received the following message: "I accept your offer of the stacks." The
accountant was not a merchant with respect to either law books or book stacks. 

Assume that on November 12 the accountant told the lawyer that he had decided not to part with the stacks. 

Will this communication operate as a legally effective revocation of his offer to deliver the stacks? 

A: Yes, because the lawyer had a pre-existing obligation to pay $10,000 for the law books.
B: Yes, because the accountant was not a merchant with respect to book stacks.
C: No, because the accountant had given a signed assurance that the offer would be held open until
November 15.
D: No, because by delaying his acceptance until November 14, the lawyer detrimentally relied on the
accountant's promise not to sell the stacks to anyone else in the meantime.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant contained in a signed writing
which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable notwithstanding lack of consideration for
the time stated in the offer (if less than three months). Because the accountant is not a merchant of law books
or stacks, his November 10 offer to deliver the book stacks does not fall under the UCC firm offer rule.
Because the lawyer did not give consideration to support an option, the offer is revocable at any time prior to
acceptance by the lawyer. 

A is incorrect because the lawyer's pre-existing duty to pay for the law books is not consideration to support
the option. C is incorrect because the accountant's assurance does not fall within the firm offer rule, nor is it
supported by consideration. D is incorrect because any reliance on the accountant's promise by the lawyer
was not reasonable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 126

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 927 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

Which of the following fact patterns most clearly suggests an implied-in-fact contract? 

A: A county tax assessor mistakenly bills a man for taxes on his neighbor's property, which the man, in good
faith, pays.
B: A physician treated a rider without the rider's knowledge or consent, while the rider was unconscious as the
result of a fall from his horse.
C: A contrator, thinking that he was paving the customer's driveway for which the contractor had an express
contract, mistakenly paved the neighbor's driveway while the neighbor looked on without saying anything or
raising any objection.
D: At her mother's request, an accountant filled out and filed her mother's "E-Z" income-tax form (a simple,
short form).

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Although based on tacit, and not express, promises, implied-in-fact contracts are
enforceable. An implied-in-fact contract may be inferred from parties' conduct, such as where services are
rendered by one person for another under circumstances where it may fairly be presumed that the parties
understood that compensation would be paid. The contractor paving the neighbor's driveway while the
neighbor looks on without raising objection gives rise to the presumption on an implied-in-fact contract theory
that the neighbor will pay the contractor for the work. 

A is incorrect because it involved the mistaken payment of taxes which cannot reasonably be implied to create
an implied obligation on the government's part. B is incorrect because the rider was unconscious when the
physician helped him and therefore could not request his services (although physician might recover under
restitution theory). D is incorrect because the law presumes that benefits conferred between family members
are done gratuitously, without the expectation of payment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 127

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 952 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

An amateur computer whiz agreed in writing to design three new games a year for a five-year period for a
corporation that distributed TV game systems. The writing provided, in a clause separately signed by the
computer whiz, that "No modifications shall be binding on the corporation unless made in writing and signed by
the corporation's authorized representative." 

Because of family problems, the computer whiz delivered and the corporation accepted only two
game-designs a year for the first three years; but the games were a commercial success and the corporation
made no objection. Accordingly, the computer whiz spent substantial sums on new computer equipment that
would aid in speeding up future design work. In the first quarter of the fourth year, however, the corporation
terminated the contract on the ground that the computer whiz had breached the annual-quantity term. 

In the computer whiz's suit against the corporation for damages, the jury found that the contract had been
modified by conduct and the trial court awarded the computer whiz substantial compensatory damages. 

Is this result likely to be reversed on appeal? 

A: Yes, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was not expressly waived by the corporation.
B: Yes, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was a material part of the agreed exchange and
could not be avoided without new consideration.
C: No, because the contract's no-oral-modification clause was unconscionable as against an amateur
designer.
D: No, because the corporation by its conduct waived the annual-quantity term and the computer whiz
materially changed his position in reasonable reliance on that waiver.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A waiver is an excuse of the nonoccurrence or delay of a condition to a duty. Constructive
conditions of exchange can be waived through conduct, by treating a breach as only a partial breach and
continuing to perform the contract. Although a waiver may be retractable in certain situations, a waiver is not
retractable once the non-waiving party has relied on the waiver. When the corporation accepted only two
game-designs per year during the first three years of the contract, the corporation implicitly waived the
computer whiz's breach of the annual-quantity term of the contract. The computer whiz relied on this waiver
when he spent substantial sums on equipment for future design work. Therefore, it would be unjust to allow the
corporation, without prior notice, to claim that the computer whiz breached the annual-quantity term in year
four. A, B and C are incorrect because a no-oral-modification clause does not preclude implicit waiver of a
constructive condition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 128

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 955 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A U.S. manufacturer on the west coast gave a hardware retailer who was relocating to the east coast the
following "letter of introduction" to a hardware wholesaler on the east coast. This will introduce you to my good
friend and former customer, a hardware retailer, who will be seeking to arrange the purchase of hardware
inventory from you on credit. If you will let him have the goods, I will make good any loss up to $25,000 in the
event of his default. 

/Signed/ manufacturer. The hardware retailer presented the letter to the hardware wholesaler, who then sold
and delivered $20,000 worth of hardware to the hardware retailer on credit. The hardware wholesaler promptly
notified the manufacturer of this sale. 

Which of the following is NOT an accurate statement concerning the arrangement between the manufacturer
and the hardware wholesaler? 

A: It was important to enforceability of the manufacturer's promise to the hardware wholesaler that it be
embodied in a signed writing.
B: By extending the credit to the hardware retailer, the hardware wholesaler effectively accepted the
manufacturer's offer for a unilateral contract.
C: Although the manufacturer received no consideration from the hardware retailer, the manufacturer's
promise is enforceable by the hardware wholesaler.
D: The manufacturer's promise is enforceable by the hardware wholesaler whether or not the hardware
wholesaler gave the manufacturer seasonable notice of the extension of credit to the hardware retailer.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. An offer for a unilateral contract seeks acceptance by performance and not a return
promise. In order for the acceptance to be effective, however, the offeree must give seasonable notice of
acceptance to the promisor where the offeree has reason to know that the offeror will not learn of the
acceptance without notice. The manufacturer's offer to the hardware wholesaler is an offer to enter a unilateral
contract because the manufacturer does not seek a return commitment from the hardware wholesaler but
rather for the wholesaler to provide credit to the hardware retailer. Because the hardware wholesaler lives far
from the manufacturer, however, he has reason to know that the manufacturer will not learn of his acceptance
unless he gives notice, and therefore the hardware wholesaler must give notice of the extension of credit to the
hardware retailer. 

A, B and C are incorrect because they are each accurate statements: the manufacturer's promise to guarantee
the debt falls within the surety clause of the statute of frauds, the hardware wholesaler's extension of credit to
the hardware retailer effected an acceptance of an offer for a unilateral contract, and the manufacturer's
promise is enforceable by the hardware wholesaler notwithstanding the fact that the hardware retailer provided
no consideration, because the consideration was furnished by the hardware wholesaler.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 129

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 959 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A broker needed a certain rare coin to complete a set that he had contracted to assemble and sell to a
collector. On February 1, the broker obtained such a coin from a hoarder in exchange for $1,000 and the
broker's signed, written promise to re-deliver to the hoarder "not later than December 31 this year" a
comparable specimen of the same kind of coin without charge to the hoarder. On February 2, the broker
consummated sale of the complete set to the collector. 

On October 1, the market price of rare coins suddenly began a rapid, sustained rise; on October 15 the
hoarder wrote the broker for assurance that the latter would timely meet his coin-replacement commitment.
The broker replied, "In view of the surprising market, it seems unfair that I should have to replace your coin
within the next few weeks." 

After receiving the broker's message on October 17, the hoarder telephoned the broker, who said, "I absolutely
will not replace your coin until the market drops far below its present level." The hoarder then sued the broker
on November 15 for the market value of a comparable replacement-coin as promised by the broker in
February. The trial began on December 1. 

If the broker moves to dismiss the hoarder's complaint, which of the following is the hoarder's best argument in
opposing the motion. 

A: The hoarder's implied duty of good faith and fair dealing in enforcement of the contract required her to
mitigate her losses on the rising market by suing promptly, as she did, after becoming reasonably
apprehensive of a prospective breach by the broker.
B: Although the doctrine of anticipatory breach is not applicable under the prevailing view if, at the time of
repudiation, the repudiatee owes the repudiator no remaining duty of performance, the doctrine applies in this
case because the hoarder, the repudiatee, remains potentially liable under an implied warranty that the coin
advanced to the broker was genuine.
C: When either party to a sale-of-goods contract repudiates with respect to a performance not yet due, the loss
of which will substantially impair the value of the contract to the other, the aggrieved party may in good faith
resort to any appropriate remedy for breach.
D: Anticipatory repudiation, as a deliberate disruption without legal excuse of an ongoing contractual
relationship between the parties, may be treated by the repudiatee at her election as a present tort, actionable
at once.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the UCC, when either party to a contract for the sale of goods repudiates the
contract with respect to a future performance that will substantially affect the value of that performance, the
non-repudiating party may resort to any appropriate remedy for breach. A repudiation is an unequivocal
statement of inability or unwillingness to perform. The broker's October 17 statement that he "absolutely will
not" replace the hoarder's coin until the market drops manifests such an intent; therefore the hoarder is entitled
to treat his statement as a total breach of contract, even though performance is not due until December 31. 

A is incorrect because an injured party must act reasonably to mitigate damages only after the other party
commits a material breach or repudiates the contract. B is incorrect because, although the common law
recognizes an exception where the non-repudiating party owes no remaining duty of performance, the UCC
rule (which governs the hoarder-broker contract because it is for the sale of a good) provides for no such
exception. D is incorrect because repudiation typically does not entitle the non-repudiating party to bring a tort
action.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 130

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 966 - Contracts - Defenses to Enforceability

 The question was: 

A ski-shop operator, in a telephone conversation with a glove manufacturer, ordered 12 pairs of vortex-lined
ski gloves at the glove manufacturer's list price of $600 per dozen "for delivery in 30 days." The glove
manufacturer orally accepted the offer, and immediately faxed to the ski-shop operator this signed memo:
"Confirming our agreement today for your purchase of a dozen pairs of vortex-lined ski gloves for $600, the
shipment will be delivered in 30 days." Although the ski-shop operator received and read the glove
manufacturer's message within minutes after its dispatch, she changed her mind three weeks later about the
purchase and rejected the conforming shipment when it timely arrived. 

On learning of the rejection, does the glove manufacturer have a cause of action against the ski-shop operator
for breach of contract? 

A: Yes, because the gloves were identified in the contract and tendered to the ski-shop operator.
B: Yes, because the glove manufacturer's faxed memo to the ski-shop operator was sufficient to make the
agreement enforceable.
C: No, because the agreed price was $600 and the ski-shop operator never signed a writing evidencing a
contract with the glove manufacturer.
D: No, because the ski-shop operator neither paid for nor accepted any of the goods tendered.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, a contract for the sale of goods for $500 or more must be evidenced by a
writing that is signed by the person against whom enforcement is sought. As an exception to the rule, a signed
writing will not be required between merchants where a written confirmation of a contract of sale has been sent
and the recipient fails to give notice of objection to the confirmation within ten days of its receipt. The contract
between the ski-shop operator and the glove manufacturer falls within the UCC statute of frauds, since it is for
$600. However, because the ski-shop operator and the glove manufacturer both appear to be merchants and
because the ski-shop operator failed to object to the writing within ten days of its receipt, it appears that the
glove manufacturer's faxed memo is a written confirmation that falls within the exception. A and D are incorrect
because they are not relevant to the issue raised in the problem. C is incorrect because, although the contract
falls within the UCC statute of frauds provision, an exception to the rule applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 131

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 967 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A burglar stole a collector's impressionist painting valued at $400,000. The collector, who had insured the
painting for $300,000 with an insurance company, promised to pay $25,000 to a full-time investigator for the
insurance company if he effected the return of the painting to her in good condition. By company rules, the
insurance company permits its investigators to accept and retain rewards from policyholders for the recovery
of insured property. The investigator, by long and skillful detective work, recovered the picture and returned it
undamaged to the collector. 

If the collector refuses to pay the investigator anything, and he sues her for $25,000, what is the probable
result under the prevailing modern rule? 

A: The collector wins, because the investigator owed the insurance company a preexisting duty to recover the
picture if possible.
B: The collector wins, because the insurance company, the investigator's employer, had a preexisting duty to
return the recovered painting to the collector.
C: The investigator wins, because the collector will benefit more from return of the $400,000 painting than from
receiving the $300,000 policy proceeds.
D: The investigator wins, because the preexisting duty rule does not apply if the promisee's (the investigator's)
duty was owed to a third person.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Traditionally, when a preexisting duty was owed to a third party, a new promise to perform
the same duty would not constitute consideration. However, under the prevailing modern rule, the new promise
will constitute consideration when the original promise was owed to a third party. Therefore the investigator's
performance of effecting the return of the painting to the collector was sufficient consideration to support her
promise to pay the investigator $25,000 because the preexisting duty was owed to the insurance company and
not to the collector. 

A is incorrect because the rule does not apply when the duty is owed to a third person. B is incorrect because
the fact that the insurance company is also obligated is not relevant to whether the investigator furnished
sufficient consideration. C is incorrect because the extent to which the collector will benefit is not relevant to
whether the investigator furnished sufficient consideration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 132

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 970 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A girl, who was a minor both in fact and appearance, bought on credit and took delivery of a telescope from
30-year-old seller for an agreed price of $100. Upon reaching the age of majority soon thereafter, the girl
encountered the seller and said, "I am sorry for not having paid you that $100 for the telescope when the
money was due, but I found out it was only worth $75. So I now promise to pay you $75." The girl
subsequently repudiated this promise and refused to pay anything. 

In an action for breach of contract by the seller against the girl, the seller's probable recovery is 

A: nothing, because the girl was a minor at the time of the original transaction.
B: nothing, because there was no consideration for the promise made by the girl after reaching majority.
C: $75.
D: $100.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Normally, promises made in recognition of a past benefit conferred (such as the girl's
promise to pay the seller $75) are not enforceable because any benefit received by the girl was not
bargained-for (the telescope was not given in exchange for the $75). As an exception to the rule, courts will
enforce such a promise if the promise reaffirms a promise made pursuant to an earlier bargained-for exchange
that was not enforceable at the time because of infancy. Although the girl's earlier promise to pay $100 for the
telescope was not enforceable because the girl lacked capacity to contract, her later promise to pay $75 for
the telescope is enforceable: first, because the girl no longer lacks capacity to contract; and second, because
her subsequent promise falls within the exception to the rule and is enforceable notwithstanding the lack of
consideration. 

A is incorrect because the issue is not the enforceability of the original contract, but rather that of the
subsequent promise. B is incorrect because the girl's subsequent promise falls within the exception to the rule.
D is incorrect because only the subsequent promise is enforceable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 133

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 978 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

A patient owed a physician $25,000 for professional services. The physician orally assigned this claim to her
adult daughter as a wedding gift. Shortly thereafter, on suffering sudden, severe losses in the stock market,
the physician assigned by a signed writing the same claim to her stockbroker in partial satisfaction of advances
legally made by the stockbroker in the physician's previous stock-market transactions. Subsequently, the
patient, without knowledge of either assignment, paid the physician the $25,000 then due, which the physician
promptly lost at a horse track, although she remains solvent. 

Assuming that Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code does NOT apply to either of the assignments in this
situation, which of the following is a correct statement of the parties' rights and liabilities? 

A: As the assignee prior in time, the daughter can recover $25,000 from the patient, who acted at her peril in
paying the physician.
B: As the sole assignee for value, the stockbroker can recover $25,000 from the patient, who acted at her peril
in paying the physician.
C: Neither the daughter nor the stockbroker can recover from the patient, but the daughter, though not the
stockbroker, can recover $25,000 from the physician.
D: Neither the daughter nor the stockbroker can recover from the patient, but the stockbroker, though not the
daughter, can recover $25,000 from the physician.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. When a contract right is assigned to a party gratuitously (i.e., without receiving anything in
exchange), the assignor retains the power to revoke the assignment if done prior to receiving payment from
the obligor, or before the assignee has relied on the assignment or brought suit to enforce it. Revocation may
be effected by giving notice of revocation, obtaining performance from the obligor or assigning the same
contract right to a different assignee. Until the obligor receives notice of an assignment, the obligor may
discharge its contractual duty by rendering performance to the assignor. 

The physician made a gratuitous assignment of the $25,000 right to payment to her daughter, which the
physician revoked when she assigned the same contract right to the stockbroker. Because the stockbroker did
not give the obligor (the patient) notice of the assignment, the patient could (and did) discharge her obligation
under the contract by paying the physician directly. Because the stockbroker never received payment,
however, the physician's debt to the stockbroker is still enforceable. 

A is incorrect because the assignment to the daughter was revoked when the physician assigned the right to
the stockbroker. B is incorrect because the patient did not receive notice of the assignment, and therefore
effectively discharged her obligation by paying the physician directly. C is incorrect because the daughter
cannot recover the $25,000 from the physician because the assignment was revoked.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 134

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 990 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

By the terms of a written contract signed by both parties on January 15, a computer store agreed to sell a
specific ICB personal computer to a customer for $3,000, and the customer agreed to pick up and pay for the
computer at the store on February 1. The customer unjustifiably repudiated on February 1. Without notifying
the customer, the store subsequently sold at private sale the same specific computer to a different buyer, who
paid the same price ($3,000) in cash. The ICB is a popular product. The computer store can buy from the
manufacturer more units than it can sell at retail. 

If the store sues the customer for breach of contract, the store will probably recover 

A: nothing, because it received a price on resale equal to the contract price that the customer had agreed to
pay.
B: nothing, because the store failed to give the customer proper notice of the store's intention to resell.
C: the store's anticipated profit on the sale to the customer plus incidental damages, if any, because the store
lost that sale.
D: $3,000 (the contract price), because the customer intentionally breached the contract by repudiation.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the UCC, where the buyer has repudiated a contract the seller may, if resale is
done in accordance with UCC rules (which among other things requires giving notice to buyer of any private
resale), recover the difference between the contract price and the resale price, plus any incidental damages. In
the alternative, the seller may recover the difference between the contract price and the market price at the
time for tender. Where the market formula of damages is inadequate, the seller may recover its lost profit on
the sale (plus incidental damages), if the seller can demonstrate that it could have profitably made the extra
sale had the contract gone forward (i.e., that it is a "lost volume" seller). When the customer repudiated the
contract to buy the computer from the store, the store resold the computer to a different buyer for the same
contract price. Because the store did not give notice of resale to the customer, it may not rely on the resale
formula in calculating damages, but this will have no effect on damages because the resale and the contract
price are the same. But because the store can obtain more units than it can sell at retail, this suggests that the
store is a "lost volume" seller and therefore can recover the profit it expected to earn on the contract, plus
incidental damages. 

A is incorrect because the UCC allows recovery of lost profit, as explained above. B is incorrect because
failure to give notice of resale does not completely cut off the seller's right to recover damages. D is incorrect
because the UCC formula requires subtracting from the contract price the value of the good to be sold
(regardless of the nature of the repudiation).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 135

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1001 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

In a single writing, Painter contracted with Farmer to paint three identical barns on her rural estate for $2,000
each. The contract provided for Farmer's payment of $6,000 upon Painter's completion of the work on all three
barns. Painter did not ask for any payment when the first barn was completely painted, but she demanded
$4,000 after painting the second barn. 

Assume that Farmer rightfully refused Painter's demand for payment. 

If Painter immediately terminates the contract without painting the third barn, what is Painter entitled to recover
from Farmer? 

A: Nothing, because payment was expressly conditioned on completion of all three barns.
B: Painter's expenditures plus anticipated "profit" in painting the first two barns, up to a maximum recovery of
$4,000.
C: The reasonable value of Painter's services in painting the two barns, less Farmer's damages, if any, for
Painter's failure to paint the third barn.
D: The amount that the combined value of the two painted barns has been increased by Painter's work.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A breaching party is entitled to recover in restitution for the reasonable value of the
benefit conferred on the non-breaching party in the way of part performance, less any damages that the
non-breaching party suffered due to the breach. Since Painter terminated the contract without justification, it is
the breaching party. As a breaching plaintiff, Painter is entitled to recover damages equivalent to the
reasonable value of its services in painting the two barns, minus any additional cost to Farmer (above what it
would have paid under the contract) of having the third barn painted. A is incorrect because, even if Painter's
right to payment was expressly conditioned upon completion, failure to satisfy the condition would not cut off
Painter's right to recover in restitution. B is incorrect because a breaching party is not entitled to recover
expectation damages (which would include lost profit). D is incorrect because it does not subtract from the
restitution recovery any damages for the loss Farmer suffered due to the breach.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 136

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1008 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

On December 15, a lawyer received from a retailer of supplies an offer consisting of its catalog and a signed
letter stating, "We will supply you with as many of the items in the enclosed catalog as you order during the
next calendar year. We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will remain firm throughout the
coming year." 

Assume that no other correspondence passed between the retailer and the lawyer until the following April 15
(four months later), when the retailer received from the lawyer a faxed order for "100 reams of your paper,
catalog item #101." 

Did the lawyer's April 15 fax constitute an effective acceptance of the retailer's offer at the prices specified in
the catalog? 

A: Yes, because the retailer had not revoked its offer before April 15.
B: Yes, because a one-year option contract had been created by the retailer's offer.
C: No, because under applicable law the irrevocability of the retailer's offer was limited to a period of three
months.
D: No, because the lawyer did not accept the retailer's offer within a reasonable time.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant for the sale of goods contained in
a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable, notwithstanding lack of
consideration, for the time stated in the offer (or if no time is stated, for a reasonable time), but in no case may
the period of irrevocability exceed three months. If the three-month period lapses and no consideration is given
to support an option, then the offer can be revoked at any time before acceptance (or before it lapses).
Because the retailer's firm offer was not supported by consideration, it became revocable as of March 15.
However, the lawyer accepted the offer before the retailer revoked it and before the offer lapsed (because the
offer stated that it would be open for the entire year); therefore, the retailer is bound to a contract to supply the
paper. 

B is incorrect because a firm offer becomes revocable after three months unless consideration is given to
support an option. C is incorrect because notwithstanding the three-month limit on irrevocability, the lawyer
accepted before the retailer revoked the offer. D is incorrect because the terms of the offer stated that it would
be open for a year.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 137

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1009 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

On December 15, a lawyer received from a retailer of supplies an offer consisting of its catalog and a signed
letter stating, "We will supply you with as many of the items in the enclosed catalog as you order during the
next calendar year. We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will remain firm throughout the
coming year." 

Assume that on January 15, having at that time received no reply from the lawyer, the retailer notified the
lawyer that effective February 1, it was increasing the prices of certain specified items in its catalog. 

Is the price increase effective with respect to catalog orders the retailer receives from the lawyer during the
month of February? 

A: No, because the retailer's original offer, including the price term, became irrevocable under the doctrine of
promissory estoppel.
B: No, because the retailer is a merchant with respect to office supplies; and its original offer, including the
price term, was irrevocable throughout the month of February.
C: Yes, because the retailer received no consideration to support its assurance that it would not increase
prices.
D: Yes, because the period for which the retailer gave assurance that it would not raise prices was longer than
three months.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's firm offer rule, an offer by a merchant for the sale of goods contained in
a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it is firm will be irrevocable, notwithstanding lack of
consideration, for the time stated in the offer, but in no case may the period of irrevocability exceed three
months. The retailer is a merchant, because it is a retailer of office supplies. The offer that it sent to the lawyer
is a firm offer because it was made by a merchant, is contained in a signed writing, and provides the
necessary assurances. The fact that the period of irrevocability exceeds three months does not invalidate the
firm offer, but the offer will only be firm for a three-month period. Because, as of January 15, the three-month
period had not yet elapsed, the offer is still firm and the retailer is not free to change the prices contained in the
December 15 offer. 

A is incorrect because the facts do not show substantial reliance on the offer. C is incorrect because UCC firm
offers do not require consideration to be enforceable. D is incorrect because, as explained above, when the
offer purports to be firm for more than three months, the firm offer is not invalidated but rather is irrevocable for
three months.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 138

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1018 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A buyer contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of XYZ Corporation's outstanding stock, to
purchase all of her stock at a specified price per share. At the time this contract was executed, the buyer's
contracting officer said to the shareholder, "Of course, our commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining
approval of the contract from our parent company." The shareholder replied, "Fine. No problem." 

Assume that the parent company orally approved the contract, but that the shareholder changed her mind and
refused to consummate the sale on two grounds: (1) when the agreement was made there was no
consideration for her promise to sell, and (2) the parent company's approval of the contract was invalid. 

If the buyer sues the shareholder for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail? 

A: Yes, because the buyer's promise to buy, bargained for and made in exchange for the shareholder's
promise to sell, was good consideration even though it was expressly conditioned on an event that was not
certain to occur.
B: Yes, because any possible lack of consideration for the shareholder's promise to sell was expressly waived
by the shareholder when the agreement was made.
C: No, because mutuality of obligation between parties was lacking when the agreement was made.
D: No, because the condition of the parent company's approval of the contract was an essential part of the
agreed exchange and was not in a signed writing.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. A promise is not consideration to support a return promise if by its terms the promisor
unconditionally reserves the right of alternative performances, such as reserving the right to cancel the
contract. Such a promise is an illusory promise. However, where a promisor's obligation is conditioned upon
the occurrence of an event that is outside of the promisor's control, the mere fact that the obligation is subject
to a condition does not render the promise illusory. Because the buyer presumably does not control the actions
of its parent company, the fact that the buyer's obligation is conditioned upon the parent company's approval
does not render it illusory, since the buyer will be bound once the condition is satisfied, and the occurrence or
nonoccurrence of the condition is for the most part outside of the buyer's control. 

B is incorrect because the shareholder agreed to the condition; it is not a waiver. C is incorrect because there
is mutuality of obligation in that each party made a binding promise. D is incorrect because the fact that the
parent company's approval was not in writing does not render it invalid.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 139

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1020 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

A buyer contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of XYZ Corporation's outstanding stock, to
purchase all of her stock at a specified price per share. At the time this contract was executed, the buyer's
contracting officer said to the shareholder, "Of course, our commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining
approval of the contract from our parent company." The shareholder replied, "Fine. No problem." 

The shareholder is willing and ready to consummate the sale of her stock to the buyer, but the latter refuses to
perform on the ground (which is true) that the parent company has firmly refused to approve the contract. 

If the shareholder sues the buyer for breach of contract and seeks to exclude any evidence of the oral
condition requiring the parent company's approval, the court will probably 

A: admit the evidence as proof of a collateral agreement.
B: admit the evidence as proof of a condition to the existence of an enforceable obligation, and therefore not
within the scope of the parol evidence rule.
C: exclude the evidence on the basis of a finding that the parties' written agreement was a complete
integration of their contract.
D: exclude the evidence as contradicting the terms of the parties' written agreement, whether or not the writing
was a complete integration of the contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The parol evidence rule bars extrinsic evidence of a prior agreement where the prior
agreement contradicts the terms of a final written agreement or where the prior agreement purports to add to a
completely integrated agreement (i.e., one that is intended by the parties to be both the final and exclusive
manifestation of the parties' understanding). An exception to the parol evidence rule applies where the
extrinsic evidence is offered to prove that the written agreement is to take effect only upon the occurrence of a
stated condition (even if the condition is for only one party's benefit). Because the buyer-shareholder
agreement will only take effect upon approval by the parent company, extrinsic evidence of this oral
understanding is admissible notwithstanding the parol evidence rule. 

A is incorrect because the condition appears to be an integral part of the contract of sale. C and D are
incorrect because the exception to the parol evidence rule for conditions precedent applies regardless of
whether the final writing is partially or completely integrated and regardless of whether the extrinsic evidence
may contradict the final writing (although these facts fail to suggest any such contradiction).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 140

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1041 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A potential buyer telegraphed a vendor on June 1, "At what price will you sell 100 of your QT-Model
garbage-disposal units for delivery around June 10?" Thereafter, the following communications were
exchanged: 

1. Telegram from the vendor received by the potential buyer on June 2: "You're in luck. We have only 100
QT's, all on clearance at 50% off usual wholesale of $120 per unit, for delivery at our shipping platform on
June 12." 
2. Letter from the potential buyer received in U.S. mail by the vendor on June 5: "I accept. Would prefer to pay
in full 30 days after invoice." 
3. Telegram from the vendor received by the potential buyer on June 6: "You must pick up at our platform and
pay C.O.D." 
4 Letter from the potential buyer received in U.S. mail by the vendor on June 9: "I don't deal with people who
can't accommodate our simple requests." 
5. Telegram from the potential buyer received by the vendor on June 10, after the vendor has sold and
delivered all of the QT's to another buyer earlier that day: "Okay. I'm over a barrel and will pick up the goods
on your terms June 12." 

The potential buyer now sues the vendor for breach of contract. 

Which of the following arguments will best serve the vendor's defense? 

A: The vendor's telegram received on June 2 was merely a price quotation, not an offer.
B: The potential buyer's letter received on June 5 was not an acceptance because it varied the terms of the
vendor's initial telegram.
C: The potential buyer's use of the mail in response to the vendor's initial telegram was an ineffective method
of acceptance.
D: The potential buyer's letter received on June 9 was an unequivocal refusal to perform that excused the
vendor even if the parties had previously formed a contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The UCC rejects the common-law mirror image rule. Under the UCC, a written
acceptance of a contract for the sale of goods generally will operate as such even if it states additional or
different terms. The additional or different terms, however, will not become part of the contract if they materially
alter the contract, unless the offeror expressly agrees to such term. The potential buyer's June 5th letter
operated as an acceptance of the vendor's offer, but proposed a later payment date. Because the vendor
expressly rejected this proposed term, it did not form part of the contract. Therefore, the potential buyer's June
9th communication operated as a repudiation of an existing agreement to buy 100 QT's. 

A is incorrect because the vendor's June 2nd communication manifests an intent to make an offer. B is
incorrect because the UCC rejects the common-law mirror image rule (which finds communications that vary
the terms of an offer to be a counteroffer and not an acceptance). C is incorrect because in this case the mail
box rule is irrelevant to whether a contract was formed, because the potential buyer's acceptance was
received before any attempted revocation.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 141

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1053 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

A famous chef entered into a written agreement with his friend, a well-known interior decorator respected for
his unique designs, in which the decorator agreed, for a fixed fee, to design the interior of the chef's new
restaurant, and, upon the chef's approval of the design plan, to decorate and furnish the restaurant
accordingly. The agreement was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Before beginning the
work, the decorator sold his decorating business to Newman under an agreement in which the decorator
assigned to Newman, and Newman agreed to complete, the chef-decorator contract. Newman, also an
experienced decorator of excellent repute, advised the chef of the assignment, and supplied him with
information confirming both Newman's financial responsibility and past commercial success. 

Is the chef obligated to permit Newman to perform the chef-decorator agreement? 

A: Yes, because the agreement contained no prohibition against assignment or delegation.
B: Yes, because the chef received adequate assurances of Newman's ability to complete the job.
C: No, because the decorator's duties were of a personal nature, involving his reputation, taste, and skill.
D: No, because the decorator's purported delegation to Newman of his obligations to the chef effected a
novation.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Unless the contract provides otherwise, a contractual duty may be delegated to another
unless the other party to the contract has a substantial interest in having the original obligor perform. Typically
the other party will have such an interest where the contract is a personal services contract involving fancy,
taste and judgment. Although the the chef-decorator contract was silent on the issue of assignability, the facts
suggest that the chef would have a substantial interest in having the decorator and no other person design the
interior of his new restaurant. Therefore, the decorator's delegation of the duty to Newman without the chef's
consent amounts to a breach of contract. 

A is incorrect because delegation is restricted in this case even though the contract is silent on the issue. B is
incorrect because the chef need not accept the delegation regardless of assurances of performance from
Newman. D is incorrect because a novation would require express agreement from the chef to substitute
Newman for the decorator.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 142

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1054 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

A famous chef entered into a written agreement with his neighbor, a well-known interior decorator respected
for his unique designs, in which the decorator agreed, for a fixed fee, to design the interior of the chef's new
restaurant, and, upon the chef's approval of the design plan, to decorate and furnish the restaurant
accordingly. The agreement was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Before beginning the
work, the decorator sold his decorating business to his friend under an agreement in which the decorator
assigned to the friend, and the friend agreed to complete, the chef-decorator contract. The friend, also an
experienced decorator of excellent repute, advised the chef of the assignment, and supplied him with
information confirming both the friend's financial responsibility and past commercial success.  

If the chef allows the friend to perform and approves his design plan, but the friend fails without legal excuse to
complete the decorating as agreed, against whom does the chef have an enforceable claim for breach of
contract?  

A: The decorator only, because the decorator's agreement with the friend did not discharge his duty to the
chef, and the friend made no express promise to the chef.
B: Only the friend, because the decorator's duty to the chef was discharged when the decorator obtained a
skilled decorator (the friend) to perform the chef-decorator contract.
C: Only the friend, because the chef was an intended beneficiary of the decorator-friend agreement, and the
decorator's duty to the chef was discharged when the chef permitted the friend to do the work and approved
the friend's designs.
D: Either the decorator, because his agreement with the friend did not discharge his duty to the chef, or the
friend, because the chef was an intended beneficiary of the decorator-friend agreement.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Unless the other party to the contract (the obligee, or the chef) agrees otherwise (e.g., by
executing a novation substituting the new obligor and releasing the original obligor of its duty), delegation of a
contractual duty does not discharge the obligation of the delegating obligor (the decorator). Therefore, where a
duty has been delegated (in this case, the duty to design the interior of the chef's new restaurant) and the
delegatee (The friend) breaches the duty, the chef may enforce the contract either against the original obligor
(the decorator), or against the delegatee (The friend). The chef may enforce The friend's promise because he
is the intended beneficiary of the decorator-The friend contract (under which The friend undertook to design
the interior of the chef's new restaurant). 

A is incorrect because the chef is an intended beneficiary of the decorator-The friend agreement (in other
words, allowing the chef standing to enforce the contract would be appropriate to effectuate the parties'
understanding, since The friend must have understood that the decorator's intent was to confer a benefit on
the chef). B and C are incorrect because delegation will not discharge the obligor's original duty (unless the
parties execute a novation).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 143

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1084 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A fixtures company, in a signed writing, contracted with an apartment complex for the sale to the apartment
complex of 50 identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25 sets to be delivered on March 1, and the
remaining 25 sets on April 1. The agreement did not specify the place of delivery, or the time or place of
payment. 

Which of the following statements is correct? 

A: The fixtures company must tender 25 sets to the apartment complex at the apartment complex's place of
business on March 1, but does not have to turn them over to the apartment complex until the complex pays the
contract price for the 25 sets.
B: The fixtures company has no duty to deliver 25 sets on March 1 at the fixtures company's place of business
unless the apartment complex tenders the contract price for the 25 sets on that date.
C: The fixtures company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, and the apartment complex must pay the contract
price for the 25 sets within a reasonable time after their delivery.
D: The fixtures company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, but the apartment complex's payment is due only
upon the delivery of all 50 sets.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC, unless the contract specifies otherwise, a buyer's obligation to pay is
conditioned upon tender of the goods by seller. Tender is effected when the seller makes conforming goods
available for the buyer's disposition and gives the buyer notice sufficient to enable the buyer to take delivery.
Unless the contract specifies otherwise, the place of delivery is the seller's place of business, and payment is
due at the time and place where the buyer is to receive the goods. Because the fixtures company-apartment
complex contract is silent with respect to the place of delivery, tender by the fixtures company does not require
them to deliver the goods to the apartment complex's place of business, but only to make the goods available
at the fixtures company's place of business for the apartment complex to take delivery. 

A is incorrect because tender does not require the fixtures company to deliver the goods to the apartment
complex's place of business. C and D are incorrect because, since the contract is silent with respect to the
time of payment, the apartment complex must make payment for the delivered goods on March 1, when the
fixtures company has tendered delivery.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 144

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1085 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A fixtures company, in a signed writing, contracted with an apartment complex for the sale to the apartment
complex of 50 identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25 sets to be delivered on March 1, and the
remaining 25 sets on April 1. The agreement did not specify the place of delivery, or the time or place of
payment. 

On March 1, the fixtures company tendered 24 sets to the apartment complex and explained, "One of the 25
sets was damaged in transit from the manufacturer to us, but we will deliver a replacement within 5 days." 

Which of the following statements is correct? 

A: The apartment complex is entitled to accept any number of the 24 sets, reject the rest, and cancel the
contract both as to any rejected sets and the lot due on April 1.
B: The apartment complex is entitled to accept any number of the 24 sets and to reject the rest, but is not
entitled to cancel the contract as to any rejected sets or the lot due on April 1.
C: The apartment complex must accept the 24 sets but is entitled to cancel the rest of the contract.
D: The apartment complex must accept the 24 sets and is not entitled to cancel the rest of the contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The UCC defines an installment contract as one that provides for the delivery of goods in
separate lots to be separately accepted. When an installment under such a contract is non-conforming, the
buyer must accept that installment if the seller gives adequate assurance of the defect's cure, unless the
non-conformity substantially impairs the value of the installment and cannot be cured. Because the fixtures
company-apartment complex contract is an installment contract and because the fixtures company gave
assurances that the defective shipment would be cured within five days, the apartment complex must accept
the rest of the shipment and would not be justified in canceling the rest of the contract. 

A and B are incorrect because the UCC's "perfect tender" rule (which entitles a buyer to reject a tender of
delivery that fails in any respect to conform to the contract) does not apply to installment contracts. C is
incorrect because a buyer under an installment contract may treat the contract as breached only if the
non-conformity of one or more installments substantially impairs the value of the contract as a whole.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 145

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1105 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

A written construction contract, under which a contractor agreed to build a new house for an owner at a fixed
price of $200,000, contained the following provision: Prior to construction or during the course thereof, this
contract may be modified by mutual agreement of the parties as to "extras" or other departures from the plans
and specifications provided by the owner and attached hereto. Such modifications, however, may be
authorized only in writing, signed by both parties. During construction, the contractor incorporated into the
structure overhanging gargoyles and other "extras" orally requested by the owner for orally agreed prices in
addition to the contract price. The owner subsequently refused to pay anything for such extras, aggregating
$30,000 at the agreed prices, solely on the ground that no written, signed authorization for them was ever
effected. 

If the contractor sues the owner on account of the "extras," which, if any, of the following will effectively support
the owner's defense? 

A: The parol evidence rule.
B: The preexisting duty rule.
C: Failure of an express condition.
D: The owner does not have a valid defense.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A provision in a written contract that specifies that any modification to the agreement is
unenforceable unless made in writing and signed by both parties is referred to as a no-oral-modification
clause. Such clauses are common in construction contracts (such as the owner-contractor agreement) and
may be enforceable unless the contractor has relied on a verbal request for extras (as was done in this case). 

None of the rules listed provides an effective defense for the owner. A is incorrect because the parol evidence
rule does not apply to modifications made after the adoption of a final writing. B is incorrect because the
pre-existing duty rule (which requires that modifications be supported by consideration) is not relevant to the
owner's claim that a written authorization was required. C is incorrect because an argument based on express
conditions could be rebutted by showing that the parties effectively waived the condition by entering into a
verbal agreement which the contractor relied upon.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 146

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1110 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

On April 1, an owner and a buyer signed a writing in which the owner, in consideration of $100 to be paid to
the owner by the buyer, offered the buyer the right to purchase Greenacre for $100,000 within 30 days. The
writing further provided, "This offer will become effective as an option only if and when the $100 consideration
is in fact paid." On April 20, the owner, having received no payment or other communication from the buyer,
sold and conveyed Greenacre to a citizen for $120,000. On April 21, the owner received a letter from the buyer
enclosing a cashier's check for $100 payable to the owner and stating, "I am hereby exercising my option to
purchase Greenacre and am prepared to close whenever you're ready." 

Which of the following, if proved, best support the buyer's suit against the owner for breach of contract? 

A: The buyer was unaware of the sale to the citizen when the owner received the letter and check from the
buyer on April 21.
B: On April 15, the buyer decided to purchase Greenacre, and applied for and obtained a commitment from a
bank for a $75,000 loan to help finance the purchase.
C: When the April 1 writing was signed, the owner said to the buyer, "Don't worry about the $100; the recital of
'$100 to be paid' makes this deal binding."
D: The owner and the buyer are both professional dealers in real estate.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. An option promise, which makes an offer irrevocable during the time stated, requires
consideration to be enforceable. Even if consideration is not furnished, however, the offer can be accepted by
the offeree unless the offer lapses or the offeree receives notice of revocation by the offeror. Because the
requested consideration had not been paid, the owner's April 1 letter was not effective as an option at the time
that the owner conveyed Greenacre to the citizen. Because the offer was not set to lapse until April 30, the
buyer was still free to accept the owner's offer on April 21, unless it could be shown that the buyer received
notice that the owner conveyed Greenacre to a third party (which would have the effect of revoking the offer,
because it demonstrates the owner's inability to enter into the contract). 

B is incorrect because the buyer's reliance would not be reasonable under these circumstances; the buyer
could have protected itself simply by paying the $100 to create an enforceable option. C is incorrect because
most courts do not regard a mere recital of consideration as sufficient to create an option. D is incorrect
because the parties' status as professionals is not relevant to whether the owner's offer was accepted in time.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 147

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1111 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

On April 1, an owner and a buyer signed a writing in which the owner, in consideration of $100 to be paid to
the owner by the buyer, offered the buyer the right to purchase Greenacre for $100,000 within 30 days. The
writing further provided, "This offer will become effective as an option only if and when the $100 consideration
is in fact paid." On April 20, the owner, having received no payment or other communication from the buyer,
sold and conveyed Greenacre to a citizen for $120,000. On April 21, the owner received a letter from the buyer
enclosing a cashier's check for $100 payable to the owner and stating, "I am hereby exercising my option to
purchase Greenacre and am prepared to close whenever you're ready." 

Assume that, for whatever reason, the buyer prevails in the suit against the owner. 

Which of the following is the buyer entitled to recover? 

A: Nominal damages only, because the remedy of specific performance was not available to the buyer.
B: The fair market value, if any, of an assignable option to purchase Greenacre for $100,000.
C: $20,000, plus the amount, if any, by which the fair market value of Greenacre on the date of the owner's
breach exceeded $120,000.
D: The amount, if any, by which the fair market value of Greenacre on the date of the owner's breach
exceeded $100,000.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Although breach of a contract for real estate typically would entitle the buyer to specific
performance, specific performance is not possible in this case because the property has been sold to the
citizen. As a substitute for specific performance, the buyer may recover expectation damages, or damages that
are intended to give the injured party the value of the promise. Damages to an injured buyer in a contract for
the sale of real estate are usually measured by the difference between the contract price and the market value
of the property as of the time that the buyer learned of the breach, plus any incidental or consequential
damages. So if the buyer prevails in her suit against the owner, she may recover damages equal to the excess
of the market value of Greenacre over the contract price. 

A is incorrect because the buyer is entitled to recover either specific performance or expectation damages. B is
incorrect because the owner's breach ultimately has caused the buyer to lose Greenacre itself and not just an
option to purchase Greenacre. C is incorrect because typically expectation damages are not measured by the
better of the contract price-resale price differential and the contract price-market value differential (although
each of these is a theoretically possible method of measuring expectation damages).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 148

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1123 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

On June 1, a seller and a buyer contracted in writing for the sale and purchase of the seller's cattle ranch (a
large single tract) and to close the transaction on December 1. 

On October 1, the buyer told the seller, "I'm increasingly unhappy about our June 1 contract because of the
current cattle market, and do not intend to buy your ranch unless I'm legally obligated to do so." 

If the seller sues the buyer on October 15 for breach of contract, the seller will probably 

A: win, because the buyer committed a total breach by anticipatory repudiation on October 1.
B: win, because the buyer's October 1 statement created reasonable grounds for the seller's insecurity with
respect to the buyer's performance.
C: lose, because the parties contracted for the sale and conveyance of a single tract, and the seller cannot
bring suit for breach of such a contract prior to the agreed closing date.
D: lose, because the buyer's October 1 statement to the seller was neither a repudiation nor a present breach
of the June 1 contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Under the doctrine of anticipatory repudiation, an unequivocal statement of unwillingness
or inability to perform a future contractual obligation, if material, may be treated as a total breach of that
obligation and give rise to a right to immediately recover damages for that breach. In order to amount to a
repudiation, however, the statement must be unequivocal; a statement that merely expresses doubt over a
party's ability or willingness to perform is not sufficient. The buyer's October 1 statement to the seller that he
did not intend to buy the ranch unless legally obligated to do so may have given rise to insecurity over his
willingness to perform the contract, but it was not a repudiation. Nor was it a breach, since performance was
not due until December 1. 

A is incorrect because the buyer's statement was not a clear manifestation of a prospective unwillingness to
close the contract on December 1. B is incorrect because grounds for insecurity are not alone sufficient to
entitle the seller to treat the contract as breached. Although C is partially correct in that the buyer's obligation is
not due until the closing date, the seller could have brought suit on October 15 if the buyer's statement had
been sufficiently unequivocal to amount to a repudiation of the contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 149

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1124 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

On June 1, a seller and a buyer contracted in writing for the sale and purchase of the seller's cattle ranch (a
large single tract) and to close the transaction on December 1. 

The buyer unequivocally repudiated the contract on August 1. On August 15, the seller urged the buyer to
change her mind and proceed with the scheduled closing on December 1. On October 1, having heard nothing
further from the buyer, the seller sold and conveyed his ranch to a rancher without notice to the buyer. On
December 1, the buyer attempted to close under the June 1 contract by tendering the full purchase price to the
seller. The seller rejected the tender. 

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, the buyer will probably 

A: win, because the seller failed to seasonably notify the buyer of any pending sale to the rancher.
B: win, because the seller waived the buyer's August 1 repudiation by urging her to retract it on August 15.
C: lose, because the buyer did not retract her repudiation before the seller materially changed his position in
reliance thereon by selling the ranch to the rancher.
D: lose, because acceptance of the purchase price by the seller was a concurrent condition to the seller's
obligation to convey the ranch to the buyer on December 1.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. If the effect of a repudiation is to deprive the non-repudiating party of a substantial part of
the contract, it gives the non-repudiating party the right to terminate the contract and pursue remedies for total
breach. The repudiating party, however, is still free to retract the repudiation and reinstate the contract if done
before the non-repudiating party either materially relies on the repudiation or indicates that she considers the
repudiation to be final. Although the buyer attempted to retract his repudiation on December 1, his repudiation
was not timely because the seller had already materially relied on the repudiation on October 1 by conveying
his ranch to the rancher. 

A is incorrect because the seller did not have to give notice in order for his reliance to preclude retraction of the
repudiation. B is incorrect because the seller's efforts to preserve the contractual relationship cannot be
construed as waiving any right the seller had to pursue remedies for breach of contract. D is incorrect because
the seller is not obligated to convey the ranch to the buyer if the buyer has repudiated the contract and the
time for retracting the repudiation has passed.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 150

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1126 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A contractor agreed to build a power plant for a public utility. A subcontractor agreed with the contractor to lay
the foundation for $200,000. The subcontractor supplied goods and services worth $150,000, for which the
contractor made progress payments aggregating $100,000 as required by the subcontract. The subcontractor
then breached by unjustifiably refusing to perform further. The contractor reasonably spent $120,000 to have
the work completed by another subcontractor. 

The subcontractor sues the contractor for the reasonable value of benefits conferred, and the contractor
counterclaims for breach of contract. 

Which of the following should be the court's decision? 

A: The subcontractor recovers $50,000, the benefit conferred on the contractor for which the subcontractor
has not been paid.
B: The subcontractor recovers $30,000, the benefit the subcontractor conferred on the contractor minus the
$20,000 in damages incurred by the contractor.
C: The contractor recovers $20,000, the excess over the contract price that was paid by the contractor for the
performance it had bargained to receive from the subcontractor.
D: Neither party recovers anything, because the subcontractor committed a material, unexcused breach and
the contractor received a $50,000 benefit from the subcontractor for which the subcontractor has not been
paid.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A party in breach generally is entitled to restitution of any benefit that he has conferred in
the way of part performance in excess of any loss to the non-breaching party resulting from the breach. In
measuring restitution to the breaching party, the value of the benefit conferred should not exceed the contract
price for such services. The subcontractor appears to have entered into a losing contract, since the value of
the services rendered up to the time of breach ($150,000) exceeds the contract rate for such services
($100,000). But because the subcontractor was the breaching party, he is not entitled to recover the amount
by which the reasonable value of his services exceeded the contract rate; rather he is limited to restitution of
what he would have earned on the contract. 

Because the subcontractor has already been given progress payments of $100,000 for the work, there is no
basis for restitution to the subcontractor. The contractor, however, is entitled to the damages resulting from the
subcontractor's breach. Specifically, the contractor may recover the additional $20,000 cost of hiring another
subcontractor to complete the work that the subcontractor refused to do. A, B and D are incorrect because, as
explained above, a breaching plaintiff (such as the subcontractor) may not recover in restitution what he would
have forfeited by entering into a losing contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 151

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1137 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

A computer company contracted in writing with a bank to sell and deliver to the bank a mainframe computer
using a new type of magnetic memory, then under development but not perfected by the computer company,
at a price substantially lower than that of a similar computer using current technology. The contract's delivery
term was "F.O.B. the bank, on or before July 31." 

Assume that the computer company tendered the computer to the bank on August 15, and that the bank
rejected it because of delay. 

If the computer company sues the bank for breach of contract, which of the following facts, if proved, will best
support a recovery by the computer company? 

A: The delay did not materially harm the bank.
B: The computer company believed, on the assumption that the bank was getting a "super deal" for its money,
that the bank would not reject because of the late tender of delivery.
C: The computer company's delay in tender was caused by a truckers' strike.
D: A usage in the relevant trade allows computer sellers a 30-day leeway in a specified time of delivery, unless
the usage is expressly negated by the contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, any trade usage that is observed with sufficient regularity in a place,
vocation, or trade so as to justify an expectation that the parties contracted with reference to it can be
introduced to interpret the parties' agreement, so long as the usage can be reasonably construed as being
consistent with the express terms of the contract. Indeed, the UCC defines "agreement" as including the
parties' express terms as well as those that are implied by applicable trade usage. Although the written
contract between the computer company and the bank called for delivery "on or before July 31," the trade
usage that the computer company seeks to introduce suggests that buyers should allow for up to 30-days'
leeway beyond that date. If the contract were construed in light of this usage, then the August 15 delivery
would not be a breach of the contract and the bank would be in breach for refusing to take delivery on that
date. The fact that buyers and sellers typically negate the usage with express language if the delivery date is
to be construed strictly suggests that the trade usage is fairly persuasive evidence of the parties' intent. 

A is incorrect because even an immaterial delay in delivery would entitle the bank to reject delivery of the
computer. B is incorrect because such an inference would not be reasonable if the contract is literally
construed as requiring delivery "on or before July 31." C is incorrect because a truckers' strike would not justify
excuse on grounds of impracticability, because the facts do not suggest that the availability of ground shipment
is a basic assumption on which the contract was made.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 152

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1138 - Contracts - Impracticability and Frustration of Purpose

 The question was: 

A computer company contracted in writing with a bank to sell and deliver to the bank a mainframe computer
using a new type of magnetic memory, then under development but not perfected by the computer company,
at a price substantially lower than that of a similar computer using current technology. The contract's delivery
term was "F.O.B. the bank, on or before July 31." 

After making the contract with the bank, the computer company discovered that the new technology it intended
to use was unreliable and that no computer manufacturer could yet build a reliable computer using that
technology. The computer company thereupon notified the bank that it was impossible for the computer
company or anyone else to build the contracted-for computer "in the present state of the art." 

If the bank sues the computer company for failure to perform its computer contract, the court will probably
decide the case in favor of 

A: the computer company, because its performance of the contract was objectively impossible.
B: the computer company, because a contract to build a machine using technology under development
imposes only a duty on the builder to use its best efforts to achieve the result contracted for.
C: the bank, because the law of impossibility does not apply to merchants under the applicable law.
D: the bank, because the computer company assumed the risk, in the given circumstances, that the projected
new technology would not work reliably.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Under the UCC, delay or non-delivery by a seller is not a breach of a contract of sale
where performance has been made impracticable by the occurrence of an event the non-occurrence of which
was a basic assumption of the contract. Excuse on grounds of impracticability will not be available, however, if
the event in question was sufficiently foreshadowed so as to fairly be viewed as part of the risks that the seller
assumed when entering into the contract. At the time that it undertook to sell the mainframe computer, the
computer company was aware that the new technology it was planning to utilize was not yet perfected.
Therefore, the fact that this technology turned out to be unreliable is a risk that the computer company should
bear, and therefore the computer company's failure to perform the contract should not be excused. 

A is incorrect because the UCC test for excuse on grounds of impracticability focuses not on whether
performance is impossible but on whether the party seeking excuse should be found to bear the risk of the
event that renders performance impracticable. B is incorrect because it is not true; if the computer company
wanted to undertake only a "best efforts" obligation, it should have expressly so stated in the contract. C is
incorrect because the UCC doctrine of impracticability applies to merchants as well as non-merchants.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 153

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1150 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A manager, aged 60, who had no plans for early retirement, had worked for an insurance company for 20
years as a managerial employee-at-will when he had a conversation with the company's president about the
manager's post-retirement goal of extensive travel around the United States. A month later, the president
handed the manager a written, signed resolution of the company's Board of Directors stating that when and if
the manager should decide to retire, at his option, the company, in recognition of his past service, would pay
him a $2,000-per-month lifetime pension. (The company had no regularized retirement plan for at-will
employees.) Shortly thereafter, the manager retired and immediately bought a $30,000 recreational vehicle for
his planned travels. After receiving the promised $2,000 monthly pension from the insurance company for six
months, the manager, now unemployable elsewhere, received a letter from the insurance company, advising
him that the pension would cease immediately because of recessionary budget constraints affecting in varying
degrees all managerial salaries and retirement pensions. 

In a suit against the insurance company for breach of contract, the manager will probably 

A: win, because he retired from the company as bargained-for consideration for the Board's promise to him of
a lifetime pension.
B: win, because he timed his decision to retire and to buy the recreational vehicle in reasonable reliance on
the Board's promise to him of a lifetime pension.
C: lose, because the Board's promise to him of a lifetime pension was an unenforceable gift promise.
D: lose, because he had been an employee-at-will throughout his active service with the company.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the theory of detrimental reliance, a gratuitous promise may be enforceable
notwithstanding lack of consideration if the party making the promise has reason to expect the promise will
induce reliance on the part of the promisee, where there has been reliance in fact, and where injustice may be
avoided only by enforcement of the promise. The manager's conversation with the company's president gave
the insurance company reason to expect that a promise of a lifetime pension would induce reliance on the part
of the manager. The manager relied in fact by retiring and spending $30,000 on a trailer. Finally, justice
requires enforcement because the manager is no longer eligible for employment. 

A is incorrect because the company's promise to pay a pension was not conditioned upon the manager's
retirement, and therefore it was not part of a bargained-for exchange. C is incorrect because gift promises may
be enforceable on grounds of promissory estoppel. D is incorrect because the manager's status as an at-will
employee does not affect his ability to enforce the pension promise on a detrimental reliance theory.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 154

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1153 - Contracts - Third-Party Rights

 The question was: 

In exchange for valid and sufficient consideration, a mother orally promised her son, who had no car and
wanted a minivan, "to pay to anyone from whom you buy a minivan within the next six months the full
purchase-price thereof." Two months later, the son bought a used minivan on credit from a car dealership for
$8,000. At the time, the dealership was unaware of the mother's earlier promise to her son, but learned of it
shortly after the sale. 

Can the dealership enforce the mother's promise to her son? 

A: Yes, under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
B: Yes, because the dealership is an intended beneficiary of the mother-son contract.
C: No, because the mother's promise to her son is unenforceable under the suretyship clause of the statute of
frauds.
D: No, because the dealership was neither identified when the mother's promise was made nor aware of it
when the minivan sale was made.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. A third party acquires standing to enforce a promise only if that party is an intended
beneficiary of the promise. A party is an intended beneficiary of a promise if recognition of a right to
performance in the beneficiary is appropriate to effectuate the intent of the parties, such as where the promisor
knows that the promisee intended to confer a benefit on the beneficiary. The dealership is an intended
beneficiary of the mother's promise to her son because both parties understood that the purpose of the
contract between them was to confer a benefit on the future seller of the son's minivan. This purpose is clear
from the terms of the mother's promise, which was to pay the purchase price "to anyone from whom you buy a
minivan." 

A is incorrect because the dealership was not aware of the mother's promise at the time that it sold the minivan
to the son, and therefore could not have relied on it. C is incorrect because the suretyship provision of the
statute of frauds does not apply where the surety promise was made to the principal (the son) and not to the
obligee (the dealership). D is incorrect because, although the dealership's identification and awareness of the
mother's promise is relevant to determining when its rights as beneficiary vest, it is not relevant to determining
whether it is an intended or incidental beneficiary.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 155

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1157 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A breeder bought a two-month-old registered boar at auction from a seller for $800. No express warranty was
made. Fifteen months later, tests by experts proved conclusively that the boar had been born incurably sterile.
If this had been known at the time of the sale, the boar would have been worth no more than $100. 

In an action by the breeder against the seller to avoid the contract and recover the price paid, the parties
stipulate that, as both were and had been aware, the minimum age at which the fertility of a boar can be
determined is about 12 months. 

Which of the following will the court probably decide? 

A: The breeder wins, because the parties were mutually mistaken as to the boar's fertility when they made the
agreement.
B: The breeder wins, because the seller impliedly warranted that the boar was fit for breeding.
C: The seller wins, because the breeder assumed the risk of the boar's sterility.
D: The seller wins, because any mistake involved was unilateral, not mutual.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A contract may be rescinded on grounds of mutual mistake of fact if the mistake relates to
a fundamental assumption of the contract having a material effect on the exchange, unless the court
determines that the party asserting mistake should bear the risk of the mistake. The effect of the mistake was
material to the value of the exchange in this case, as it reduced the boar's value from $800 to $100. But the
boar's fertility is not a fundamental assumption of the contract, because both parties knew that fertility could
not yet be determined at the time of sale. In addition, although the breeder could not have investigated
whether the boar was fertile at the time of sale, it seems likely that the court nonetheless would find that the
breeder implicitly assumed the risk of the boar's infertility, since the breeder was aware of this possibility yet
went forward with the purchase. 

A is incorrect because, as explained above, it is unlikely that the court would find mistake on these facts. B is
incorrect because the facts do not suggest such an implied term since both parties were aware that such a
determination was not possible at the time of the contract. D is incorrect because a unilateral mistake would
apply where one but not the other party was operating under mistake at the time of the contract; in this case,
neither party could have known at the time of the contract whether the boar was sterile.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 156

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1165 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A chef purchased the front portion of the land needed for a restaurant he desired to build and operate, but the
back portion was the subject of a will dispute between a sister and brother. The sister's attorney advised that
her claim was doubtful. The chef, knowing only that the unresolved dispute existed, agreed in a signed writing
to pay the sister $6,000, payable $1,000 annually, in exchange for a quitclaim deed (a deed containing no
warranties) from the sister, who promptly executed such a deed to the chef and received the chef's first annual
payment. Shortly thereafter, the probate court handed down a decision in the brother's favor, ruling that the
sister had no interest in the land. This decision has become final. The chef subsequently defaulted when his
second annual installment came due. 

In an action against the chef for breach of contract, the sister will probably 

A: lose, because she was aware at the time of the agreement with the chef that her claim to the property
quitclaimed was doubtful.
B: lose, because she suffered no legal detriment in executing the quitclaim deed.
C: win, because the chef bargained for, and received in exchange, a quitclaim deed from the sister.
D: win, because the chef, by paying the first $1,000 installment, is estopped to deny that his agreement with
the sister is an enforceable contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. In order to be enforceable, a promise must be supported by consideration. Consideration
is a return promise or performance which is bargained-for, i.e., sought by the promisor in exchange for the
promise and given by the promisee in exchange for the promise. Courts at law do not inquire into the
adequacy of consideration as long as the consideration was bargained-for; it is often said that "even a
peppercorn will suffice" for consideration. In exchange for the chef's promise to pay the sister $6,000, the
sister agreed to convey (and promptly conveyed) to the chef a quitclaim deed for a piece of property. Although
the sister was aware that her claim to the property was doubtful, and although the deed contained no warranty
of title, her promise to convey the quitclaim deed was sufficient consideration to support the chef's promise. 

Choice A is incorrect because what matters for finding consideration is the existence of an exchange, even if
the values exchanged are unequal (the answer would be different if, instead of giving the quitclaim deed, the
sister had promised to forbear from bringing a claim that she knew was doubtful). B is incorrect because the
legal test for consideration focuses on the existence of a bargain rather than legal detriment. D is incorrect
because the chef paid the first $1,000 before he became aware of the true value of the quitclaim deed.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 157

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1170 - Contracts - Defenses to Enforceability

 The question was: 

A dry goods retailer telephoned a towel manufacturer and offered to buy for $5 each a minimum of 500 and a
maximum of 1,000 large bath towels, to be delivered in 30 days. The manufacturer orally accepted this offer
and promptly sent the following letter to the retailer, which the retailer received two days later: "This confirms
our agreement today by telephone to sell you 500 large bath towels for 30-day delivery. /s/ Manufacturer."
Twenty-eight days later, the manufacturer tendered to the retailer 1,000 (not 500) conforming bath towels, all
of which the retailer rejected because it had found a better price term from another supplier. Because of a glut
in the towel market, the manufacturer cannot resell the towels except at a loss. 

In a suit by the manufacturer against the retailer, which of the following will be the probable decision? 

A: The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 1,000 towels, because the retailer ordered and the
manufacturer tendered that quantity.
B: The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 500 towels, because the manufacturer's letter of confirmation
stated that quantity term.
C: There is no enforceable agreement, because the retailer never signed a writing.
D: There is no enforceable agreement, because the manufacturer's letter of confirmation did not state a price
term.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under the UCC's Statute of Frauds, a contract for the sale of goods for $500 or more is
not enforceable unless there is a writing sufficient to indicate that a contract has been made, which is signed
by the party against whom enforcement is sought. The writing need not contain all of the terms of the contract,
but it is only enforceable to the extent of the quantity term stated in the writing. The contract between the
manufacturer and the retailer falls within the UCC Statute of Frauds because it is for over $500. However,
when dealing with two merchants, there is something called the Confirmatory Memo Rule. In contracts
between merchants, if one party, within a reasonable time after an oral understanding has been reached,
sends a written confirmation to the other party that binds the sender, it will satisfy the Statute of Frauds
requirements against the recipient as well, if the recipient knew of the memo's contents and failed to object to
the memo's contents in writing within 10 days of when the confirmatory memo was received. 

A is incorrect because the contract is only enforceable to the extent of the quantity term stated in the
confirmation. C is incorrect because the writing only needs to be signed by one party when dealing with
merchants. D is incorrect because the UCC Statute of Frauds does not require that the price term be stated in
the writing.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 158

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1201 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

In January, a teacher contracted with a summer camp to serve as its head counselor at a salary of $10,000 for
10 weeks of service from the first of June to the middle of August. In March, the camp notified the teacher that
it had hired someone else to act as head counselor and that the teacher's services would not be needed. In
April, the teacher spent $200 traveling to interview at the only other nearby summer camp for a position as its
head counselor. The teacher was not chosen for that job. The teacher then took a position teaching in a local
summer school at a salary of $6,000 for the same 10-week period as the summer camp. 

In a breach-of-contract action against the camp, to which of the following amounts, as damages, is the teacher
entitled? 

A: $4,000.
B: $4,200.
C: $10,000.
D: $10,200.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The goal is to put the teacher in the position he or she would have occupied but for the
breach. Mitigation expenses can be recovered, if reasonable, even if those particular expenses are not
connected to a successful mitigation attempt. Answer A is incorrect because it fails to provide for recovery of
the $200 expense incurred in the reasonable, albeit unsuccessful, effort to mitigate damages by applying for
the head counselor position at another nearby summer camp. Answer B is correct because it accounts for
recovery of the difference between the contract salary ($10,000) and the amount earned at the local summer
school ($6,000), PLUS the reasonable expenses incurred in seeking to mitigate after the breach ($200 travel
expenses). Answers C and D are incorrect because an award of $10,000 or $10,200 would overcompensate
the teacher, violating the principle of expectation damages.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 159

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1207 - Contracts - Discharge of Contractual Duties

 The question was: 

A lumber supplier agreed to sell and a furniture manufacturer agreed to buy all of the lumber that the
manufacturer required over a two-year period. The sales contract provided that payment was due 60 days
after delivery, but that a 3% discount would be allowed if the manufacturer paid within 10 days of delivery.
During the first year of the contract, the manufacturer regularly paid within the 10-day period and received the
3% discount. Fifteen days after the supplier made its most recent lumber delivery to the manufacturer, the
supplier had received no payment from the manufacturer. At this time, the supplier became aware of rumors
from a credible source that the manufacturer's financial condition was precarious. The supplier wrote the
manufacturer, demanding assurances regarding the manufacturer's financial status. The manufacturer
immediately mailed its latest audited financial statements to the supplier, as well as a satisfactory credit report
prepared by the manufacturer's banker. The rumors proved to be false. Nevertheless, the supplier refused to
resume deliveries. The manufacturer sued the lumber supplier for breach of contract.  

Will the manufacturer prevail? 

A: No, because the contract was unenforceable, since the manufacturer had not committed to purchase a
definite quantity of lumber.
B: No, because the supplier had reasonable grounds for insecurity and was therefore entitled to cancel the
contract and refuse to make any future deliveries.
C: Yes, because the credit report and audited financial statements provided adequate assurance of due
performance under the contract.
D: Yes, because the supplier was not entitled to condition resumption of deliveries on the receipt of financial
status information.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A party to a contract with reasonable grounds to worry that the other party might not
perform can request adequate assurances of performance, pursuant to Uniform Commercial Code § 2-609.
The supplier in this case did so, but the information provided by the manufacturer would be regarded as
satisfying the request for an assurance of performance. Therefore the supplier's refusal to continue
performance constituted a breach of contract for which the manufacturer is entitled to compensation. 

Answer A is incorrect. A quantity term expressed in terms of a manufacturer's requirements is enforceable.
Uniform Commercial Code § 2-306 provides that "a term which measures the quantity by the . . . requirements
of the buyer means such actual . . . requirements as may occur in good faith . . . ." Essentially, the definiteness
of quantity requirement is satisfied if there is an available objective method for determining the quantity, and
the requirements of a manufacturer would generally satisfy that need. In this case, once the manufacturer
provided the supplier with adequate assurance in the form of audited financial statements and a credit report,
the supplier was bound to perform under the contract.  

Answer B is incorrect. Under Uniform Commercial Code § 2-609, a party to a contract who has reasonable
grounds for insecurity is entitled to request assurances, and is also entitled to suspend performance pending
receipt of that assurance. A failure to provide an adequate assurance within a reasonable time (not to exceed
30 days) can be treated as a repudiation, which may give rise to a right to terminate the contract. In this case,
the supplier was entitled to seek assurance, but once the manufacturer provided the supplier with adequate
assurance in the form of audited financial statements and a credit report, the supplier was bound to perform
under the contract.  

Answer D is incorrect. This answer correctly concludes that the manufacturer will prevail, but it misstates the
reason why this is so. Uniform Commercial Code § 2-609 provides that a party to a contract with reasonable
grounds to worry that the other party might not perform can request adequate assurance of performance. In
this case, the supplier heard rumors from a credible source that the manufacturer's financial condition was
insecure. This would be enough to trigger the right to request assurance, and so it is incorrect to assert that
the supplier was not entitled to request assurance. Nevertheless, the manufacturer will prevail because it in
fact provided adequate assurance in the form of audited financial statements and a credit report. Therefore the

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 160

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1207 - Contracts - Discharge of Contractual Duties

supplier's refusal to continue performance constituted a breach of contract for which the manufacturer is
entitled to compensation.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 161

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1214 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A landowner and a contractor entered into a written contract under which the contractor agreed to build a
building and pave an adjacent sidewalk for the landowner at a price of $200,000. Later, while construction was
proceeding, the landowner and the contractor entered into an oral modification under which the contractor was
not obligated to pave the sidewalk but still would be entitled to $200,000 upon completion. The contractor
completed the building. The landowner, after discussions with his landscaper, demanded that the contractor
pave the adjacent sidewalk. The contractor refused.  

Has the contractor breached the contract? 

A: No, because the oral modification was in good faith and therefore enforceable.
B: Yes, because a discharge of a contractual obligation must be in writing.
C: Yes, because the parol evidence rule bars proof of the oral modification.
D: Yes, because there was no consideration for the discharge of the contractor's duty to pave the sidewalk.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Because it is a contract for services, this contract is governed by the common law of
contracts, and not the Uniform Commercial Code. The prevailing common law view is that a modification to a
contract requires consideration to be valid. Here, there was no consideration for the elimination of the
contractor's duty to pave the sidewalk. The contractor actually promised to do less than he was under a
pre-existing duty to do, and so there was no enforceable modification of the contract. Thus, Answer D is
correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. This contract is governed by the common law of contracts, and not the Uniform
Commercial Code. Unlike the UCC, the prevailing common law view is that a modification to a contract
requires consideration to be valid. Here, there was no consideration for the elimination of the contractor's duty
to pave the sidewalk. The contractor actually promised to do less than he was under a pre-existing duty to do,
and so there was no enforceable modification of the contract. 

Answer B is incorrect. It is true that the contractor breached the contract, but there is no rule requiring the
discharge of a contractual obligation to be in writing. There are many ways in which a discharge might arise, in
addition to discharges by mutual agreement. But even in the case of discharge by mutual agreement, there is
no general rule requiring a writing. The issue is whether the parties' oral exchange regarding the sidewalk
resulted in an enforceable modification of the contract. As explained above, the contract modification is
unenforceable for lack of consideration. 

Answer C is incorrect. It is true that the contractor breached the contract, but the parol evidence rule is not
applicable. The parol evidence rule applies to exclude some kinds of evidence with respect to discussions
held, or correspondence exchanged, either prior to or contemporaneous with the making of a contract. In this
case the crucial exchange occurred AFTER the contract was made, and so the issue is whether that exchange
resulted in an enforceable modification of the contract. As explained above, the contract modification is
unenforceable for lack of consideration.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 162

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1224 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

During negotiations to purchase a used car, a buyer asked a dealer whether the car had ever been in an
accident. The dealer replied: "It is a fine car and has been thoroughly inspected and comes with a certificate of
assured quality. Feel free to have the car inspected by your own mechanic." In actuality, the car had been in
an accident and the dealer had repaired and repainted the car, successfully concealing evidence of the
accident. The buyer declined to have the car inspected by his own mechanic, explaining that he would rely on
the dealer's certificate of assured quality. At no time did the dealer disclose that the car had previously been in
an accident. The parties then signed a contract of sale. After the car was delivered and paid for, the buyer
learned about the car's involvement in a major accident. 

If the buyer sues the dealer to rescind the transaction, is the buyer likely to succeed? 

A: No, because the buyer had the opportunity to have the car inspected by his own mechanic and declined to
do so.
B: No, because the dealer did not affirmatively assert that the car had not been in an accident.
C: Yes, because the contract was unconscionable.
D: Yes, because the dealer's statement was intentionally misleading and the dealer had concealed evidence of
the accident.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. When a seller induces a buyer into consenting to a contract by means of a material
misrepresentation, the resulting contract is voidable at the election of the buyer. In this case, the buyer asked a
direct question about whether the car had ever been in an accident, and the seller gave an answer that a
reasonable buyer would take as an assurance that the seller at least had no knowledge of the car's
involvement in an accident. The accident history of the car would be material to the buyer's decision. The
seller's statement, taken in context, and in light of the seller's active steps to conceal evidence of the damage
and repair, would be the legal equivalent of a statement that the car had not been in an accident. The seller
actively concealed the damage and would not escape responsibility for misleading the buyer merely because
the seller did not answer the question more directly—by saying, for example, "No, the car has never been in an
accident." 

Answer A is incorrect. When a seller induces a buyer into consenting to a contract by means of a material
misrepresentation, the resulting contract is voidable at the election of the buyer. Although there might be some
instances in which a failure to independently inspect property might constitute a defense to a claim of
misrepresentation, the facts of this case don't justify such a conclusion. The buyer is entitled to rely on the truth
of material representations made by the seller, and need not conduct independent tests to see whether the
seller is lying, even if such an independent test would reveal the lie. In this case, the seller actively concealed
the damage, and would not escape responsibility for misleading the buyer merely because the seller did not
answer the question more directly—by saying, for example, "No, the car has never been in an accident." 

Answer B is incorrect. When a seller induces a buyer into consenting to a contract by means of a material
misrepresentation, the resulting contract is voidable at the election of the buyer. In this case, the buyer asked a
direct question about whether the car had ever been in an accident, and the seller gave an answer that a
reasonable buyer would take as an assurance that the seller at least had no knowledge of the car's
involvement in an accident. The seller's statement, taken in context, and in light of the seller's active steps to
conceal evidence of the damage and repair, would be the legal equivalent of a statement that the car had not
been in an accident. The seller actively concealed the damage and would not be permitted to escape being
held responsible for misleading the buyer merely because the seller did not answer the question more
directly—by saying, for example, "No, the car has never been in an accident." 

Answer C is incorrect. This answer correctly concludes that the buyer may rescind the contract, but it
misstates the reason why this is so. When a seller induces a buyer into consenting to a contract by means of a
material misrepresentation, the resulting contract is voidable at the election of the buyer. Unconscionability
arises when there are unfair terms, coupled with an unfair bargaining process. In some cases,

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 163

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1224 - Contracts - Remedies

unconscionability may be found where a seller has made misrepresentations, or concealed material facts, but
not every case of misrepresentation presents a case of unconscionability. In this case, apart from the fact that
the seller concealed the damage to the car, and gave a misleading answer to the buyer's question, there is
insufficient evidence that the contract was unconscionable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 164

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1230 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

On January 5, a creditor lent $1,000 to a debtor under a contract calling for the debtor to repay the loan at the
rate of $100 per month payable on the first day of each month. On February 1, at the debtor's request, the
creditor agreed to permit payment on February 5. On March 1, the debtor requested a similar time extension
and the creditor replied, "Don't bother me each month. Just change the date of payment to the fifth of the
month. But you must now make the payments by cashier's check." The debtor said, "Okay," and made
payments on March 5 and April 5. On April 6, the creditor sold the loan contract to a bank, but did not tell the
bank about the agreement permitting payments on the fifth of the month. On April 6, the bank wrote to the
debtor: "Your debt to [the creditor] has been assigned to us. We hereby inform you that all payments must be
made on the first day of the month." 

Can the debtor justifiably insist that the payment date for the rest of the installments is the fifth of each month? 

A: No, because a contract modification is not binding on an assignee who had no knowledge of the
modification.
B: No, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on the first of the month, the bank
reinstated it.
C: Yes, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on the first of the month, the creditor
could not assign to the bank his right to reinstate that condition.
D: Yes, because the creditor could assign to the bank only those rights the creditor had in the contract at the
time of the assignment.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. An assignee succeeds to a contract as the contract stands at the time of the assignment.
In this case, the parties had modified the contract as to the time payment was due. (Note that there was
consideration for the promise to accept payments later; the consideration was the debtor's promise to make
future payments by cashier's check.) Accordingly, the debtor can insist that the payments be due on the fifth of
each month. 

Answer A is incorrect. This answer implies the existence of a rule which would make a contract modification
ineffective where an assignee had no notice of it—-but there is no such rule. As explained above, the assignee
bank in this case succeeded to the contract as it stood at the time of the assignment. 

Answer B is incorrect. It is true that if a party waives a condition, that party may reinstate the condition with
respect to future acts of performance, but that rule is not applicable here. The assignee bank in this case
succeeded to the contract as it stood at the time of the assignment. The parties had modified the contract by
mutual agreement, changing the term which specified the time payments were due, and the opportunity to
reinstate a condition was no longer available. That is, this case raises an issue of modification of terms, and
not a mere waiver. (Note that there was consideration for the promise to accept payments later; the
consideration was the debtor's promise to make future payments by cashier's check.) Accordingly, the debtor
can insist that the payments be due on the fifth of each month. 

Answer C is incorrect. It is true that the debtor in this case can insist that the payments be due on the fifth of
each month, but this answer misstates the reason why this is so. An assignee succeeds to a contract as the
contract stands at the time of the assignment. In this case, the parties had modified the contract by mutual
agreement prior to its assignment to the bank, changing the term which specified the time payments were due.
(Note that there was consideration for the promise to accept payments later; the consideration was the
debtor's promise to make future payments by cashier's check.) This is not a case where the creditor has
waived prompt payment under the contract—-the parties mutually agreed to modify the contract. Moreover, if
there had been no modification, but simply a waiver of the due date by the creditor, then the assignee bank
would have had the right to reinstate the condition that payments be made on the first of the month.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 165

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1231 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A buyer entered into a written contract to purchase from a seller 1,000 sets of specially manufactured ball
bearings of a nonstandard dimension for a price of $10 per set. The seller correctly calculated that it would
cost $8 to manufacture each set. Delivery was scheduled for 60 days later. Fifty-five days later, after the seller
had completed production of the 1,000 sets, the buyer abandoned the project requiring use of the specially
manufactured ball bearings and repudiated the contract with the seller. After notifying the buyer of his intention
to resell, the seller sold the 1,000 sets of ball bearings to a salvage company for $2 per set. The seller sued
the buyer for damages. 

What damages should the court award to the seller? 

A: $2 per set, representing the difference between the cost of production and the price the buyer agreed to
pay.
B: $6 per set, representing the difference between the cost of manufacture and the salvage price.
C: $8 per set, representing the lost profits plus the unrecovered cost of production.
D: Nominal damages, as the seller failed to resell the goods by public auction.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. The seller is entitled to be put in the position it
would have been in if the contract had been performed. The proper measure of damages here is set out in
UCC § 2-708(2), which provides that a seller is entitled to the profit the seller would have made ($2 per set),
plus an allowance for costs reasonably incurred ($8 per set), minus payments received for resale of the goods
($2 per set)—here, the salvage. Accordingly, the seller should recover $2 + $8 - $2 = $8 per set. 

Answer A is incorrect. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. The seller is entitled to be put in the position it
would have been in if the contract had been performed. Two dollars per set fails to accomplish that goal. This
would have been a correct answer ONLY IF the seller had not yet begun manufacturing the ball bearings. The
seller incurred those costs in preparing for performance, and is entitled to recover them in order to protect its
expectation interest. As explained above, the proper measure of damages here is the profit the seller would
have made plus an allowance for costs reasonably incurred, minus payments received for resale of the goods. 

Answer B is incorrect. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. The seller is entitled to be put in the position it
would have been in if the contract had been performed. Six dollars per set fails to accomplish that goal. The
difference between the cost of manufacture and the salvage price fails to take account of the lost profit the
seller is entitled to recover. As explained above, the proper measure of damages here is the profit the seller
would have made plus an allowance for costs reasonably incurred, minus payments received for resale of the
goods. 

Answer D is incorrect. The Uniform Commercial Code controls. The seller is entitled to be put in the position it
would have been in if the contract had been performed. As explained above, the proper measure of damages
here is the profit the seller would have made plus an allowance for costs reasonably incurred, minus payments
received for resale of the goods.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 166

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1238 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A bakery offered a chef a permanent full-time job as a pastry chef at a salary of $2,000 per month. The chef
agreed to take the position and to begin work in two weeks. In her employment application, the chef had
indicated that she was seeking a permanent job. One week after the chef was hired by the bakery, a hotel
offered the chef a position as a restaurant manager at a salary of $2,500 a month. The chef accepted and
promptly notified the bakery that she would not report for work at the bakery. 

Is the bakery likely to prevail in a lawsuit against the chef for breach of contract? 

A: No, because a contract for permanent employment would be interpreted to mean the chef could leave at
any time.
B: No, because the position the chef took with the hotel was not substantially comparable to the one she had
agreed to take with the bakery.
C: Yes, because the chef's acceptance of a permanent position meant that she agreed to leave the bakery
only after a reasonable time.
D: Yes, because the chef's failure to give the bakery a chance to match the salary offered by the hotel
breached the implied right of first refusal.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The issue here is the interpretation of the term "permanent employment" in the
bakery-chef contract. It is well established that "permanent employment" means "employment-at-will" in this
context. In an employment-at-will relationship, either party can terminate the agreement at any time, without
the termination being considered a breach (unless the termination were to violate an important public policy —
which is not the case here). Accordingly, the chef is not liable for breach of contract. 

Answer B is incorrect. This answer correctly concludes that the bakery will not prevail in a breach of contract
action against the chef, but it misstates the reason why this is so. The question whether the job the baker took
with the hotel was comparable to the one she left at the bakery is not relevant here. The comparability issue
DOES arise in cases in which an employee who has been terminated is offered another job; in such cases the
employee's claim for breach would be reduced by wages which could have been earned at jobs which are not
different and inferior. That is not the case in this problem. 

Answer C is incorrect because it is grounded in an incorrect interpretation of the meaning of the word
"permanent" in the context of employment agreements, as explained above. 

Answer D is incorrect. This answer is incorrect because it presumes the existence of an "implied right of first
refusal." While some contracts do create rights of first refusal, such rights must be created by express
agreement, and not by implication. In the context of employment agreements, it is well established that
"permanent employment" means "employment-at-will." In an employment-at-will relationship, either party can
terminate the agreement at any time, without the termination being considered a breach (unless the
termination were to violate an important public policy — which is not the case here). Accordingly, the chef is
not liable for breach of contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 167

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1248 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A car dealer owed a bank $10,000, due on June 1. The car dealer subsequently sold an automobile to a buyer
at a price of $10,000, payable at $1,000 per month beginning on June 1. The car dealer then asked the bank
whether the bank would accept payments of $1,000 per month for 10 months beginning June 1, without
interest, in payment of the debt. The bank agreed to that arrangement and the car dealer then directed the
buyer to make the payments to the bank. When the buyer tendered the first payment to the bank, the bank
refused the payment, asserting that it would accept payment only from the car dealer. On June 2, the bank
demanded that the car dealer pay the debt in full immediately. The car dealer refused to pay and the bank
sued the car dealer to recover the $10,000. 

In this suit, which of the following arguments best supports the bank's claim for immediate payment? 

A: The agreement to extend the time for payment was not in writing.
B: The car dealer could not delegate its duty to pay to the buyer.
C: The car dealer gave no consideration for the agreement to extend the time of payment.
D: The car dealer's conduct was an attempted novation that the bank could reject.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The bank had a right to insist on payment of the note, and promised to allow the car
dealer to pay the debt in installments. There was no consideration for the bank's promise. There WOULD have
been consideration if the dealer had assigned its right to receive payment from the retail buyer; the benefit to
the bank would have been the addition of another obligor from whom it could expect payment. There was no
assignment here, but rather an instruction to the retail buyer to redirect his payments. Accordingly, the bank
may reinstate the due date despite its earlier waiver; it is not bound by the installment agreement and may
demand full payment at once. 

Answer A is incorrect. There is no requirement that a promise, like that made by the bank, be in writing. The
parties could have made an enforceable oral agreement to reschedule the payments—-so long as there was
consideration for promises made by the parties. Because there was no consideration given by the dealer, the
bank is not bound by its earlier waiver of the due date and may demand full payment at once. 

Answer B is incorrect. This answer mischaracterizes the transactions at issue because the car dealer hasn't
attempted to delegate its duty to pay under the contract. The dealer simply directed the car buyer to make
payments to the bank rather than to it. Moreover, the bank may reinstate the due date despite its earlier
waiver; because there was no consideration given by the dealer, the bank is not bound by the installment
agreement and may demand full payment at once. 

Answer D is incorrect. The transaction in this instance cannot properly be characterized as a novation. A
novation is a three-party agreement in which one party is substituted for another, the other being released from
obligation. So, for example, X owes Y. X, Y, and Z all agree that Z will undertake an obligation to Y, and X will
be released from any duties to Y under the original agreement. That would be a novation. There was no
attempted novation here. Moreover, the bank may reinstate the due date despite its earlier waiver; because
there was no consideration given by the dealer, the bank is not bound by the installment agreement and may
demand full payment at once.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 168

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1281 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A landowner entered into a single contract with a builder to have three different structures built on separate
pieces of property owned by the landowner. Each structure was distinct from the other two and the parties
agreed on a specific price for each. After completing the first structure in accordance with the terms of the
contract, the builder demanded payment of the specified price for that structure. At the same time, the builder
told the landowner that the builder was "tired of the construction business" and would not even begin the other
two structures. The landowner refused to pay anything to the builder. 

Is the builder likely to prevail in a suit for the agreed price of the first structure? 

A: No, because substantial performance is a constructive condition to the landowner's duty to pay at the
contract rate.
B: No, because the builder's cessation of performance without legal excuse is a willful breach of the contract.
C: Yes, because the contract is divisible, and the landowner will be required to bring a separate claim for the
builder's failure to complete the other two structures.
D: Yes, because the contract is divisible, but the landowner will be able to deduct any recoverable damages
caused by the builder's failure to complete the contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Contract law acknowledges the fact that parties sometimes embody obligations which are
in most respects separable into a single document or agreement. The rules for damages permit the separable
components to be treated separately, which is appropriate here, since the structures were to be built on
separate pieces of land, and there were prices related to each distinct property. Another rationale for the
divisibility of obligations is to avoid a forfeiture. 

Answer A is incorrect. The substantial performance rule doesn't apply here, because the obligations were
separable, and the builder DID substantially complete the first structure. The builder is likely to recover the
agreed price of the first structure, less any recoverable damages caused to the landowner as a result of the
builder's breach. 

Answer B is incorrect. Though willfulness might, in some cases, be a factor to be considered in a breach of
contract case, it doesn't affect recovery in this case. The builder is likely to recover the agreed price of the first
structure, less any recoverable damages caused to the landowner as a result of the builder's breach. The
obligations of the builder were severable for purposes of calculating damages; the structures were to be built
on separate pieces of land and there were distinct prices related to each distinct property. 

Answer C is incorrect. The first part of the statement is correct-—the contract is divisible. But this does not
mean that the victim of the breach is required to bring separate claims. Though the contract has separable
components, for damages purposes, it is still a single contract. In addition, requiring separate claims would be
inconsistent with the law's goal of providing for the disposition, in a single action, of closely-related claims. The
builder is likely to recover the agreed price of the first structure, less any recoverable damages caused to the
landowner as a result of the builder's breach.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 169

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1285 - Contracts - Defenses to Enforceability

 The question was: 

In financial straits and needing $4,000 immediately, a nephew orally asked his uncle for a $4,000 loan. The
uncle replied that he would lend the money to the nephew only if the nephew's mother "guaranteed" the loan.
At the nephew's suggestion, the uncle then telephoned the nephew's mother, told her about the loan, and
asked if she would "guarantee" it. She replied, "Surely. Lend my son the $4,000 and I'll repay it if he doesn't."
The uncle then lent $4,000 to the nephew, an amount the nephew orally agreed to repay in six weeks. The
next day, the nephew's mother wrote to him and concluded her letter with the words, "Son, I was happy to do
you a favor by promising your uncle I would repay your six-week $4,000 loan if you don't. /s/ Mother." Neither
the nephew nor his mother repaid the loan when it came due and the uncle sued the mother for breach of
contract. In that action, the mother raised the statute of frauds as her only defense. 

Will the mother's statute-of-frauds defense be successful? 

A: No, because the amount of the loan was less than $5,000.
B: No, because the mother's letter satisfies the statute-of-frauds requirement.
C: Yes, because the mother's promise to the uncle was oral.
D: Yes, because the nephew's promise to the uncle was oral.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The statute of frauds requires that promises to answer for the debt of another be made in
writing. But the memorandum sufficient to satisfy the statute needn't be written at the time of the making of the
promise, nor need it be a writing addressed to the promisee. In this case, the mother's letter to her son, the
nephew, satisfies the requirement of the statute of frauds. Thus, answer B is correct, and answer C is
incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. The amount of the loan is irrelevant here. The writing requirement arises under the
suretyship provision of the statute of frauds. A person selecting this answer might be thinking of the $500 limit
which may trigger a writing requirement in cases involving sales of goods under the UCC. The UCC does not
apply here, since this is not a sale of goods. As to the enforceability of the mother's promise, the statute of
frauds requires a writing in cases of promises to answer for the debt of another. As explained above, the letter
written by the mother to her son, the nephew, is sufficient to satisfy the statute of frauds. 

Answer D is incorrect. The issue in this case is not the enforceability of the nephew's promise, but the
enforceability of the mother's promise. And even if the issue did involve the nephew's promise, there is no
statute of frauds requirement that a promise to repay a debt be in writing. As to the enforceability of the
mother's promise, the statute of frauds requires a writing in cases of promises to answer for the debt of
another. As explained above, the letter written by the mother to her son, the nephew, is sufficient to satisfy the
statute of frauds.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 170

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1289 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

On May 1, an uncle mailed a letter to his adult nephew that stated: "I am thinking of selling my pickup truck,
which you have seen and ridden in. I would consider taking $7,000 for it." On May 3, the nephew mailed the
following response: "I will buy your pickup for $7,000 cash." The uncle received this letter on May 5 and on
May 6 mailed a note that stated: "It's a deal." On May 7, before the nephew had received the letter of May 6,
he phoned his uncle to report that he no longer wanted to buy the pickup truck because his driver's license had
been suspended. 

Which of the following statements concerning this exchange is accurate? 

A: There is a contract as of May 3.
B: There is a contract as of May 5.
C: There is a contract as of May 6.
D: There is no contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The uncle's original letter was not an offer. It was merely a statement indicating a possible
interest in selling the truck, and a suggestion as to a price that might be acceptable. It would be regarded, if
anything, as a statement soliciting an offer. The nephew's letter, mailed on May 3, constituted an offer to buy
the pickup. The uncle's note, mailed on May 6, constituted an acceptance of the nephew's offer, and was
effective when mailed. Therefore a contract arose on May 6. 

Answer A is incorrect. There was no contract formed on May 3, because the uncle's original letter was not an
offer. It was merely a statement indicating a possible interest in selling the truck and a suggestion as to a price
that might be acceptable. It would be regarded, if anything, as a statement soliciting an offer. The nephew's
letter, mailed on May 3, constituted an offer to buy the pickup truck. The uncle's note, mailed on May 6,
constituted an acceptance of the nephew's offer, and was effective when mailed. And so a contract arose on
May 6. 

Answer B is incorrect. On May 5 the uncle received the offer from the nephew, but had not yet accepted it. As
a result, there was no contract on May 5. The uncle's note, mailed on May 6, constituted an acceptance of the
nephew's offer, and was effective when mailed. Therefore a contract arose on May 6. 

Answer D is incorrect. The nephew's letter, mailed on May 3, constituted an offer to buy the pickup truck. The
uncle's note, mailed on May 6, constituted an acceptance of the nephew's offer, and was effective when
mailed. And so a contract arose on May 6. The law would treat the nephew's May 3 letter as an offer, even
though the nephew might have mistakenly believed it to be an acceptance of an offer. The nephew's May 7
phone call was too late to constitute a revocation of his May 3 offer, since it had already been accepted. The
nephew's license revocation would not constitute a defense to the existence of the contract for sale.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 171

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1292 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer entered into a contract obligating the seller to convey title to a parcel of land to the buyer
for $100,000. The agreement provided that the buyer's obligation to purchase the parcel was expressly
conditioned upon the buyer's obtaining a loan at an interest rate no higher than 10%. The buyer was unable to
do so, but did obtain a loan at an interest rate of 10.5% and timely tendered the purchase price. Because the
value of the land had increased since the time of contracting, the seller refused to perform. The buyer sued the
seller. 

Will the buyer prevail? 

A: No, because an express condition will only be excused to avoid forfeiture.
B: No, because the contract called for a loan at an interest rate not to exceed 10% and it could not be modified
without the consent of the seller.
C: Yes, because the buyer detrimentally changed position in reliance on the seller's promise to convey.
D: Yes, because the buyer's obtaining a loan at an interest rate no higher than 10% was not a condition to the
seller's duty to perform.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A duty of performance becomes absolute when conditions to performance are either met
or excused. Courts look beyond the words of a condition, and if it is clear that the purpose of the condition was
to benefit or protect one of the parties, the language of the condition will be interpreted as if that intention had
been embodied in the contract terms. If a condition has not been met, the party who was to have benefited by
the condition may choose to either terminate his liability or waive the condition by proceeding under the
contract. The party who was to benefit from the condition, however, is the only party who may elect to waive
the condition; the performance of the other party is unaffected. In this case, it is clear that the condition was
intended for the benefit of the buyer. Because the condition was not met – i.e. the buyer did not secure a loan
at an interest rate of 10% or lower, and the condition was intended for the benefit of the buyer, the buyer may
elect to either terminate his performance under the contract or continue with his obligation to purchase the
parcel. Because the condition of obtaining a loan at an interest rate of 10% or lower was designed to benefit
the buyer, not the seller, the seller is still obligated to convey title to the parcel of land. 

A is incorrect. This statement of the law is much too broad to be true. Courts look beyond the words of a
condition, and if it is clear that the purpose of the condition was to benefit or protect one of the parties, the
language of the condition will be interpreted as if that intention had been embodied in the contract terms. In
this case it is clear that the language of the condition was intended for the benefit of the buyer, and so the
seller's duty was not subject to the condition. 

B is incorrect. The issue in this dispute does not concern the modification of the contract. The parties did
nothing which could be interpreted as an attempt to modify the agreement. The issue is whether the seller's
duty is conditional. Courts look beyond the words of a condition, and if it is clear that the purpose of the
condition was to benefit or protect one of the parties, the language of the condition will be interpreted as if that
intention had been embodied in the contract terms. In this case it is clear that the language of the condition
was intended for the benefit of the buyer, and so the seller's duty was not subject to the condition. 

C is incorrect. While it is true that the buyer changed position because of the seller's promise, that fact is not
relevant to the question of whether the seller's duty to perform is subject to a condition. Courts look beyond the
words of a condition, and if it is clear that the purpose of the condition was to benefit or protect one of the
parties, the language of the condition will be interpreted as if that intention had been embodied in the contract
terms. In this case it is clear that the language of the condition was intended for the benefit of the buyer, and
so the seller's duty was not subject to the condition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 172

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1297 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

An innkeeper, who had no previous experience in the motel or commercial laundry business and who knew
nothing about the trade usages of either business, bought a motel and signed an agreement with a laundry
company for the motel's laundry services. The one-year agreement provided for "daily service at $500 a
week." From their conversations during negotiation, the laundry company knew that the innkeeper expected
laundry services seven days a week. When the laundry company refused to pick up the motel's laundry on two
successive Sundays and indicated that it would not ever do so, the innkeeper canceled the agreement. The
laundry company sued the innkeeper for breach of contract. At trial, clear evidence was introduced to show
that in the commercial laundry business "daily service" did not include service on Sundays. 

Will the laundry company succeed in its action? 

A: No, because the laundry company knew the meaning the innkeeper attached to "daily service," and,
therefore, the innkeeper's meaning will control.
B: No, because the parties attached materially different meanings to "daily service," and, therefore, no contract
was formed.
C: Yes, because the parol evidence rule will not permit the innkeeper to prove the meaning she attached to
"daily service."
D: Yes, because the trade usage will control the interpretation of "daily service."

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. When parties attach significantly different meanings to the same material term, the
meaning that controls is that "attached by one of them if at the time the agreement was made . . . that party did
not know of any different meaning attached by the other, and the other knew the meaning attached by the first
party." Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 201. In this case, the innkeeper did not know, at the time of
contract formation, that the laundry company attached a different meaning to the term "daily service" than its
apparent meaning of "every day." Conversely, the laundry company knew the innkeeper thought he was
contracting for "every day" service. Accordingly, the innkeeper's understanding of the term will control. 

Answer B is incorrect. While it is sometimes the case that no agreement arises when parties attach
significantly different meanings to the same material term, that principle is not applicable when, as here, one of
the parties is aware of the meaning intended by the other. Thus, a contract was formed despite the fact that
the parties attached different meanings to "daily service." As explained above, the laundry service knowingly
attached a different meaning to "daily service," and the innkeeper's understanding of the term will control. 

Answer C is incorrect. The parol evidence rule is not applicable here. The apparent meaning of "daily service"
is "every day." This is the meaning asserted by the innkeeper, and so it is not the innkeeper that is seeking to
alter the apparent meaning of the term, but rather the laundry company. That is, to the extent that there is
extrinsic evidence here, it is not being offered by the innkeeper, but rather by the laundry company. As
explained above, the innkeeper's understanding of the term "daily service" will control. 

Answer D is incorrect. While it is often the case that trade usages control the interpretation of terms in a
contract, that is not true here. As explained above, the innkeeper's understanding of the term "daily service"
will control because the laundry company knew that the innkeeper was not aware of the trade usage.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 173

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1299 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A carpenter contracted with a homeowner to remodel the homeowner's home for $10,000, to be paid on
completion of the work. On May 29, relying on his expectation that he would finish the work and have the
homeowner's payment on June 1, the carpenter contracted to buy a car for "$10,000 in cash, if payment is
made on June 1; if payment is made thereafter, the price is $12,000." The carpenter completed the work
according to specifications on June 1 and demanded payment from the homeowner on that date. The
homeowner, without any excuse, refused to pay. Thereupon, the carpenter became very excited, suffered a
minor heart attack, and, as a result, incurred medical expenses of $1,000. The reasonable value of the
carpenter's services in remodeling the homeowner's home was $13,000. 

In an action by the carpenter against the homeowner, which of the following should be the carpenter's
measure of recovery? 

A: $10,000, the contract price.
B: $11,000, the contract price plus $1,000 for the medical expenses incurred because the homeowner refused
to pay.
C: $12,000, the contract price plus $2,000, the bargain that was lost because the carpenter could not pay cash
for the car on June 1.
D: $13,000, the amount the homeowner was enriched by the carpenter's services.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The carpenter is entitled to the contract price for the work done--$10,000. The other items
of damage are unrecoverable either because they were unforeseeable at the time the contract was made or
because they were not caused by the breach. No unjust enrichment claim is viable on these facts, because an
unjust enrichment claim cannot exceed the contract price when all of the work giving rise to the claim has been
done and the only remaining obligation is the payment of the price. This limitation on unjust enrichment claims
was recapitulated in the well known case of Oliver v. Campbell, 273 P.2d 15 (Cal. 1954), and represents the
current rule in such cases. 

Answer B is incorrect. The carpenter is entitled only to the contract price for the work done. The medical
expenses are unrecoverable because even if the heart attack was caused by the breach, which would be
difficult to establish, the medical expenses were unforeseeable at the time the contract was made. 

Answer C is incorrect. The carpenter is entitled only to the contract price for the work done. The $2,000 for the
loss of the bargain on the car was unforeseeable at the time the contract to do the work was made. That car
contract was a special circumstance, of which the homeowner had no notice. 

Answer D is incorrect. The carpenter is entitled only to the contract price for the work done. No unjust
enrichment claim is viable on these facts, because an unjust enrichment claim cannot exceed the contract
price when all of the work giving rise to the claim has been done and the only remaining obligation of the
homeowner is the payment of the price. The claim has been "liquidated" and the work substantially performed.
This limitation on unjust enrichment claims was recapitulated in the well known case of Oliver v. Campbell, 273
P.2d 15 (Cal. 1954), and represents the current rule in such cases.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 174

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1309 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A fugitive was wanted for murder. The authorities offered the following reward: "$20,000 to anyone who
provides information leading to the arrest and conviction of this fugitive." A private detective knew of the
reward, located the fugitive, and brought him to the authorities, who arrested him. The authorities then
determined that while the fugitive had, in fact, committed the crime, he had been directed to commit the crime
by his boss. The authorities and the fugitive then agreed that in exchange for the fugitive's testimony against
his boss, all charges against the fugitive would be dropped. The fugitive testified and was released. The
authorities refused to pay the reward to the private detective on the ground that the fugitive was never
convicted. 

Would the private detective be likely to prevail in a breach of contract action against the authorities? 

A: No, because the private detective failed to notify the authorities that he had accepted the reward offer.
B: No, because the express conditions set out in the reward were not met.
C: Yes, because the authorities' agreement with the fugitive was against public policy.
D: Yes, because the authorities themselves prevented the conviction of the fugitive.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the
condition occurs or its nonoccurrence is excused. The detective's entitlement to the award was subject to two
conditions: the arrest and conviction of the fugitive. The first, the arrest, was satisfied when the detective
delivered the fugitive to the authorities. The second, the conviction, did not occur. Its nonoccurrence is
excused, however, under the doctrine of prevention, which requires that a party refrain from conduct that
prevents or hinders the occurrence of a condition. Here, the authorities hindered the occurrence of the second
condition by negotiating a deal with the fugitive and dropping the charges against him. 

Answer A is incorrect. In an offer for a unilateral contract, an offeree who accepts by rendering the requested
performance is required to give notice only if the offeree has reason to know that the offeror would not learn of
the requested performance with reasonable certainty and promptness. Such is not the case here since the
offeror learned of the performance when the detective took the fugitive to the authorities. 

Answer B is incorrect. The general rule is that a party's performance does not become due until all express
conditions to it have occurred or are excused. In this case, the detective's entitlement to the award was subject
to two conditions: the arrest and conviction of the fugitive. As explained above, the first condition (the arrest)
occurred, but the second condition (the conviction) did not. The occurrence of the second condition is excused,
however, because the authorities themselves prevented the condition from occurring. 

Answer C is incorrect. This answer is nonresponsive because it relates to the enforceability of the agreement
between the fugitive and the authorities rather than the enforcement of the purported contract between the
authorities and the detective. The dispositive issue is the effect of the nonoccurrence of an express condition.
In this case, the detective's entitlement to the award was subject to two conditions: the arrest and conviction of
the fugitive. As explained above, the first condition (the arrest) occurred, but the second condition (the
conviction) did not. The occurrence of the second condition is excused, however, because the authorities
themselves prevented the condition from occurring.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 175

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1313 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A buyer and a seller entered into a contract for the sale of 10,000 novelty bracelets. The seller had the
bracelets in stock. The contract specified that the seller would ship the bracelets by a third-party carrier.
However, the contract did not specify either who was to pay the costs of carriage or the place of tender for the
bracelets. 

On the above facts, when would the risk of loss of the bracelets pass to the buyer? 

A: When the contract was made.
B: When the bracelets were identified to the contract by the seller, assuming the goods conformed to the
contract.
C: When the bracelets were delivered to a carrier and a proper contract for their carriage was made.
D: When the bracelets were unloaded on the buyer's premises by the carrier.

The explanation for the answer is:

Under UCC § 2-509(1), a contract that requires the seller to ship goods to the buyer by a third-party carrier is
either a shipment or a destination contract. Comment 5 to UCC § 2-503 provides that where the contract is
otherwise silent, a shipment contract is presumed where the contract requires shipment by a third-party carrier.
Since this is a shipment contract, the risk of loss would pass from the seller to the buyer when the seller duly
delivered the goods to the third-party carrier. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer D is incorrect because it states the risk-shifting rule for a destination contract. Under a destination
contract, the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer when the goods are duly tendered to the buyer
rather than when the goods are unloaded. 

Answer A is incorrect. UCC § 2-509(1)(a) and (b) together refute the notion that the risk of loss passes from
the seller to the buyer at the time of contract formation. 

Answer B is incorrect. UCC § 2-501 defines the concept of identification but does not articulate the standard
for determining when the risk of loss passes under the circumstances present here. UCC § 2-509(1) governs
the passing of the risk of loss under these circumstances.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 176

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1317 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

In a written contract, an architect agreed to draw up the plans for and to supervise construction of a client's
new house. In return, the client agreed to pay the architect a fee of $10,000 to be paid upon the house's
completion. After completion, the client claimed erroneously but in good faith that the architect's plans were
defective. The client orally offered to pay the architect $7,500 in full settlement of the claim for the fee. The
architect orally accepted that offer despite the fact that the reasonable value of his services was in fact
$10,000. The client paid the architect $7,500 pursuant to their agreement. 

The architect subsequently sued the client for the remaining $2,500. In a preliminary finding, the trier of fact
found that there were no defects in the architect's plans. 

Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against the client for $2,500? 

A: Yes, because payment of $7,500 cannot furnish consideration for the architect's promise to surrender his
claim.
B: Yes, because the oral agreement to modify the written contract is not enforceable.
C: No, because the architect's promise to accept $7,500 became binding when the client made the payment.
D: No, because the architect's acceptance of partial payment constituted a novation.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. An accord occurs when one party to a contract agrees to accept performance different
from the performance promised in the original agreement. An accord generally requires consideration, which
can be less than that called for in the original contract. Payment of a lesser amount than is due on a valid claim
constitutes valid consideration if there is a bona fide dispute as to the amount owed, and the dispute is made
in good faith. Satisfaction is the performance of the accord, and it discharges both the accord and the original
debt. 

The architect's agreement to accept a payment for less than the amount due constituted an effective accord,
supported by consideration, which was satisfied with the payment of $7,500. Consideration is present because
of the good faith dispute as to the amount owed. By compromising, each party surrenders its respective claim
as to how much is owed. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The rule of Foakes v. Beer, which is a specific application of the pre-existing duty rule,
provides that part payment of a liquidated debt is invalid for a lack of consideration. The rule does not apply,
however, where there is a compromise of a claim disputed in good faith. This exception applies even if it later
becomes apparent that the reason for disputing the claim was invalid.  

Answer B is incorrect. The statute of frauds is removed as a defense when an oral agreement is fully
performed. Moreover, the dispositive issue is whether consideration exists to enforce the agreement to settle
the claim.  

Answer D is incorrect. A novation arises where either one or both of the parties to a contract is replaced by a
third party. The architect's acceptance of payment does not constitute a novation since neither the client nor
the architect was replaced by a third party.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 177

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1326 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A homeowner and a contractor entered into a contract for the construction of a home for the price of $300,000.
The contractor was to earn a profit of $10,000 for the job. After the contractor had spent $45,000 on labor and
materials, including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed, the homeowner informed the contractor that the
homeowner had lost his job and could not pay for any services. The homeowner told the contractor to stop
working immediately. The reasonable market value of the labor and materials provided by the contractor at
that point, including the oak flooring, was $40,000. The contractor used the $5,000 worth of oak flooring on
another job. 

In an action by the contractor against the homeowner for damages, which of the following would be the largest
amount of damages recoverable by the contractor? 

A: $40,000, the reasonable value of the services the contractor had provided.
B: $40,000, the contractor's construction costs.
C: $50,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit minus the $5,000 saved by
reusing the oak flooring on another job.
D: $55,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000 profit.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. $50,000 represents the contractor's expectation measure of recovery and gives the
contractor the benefit of the bargain-this amount would place the contractor in the position he would have been
in but for the breach. It is also the greatest amount the contractor is able to recover. The general expectation
formula permits the contractor to recover $50,000 and can be computed as follows: 

General expectation formula = loss in value + other loss - cost avoided - loss avoided:  

LIV = the difference between the performance the nonbreaching party should have received under the contract
and what was actually received, if anything, in this case, $300,000 less $0  

OL = consequential and incidental damages, if any, in this case, $0  

CA = the additional costs the nonbreaching party can avoid by rightfully discontinuing performance under the
contract as a result of the other party's breach, in this case, $290,000 less $45,000 

LA = the beneficial effects of the breach due to the nonbreaching party's ability to salvage or reallocate
resources that otherwise would have been devoted to performing under the contract, in this case, $5,000 

So $300,000 + $0 - $245,000 - $5,000 = $50,000.  

Answer A is incorrect. The $40,000 figure is an attempt to calculate the contractor's restitution recovery,
measured by the benefit conferred on the owner, which will yield the smallest amount of recovery. The
restitutionary measure would not allow the contractor to recover damages related to the benefit of the bargain.
Circumstances are not present that would cause the contractor to seek damages based on the restitution
principle and forgo his expectation measure of recovery. In addition, the $40,000 amount is incorrect as a
restitution amount since it fails to deduct the $5,000 worth of oak flooring the contractor used on another job.
Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 371, 347. 

Answer B is incorrect. $40,000 represents the contractor's reliance measure of recovery and fails to take into
account the contractor's benefit of the bargain, the profit the contractor anticipated making on the project.
Reliance damages are measured based on the contractor's unreimbursed expenses for labor and materials,
$45,000, less the salvage value of the oak flooring, $5,000, which equals $40,000. Circumstances are not
present that would cause the contractor to seek damages based on the reliance principle and forgo his
expectation measure of recovery. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 349, 347. 

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 178

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1326 - Contracts - Remedies

Answer D is incorrect. A $55,000 damages recovery will place the contractor in a better position than he would
have been in but for the breach because it fails to take into account the loss avoided--the beneficial effects of
the breach due to the contractor's ability to salvage or reallocate resources that otherwise would have been
devoted to performing under the contract. Here the loss avoided is the $5,000 worth of oak flooring that the
contractor used on another job. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 347.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 179

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1336 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

While waiting in line to open an account with a bank, a customer read a poster on the bank's wall that said,
"New Customers! $25 FOR 5 MINUTES. If you stand in line for more than five minutes, we will pay you $25!
We like happy customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)" The customer started timing his wait and
just as five minutes was about to pass, the bank manager tore the poster down and announced, "The $25
stand-in-line promotion is over." The customer waited in line for 10 more minutes before being served. 

In the customer's action against the bank for $25, will the customer prevail? 

A: No, because the bank withdrew its offer before the customer completed the requested performance.
B: No, because the bank's statement was a nonbinding gift promise.
C: Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the customer had commenced performance.
D: Yes, because the customer's presence in line served as notice to the bank that he had accepted.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 45 provides that where an offer invites acceptance
by performance, the offeree's beginning of performance creates an option contract which precludes the offeror
from revoking its offer. Here, the offer invited acceptance only by performance--by standing in line for five
minutes. The customer had commenced waiting in line and was timing how long he had been standing in line.
At that point, the customer had commenced performance, and the bank could not revoke its offer. Thus,
Answer C is correct and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The consideration required for an enforceable contract is present. The bank's promise to
pay the customer $25 and the customer's standing in line constituted a bargained-for exchange. Restatement
(Second) of Contracts § 45; 71. 

Answer D is incorrect. The customer's mere presence in line constituted the beginning of performance but not
the requested acceptance--standing in line for more than five minutes.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 180

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1345 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

On May 1, a seller and a buyer entered into a written contract, signed by both parties, for the sale of a tract of
land for $100,000. Delivery of the deed and payment of the purchase price were scheduled for July 1. On June
1, the buyer received a letter from the seller repudiating the contract. On June 5, the buyer bought a second
tract of land at a higher price as a substitute for the first tract. On June 10, the seller communicated a
retraction of the repudiation to the buyer. 

The buyer did not tender the purchase price for the first tract on July 1, but subsequently sued the seller for
breach of contract. 

Will the buyer likely prevail? 

A: No, because the seller retracted the repudiation prior to the agreed time for performance.
B: No, because the buyer's tender of the purchase price on July 1 was a constructive condition to the seller's
duty to tender a conveyance.
C: Yes, because the seller's repudiation was nonretractable after it was communicated to the buyer.
D: Yes, because the buyer bought the second tract as a substitute for the first tract prior to the seller's
retraction.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The general rule is that a repudiating party may retract its repudiation. An attempted
retraction is ineffective, however, if it occurs after the injured party has materially changed its position in
reliance on the repudiation. The buyer's purchase of the second tract of land constituted such a change in
position and thus terminated the seller's ability to retract his repudiation. Thus, Answer D is correct and Answer
A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. Ordinarily in a real estate transaction the tender of the purchase price and of the real
property are to occur simultaneously. Here, however, the seller's repudiation and the buyer's subsequent
action in reliance on the repudiation discharged the buyer's obligation to tender the purchase price on July 1. 

Answer C is incorrect. Repudiations may be retracted unless the injured party materially changes position or
considers the repudiation final before the retraction. The buyer's purchase of the second tract of land
constituted such a change in position and thus terminated the seller's ability to retract his repudiation.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 181

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1349 - Contracts - Consideration

 The question was: 

A debtor's liquidated and undisputed $1,000 debt to a creditor was due on March 1. On March 15, the creditor
told the debtor that if the debtor promised to pay the $1,000 on or before December 1, then the creditor
wouldn't sue to collect the debt. The debtor orally agreed. On April 1, the creditor sued the debtor to collect the
debt that had become due on March 1. The debtor moved to dismiss the creditor's complaint. 

Should the court grant the debtor's motion? 

A: No, because there was no consideration to support the creditor's promise not to sue.
B: No, because there was no consideration to support the debtor's promise to pay $1,000 on December 1.
C: Yes, because a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past debt is enforceable without
consideration.
D: Yes, because the debtor was bargaining for the creditor's forbearance.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The law supports the settlement of debts and claims. However, consideration is required
for a settlement to be enforceable. Under the pre-existing duty rule, the creditor's promise to forbear from suing
to collect was not supported by consideration from the debtor since the amount due was liquidated and the
debtor promised to do nothing more than he was already obligated to do. The creditor's promise here was not
supported by consideration from the debtor since it allowed for payment of an undisputed amount, $1,000,
after the time for payment of the debt had passed. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. The creditor's promise to forbear from filing suit would have been sufficient
consideration to support the debtor's promise. There was, however, no consideration coming from the debtor
to support the creditor's promise since the debtor promised nothing more than to pay an undisputed debt after
it was due. 

Answer C is incorrect. This is an incorrect statement of the rule of Foakes v. Beer and the preexisting duty rule
that requires consideration to enforce a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on an undisputed debt, as
explained above. 

Answer D is incorrect. The debtor may have hoped that the creditor would forbear, but the debtor provided no
consideration to support the creditor's forbearance, as explained above.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 182

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1351 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

On March 1, a homeowner contacted a builder about constructing an addition to the homeowner's house. The
builder orally offered to perform the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected. The
homeowner accepted the builder's terms and the builder then prepared a written contract that both parties
signed. The contract did not refer to the builder's pending bid. One week later, upon learning that his pending
bid on the other project had been accepted, the builder refused to perform any work for the homeowner. 

Can the homeowner recover for the builder's nonperformance? 

A: No, because efficiency principles justify the builder's services being directed to a higher-valued use.
B: No, because the builder's duty to perform was subject to a condition.
C: Yes, because the builder's attempt to condition his duty to perform rendered the contract illusory.
D: Yes, because the parol evidence rule would bar the builder from presenting evidence of oral
understandings not included in the final writing.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The homeowner cannot recover for the builder's nonperformance based on the oral
condition to the contract. Normally, the parol evidence rule bars from evidence prior or contemporaneous
negotiations and agreements that contradict, modify, or vary contractual terms if the contract is intended to be
a complete and final expression of the parties' agreement. However, the condition exception to the parol
evidence rule permits the admission of extrinsic evidence to establish an oral condition to the parties'
performance under the contract. Here, the builder's acceptance of the contract was conditioned on the
rejection of his bid on another project. This condition was not written in the contract. However, as explained
above, this oral condition will be allowed into evidence as an exception to the parol evidence rule. Because the
builder's bid was accepted on the other project, the condition in the contract did not occur, and the builder will
not be in breach of the contract. Thus, Answer B is correct, and Answer D is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. Although contract law supports the principle of efficient breach, the principle does not
discharge a breaching party's duty to perform or its responsibility to compensate the non-breaching party for
damages arising from the breaching party's failure to perform.  

Answer C is incorrect. The builder made a definite commitment to perform even though it was conditioned on
his other bid being rejected. The builder's promise to perform was not illusory since the possibility the condition
might occur limited the builder's freedom of action by binding him to perform if the condition was satisfied.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 183

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1356 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A buyer ordered a new machine from a manufacturer. The machine arrived on time and conformed in all
respects to the contract. The buyer, however, rejected the machine because he no longer needed it in his
business and returned the machine to the manufacturer. The manufacturer sold many such machines each
year and its factory was not operating at full capacity. 

In an action by the manufacturer against the buyer for breach of contract, which of the following is NOT a
proper measure of the manufacturer's damages? 

A: The contract price of the machine.
B: The difference between the contract price and the market price of the machine.
C: The difference between the contract price and the price obtained from a proper resale of the machine.
D: The profit the manufacturer would have made on the sale of the machine to the buyer.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The manufacturer does not have an action for the contract price, which is available under
three circumstances, none of which is present here: (i) where the buyer has accepted the goods, (ii) the goods
are lost or damaged within a commercially reasonable time after the risk of loss has passed to the buyer, or
(iii) the seller is unable after reasonable efforts to resell the goods. 

Answer B is incorrect. UCC § 2-708(1) gives a seller the right to recover the difference between the contract
price and the market price of goods when a buyer has wrongfully rejected the goods. Note, however, that since
the manufacturer is a lost volume seller, it would be better off seeking damages under UCC § 2-708(2), since it
is unlikely that a market differential formula will result in the recovery of any direct damages by the
manufacturer with respect to what appear to be standard goods. 

Answer C is incorrect. UCC &#2-706 allows a seller to recover the difference between the contract price and
resale price when a buyer has wrongfully rejected the goods. Note, however, that the manufacturer would be
better off seeking damages under UCC § 2-708(2), since it is a lost volume seller and it is unlikely that a resale
will result in the recovery of any direct damages by the manufacturer with respect to what appear to be
standard goods. 

Answer D is incorrect. UCC § 2-708(2) provides the lost volume seller (a seller not operating at full capacity)
with an action to recover lost profit. A recovery under UCC § 2-708(2) would adequately compensate the
manufacturer for its direct damages.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 184

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1357 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

An insurance company issued an insurance policy to a homeowner. The policy failed to contain certain
coverage terms required by a state insurance statute. When the homeowner suffered a loss due to a theft that
was within the policy's terms, the insurance company refused to pay, claiming that the contract was
unenforceable because it violated the statute. 

Will the homeowner succeed in an action against the insurance company to recover for the loss? 

A: No, because the insurance policy is not a divisible contract.
B: No, because the insurance policy violated the statute.
C: Yes, because the homeowner belongs to the class of persons intended to be protected by the statute.
D: Yes, because the insurance policy would be strictly construed against the insurance company as the
drafter.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. A contract that violates a state statute may be declared unenforceable on grounds of
public policy. Where, however, the contract violates a policy that was intended for the benefit of a contracting
party seeking relief, the contract may be enforceable in order to avoid frustrating the policy behind the statute.
Accordingly, public policy would not prevent the enforcement of the contract by those within the class of
persons, including the homeowner, that the statute was intended to protect. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The statement accurately states that the insurance policy is not a divisible contract. The
doctrine of divisibility is typically employed to permit a breaching party who is to receive money under the
contract to recover a portion of the contract price for having completed a portion of the work. The doctrine of
divisibility is not relevant here, however, since the focus of this question is the enforceability of a contract
entered into in violation of a statute. 

Answer B is incorrect. Generally, a contract that violates a regulatory statute may be unenforceable as against
public policy if the policy against enforcement outweighs the interest of enforcement. This general rule is
subject, however, to an exception when those intended to be protected by the statute would be harmed by a
finding of unenforceability, as explained above. 

Answer D is incorrect. While as a general rule an insurance policy is interpreted against the drafter, the
insurance company, this rule is primarily applicable in disputes involving the interpretation of contract
language, which is not at issue in this question.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 185

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1378 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

On March 1, an excavator entered into a contract with a contractor to perform excavation work on a large
project. The contract expressly required that the excavator begin work on June 1 to enable other
subcontractors to install utilities. On May 15, the excavator requested a 30-day delay in the start date for the
excavation work because he was seriously behind schedule on another project. When the contractor refused
to grant the delay, the excavator stated that he would try to begin the work for the contractor on June 1. 

Does the contractor have valid legal grounds to cancel the contract with the excavator and hire a
replacement? 

A: Yes, because the excavator committed an anticipatory repudiation of the contract by causing the contractor
to feel insecure about the performance.
B: Yes, because the excavator breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
C: No, because the excavator would be entitled to specific performance of the contract if he could begin by
June 1.
D: No, because the excavator did not state unequivocally that he would delay the beginning of his work.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. An anticipatory repudiation occurs when a party unequivocally manifests an intention not
to perform or an inability to perform. Expressions of doubt as to a party's ability to perform or a mere request
by a party (excavator) that the other party (contractor) consider modifying their agreement would not constitute
an anticipatory repudiation. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 250 cmt. b.  

Answer A is incorrect. Expressions of doubt by a party as to its willingness or ability to perform do not amount
to the affirmative manifestation of intent required to constitute an anticipatory repudiation. Expressions of doubt
on one party's part may, however, give the other party the right to demand adequate assurance. Restatement
(Second) of Contracts §§ 250 cmt. b, 251. 

Answer B is incorrect. A mere request by the excavator, who had reasonable grounds for making the request,
is not a violation of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§
250, 251. 

Answer C is incorrect. The contractor's cancellation of the contract would be wrongful and would entitle the
excavator to monetary damages (anticipated profit), but not specific performance, which is available only
where monetary damages are inadequate. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§ 250, 359.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 186

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1388 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

On March 1, a mechanic contracted to repair a textile company's knitting machine by March 6. On March 2, the
textile company contracted to manufacture and deliver specified cloth to a customer on March 15. The textile
company knew that it would have to use the machine then under repair to perform this contract. Because the
customer's order was for a rush job, the two parties included in their contract a liquidated damages clause,
providing that the textile company would pay $5,000 for each day's delay in delivery after March 15. 

The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine, and, as a result, the textile company
was five days late in delivering the cloth to the customer. The textile company paid $25,000 to the customer as
liquidated damages and then sued the mechanic for $25,000. Both the mechanic and the textile company
knew when making their contract on March 1 that under ordinary circumstances the textile company would
sustain few or no damages of any kind as a result of a five-day delay in the machine repair. 

Assuming that the $5,000-per-day liquidated damages clause in the contract between the textile company and
the customer is valid, which of the following arguments will serve as the mechanic's best defense to the textile
company's action? 

A: Time was not of the essence in the contract between the mechanic and the textile company.
B: The mechanic had no reason to foresee on March 1 that the customer would suffer consequential damages
in the amount of $25,000.
C: By entering into the contract with the customer while knowing that its knitting machine was being repaired,
the textile company assumed the risk of any delay loss to the customer.
D: In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the textile company to the customer are not the same
amount as the actual damages sustained by the customer in consequence of the late delivery of the cloth.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is incorrect. The mechanic contracted to complete the repairs by a specified time. His failure to
execute the repairs within the time set forth in the contract constituted a breach entitling the textile company to
damages. The recovery of consequential damages, however, requires more than a determination of breach.
Additional requirements, such as foreseeability of the damages, must be satisfied. Restatement (Second) of
Contracts §§ 346, 351. 

Answer B is correct. Assuming other requirements are met, an aggrieved party is entitled to recover
consequential damages only if they were reasonably foreseeable to the breaching party. The textile company
did not inform the mechanic of its contract with the customer, and thus the mechanic had no reason to know
what impact his failure to timely perform would have on the textile company's relationship with its customer.
Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 351. 

Answer C is incorrect. The facts are insufficient to support this conclusion since the textile company had
contracted with the mechanic for repairs to be completed within a time frame that would have allowed the
textile company to timely fulfill its contractual obligations to the customer. 

Answer D is incorrect. There are insufficient facts to support this conclusion. No information is provided
concerning the actual damages sustained by the customer. Moreover, the facts assume the validity of the
liquidated damages provision.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 187

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1393 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A seller and a buyer entered into a written agreement providing that the seller was to deliver 1,000 cases of
candy bars to the buyer during the months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to
make a selection by March 1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to be delivered under the contract. The
buyer did not make the selection by March 1, and on March 2 the seller notified the buyer that because of the
buyer's failure to select, the seller would not deliver the candy bars. The seller had all of the necessary candy
bars on hand on March 1 and made no additional sales or purchases on March 1 or March 2. On March 2,
after receiving the seller's notice that it would not perform, the buyer notified the seller of its selection and
insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused. 

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy bars, and the seller withdrew its
offer before selection.
B: No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express condition to the seller's duty to
perform.
C: Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a material effect on the seller.
D: Yes, because upon the buyer's failure to make a selection by March 1, the seller had a duty to make a
reasonable selection.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is incorrect. UCC § 2-311(1) specifically rejects the notion that a contract that is otherwise
sufficiently definite is invalid because the agreement failed to specify the assortment of goods to be delivered
to the buyer. 

Answer B is incorrect. While the buyer's selection was an express condition, the buyer's breach was minor and
immaterial. Because the breach by the buyer was minor, the seller's performance is not excused, only
delayed. 

Answer C is correct. UCC § 2-311 imposes a duty on a buyer to cooperate by specifying the assortment of
goods where the contract fails to so provide. A seller can treat the buyer's failure to specify as a breach by
failure to accept the contracted-for goods only if the buyer's failure to specify materially impacts the seller's
performance. The seller had an available supply of candy bars and had entered into no new contracts. These
facts support the conclusion that the buyer's failure to select did not materially impact the seller's performance.
Therefore the seller unjustifiably refused to accept the buyer's selection of goods. UCC § 2-311. 

Answer D is incorrect. The right of the seller to select is merely one of the options available to the seller when
the buyer's failure to select has a material impact on the seller's performance. The buyer's failure to select did
not have a material impact on the seller's performance, and the buyer still had the opportunity to select the
assortment of candy bars. UCC § 2-311(3).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 188

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1414 - Contracts - Impracticability and Frustration of Purpose

 The question was: 

An engineer entered into a written contract with an owner to serve in the essential position of on-site
supervisor for construction of an office building. The day after signing the contract, the engineer was injured
while bicycling and was rendered physically incapable of performing as the on-site supervisor. The engineer
offered to serve as an off-site consultant for the same pay as originally agreed to by the parties. 

Is the owner likely to prevail in an action against the engineer for damages resulting from his failure to perform
under the contract? 

A: No, because the engineer offered a reasonable substitute by offering to serve as an off-site consultant.
B: No, because the engineer's physical ability to perform as on-site supervisor was a basic assumption of the
contract.
C: Yes, because the engineer breached the contract by disappointing the owner's expectations.
D: Yes, because the engineer's duty to perform was personal and absolute.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The engineer is not in breach. The incapacity of a particular person to perform his or her
duty under a contract renders the performance impracticable and operates as an excuse for nonperformance.
The parties contracted for the engineer to personally provide on-site services. Therefore, the engineer's
continued ability to perform those services was a basic assumption of the contract, and his nonperformance is
excused. 

Answer A is incorrect because an offer by a party to perform less than what was contracted for, even if the
substituted performance is reasonable, will not excuse a breach. More importantly, because the parties
contracted for the engineer to personally provide on-site services, the engineer's continued ability to perform
those services was a basic assumption of the contract. He became unable to do so through no fault of his own,
and his nonperformance is therefore excused. 

Answers C and D are incorrect because the engineer is not in breach. Because the parties contracted for the
engineer to personally provide on-site services, his continued ability to perform those services was a basic
assumption of the contract. The incapacity of a particular person to perform his or her duty under a contract
renders the performance impracticable and operates as an excuse for nonperformance.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 189

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1418 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

An experienced rancher contracted to harvest his neighbor's wheat crop for $1,000 "when the crop [was] ripe."
In early September, the neighbor told the rancher that the crop was ripe. The rancher delayed because he had
other customers to attend to. The neighbor was concerned that the delay might cause the crop to be lost, for
hailstorms were common in that part of the country in the fall. In fact, in early October, before the crop was
harvested, it was destroyed by a hailstorm. 

Is the rancher liable for the loss? 

A: No, because no time for performance was established in the contract.
B: No, because the neighbor failed to tell the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm.
C: Yes, because at the time the contract was made, the rancher had reason to foresee the loss as a probable
result of his breach.
D: Yes, because a party who undertakes a contractual obligation is liable for all the consequences that flow
from his breach.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The rules of contract law limit the recoverability of damages for a breach of contract.
According to the Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 351, a non-breaching party is entitled to recover
damages that the party in breach "had reason to foresee as a probable result of the breach" when the parties
entered into the contract. Reason to foresee can arise from circumstances that result in the breaching party
having had actual or constructive knowledge of the loss that might result from the breach. Therefore, the
neighbor's failure to specifically inform the rancher that the crop might be destroyed by a hailstorm does not
determine whether the loss was foreseeable. Thus, Answer B is incorrect. In this case, the rancher's
experience and the frequency of hailstorms in the fall combined to make the loss resulting from the rancher's
breach foreseeable. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer D is incorrect because, even though it states the correct result, it provides the wrong rationale. A party
that breaches a contract is liable only for damages that were foreseeable as the probable result of the breach
when the parties entered into the contract. 

Answer A is incorrect. The language in the contract tying the rancher's performance to when the crop was ripe
was sufficient to establish the time of the rancher's performance. The rancher will be liable for the loss
because such a loss was foreseeable, given the rancher's experience and the frequency of hailstorms in the
fall.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 190

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1422 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A niece had worked in her aunt's bookstore for many years. The bookstore business, which was housed in a
building that the aunt leased, was independently appraised at $200,000. The aunt decided to retire. She wrote
to the niece, expressing her affection for the niece and offering to sell her the bookstore business for $125,000
if the landlord would agree to a transfer of the lease. The letter also specified when the aunt would transfer the
business. The niece wrote back accepting her aunt's offer. In a phone call to the niece, the aunt stated that the
landlord had approved the transfer of the lease and that she would now ask her attorney to draft a written
contract so that there would be a record of the terms. Before the attorney had finished drafting the document,
the aunt changed her mind about selling the business and informed the niece of her decision. 

In an action for breach of contract brought by the niece against her aunt, is the niece likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the motivation for the transfer of the business was the aunt's affection for her niece, not the
price.
B: No, because the promised consideration was inadequate in light of the market value of the business.
C: Yes, because the condition concerning the landlord's assent to the transfer of the lease was beyond the
control of either party.
D: Yes, because the document being drafted by the attorney was merely a record of an agreement already
made, not a condition to it.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Manifestations of assent are sufficient to conclude an enforceable contract even though
parties manifest intent to memorialize their agreement in a writing that is not subsequently prepared. Here, the
parties' agreement on essential terms constituted the manifestation of mutual assent sufficient to create an
enforceable contract.  

Answer A is incorrect. The niece's promise to pay $125,000 and the aunt's promise to sell the business
constituted the requisite consideration to enforce the agreement. The fact that the aunt's promise to sell her
business may have been induced, in part, by affection for her niece would not negate the existence of a
bargained-for exchange between the niece and the aunt. 

Answer B is incorrect. If a bargained-for exchange is present, there is no additional requirement, such as an
equivalency of exchange, in order to satisfy the consideration requirement of an enforceable contract. The
niece's promise to pay $125,000 and the aunt's promise to sell her business constituted consideration. In
addition, the niece's promise to pay $125,000 for a business appraised at $200,000 does not constitute the
gross inadequacy of exchange that so shocks the conscience as to warrant invalidating the agreement. 

Answer C is incorrect. Conditions are often beyond the control of either party. The dispositive issue is whether
the existence of an enforceable contract was conditioned on the attorney drafting a written agreement that
reflected the niece's and aunt's understandings. Manifestations of assent are sufficient to conclude an
enforceable contract even though parties manifest intent to memorialize their agreement in a writing that is not
subsequently prepared.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 191

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1432 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

An actor straight out of drama school and an agent entered into a one-year written contract that described the
services the agent would provide. Because he was eager for work, the actor agreed, in the contract, to pay the
agent 15% of his yearly earnings. At the end of the year, the actor was so pleased with his many roles that he
gave the agent 20% of his earnings. After the first contract had expired, the actor and the agent decided to
continue working together. They photocopied their old contract, changed the date, and signed it. At the end of
the year, a dispute arose as to what percentage of earnings the actor owed. It is a trade practice in the acting
profession for actors to pay their agents 10% of their yearly earnings, payable at the end of the year. 

What percentage of the actor's earnings is a court most likely to award the agent? 

A: 20%, because course of dealing is given greater weight than trade usage.
B: 15%, because it was an express term of the contract.
C: 10%, because trade usage is the applicable default rule.
D: Nothing, because the contract is too indefinite.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The parties' new contract adopted the terms of their previous contract, which included the
15% fee. Evidence of express terms is given greater weight than evidence of trade usage. Therefore the
express term, the 15% fee, is controlling because a court would give it greater weight than the evidence of
trade usage, the 10% fee. 

Answer A is incorrect. The generally applicable standard, which provides that evidence of course of dealing is
given greater weight than evidence of trade usage, is inapplicable here because a "course of dealing" was
never established and because the written contract was explicit. One instance of previous conduct is
insufficient to establish a prior course of dealing. 

Answer C is incorrect. Evidence of an express term is given greater weight than evidence of trade usage. The
parties' new contract adopted the terms of their previous contract, which specifically included the 15% fee.
Therefore the express term of 15% controls the amount of the fee to which the agent is entitled. 

Answer D is incorrect. The contract contains the essential terms, including the duration, a description of the
agent's services, and the method for calculating the agent's fee, 15% of the actor's earnings in this case.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 192

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1443 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A buyer sent a seller an offer to buy 50 tons of cotton of a specified quality. The offer contained no terms
except those specifying the amount and quality of the cotton. The seller then sent an acknowledgment by fax.
The acknowledgment repeated the terms of the buyer's offer and stated that shipment would occur within five
days. Among 12 printed terms on the acknowledgment was a statement that any dispute about the cotton's
quality would be submitted to arbitration. Neither the buyer nor the seller said anything further about
arbitration. The seller shipped the cotton, and it was accepted by the buyer. A dispute arose between the
buyer and the seller as to the quality of the cotton, and the seller asserted that the dispute had to be submitted
to arbitration. The buyer instead sued the seller in court. 

In that suit, which of the following arguments best supports the seller's position that the buyer must submit the
dispute to arbitration? 

A: Arbitration is a more efficient method of resolving disputes than resolving them in court.
B: The provision for arbitration did not contradict any term in the buyer's offer.
C: The provision for arbitration did not materially alter the parties' contract.
D: The seller's acknowledgment containing a provision for arbitration constituted a counteroffer that was
accepted by the buyer when it accepted delivery of the cotton.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Because the buyer's offer was silent as to arbitration, the arbitration provision in the
seller's acknowledgment should be characterized as an additional term. Under UCC § 2-207(2), an additional
term is considered a proposal for addition to the contract. Section 2-207(2) also provides that an additional
term becomes a term of the parties' contract unless certain specified circumstances are present. One such
circumstance is where an additional term materially alters the parties' contract. Because none of the other
circumstances appear applicable here, the arbitration provision will be considered a term of the contract if the
seller can successfully argue that the provision did not materially alter the parties' contract. Thus, Answer C is
correct.  

Answer A is incorrect. Even assuming that arbitration is a more efficient dispute resolution mechanism,
arbitration's relative efficiency is not the governing standard for assessing whether the arbitration provision
became a term of the parties' agreement. 

Answer B is incorrect. The question as to whether the arbitration provision did or did not contradict an express
term of the offer is not the appropriate standard for determining whether the provision became a term of the
parties' contract. As stated above, the correct standard is whether the seller's acknowledgement should be
characterized as an additional term. 

Answer D is incorrect. Under the common law, an additional material term in a response to an offer constitutes
a counteroffer. However, UCC Article 2 governs this transaction because it involves a sale of goods. Under
UCC § 2-207, the presence of an additional term--the arbitration provision in the seller's acknowledgment--did
not give rise to a counteroffer. Rather, a contract was formed, and the arbitration provision constituted a
proposal for an addition to the contract. Moreover, under UCC § 2-207, a buyer's mere acceptance of goods
does not constitute assent to an additional term contained in a seller's acceptance. However, under the
standards set out in UCC § 2-207(2), the arbitration provision will be considered a term of the contract if the
seller can successfully argue that the provision did not materially alter the parties' contract.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 193

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1445 - Contracts - Third-Party Rights

 The question was: 

A janitorial service contracted in writing with a hospital for a one-year term. Under the terms of the contract, the
janitorial service agreed to clean the hospital daily in accordance with the hygiene standards of the city's health
code. Because the janitorial service did not clean a patient's room in accordance with the required hygiene
standards, the patient contracted an infection that required continued hospitalization. In addition to suing the
hospital, the patient sued the janitorial service for breach of contract. 

Which of the following statements is most accurate with respect to the breach of contract claim against the
janitorial service? 

A: The janitorial service is liable to the patient as a matter of public policy, because it violated the city's health
code.
B: The patient is an intended third-party beneficiary under the contract, because the janitorial service's
promise was intended to benefit all hospital patients.
C: The patient has no claim for breach of contract against the janitorial service, because she is an incidental
beneficiary.
D: The patient cannot sue on the contract, because she was not named in the contract.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The patient cannot recover because she is an incidental beneficiary rather than an
intended third-party beneficiary. Here, the circumstances fail to indicate that the hospital intended to give the
patient the benefit of the promised performance. Thus, Answer C is correct and Answer B is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. A violation of public policy may render a contract unenforceable. Here, however, the
patient's ability to recover against the janitorial service will be governed by a third-party beneficiary theory,
under which she would be an incidental beneficiary and therefore not eligible to recover damages. 

Answer D is incorrect. An intended third-party beneficiary acquires rights under a contract whether or not the
party is identified as an intended beneficiary at the time the contract is made. In this case, however, the patient
is an incidental beneficiary rather than an intended third-party beneficiary, and therefore she cannot recover on
a breach of contract claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 194

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1452 - Contracts - Defenses to Enforceability

 The question was: 

A developer contracted in writing to sell to a buyer a house on a one-acre lot for $100,000. The developer told
the buyer that the lot abutted a national park and that the water for the house came from a natural artesian
spring. The developer knew that both of these representations were important to the buyer and that both were
false. The buyer moved into the house and eight months later learned that a private golf course was being
constructed on the adjacent land and that the water for his house was piped in from the city reservoir. The
buyer immediately sued the developer to avoid the contract.  

The construction of the golf course will probably increase the market value of the buyer's property, and the
water from the city reservoir exceeds all established standards for drinking water.  

Is the buyer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because eight months exceeds a reasonable time for contract avoidance.
B: No, because the developer's misstatements caused no economic harm to the buyer.
C: Yes, because the contract was void ab initio.
D: Yes, because the buyer retained the power to avoid the contract due to fraud.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A party may avoid a contract to which the party's assent was induced by fraud. The time
period within which a party may avoid a contract due to misrepresentation does not begin to run until that party
either knows or has reason to know of the misrepresentation. In this case, the buyer's eight-month delay will
not preclude him from avoiding the contract because he did not learn of the misrepresentation until eight
months after the parties entered into the contract; the buyer immediately sought to avoid the contract after
learning of the misrepresentation. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. A party may avoid a contract to which the party's assent was induced by fraud even if
the resulting transaction is fair on its terms. Because the buyer immediately sought to avoid the contract after
learning of the misrepresentation, he will likely prevail. 

Answer C is incorrect. Void ab initio means void from the outset. An agreement to which assent is induced by
a misrepresentation is not void. Rather, it is voidable, which permits the party whose assent was induced by
the misrepresentation to avoid the agreement.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 195

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1458 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A lawn service company agreed in writing to purchase from a supplier all of its requirements for lawn care
products during the next calendar year. In the writing, the supplier agreed to fulfill those requirements and to
give the company a 10% discount off its published prices, but it reserved the right to increase the published
prices during the year. After the parties had performed under the agreement for three months, the supplier
notified the company that it would no longer give the company the 10%discount off the published prices. 

Does the company have a viable claim against the supplier for breach of contract? 

A: Yes, because part performance of the agreement by both parties made it enforceable for the full year.
B: Yes, because the company's agreement to buy all of its lawn care products from the supplier made the
agreement enforceable.
C: No, because the supplier could, and did, revoke its offer with respect to future deliveries.
D: No, because the absence of a minimum quantity term rendered the company's promise illusory.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The parties entered into an enforceable requirements contract under UCC § 2-306.
Although the terms of the parties' agreement granted the supplier the discretion to increase the published
prices during the year, the contract did not grant the supplier the right to discontinue the promised 10%
discount off the published prices. The supplier's refusal to give the company the 10% discount was a breach of
the contract's agreed-upon terms. Thus, Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The contract is enforceable because the parties entered into an enforceable
requirements contract under UCC § 2-306. Pursuant to the terms of their contract, the parties agreed to a
one-year term. Therefore, part performance is not required in order for the contract to be enforceable for a full
year. 

Answer C is incorrect. Revocation relates to the contract formation process. Given that mutual assent has
occurred, revocation is not a relevant issue. The parties entered into an enforceable requirements contract
under UCC § 2-306. 

Answer D is incorrect. UCC § 2-306(1) validates the enforceability of requirements contracts even if the parties
do not include a minimum quantity term in their agreement. Therefore, the absence of a minimum quantity
term in the parties' requirements contract did not render it illusory, and the contract is enforceable under UCC
§ 2-306.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 196

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1463 - Contracts - Discharge of Contractual Duties

 The question was: 

On June 1, a general contractor and a subcontractor entered into a contract under which the subcontractor
agreed to deliver all of the steel joists that the general contractor required in the construction of a hospital
building. The contract provided that delivery of the steel joists would begin on September 1.  

Although the general contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor's ability to perform, the general
contractor wanted to be sure that the subcontractor was on track for delivery in September. He therefore wrote
a letter on July 1 to the subcontractor demanding that the subcontractor provide assurance of its ability to meet
the September 1 deadline. The subcontractor refused to provide such assurance.  

The general contractor then immediately obtained the steel joists from another supplier.  

If the subcontractor sues the general contractor for breach of contract, is the subcontractor likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the subcontractor anticipatorily repudiated the contract when it failed to provide adequate
assurance.
B: No, because the contract failed to specify a definite quantity.
C: Yes, because a demand for assurance constitutes a breach of contract when the contract does not
expressly authorize a party to demand assurance.
D: Yes, because the subcontractor's failure to provide assurance was not a repudiation since there were no
reasonable grounds for the general contractor's insecurity.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The adequate assurance doctrine requires that a party respond to a demand for adequate
assurance only if the demand is reasonable and justified. A demand is justified if the party making the demand
has reasonable grounds for insecurity with respect to the other party's potential performance. The facts in this
case state that the general contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor's ability to perform. Therefore,
the general contractor was unjustified in demanding adequate assurance, and the subcontractor properly
refused to respond to the demand. See UCC § 2-609. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The parties entered into a requirements contract that under UCC § 2-306(1) will not fail
for indefiniteness because the contract did not include a specific quantity term. The subcontractor will likely
prevail because under the adequate assurance doctrine, a party need respond to a demand for adequate
assurance only if the demand is reasonable and justified, and the general contractor's demand for assurance
was unjustified. 

Answer C is incorrect. The adequate assurance doctrine is a UCC implied term that arises by operation of law.
Therefore, the doctrine's applicability is not dependent upon the express authority of the party seeking
assurance. However, in this case, the general contractor's demand for assurance was unjustified because he
had no reasonable grounds for insecurity. Therefore, the subcontractor will likely prevail.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 197

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1471 - Contracts - Conditions

 The question was: 

A seller entered into a contract to sell to a buyer a house for a price of $150,000. The contract contained the
following clause: "This contract is conditional on the buyer's securing bank financing at an interest rate of 7%
or below." The buyer did not make an application for bank financing and therefore did not secure it, and
refused to proceed with the purchase. The seller sued the buyer for breach of contract.  

Is the seller likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the buyer did not secure bank financing.
B: No, because the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer any obligation to apply for bank financing.
C: Yes, because a court will excuse the condition to avoid a disproportionate forfeiture.
D: Yes, because a court will imply a term imposing on the buyer a duty to use reasonable efforts to secure
bank financing.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the
condition occurs or its nonoccurrence is excused. According to the Restatement (Second) of Contracts, the
duty of good faith is implied inasmuch as "every contract imposes upon each party a duty of good faith and fair
dealing in its performance and its enforcement." The duty of good faith imposed an obligation on the buyer to
make reasonable efforts to secure bank financing. Accordingly, the failure of the condition (in this case, the
bank financing commitment) to occur did not discharge the buyer's performance obligation. Thus, Answer D is
correct. 

Answer A is incorrect because, as stated above, the buyer had a good faith duty to try and secure bank
financing. The buyer breached this duty by failing to apply for financing. 

Answer B is incorrect because, as stated above, the duty of good faith imposed an obligation on the buyer to
make reasonable efforts to secure the described bank financing. 

Answer C is incorrect. A performance that is subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the
condition occurs or its nonoccurrence is excused. The nonoccurrence of a condition may be excused in order
to avoid disproportionate forfeiture. The excuse is inapplicable here because there was no forfeiture, which is
defined by the comments to § 229 of the Restatement (Second) of Contracts as "the denial of compensation
that results when the obligee loses his right to the agreed exchange after he has relied substantially, as by
preparation or performance, on the expectation of that exchange."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 198

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1477 - Contracts - Assignment of Rights and Delegation of Duties

 The question was: 

A computer retail outlet contracted to service a bank's computer equipment for one year at a fixed monthly fee
under a contract that was silent as to assignment or delegation by either party. Three months later, the retail
outlet sold the service portion of its business to an experienced and well-financed computer service company.
The only provision in the agreement between the retail outlet and the computer service company relating to the
outlet's contract with the bank stated that the outlet "hereby assigns all of its computer service contracts to [the
computer service company]."  

The computer service company performed the monthly maintenance required under the service contract. Its
performance was defective, however, and caused damage to the bank's operations.  

Whom can the bank sue for damages arising from the computer service company's defective performance? 

A: The retail outlet only, because the computer service company made no promises to the bank.
B: Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because the bank has not released the outlet and
the bank is an intended beneficiary of the outlet's agreement with the computer service company.
C: Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because since each has the right to enforce the
bank's performance of its contract with the retail outlet, mutuality of remedy renders either potentially liable for
the defective performance.
D: The computer service company only, because it is a qualified and a financially responsible supplier of
computer services.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The retail outlet effectively delegated to the computer service company the outlet's duty of
performance owed to the bank. However, absent consent by the obligee (the bank) or performance by the
delegatee (the computer service company), an effective delegation does not relieve the delegating party (the
retail outlet) of its duty to the obligee. When the computer service company purchased the service contracts,
the bank also became an intended beneficiary of the computer service company's promise to the retail outlet.
The computer service company expressly agreed with the retail outlet to perform the outlet's obligation to the
bank, making the bank an intended beneficiary of that obligation. Thus, both the retail outlet and the computer
service company remain liable to the bank. 

Answer A is incorrect. The computer service company expressly agreed with the retail outlet to perform the
outlet's obligation to the bank, thus imposing a duty on the computer service company of which the bank was
an intended beneficiary. Therefore, the bank is also entitled to sue the computer service company for its
defective performance. 

Answer C is incorrect. Assuming an effective assignment, the right of the retail outlet to the bank's
performance was extinguished. It is true that the bank can sue either the retail outlet or the computer service
company, but it can do so (a) because the bank has not released the outlet and (b) because the bank is an
intended beneficiary of the outlet's agreement with the computer service company. 

Answer D is incorrect. The competence and financial responsibility of the retail outlet's delegate, the computer
service company, will not discharge the retail outlet's obligation to the bank. The retail outlet effectively
delegated to the computer service company the outlet's duty of performance owed to the bank. However,
absent consent by the obligee (the bank) or performance by the delegatee (the computer service company),
an effective delegation does not relieve the delegating party (the retail outlet) of its duty to the obligee.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 199

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1482 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

A farmer contracted to sell 100,000 bushels of wheat to a buyer. When the wheat arrived at the destination,
the buyer discovered that the farmer had delivered only 96,000 bushels. The buyer sued the farmer for breach
of contract. At the trial of the case, the court found that the written contract was intended as a complete and
exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement. The farmer offered to prove that in the wheat business, a
promise to deliver a specified quantity is considered to be satisfied if the delivered quantity is within 5% of the
specified quantity. The buyer objected to the offered evidence. 

Is the court likely to admit the evidence offered by the farmer? 

A: No, because the offered evidence is inconsistent with the express language of the agreement.
B: No, because the written contract was totally integrated.
C: Yes, because the offered evidence demonstrates that the farmer substantially performed the contract.
D: Yes, because the offered evidence explains or supplements the agreement by usage of trade.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. This transaction involves a sale of goods and is subject to UCC Article 2. Under Article 2,
evidence of trade usage that can be construed as reasonably consistent with an agreement's express
language is admissible to interpret or supplement an agreement. The majority rule provides that trade usage
will be viewed as consistent with an agreement's express language unless the usage completely negates
specific express language. The trade usage allowing for a variation of up to 5% does not completely negate
but rather qualifies the express language calling for the delivery of 100,000 bushels of wheat. Thus, Answer D
is correct and Answer A is incorrect. Answer B is incorrect because the rule stated above applies regardless of
whether the written agreement is a complete integration. 

Answer C is incorrect. Under UCC § 2-601, the applicable standard for determining breach of a
non-installment transaction involving a sale of goods is the perfect tender rule and not the substantial
performance standard. However, the offered evidence of trade usage would establish that there was no
breach; according to the trade usage standards, the farmer's delivery of 96,000 bushels was performance that
conformed to the agreement.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 200

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1486 - Contracts - Parol Evidence and Interpretation

 The question was: 

The mother of a son and a daughter was dying. The daughter visited her mother in a hospice facility and said,
"You know that I have always been the good child, and my brother has always been the bad child. Even so,
you have left your property in the will to us fifty-fifty. But it would be really nice if you would sell me the family
home for $100,000."  

"I don't know," said the mother. "It is worth a lot more than that-at least $250,000."  

"That is true," said the daughter. "But I have always been good and visited you, and my brother has never
visited you, so that ought to be worth something. And besides, if you won't sell me the house for that price,
maybe I won' t visit you anymore, either."  

"Oh, I wouldn't want that," said the mother, and she signed a contract selling the house to her daughter for
$100,000.  

Shortly thereafter, the mother died. When her son found out that the house had been sold and was not part of
his mother's estate, he sued to have the contract avoided on behalf of the mother.  

On what ground would the contract most likely be avoided? 

A: Duress.
B: Inadequate consideration.
C: Mistake.
D: Undue influence.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. A contract is voidable if the elements of undue influence--undue susceptibility to pressure
and excessive pressure--are established. The undue susceptibility element can be established either by the
circumstances (e.g., the mother's illness) or the existence of a confidential relationship (such as a parent-child
relationship). The following facts support a finding of excessive pressure: the daughter's statement that she
might not visit her mother, the daughter pressuring her mother to sell the property while her mother was in a
hospice facility, the mother assenting without obtaining independent advice, and the mother's susceptibility to
pressure. 

Answer A is incorrect. A contract can be avoided on the basis of duress. However, the facts fail to establish the
elements of duress. Duress requires an improper threat. The daughter's statement that she might not visit her
mother does not constitute an improper threat sufficient to support avoidance based on duress. 

Answer B is incorrect. If a bargained-for exchange is present, there is no additional requirement, such as an
equivalency of exchange, to satisfy the consideration requirement of an enforceable contract. Moreover, the
imbalance in the exchange between the mother and her daughter does not constitute the gross inadequacy of
exchange that so shocks the conscience as to warrant invalidating the agreement. 

Answer C is incorrect. The mistake doctrine supports avoidance of a contract. An essential element of the
mistake doctrine is a mistake, which is defined as a "belief that is not in accord with the facts." The facts in this
case fail to establish a legally cognizable mistake.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 201

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1492 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A borrower owed a lender $50,000 due on March 1. On January 10, the lender telephoned the borrower and
said that he would discharge the debt if the borrower would promise to pay the lender $45,000 by January 15.
The borrower responded, "I will attempt to get the money together." On January 11, the lender again
telephoned the borrower and said that he had changed his mind and would expect the borrower to make full
payment on March 1. On January 15, the borrower tendered $45,000 as full payment, which the lender refused
to accept. On March 1, the borrower refused the lender's demand for $50,000, and the lender sued for that
amount.  

Which of the following statements best supports the lender's position? 

A: The borrower's January 10 statement was not a return promise, and therefore the lender effectively revoked
his offer on January 11.
B: The January 10 telephone conversation between the lender and the borrower created an executory accord
and therefore did not operate as a discharge of the $50,000 debt.
C: The lender's offer to discharge the debt was a gift promise and therefore was not binding on the lender.
D: The lender's promise to discharge the $50,000 debt was not enforceable because it was not in writing.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The lender's offer requested that the borrower accept by making a return promise. The
borrower's response to the lender's offer was a statement of intention, which was not sufficiently promissory to
constitute acceptance of an offer and create a binding contract. The mutual assent required for an enforceable
executory accord did not arise from the January 10 conversation between the lender and the borrower.
Therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer on January 11. Thus, Answer A is correct and Answer B is
incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. An offer in which a creditor promises to accept a payment for less than the amount
owed prior to the due date is sufficient consideration to support a return promise by a borrower accepting the
offer. Moreover, the dispositive issue is not whether there was consideration but whether the borrower's
response to the lender's offer was an acceptance. The borrower's response to the lender's offer was a
statement of intention, which was not sufficiently promissory to constitute acceptance of an offer and create a
binding contract. 

Answer D is incorrect. The purported contract between the lender and the borrower was not a transaction that
would fall within a statute of frauds. Moreover, the dispositive issue is not compliance with the statute of frauds
but whether the borrower's response to the lender's offer was sufficiently promissory to constitute an
acceptance.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 202

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1498 - Contracts - Remedies

 The question was: 

A seller entered into an agreement to sell a machine to a buyer for $5,000. At the time of the order, the buyer
gave the seller a down payment of $1,000. The buyer then built a foundation for the machine at a cost of $250.
The seller failed to deliver the machine. The buyer made reasonable efforts to find a similar machine and
bought one for $5,500 that did not fit on the foundation. The buyer sued the seller for breach of contract.  

Which of these amounts claimed by the buyer, if any, could best be described as restitution? 

A: The $250 cost of the foundation.
B: The $500 difference in price.
C: The $1,000 down payment.
D: None of the claimed amounts.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The protection of the restitutionary interest restores to a party any benefit conferred to the
other party. Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 344(c). Under UCC § 2-711(3), on a rightful rejection, a
buyer is entitled to a return of any payments made on the goods. Thus Answer C is correct, and Answer D is
incorrect. 

The $250 cost of the foundation conferred no benefit on the seller and would constitute a component of the
buyer's expectation measure rather than a restitutionary measure of recovery. In this case, however, the buyer
would be entitled to return of the down payment as restitution. Thus, Answer A is incorrect. 

The $500 difference conferred no benefit to the seller and would constitute a component of the buyer's
expectation measure of recovery rather than a restitutionary measure of recovery. In this case, the buyer
would be entitled to return of the down payment as restitution. Thus, Answer B is incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 203

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1508 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for
$10,000. Two days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition
that you provide me with a warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the
supplier called the customer and stated that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the
freezer to another buyer for $11,000.  

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.
B: No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.
C: Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of
merchantability was already implied in the sale.
D: Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is Incorrect. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

B is Incorrect. Under some circumstances, the sale of goods to a bona fide purchaser may cut off the claims of
other parties. In this case, however, the dispositive issue is whether the customer's letter in response to the
supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability
is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to goods of that
kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was already implied
in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's
attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the third party breached its
contract with the customer.  

C is Correct. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

D is Incorrect. The supplier's letter did not create a firm offer because it failed to give assurance that the offer
would be held open, a principal requirement of a firm offer under UCC § 2-205. The dispositive issue here is
whether the customer's response to the supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under
UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is
a merchant with respect to goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter
merely stated a term that was already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter
accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of
the freezer to the third party breached its contract with the customer.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 204

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1508 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for
$10,000. Two days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition
that you provide me with a warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the
supplier called the customer and stated that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the
freezer to another buyer for $11,000.  

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.
B: No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.
C: Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of
merchantability was already implied in the sale.
D: Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is Incorrect. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

B is Incorrect. Under some circumstances, the sale of goods to a bona fide purchaser may cut off the claims of
other parties. In this case, however, the dispositive issue is whether the customer's letter in response to the
supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability
is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to goods of that
kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was already implied
in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's
attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the third party breached its
contract with the customer.  

C is Correct. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

D is Incorrect. The supplier's letter did not create a firm offer because it failed to give assurance that the offer
would be held open, a principal requirement of a firm offer under UCC § 2-205. The dispositive issue here is
whether the customer's response to the supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under
UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is
a merchant with respect to goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter
merely stated a term that was already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter
accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of
the freezer to the third party breached its contract with the customer.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 205

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1508 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for
$10,000. Two days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition
that you provide me with a warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the
supplier called the customer and stated that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the
freezer to another buyer for $11,000.  

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.
B: No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.
C: Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of
merchantability was already implied in the sale.
D: Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is Incorrect. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

B is Incorrect. Under some circumstances, the sale of goods to a bona fide purchaser may cut off the claims of
other parties. In this case, however, the dispositive issue is whether the customer's letter in response to the
supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability
is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to goods of that
kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was already implied
in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's
attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the third party breached its
contract with the customer.  

C is Correct. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

D is Incorrect. The supplier's letter did not create a firm offer because it failed to give assurance that the offer
would be held open, a principal requirement of a firm offer under UCC § 2-205. The dispositive issue here is
whether the customer's response to the supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under
UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is
a merchant with respect to goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter
merely stated a term that was already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter
accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of
the freezer to the third party breached its contract with the customer.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

Page 206

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1508 - Contracts - Formation of Contracts

 The question was: 

A restaurant supplier sent a letter to a regular customer offering to sell the customer an industrial freezer for
$10,000. Two days later, the customer responded with a letter that stated: "I accept your offer on the condition
that you provide me with a warranty that the freezer is merchantable." In response to the customer's letter, the
supplier called the customer and stated that the offer was no longer open. The supplier promptly sold the
freezer to another buyer for $11,000.  

If the customer sues the supplier for breach of contract, is the customer likely to prevail? 

A: No, because the customer's letter added a term, making it a counteroffer.
B: No, because the subsequent sale to a bona fide purchaser for value cut off the claims of the customer.
C: Yes, because the customer's letter was an acceptance of the supplier's offer, since the warranty of
merchantability was already implied in the sale.
D: Yes, because the supplier's letter was a firm offer that could not be revoked for a reasonable time.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is Incorrect. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

B is Incorrect. Under some circumstances, the sale of goods to a bona fide purchaser may cut off the claims of
other parties. In this case, however, the dispositive issue is whether the customer's letter in response to the
supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability
is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to goods of that
kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was already implied
in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's
attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the third party breached its
contract with the customer.  

C is Correct. It is true that a purported acceptance that is conditioned on an offeror's assent to a term
additional to or different from the terms contained in an offer is a counteroffer. In this case, however, the
customer's letter constituted an acceptance rather than a counteroffer. Under UCC § 2-314, a warranty of
merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is a merchant with respect to
goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter merely stated a term that was
already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter accepting the offer.
Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of the freezer to the
third party breached its contract with the customer.  

D is Incorrect. The supplier's letter did not create a firm offer because it failed to give assurance that the offer
would be held open, a principal requirement of a firm offer under UCC § 2-205. The dispositive issue here is
whether the customer's response to the supplier's offer constituted an acceptance or a counteroffer. Under
UCC § 2-314, a warranty of merchantability is implied in every contract for the sale of a good by a seller who is
a merchant with respect to goods of that kind. Therefore, the condition contained in the customer's letter
merely stated a term that was already implied in the sale. A contract arose when the customer mailed its letter
accepting the offer. Accordingly, the supplier's attempted revocation of its offer was ineffective, and its sale of
the freezer to the third party breached its contract with the customer.
