QUESTIONS

TORTS

 Question 1

A  homeowner  was  using  a  six-foot  stepladder  to  clean  the  furnace  in  his
home.  The  homeowner  broke  his  arm  when  he  slipped  and  fell  from  the
ladder.  The  furnace  had  no  warnings  or  instructions  on  how  it  was  to  be
cleaned.

In  a  suit  by  the  homeowner  against  the  manufacturer  of  the  furnace  to

recover for his injury, is the homeowner likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the danger of falling from a ladder is obvious.
(B) No, because the homeowner should have hired a professional to clean

the furnace.

(C) Yes, because the furnace did not have a ladder attached to it for cleaning

purposes.

(D) Yes, because the lack of warnings or instructions for how to clean the

furnace made the furnace defective.

 Question 2

A  college  student  was  asleep  in  his  bed  in  a  college  dormitory  when  his
roommate,  in  a  drunken  fury,  entered  their  room  intending  to  attack  the
student  with  an  ice  pick  while  he  slept.  Fortunately,  the  phone  rang  and
awakened  the  student.  The  roommate  retreated  quickly  and  threw  the  ice
pick under his own bed in the same room. The next day, the student heard
from friends about the roommate's murderous plans and later found the ice
pick  under  the  roommate's  bed.  Even  though  the  college  expelled  his
roommate, the student remained extremely upset and afraid to sleep.

In a suit against the roommate for assault, will the student prevail?

 (A) No, because the roommate did not touch the student.
(B) No, because the student was not awake when the roommate entered the
room and was unaware until later that the roommate was intending to
attack him.

1061

 
(C) Yes, because it was reasonable for the student to feel afraid of sleeping

in his room afterward.

(D) Yes, because the roommate intended to inflict serious harm.

 Question 3

When a tire of a motorist's car suffered a blowout, the car rolled over and
the  motorist  was  badly  injured.  Vehicles  made  by  the  manufacturer  of  the
motorist's  car  have  been  found  to  be  negligently  designed,  making  them
dangerously prone to rolling over when they suffer blowouts. A truck driver
who was driving behind the motorist when the accident occurred stopped to
help. Rescue vehicles promptly arrived, and the truck driver walked along
the  side  of  the  road  to  return  to  his  truck.  As  he  approached  his  truck,  he
was  struck  and  injured  by  a  speeding  car.  The  truck  driver  has  sued  the
manufacturer of the injured motorist's car.

Is  the  truck  driver  likely  to  prevail  in  a  suit  against  the  car

manufacturer?

 (A) No, because the car manufacturer's negligence was not the proximate

cause of the truck driver's injuries.

(B) No, because the truck driver assumed the risk of injury when he

undertook to help the motorist.

(C) Yes, because it is foreseeable that injuries can result from rollovers.
(D) Yes, because the car manufacturer's negligence caused the dangerous

situation that invited the rescue by the truck driver.

 Question 4

A  gas  company  built  a  large  refining  facility  that  conformed  to  zoning
requirements  on  land  near  a  landowner's  property.  The  landowner  had  his
own home and a mini-golf business on his property.

In a nuisance action against the gas company, the landowner established
that the refinery emitted fumes that made many people feel quite sick when
they  were  outside  on  his  property  for  longer  than  a  few  minutes.  The
landowner's mini-golf business had greatly declined as a consequence, and
the value of his property had gone down markedly.

Is the landowner likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the landowner has offered no evidence demonstrating that

the gas company was negligent.

1062

(B) No, because the refinery conforms to the zoning requirements.
(C) Yes, because the refinery has substantially and unreasonably interfered

with the landowner's use and enjoyment of his property.

(D) Yes, because the value of the landowner's property has declined.

 Question 5

A  fire  that  started  in  the  defendant's  warehouse  spread  to  the  plaintiff's
adjacent  warehouse.  The  defendant  did  not  intentionally  start  the  fire,  and
the plaintiff can produce no evidence as to how the fire started. However,
the defendant had failed to install a sprinkler system, which was required by
a criminal statute. The plaintiff can produce evidence that had the sprinkler
system been installed, it could have extinguished the fire before it spread.

In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant to recover for the fire

damage, is it possible for the plaintiff to prevail?

 (A) No, because the statute provides only for criminal penalties.
(B) No, because there is no evidence that the defendant negligently caused

the fire to start.

(C) Yes, because a landowner is strictly liable for harm to others caused by
the spread of fire from his premises under the doctrine of Rylands v.
Fletcher.

(D) Yes, because the plaintiff was harmed as a result of the defendant's

violation of a statute that was meant to protect against this type of
occurrence.

 Question 6

A  schizophrenic  patient  who  was  institutionalized  in  a  psychiatric  facility
pushed a nurse down a stairwell at the facility. The nurse, a paid employee
of  the  facility  who  was  trained  to  care  for  schizophrenic  patients,  was
injured. The patient is an indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

The jurisdiction generally follows the rule that a person with a mental
deficiency  is  held  to  the  standard  of  a  reasonable  person.  In  a  negligence
action  brought  by  the  nurse  against  the  patient,  the  patient's  lawyer  will
argue that the patient should not be held responsible for the nurse's injury.

Which  of  the  following  facts  will  be  LEAST  helpful  to  the  patient's

lawyer's argument?

 (A) The nurse was a professional caregiver.

1063

(B) The nurse was trained to care for patients with schizophrenia.
(C) At the time she pushed the nurse, the patient thought she was being

attacked by an elephant.

(D) The patient is an indigent whose care is paid for by the government.

 Question 7

A  farmer  kept  antiques  in  an  uninhabited  farmhouse  on  his  property.  The
farmhouse had been broken into several times in the past, and some of the
farmer's goods had been stolen. Instead of posting “No Trespassing” signs,
the farmer decided to install an alarm system to deter intruders.

While  the  farmer  was  in  the  farmhouse  installing  the  alarm  system,  he
heard a window open in the adjoining room. The farmer crept very quietly
to the door of the room, threw the door open, and found an intruder, a young
child.  The  farmer  immediately  struck  the  child,  a  ten-year-old  girl,  very
hard in the face, breaking her nose.

In an action on behalf of the child against the farmer to recover for the

injury to her nose, is the child likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the farmer did not use deadly force.
(B) No, because the farmer had probable cause to believe that the child was

a thief.

(C) Yes, because the farmer should have posted a “No Trespassing” sign.
(D) Yes, because the farmer used excessive force.

 Question 8

A  mining  company  that  operated  a  copper  mine  in  a  remote  location  kept
dynamite in a storage facility at the mine. The storage facility was designed
and  operated  in  conformity  with  state-of-the-art  safety  standards.  In  the
jurisdiction,  the  storage  of  dynamite  is  deemed  an  abnormally  dangerous
activity.

Dynamite  that  was  stored  in  the  mining  company's  storage  facility  and
that had been manufactured by an explosives manufacturer exploded due to
an unknown cause. The explosion injured a state employee who was at the
mine  performing  a  safety  audit.  The  employee  brought  an  action  in  strict
liability against the mining company.

What would be the mining company's best defense?

 (A) The mine was in a remote location.

1064

(B) The mining company did not manufacture the dynamite.
(C) The state employee assumed the risk of injury inherent in the job.
(D) The storage facility conformed to state-of-the-art safety standards.

 Question 9

A  driver  negligently  ran  into  a  pedestrian  who  was  walking  along  a  road.
The pedestrian sustained an injury to his knee, causing it to buckle from time
to  time.  Several  months  later,  the  pedestrian  sustained  an  injury  to  his
shoulder when his knee buckled, causing him to fall down a flight of stairs.
The  pedestrian  then  brought  an  action  against  the  driver  for  the  injuries  to
his knee and shoulder.

In  his  action  against  the  driver,  for  which  of  his  injuries  may  the

pedestrian recover damages?

 (A) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, because the driver takes the

victim as he finds him.

(B) For the injuries to his knee and shoulder, if the jury finds that the

pedestrian's fall down a flight of stairs was a normal consequence of his
original injury.

(C) For the injury to his knee only, because the injury to the pedestrian's

shoulder is separable.

(D) For the injury to his knee only, if the jury finds that the driver could not

have foreseen that his negligent driving would cause the pedestrian to
fall down a flight of stairs.

 Question 10

A rancher and his neighbor were involved in a boundary dispute. In order to
resolve their differences, each drove his truck to an open pasture area on his
land where the two properties were separated by a fence. The rancher was
accompanied by four friends, and the neighbor was alone.

The  neighbor  got  out  of  his  truck  and  walked  toward  the  fence.  The
rancher got out but simply stood by his truck. When the neighbor came over
the fence, the rancher shot him, inflicting serious injury.

In  a  battery  action  brought  by  the  neighbor  against  the  rancher,  the
rancher  testified  that  he  actually  thought  his  neighbor  was  armed,  although
he could point to nothing that would have reasonably justified this belief.

Is the neighbor likely to prevail?

1065

 (A) No, because the rancher was standing on his own property and had no

obligation to retreat.

(B) No, because the rancher suspected that the neighbor was armed.
(C) Yes, because deadly force is never appropriate in a property dispute.
(D) Yes, because it was unreasonable for the rancher to consider the use of

a gun necessary for self-defense.

 Question 11

A driver was traveling along a highway during an unusually heavy rainstorm
when the roadway began to flood. To protect his car from water damage, the
driver  pulled  his  car  up  a  steep,  unmarked  driveway  abutting  the  highway
that  led  to  a  homeowner's  residence.  The  driver  left  his  car  parked  in  the
driveway  and  walked  home,  intending  to  return  when  the  floodwater  had
subsided.  Shortly  after  the  driver  started  to  walk  home,  the  homeowner
carefully  rolled  the  car  back  down  his  driveway  and  parked  it  on  the
highway shoulder. The floodwater continued to rise and caused damage to
the driver's car.

If the driver sues the homeowner to recover for damage to the car, is the

driver likely to prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the driver was privileged to park his car on the

homeowner's property.

(B) Yes, because there were no “no trespassing” signs posted.
(C) No, because the driver intentionally drove his car onto the homeowner's

property.

(D) No, because the homeowner was privileged to remove the car from his

property.

 Question 12

A hotel employed a carefully selected independent contractor to rebuild its
swimming  pool.  The  hotel  continued  to  operate  while  the  pool  was  being
rebuilt.  The  contract  between  the  hotel  and  the  contractor  required  the
contractor  to  indemnify  the  hotel  for  any  liability  arising  from  the
contractor's  negligent  acts.  A  guest  of  the  hotel  fell  into  the  excavation,
which the contractor had negligently left unguarded.

In  an  action  by  the  guest  against  the  hotel  to  recover  for  his  injuries,

what would be the most likely outcome?

1066

 (A) Liability, because the hotel had a nondelegable duty to the guest to keep

a safe premises.

(B) Liability, because the contract between the hotel and the contractor

required the contractor to indemnify the hotel for any liability arising
from the contractor's negligent acts.

(C) No liability, because the contractor was the actively negligent party.
(D) No liability, because the hotel exercised reasonable care in employing

the contractor.

 Question 13

A  newspaper  published  an  editorial  in  which  an  editor  asserted  that  a
candidate  for  high  political  office  was  a  user  of  illegal  drugs.  The
accusation  was  untrue.  The  editor  acted  unreasonably  in  not  investigating
the  accusation  before  publishing  it;  however,  the  editor  honestly  believed
that the accusation was true.

The candidate sued the editor for defamation.
Is the candidate entitled to recover?

 (A) No, because the accusation appeared in an editorial and was, therefore,

merely an opinion.

(B) No, because the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true.
(C) Yes, because calling someone an illegal drug user is defamatory per se.
(D) Yes, because the accusation was false and was injurious to the

candidate's reputation.

 Question 14

An elderly neighbor hired a 17-year-old boy with a reputation for reckless
driving to drive the neighbor on errands once a week. One day the teenager,
driving the neighbor's car, took the neighbor to the grocery store. While the
neighbor  was  in  the  store,  the  teenager  drove  out  of  the  parking  lot  and
headed for a party on the other side of town.

While on his way to the party, the teenager negligently turned in front of
a  moving  car  and  caused  a  collision.  The  other  driver  was  injured  in  the
collision.

The  injured  driver  has  brought  an  action  for  damages  against  the

neighbor, based on negligent entrustment, and against the teenager.

The jury has found that the injured driver's damages were $100,000, that
the injured driver was 10 percent at fault, that the teenager was 60 percent

1067

at fault, and that the neighbor was 30 percent at fault for entrusting his car to
the teenager.

Based  on  these  damage  and  responsibility  amounts,  what  is  the

maximum that the injured driver could recover from the neighbor?

 (A) $100,000.
(B) $90,000.
(C) $60,000.
(D) $30,000.

 Question 15

A patient received anesthesia while giving birth. Upon awakening from the
anesthesia,  she  discovered  a  severe  burn  on  the  inner  portion  of  her  right
knee. The patient has brought a medical malpractice action in which she has
joined  all  of  the  physicians  and  nurses  who  exercised  control  over  her
person, the delivery room, the medical procedures, and the equipment used
during the period in which she was unconscious.

The  defendants  have  jointly  moved  for  summary  judgment.  The  patient
has  produced  affidavits  that  establish  that  the  applicable  professional
standard of care was violated.

What would be the patient's best argument against the motion?

 (A) At least one of the defendants had control over whatever agency or

instrumentality caused the patient's injury.

(B) The defendants were acting in concert.
(C) The patient has produced affidavits that establish that the applicable

professional standard of care was violated.

(D) The patient was in no way responsible for her injury.

 Question 16

A  customer  pledged  a  stock  certificate  to  a  bank  as  security  for  a  loan.  A
year  later,  when  the  customer  fully  repaid  the  loan,  the  bank  refused  the
customer's demand to return the stock certificate because the officer dealing
with the loan had the mistaken belief that there was still a balance due. No
one at the bank reviewed the records until two months later, at which time
the  error  was  discovered.  The  bank  then  offered  to  return  the  stock
certificate. However, the customer refused to accept it.

At the time the customer pledged the certificate, the shares were worth

1068

$10,000;  at  the  time  the  customer  repaid  the  loan,  the  shares  were  worth
$20,000; and at the time the bank offered to return the certificate, the shares
were worth $5,000.

If  the  customer  brings  an  action  against  the  bank  based  on  conversion,

how much, if anything, should the customer recover?

 (A) Nothing, because the bank lawfully came into possession of the

certificate.

(B) $5,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer

refused to accept the certificate back.

(C) $10,000, because that was the value of the shares when the bank came

into possession of the certificate.

(D) $20,000, because that was the value of the shares when the customer

was entitled to the return of the certificate.

 Question 17

A  man  rented  a  car  from  a  car  rental  agency.  Unbeknownst  to  the  rental
agency, the car had a bomb hidden in it at the time of the rental. The bomb
exploded an hour later, injuring the man.

Immediately  prior  to  renting  the  car  to  the  man,  the  rental  agency  had
carefully  inspected  the  car  to  be  sure  it  was  in  sound  operating  condition.
The rental agency did not inspect for hidden explosive devices, but such an
inspection for explosives would have revealed the bomb.

There had been no previous incidents of persons hiding bombs in rental

cars.

In  a  negligence  action  by  the  man  against  the  car  rental  agency,  is  the

man likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the rental agency could not have reasonably foreseen the
likelihood of someone placing a bomb in the car it was about to rent to
the man.

(B) No, because the rental agency did not hide the bomb in the car.
(C) Yes, because an inspection for explosive devices would have revealed

the bomb.

(D) Yes, because the bomb made the car abnormally dangerous.

 Question 18

In an action by a man against a pharmacy, the man offered only the following
evidence:

1069

The  man  took  a  clearly  written  prescription  to  a  pharmacy.  The
pharmacy's  employee  filled  the  prescription  by  providing  pills  with  30
milligrams  of  the  active  ingredient  instead  of  20  milligrams,  as  was
prescribed.  Shortly  after  taking  the  pills  as  directed,  the  man,  who  had  no
previous history of heart problems, suffered a heart attack. Overdoses of the
active ingredient had previously been associated with heart problems.

Does the man have a valid claim against the pharmacy?

 (A) No, because pharmacies are not strictly liable for injuries caused by

incorrectly filled prescriptions.

(B) No, because the man offered no specific proof as to the pharmacy's

negligence.

(C) Yes, because a jury could reasonably conclude that the man would not
have suffered a heart attack had the pharmacy provided the correct
dosage.

(D) Yes, because by providing the 30-milligram pills rather than the 20-
milligram pills, the pharmacy sold the man a defective product.

 Question 19

A traveler was flying on a commercial aircraft owned and operated by an
airline. The aircraft crashed into a mountain, killing everyone on board. The
flying weather was good.

The  traveler's  legal  representative  brought  a  wrongful  death  action
against  the  airline.  At  trial,  the  legal  representative  offered  no  expert  or
other testimony as to the cause of the crash.

On  the  airline's  motion  to  dismiss  at  the  conclusion  of  the  legal

representative's case, the court should

 (A) grant the motion, because the legal representative has offered no

evidence as to the cause of the crash.

(B) grant the motion, because the legal representative has failed to offer

evidence negating the possibility that the crash may have been caused by
mechanical failure that the airline could not have prevented.

(C) deny the motion, because the jury may infer that the aircraft crashed due

to the airline's negligence.

(D) deny the motion, because in the circumstances common carriers are

strictly liable.

 Question 20

1070

A sporting goods shop was burglarized by an escaped inmate from a nearby
prison.  The  inmate  stole  a  rifle  and  bullets  from  a  locked  cabinet.  The
burglar  alarm  at  the  sporting  goods  shop  did  not  go  off  because  the  shop
owner had negligently forgotten to activate the alarm's motion detector.

Shortly thereafter, the inmate used the rifle and ammunition stolen from

the shop in a shooting spree that caused injury to a victim.

If  the  victim  sues  the  shop  owner  for  the  injury  she  suffered,  will  the

victim prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the victim's injury would have been prevented had the motion

detector been activated.

(B) Yes, because the owner was negligent in failing to activate the motion

detector.

(C) No, because the storage and sale of firearms and ammunition is not an

abnormally dangerous activity.

(D) No, unless there is evidence of circumstances suggesting a high risk of

theft and criminal use of firearms stocked by the shop owner.

 Question 21

Because of a farmer's default on his loan, the bank foreclosed on the farm
and equipment that secured the loan. Among the items sold at the resulting
auction  was  a  new  tractor  recently  delivered  to  the  farmer  by  the  retailer.
Shortly  after  purchasing  the  tractor  at  the  auction,  the  new  owner  was
negligently operating the tractor on a hill when it rolled over due to a defect
in the tractor's design. He was injured as a result. The new owner sued the
auctioneer, alleging strict liability in tort. The jurisdiction has not adopted a
comparative fault rule in strict liability cases.

In this suit, the result should be for the

 (A) plaintiff, because the defendant sold a defective product that injured the

plaintiff.

(B) plaintiff, if the defendant failed to inspect the tractor for defects prior to

sale.

(C) defendant, because he should not be considered a ‘‘seller'' for purposes

of strict liability in tort.

(D) defendant, because the accident was caused in part by the new owner's

negligence.

 Question 22

1071

A homeowner owns a house on a lake, and a neighbor owns a house across
a driveway from the homeowner's property. The neighbor's house sits on a
hill and the neighbor can see the lake from his living room window.

The  homeowner  and  the  neighbor  got  into  an  argument  and  the
homeowner  erected  a  large  spotlight  on  his  property  that  automatically
comes on at dusk and goes off at sunrise. The only reason the homeowner
installed  the  light  was  to  annoy  the  neighbor.  The  glare  from  the  light
severely  detracts  from  the  neighbor's  view  of  the  lake.  In  a  suit  by  the
neighbor against the homeowner, will the neighbor prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the homeowner installed the light solely to annoy the

neighbor.

(B) Yes, if, and only if, the neighbor's property value is adversely affected.
(C) No, because the neighbor's view of the lake is not always obstructed.
(D) No, if the spotlight provides added security to the homeowner's

property.

 Question 23

A  driver  was  driving  his  car  near  a  house  when  the  homeowner's  child
darted into the street in front of the driver's car. As the driver swerved and
braked  his  car  to  avoid  hitting  the  child,  the  car  skidded  up  into  the
homeowner's driveway and stopped just short of the homeowner, who was
standing  in  the  driveway  and  had  witnessed  the  entire  incident.  The
homeowner suffered serious emotional distress from witnessing the danger
to  his  child  and  to  himself.  Neither  the  homeowner  nor  his  property  was
physically harmed.

If the homeowner asserts a claim for damages against the driver, will the

homeowner prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the driver's entry onto the homeowner's land was

unauthorized.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner suffered serious emotional distress by

witnessing the danger to his child and to himself.

(C) No, unless the driver was negligent.
(D) No, unless the homeowner's child was exercising reasonable care.

 Question 24

A  neighbor,  who  lived  next  door  to  another  homeowner,  went  into  the

1072

homeowner's  garage  without  permission  and  borrowed  the  homeowner's
chainsaw.  The  neighbor  used  the  saw  to  clear  broken  branches  from  the
trees  on  the  neighbor's  own  property.  After  he  had  finished,  the  neighbor
noticed  several  broken  branches  on  the  homeowner's  trees  that  were  in
danger of falling on the homeowner's roof. While the neighbor was cutting
the homeowner's branches, the saw broke.

In a suit for conversion by the homeowner against the neighbor, will the

homeowner recover?

 (A) Yes, for the actual damage to the saw.
(B) Yes, for the value of the saw before the neighbor borrowed it.
(C) No, because when the saw broke the neighbor was using it to benefit the

homeowner.

(D) No, because the neighbor did not intend to keep the saw.

 Question 25

When  two  parents  were  told  that  their  child  should  repeat  second  grade,
they sought to have him evaluated by a psychologist. The psychologist, who
charged $300, determined that the son had a learning disability. Based upon
the  report,  the  school  board  placed  the  son  in  special  classes.  At  an  open
meeting of the school board, the parents asked that the $300 they had paid to
the psychologist be reimbursed by the school district. A reporter attending
the meeting wrote a newspaper article about this request, mentioning the son
by name.

In a privacy action brought by the son's legal representative against the

newspaper, the plaintiff will

 (A) recover, because the story is not newsworthy.
(B) recover, because the son is under the age of consent.
(C) not recover, if the story is a fair and accurate report of what transpired

at the meeting.

(D) not recover, if the parents knew that the reporter was present.

 Question 26

A city ordinance makes it unlawful to park a motor vehicle on a city street
within ten feet of a fire hydrant. At 1:55 p.m. a driver, realizing he must be
in  his  bank  before  it  closed  at  2:00  p.m.,  and  finding  no  other  space
available, parked his automobile in front of a fire hydrant on a city street.

1073

The  driver  then  hurried  into  the  bank,  leaving  his  aged  neighbor  as  a
passenger in the rear seat of the car. About five minutes later, and while the
driver was still in the bank, a trucker was driving his tractor-trailer down
the street. The trucker swerved to avoid what he mistakenly thought was a
hole  in  the  street  and  sideswiped  the  driver's  car.  The  driver's  car  was
turned over on top of the hydrant, breaking the hydrant and causing a small
flood  of  water.  The  driver's  car  was  severely  damaged  and  the  neighbor
was badly injured. There is no applicable guest statute.

If the neighbor asserts a claim against the driver, the most likely result is

that the neighbor will

 (A) recover, because the driver's action was negligence per se.
(B) recover, because the driver's action was a continuing wrong which

contributed to the neighbor's injuries.

(C) not recover, because a reasonably prudent person could not foresee

injury to the neighbor as a result of the driver's action.

(D) not recover, because a violation of a city ordinance does not give rise to

a civil cause of action.

 Question 27

The vintner of a large vineyard offers balloon rides to visitors who wish to
tour the grounds from the air. During one of the rides, the vintner was forced
to  make  a  crash  landing  on  his  own  property.  Without  the  vintner's
knowledge or consent, a trespasser had entered the vineyard to camp for a
couple of days. The trespasser was injured when he was hit by the basket of
the descending balloon.

If  the  trespasser  sues  the  vintner  to  recover  damages  for  his  injuries,

will the trespasser prevail?

 (A) No, unless the crash landing was made necessary by negligence on the

vintner's part.

(B) No, unless the vintner could have prevented the injury to the trespasser

after becoming aware of the trespasser's presence.

(C) Yes, because even a trespasser may recover for injuries caused by an

abnormally dangerous activity.

(D) Yes, if the accident occurred at a place which the vintner knew was

frequented by intruders.

 Question 28

1074

A  thief  was  in  the  act  of  siphoning  gasoline  from  his  neighbor's  car  in  the
neighbor's garage and without his consent when the gasoline exploded and a
fire followed. A rescuer, seeing the fire, grabbed a fire extinguisher from his
car  and  put  out  the  fire,  saving  the  thief's  life  and  the  neighbor's  car  and
garage. In doing so, the rescuer was badly burned. If the rescuer asserts a
claim against the neighbor for personal injuries, the rescuer will

 (A) prevail, because he saved the neighbor's property.
(B) prevail, because he acted reasonably in an emergency.
(C) not prevail, because the neighbor was not at fault.
(D) not prevail, because the rescuer knowingly assumed the risk.

 Question 29

The warden of a state prison prohibits the photographing of the face of any
prisoner  without  the  prisoner's  consent.  A  news  photographer  wanted  to
photograph a mobster, a notorious organized crime figure incarcerated at the
state prison. To circumvent the warden's prohibition, the photographer flew
over  the  prison  exercise  yard  and  photographed  the  mobster.  Another
prisoner,  who  was  imprisoned  for  a  technical  violation  of  a  regulatory
statute,  happened  to  be  standing  next  to  the  mobster  when  the  photograph
was taken.

When  the  picture  appeared  in  the  press,  the  prisoner  suffered  severe
emotional  distress  because  he  believed  that  his  business  associates  and
friends would think he was consorting with gangsters. The prisoner suffered
no  physical  harm  as  the  result  of  his  emotional  distress.  The  prisoner
brought  an  action  against  the  photographer  for  intentional  or  reckless
infliction of emotional distress.

What is the best argument that the photographer can make in support of a

motion for summary judgment?

 (A) No reasonable person could conclude that the photographer intended to

photograph the prisoner.

(B) The prisoner did not suffer any physical injury arising from the

emotional distress.

(C) As a news photographer, the photographer was privileged to take

photographs that others could not.

(D) No reasonable person could conclude that the photographer's conduct

was extreme and outrageous as to the prisoner.

1075

 Question 30

A  passenger  departed  on  an  ocean  liner  knowing  that  it  would  be  a  rough
voyage due to predicted storms. The ocean liner was not equipped with the
type of lifeboats required by the applicable statute.

The passenger was swept overboard and drowned in a storm so heavy
that  even  a  lifeboat  that  conformed  to  the  statute  could  not  have  been
launched. In an action against the operator of the ocean liner brought by the
passenger's representative, will the passenger's representative prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the ocean liner was not equipped with the statutorily

required lifeboats.

(B) Yes, because in these circumstances common carriers are strictly liable.
(C) No, because the storm was so severe that it would have been

impossible to launch a statutorily required lifeboat.

(D) No, because the passenger assumed the risk by boarding the ocean liner

knowing that it would be a rough voyage.

 Question 31

A  basketball  player  suffered  a  serious  injury  while  participating  in  an
impromptu basketball game at a public park. The injury occurred when the
player and his opponent each tried to obtain possession of the ball when it
rebounded from the backboard after a missed shot at the basket. During that
encounter, the player was struck and injured by the opponent's elbow. The
player now seeks compensation from the opponent.

At the trial, evidence was introduced tending to prove that the game had
been  rough  from  the  beginning,  that  elbows  and  knees  had  frequently  been
used to discourage interference by opposing players, and that the player had
been one of those making liberal use of such tactics. In this action, will the
player prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the opponent intended to strike the player with his elbow.
(B) Yes, if the opponent intended to cause a harmful or offensive contact

with the player.

(C) No, because the player impliedly consented to rough play.
(D) No, unless the opponent intentionally used force that exceeded the

player's consent.

 Question 32

1076

In a trial to a jury, a restaurateur proved that the power company's negligent
maintenance of a transformer caused a fire that destroyed his restaurant. The
jury  returned  a  verdict  for  the  restaurateur  in  the  amount  of  $450,000  for
property loss and $500,000 for emotional distress. The trial judge entered
judgment  in  those  amounts.  The  power  company  appealed  that  part  of  the
judgment awarding $500,000 for emotional distress.

On appeal, the judgment should be

 (A) affirmed, because the power company negligently caused the

restaurateur's emotional distress.

(B) affirmed, because harm arising from emotional distress is as real as

harm caused by physical impact.

(C) reversed, because the law does not recognize a claim for emotional

distress incident to negligently caused property loss.

(D) reversed, unless the jury found that the restaurateur suffered physical

harm as a consequence of the emotional distress caused by his property
loss.

 Question 33

A law student rented a furnished apartment. His landlord began to solicit his
advice  about  her  legal  affairs,  but  he  refused  to  provide  it.  The  landlord
then demanded that he vacate the apartment immediately. The landlord also
engaged  in  a  pattern  of  harassment,  calling  the  student  at  home  every
evening and entering his apartment without his consent during times when he
was  at  school.  During  these  unauthorized  visits  she  removed  the  handles
from the bathroom and kitchen sinks, but did not touch anything belonging to
the student. The lease has a year to run, and the student is still living in the
apartment. The student has sued the landlord for trespass to land.

Is he likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because he has no standing to sue for trespass.
(B) No, because the landlord caused no damage to his property.
(C) Yes, for compensatory damages only.
(D) Yes, for injunctive relief, compensatory damages, and punitive

damages.

 Question 34

A customer fell and injured himself when he slipped on a banana peel while

1077

shopping at a grocer's store. The banana peel was fresh and clean except for
a mark made by the heel of the customer's shoe. In an action brought by the
customer against the grocer, these are the only facts in evidence.

Should the trial judge permit the case to go to the jury?

 (A) No, because the customer had an obligation to watch where he stepped.
(B) No, because there is not a reasonable basis for inferring that the grocer

knew or should have known of the banana peel.

(C) Yes, because it is more likely than not that the peel came from a banana

offered for sale by the grocer.

(D) Yes, because the grocer could foresee that a customer might slip on a

banana peel.

 Question 35

An asbestos insulation installer, who worked from 1955 to 1965, contracted
asbestosis, a serious lung disorder, as a result of inhaling airborne asbestos
particles  on  the  job.  The  asbestos  was  manufactured  and  sold  to  the
installer's employer by an asbestos company. Because neither the asbestos
company  nor  anyone  else  discovered  the  risk  to  asbestos  installers  until
1966,  the  asbestos  company  did  not  provide  any  warnings  of  the  risks  to
installers until after that date.

The insulation installer brought an action against the asbestos company
based  on  strict  liability  in  tort  for  failure  to  warn.  The  case  is  to  be  tried
before  a  jury.  The  jurisdiction  has  not  adopted  a  comparative  fault  rule  in
strict liability cases.

In this action, an issue that is relevant to the case and is a question for
the court to decide as a matter of law, rather than for the jury to decide as a
question of fact, is whether

 (A) a satisfactory, safer, alternative insulation material exists under today's

technology.

(B) the defendant should be held to the standard of a prudent manufacturer

who knew of the risks, regardless of whether the risks were reasonably
discoverable before 1966.

(C) the defendant should reasonably have known of the risks of asbestos
insulation materials before 1966, even though no one else had
discovered the risks.

(D) the asbestos insulation materials to which the plaintiff was exposed

were inherently dangerous.

1078

 Question 36

While approaching an intersection with the red light against him, a motorist
suffered  a  heart  attack  that  rendered  him  unconscious.  The  motorist's  car
struck a child, who was crossing the street with the green light in her favor.
Under the state motor vehicle code, it is an offense to drive through a red
traffic light.

The  child  sued  the  motorist  to  recover  for  her  injuries.  At  trial  it  was
stipulated  that  (1)  immediately  prior  to  suffering  the  heart  attack,  the
motorist had been driving within the speed limit, had seen the red light, and
had begun to slow his car; (2) the motorist had no history of heart disease
and no warning of this attack; (3) while the motorist was unconscious, his
car ran the red light.

On  cross  motions  for  directed  verdicts  on  the  issue  of  liability  at  the

conclusion of the proofs, the court should

 (A) grant the child's motion, because the motorist ran a red light in violation

of the motor vehicle code.

(B) grant the child's motion, because, in the circumstances, reasonable

persons would infer that the motorist was negligent.

(C) grant the motorist's motion, because he had no history of heart disease

or warning of the heart attack.

(D) deny both motions and submit the case to the jury, to determine whether,
in the circumstances, the motorist's conduct was that of a reasonably
prudent person.

 Question 37

A company designed and built a processing plant for the manufacture of an
explosive chemical. An engineer was retained by the company to design a
filter  system  for  the  processing  plant.  She  prepared  an  application  for  a
permit  to  build  the  plant's  filter  system  and  submitted  it  to  the  state's
Department  of  Environmental  Protection  (DEP).  As  required  by  DEP
regulations,  the  engineer  submitted  a  blueprint  to  the  DEP  with  the
application  for  permit.  The  blueprint  showed  the  entire  facility  and  was
signed and sealed by her as a licensed professional engineer.

After  the  project  was  completed,  a  portion  of  the  processing  plant
exploded,  injuring  the  plaintiff.  During  discovery  in  an  action  by  the
plaintiff  against  the  engineer,  it  was  established  that  the  explosion  was
caused by a design defect in the processing plant that was unrelated to the

1079

filter system designed by the engineer.

In that action, will the plaintiff prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the engineer signed, sealed, and submitted a blueprint that

showed the design defect.

(B) Yes, because all of the plant's designers are jointly and severally liable

for the defect.

(C) No, because the engineer owed no duty to the plaintiff to prevent the

particular risk of harm.

(D) No, if the engineer was an independent contractor.

 Question 38

A  chemical  engineer  has  no  interest  in  or  connection  with  a  chemical
company. The chemical engineer noticed that the chemical company's most
recent,  publicly  issued  financial  statement  listed,  as  part  of  the  chemical
company's assets, a large inventory of a certain special chemical compound.
This asset was listed at a cost of $100,000, but the chemical engineer knew
that  the  ingredients  of  the  compound  were  in  short  supply  and  that  the
current  market  value  of  the  inventory  was  in  excess  of  $1,000,000.  There
was no current public quotation of the price of the chemical company stock.
The book value of the chemical company stock, according to the statement,
was $5 a share; its actual value was $30 a share.

Knowing these facts, the chemical engineer offered to purchase from a
shareholder at $6 a share the 1,000 shares of the chemical company's stock
owned by the shareholder. The shareholder and the chemical engineer had
not previously met. The shareholder sold the stock to the chemical engineer
for $6 a share.

If the shareholder asserts a claim based on misrepresentation against the

chemical engineer, will the shareholder prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the chemical engineer knew that the value of the stock was

greater than the price she offered.

(B) Yes, if the chemical engineer did not inform the shareholder of the true

value of the inventory.

(C) No, unless the chemical engineer told the shareholder that the stock was

not worth more than $6 a share.

(D) No, if the chemical company's financial statement was available to the

shareholder.

1080

 Question 39

A city has an ordinance that makes it an offense, punishable by fine, for the
owner of a dog to permit the dog to run unleashed on a public way.

A police officer observed a small dog running loose in the street. As he
picked up the dog, an onlooker who was seated in her car lawfully parked at
the curb, called out, ‘‘Oh, thank you, Officer, for returning Fido.'' The officer
asked the onlooker whether the dog was hers, and when she acknowledged
ownership, he asked her to see her driver's license. The onlooker gave her
name and address, but she refused to produce a driver's license. The officer
then  told  her  to  produce  her  driver's  license.  The  officer  then  told  her  to
produce her driver's license if she did not want to go to jail. The onlooker
responded by saying, ‘‘Isn't this ridiculous?'' The officer took her by the arm
and said, ‘‘Let's go. You are under arrest.''

The onlooker cried out that the officer was hurting her but he refused to
release  her  arm,  and  she  struck  him  with  her  free  hand.  The  officer  then
dragged the onlooker from her car, forced her into his squad car, and took
her to the police station.

The incident took place on the street in front of the apartment where the
onlooker and her aged father lived. The officer did not know that the aged
father had observed what took place from a window in the apartment.

If  the  onlooker's  aged  father  asserts  a  claim  against  the  officer  for  the

intentional infliction of emotional distress, will the aged father prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the officer's acts caused the aged father severe emotional

distress.

(B) Yes, if it is found that the officer's behavior was extreme and outrageous

with respect to the onlooker.

(C) No, because the officer did not know that the aged father was watching.
(D) No, because the aged father was not within the zone of physical danger.

 Question 40

A  mother  rushed  her  eight-year-old  daughter  to  the  emergency  room  at  the
local  hospital  after  her  daughter  fell  off  her  bicycle  and  hit  her  head  on  a
sharp rock. The wound caused by the fall was extensive and bloody.

The mother was permitted to remain in the treatment room and held her
daughter's  hand  while  the  emergency  room  physician  cleaned  and  sutured
the wound. During the procedure, the mother said that she was feeling faint
and stood up to leave the room. While leaving the room, the mother fainted

1081

and,  in  falling,  struck  her  head  on  a  metal  fixture  that  protruded  from  the
emergency room wall. She sustained a serious injury as a consequence.

If  the  mother  sues  the  hospital  to  recover  damages  for  her  injury,  will

she prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the mother was a public invitee of the hospital's.
(B) Yes, unless the fixture was an obvious, commonly used, and essential

part of the hospital's equipment.

(C) No, unless the hospital's personnel failed to take reasonable steps to

anticipate and prevent the mother's injury.

(D) No, because the hospital's personnel owed the mother no affirmative

duty of care.

 Question 41

A  nurse  worked  as  a  private  duty  nurse  and  on  occasion  worked  in  a
hospital. The hospital called the private duty referral agency through which
the nurse usually obtained employment and asked that in the future she not be
assigned to patients in the hospital. The referral agency asked the hospital
why it had made the request. The hospital sent a letter to the referral agency
giving as the reason for its request that significant amounts of narcotics had
disappeared  during  the  nurse's  shift  from  the  nursing  stations  at  which  she
had worked.

If the nurse asserts a claim based on defamation against the hospital, the

nurse will

 (A) recover, because the hospital accused the nurse of improper

professional conduct.

(B) recover, if the nurse did not take the narcotics.
(C) not recover, if narcotics disappeared during the nurse's shifts.
(D) not recover, if the hospital reasonably believed that the nurse took the

narcotics.

 Question 42

An electrical engineer designed an electronic game. The electrical engineer
entered into a licensing agreement with a toy company under which the toy
company  agreed  to  manufacture  the  electronic  game  according  to  the
electrical engineer's specifications and to market it and pay a royalty to the
electrical engineer.

1082

One girl, whose parents had purchased the electronic game for her, was
injured  while  playing  the  game.  The  girl  recovered  a  judgment  against  the
toy company on the basis of a finding that the electronic game was defective
because of the electronic engineer's improper design.

In  a  claim  for  indemnity  against  the  electrical  engineer,  will  the  toy

company prevail?

 (A) Yes, because as between the electrical engineer and the toy company,
the electrical engineer was responsible for the design of the electronic
game.

(B) Yes, because the toy company and the electrical engineer were joint

tortfeasors.

(C) No, because the toy company, as the manufacturer, was strictly liable to

the girl.

(D) No, if the toy company, by a reasonable inspection, could have
discovered the defect in the design of the electronic game.

 Question 43

For  ten  years,  a  vacationer  and  a  neighbor  have  owned  summer  vacation
homes on adjoining lots. A stream flows through both lots. As a result of a
childhood  swimming  accident,  the  vacationer  is  afraid  of  water  and  has
never gone close to the stream.

The  neighbor  built  a  dam  on  her  property  that  has  completely  stopped

the flow of the stream to the vacationer's property.

In  a  suit  by  the  vacationer  against  the  neighbor,  will  the  vacationer

prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the damming unreasonably interferes with the use and enjoyment

of the vacationer's property.

(B) Yes, if the neighbor intended to affect the vacationer's property.
(C) No, because the vacationer made no use of the stream.
(D) No, if the dam was built in conformity with all applicable laws.

 Question 44

The day after a seller completed the sale of his house and moved out, one of
the  slates  flew  off  the  roof  during  a  windstorm.  The  slate  struck  a
pedestrian, who was on the public sidewalk. The pedestrian was seriously
injured.

1083

The  roof  is  old  and  has  lost  several  slates  in  ordinary  windstorms  on

other occasions.

If the pedestrian sues the seller to recover damages for his injuries, will

the pedestrian prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the roof was defective when the seller sold the house.
(B) Yes, if the seller should have been aware of the condition of the roof
and should have realized that it was dangerous to persons outside the
premises.

(C) No, because the seller was neither the owner nor the occupier of the

house when the pedestrian was injured.

(D) No, if the pedestrian knew that in the past slates had blown off the roof

during windstorms.

 Question 45

A patient had been under the care of a cardiologist for three years prior to
submitting  to  an  elective  operation  that  was  performed  by  a  surgeon.  Two
days thereafter, the patient suffered a stroke, resulting in a coma, caused by
a blood clot that lodged in her brain. When it appeared that she had entered
a  permanent  vegetative  state,  with  no  hope  of  recovery,  the  artificial  life-
support system that had been provided was withdrawn, and she died a few
hours later. The withdrawal of artificial life support had been requested by
her family, and duly approved by a court. The surgeon was not involved in
that decision, or in its execution.

The administrator of the patient's estate thereafter filed a wrongful death
action against the surgeon, claiming that the surgeon was negligent in having
failed  to  consult  a  cardiologist  prior  to  the  operation.  At  the  trial  the
plaintiff  offered  evidence  that  accepted  medical  practice  would  require
examination  of  the  patient  by  a  cardiologist  prior  to  the  type  of  operation
that the surgeon performed.

In this action, the plaintiff should

 (A) prevail, if the surgeon was negligent in failing to have the patient

examined by a cardiologist prior to the operation.

(B) prevail, if the blood clot that caused the patient's death was caused by

the operation which the surgeon performed.

(C) not prevail, absent evidence that a cardiologist, had one examined the

patient before the operation, would probably have provided advice that
would have changed the outcome.

1084

(D) not prevail, because the surgeon had nothing to do with the withdrawal
of artificial life support, which was the cause of the patient's death.

 Question 46

The  owner  of  a  car  left  her  car  at  the  neighborhood  garage  to  have  repair
work done. After completing the repairs, the mechanic took the car out for a
test  drive  and  was  involved  in  an  accident  that  caused  damages  to  a
bystander.

A statute imposes liability on the owner of an automobile for injuries to
a  third  party  that  are  caused  by  the  negligence  of  any  person  driving  the
automobile with the owner's consent. The statute applies to situations of this
kind, even if the owner did not specifically authorize the mechanic to test-
drive the car.

The bystander sued the car owner and the mechanic jointly for damages
arising  from  the  accident.  In  that  action,  the  car  owner  cross-claims  to
recover from the mechanic the amount of any payment the car owner may be
required to make to the bystander. The trier of fact has determined that the
accident was caused solely by negligent driving on the mechanic's part, and
that the bystander's damages were $100,000.

In this action, what would be the proper outcome?

 (A) The bystander should have judgment for $50,000 each against the car

owner and the mechanic; the car owner should recover nothing from the
mechanic.

(B) The bystander should have judgment for $100,000 against the mechanic

only.

(C) The bystander should have judgment for $100,000 against the car owner
and the mechanic jointly, and the car owner should have judgment
against the mechanic for 50 percent of any amount collected from the car
owner by the bystander.

(D) The bystander should have judgment for $100,000 against the car owner
and the mechanic jointly, and the car owner should have judgment
against the mechanic for any amount collected from the car owner by the
bystander.

 Question 47

A driver drove his car into an intersection and collided with a fire engine
that  had  entered  the  intersection  from  the  driver's  right.  The  accident  was
caused by negligence on the driver's part. As a result of the accident, the fire

1085

engine  was  delayed  in  reaching  a  homeowner's  house,  which  was  entirely
consumed  by  fire.  The  homeowner's  house  was  located  about  ten  blocks
from the scene of the accident.

If  the  homeowner  asserts  a  claim  against  the  driver,  what  would  the

homeowner recover?

 (A) The part of his loss that would have been prevented if the collision had

not occurred.

(B) The value of his house before the fire.
(C) Nothing, if the driver had nothing to do with causing the fire.
(D) Nothing, because the driver's conduct did not create an apparent danger

to the homeowner.

 Question 48

A well-known movie star was drinking wine at a nightclub. A bottle of the
wine, with its label plainly showing, was on the table in front of the movie
star.  An  amateur  photographer  asked  the  movie  star  if  he  could  take  his
picture and the movie star said, ‘‘Yes.'' Subsequently, the photographer sold
the photo to the wine company, whose wine was pictured in the photo. The
wine  company,  without  the  movie  star's  consent,  used  the  photo  in  a  wine
advertisement  in  a  nationally  circulated  magazine.  The  caption  below  the
photo stated, ‘‘This movie star enjoys our wine.''

If the movie star sues the wine company to recover damages as a result

of the wine company's use of the photograph, will the movie star prevail?

 (A) No, because the movie star consented to being photographed.
(B) No, because the movie star is a public figure.
(C) Yes, because the wine company made commercial use of the

photograph.

(D) Yes, unless the movie star did, in fact, enjoy that specific wine.

 Question 49

A bright nine-year-old child attended a day care center after school. The day
care  center  was  located  near  a  man-made  duck  pond  on  the  property  of  a
corporation.  During  the  winter,  the  pond  was  used  for  ice  skating  when
conditions were suitable. At a time when the pond was only partially frozen,
the child sneaked away from the center and walked out onto the ice covering
the  pond.  The  ice  gave  way,  and  the  child  fell  into  the  cold  water.  He

1086

suffered  shock  and  would  have  drowned  had  he  not  been  rescued  by  a
passerby.  At  the  time  of  the  incident,  the  pond  was  clearly  marked  with
signs that stated, ‘‘THIN ICE—NO SKATING.'' When the child left the day
care  center,  the  center  was  staffed  with  a  reasonable  number  of  qualified
personnel,  and  the  center's  employees  were  exercising  reasonable  care  to
ensure  that  the  children  in  their  charge  did  not  leave  the  premises.  The
jurisdiction follows a rule of pure comparative negligence.

In a suit brought on the child's behalf against the day care center, who is

likely to prevail?

 (A) The child, because he left the center while he was under the center's

care.

(B) The child, because the day care center is located near a pond.
(C) The day care center, because it was not negligent.
(D) The day care center, because the child was a trespasser.

 Question 50

Chemical company A and chemical company B  both  manufacture  pesticide
X. Their plants are located along the same river. During a specific 24-hour
period,  each  plant  discharged  pesticide  into  the  river.  Both  plants  were
operated  negligently  and  such  negligence  caused  the  discharge  of  the
pesticide into the river.

A  rancher  operated  a  cattle  ranch  downstream  from  both  plants.  The

rancher's cattle drank from the river and were poisoned by the pesticide.

The  amount  of  the  discharge  from  either  plant  alone  would  not  have

been sufficient to cause any harm to the rancher's cattle.

If the rancher asserts a claim against chemical company A and chemical

company B, what, if anything, will the rancher recover?

 (A) Nothing, because neither company discharged enough pesticide to cause

harm to the rancher's cattle.

(B) Nothing, unless the rancher can establish how much pesticide each plant

discharged.

(C) One-half of the rancher's damages from each company.
(D) The entire amount of the rancher's damages, jointly and severally, from

two companies.

 Question 51

1087

A purchaser ordered some merchandise from a store. When the merchandise
was delivered, the purchaser decided that it was not what he had ordered,
and  he  returned  it  for  credit.  The  store  refused  to  credit  the  purchaser's
account, continued to bill him, and, after 90 days, turned the account over to
a bill collector for collection.

The bill collector arrived at the purchaser's house at 7 p.m. on a summer
evening  while  many  of  the  purchaser's  neighbors  were  seated  on  their
porches. When the purchaser opened the door, the bill collector, who was
standing  just  outside  the  door,  raised  an  electrically  amplified  bullhorn  to
his  mouth.  In  a  voice  that  could  be  heard  a  block  away,  the  bill  collector
called the purchaser a ‘‘deadbeat'' and asked him when he intended to pay
his bill to the store.

If  the  purchaser  asserts  a  claim  based  on  defamation  against  the  bill

collector, will the purchaser prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the bill collector's remarks were heard by any of the purchaser's

neighbors.

(B) Yes, because the bill collector's conduct was extreme and outrageous.
(C) No, unless the bill collector knew that the purchaser owed no money to

the store.

(D) No, unless the purchaser suffered some special damage.

 Question 52

A pedestrian was crossing a street at a crosswalk. A jogger who was on the
sidewalk  nearby,  saw  a  speeding  automobile  heading  in  the  pedestrian's
direction. The jogger ran into the street and pushed the pedestrian out of the
path of the car. The pedestrian fell to the ground and broke her leg.

In an action for battery brought by the pedestrian against the jogger, will

the pedestrian prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the jogger could have shouted a warning instead of

pushing the pedestrian out of the way.

(B) Yes, if the pedestrian was not actually in danger and the jogger should

have realized it.

(C) No, because the driver of the car was responsible for the pedestrian's

injury.

(D) No, if the jogger's intent was to save the pedestrian, not to harm her.

 Question 53

1088

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

A patron ate a spicy dinner at a restaurant on Sunday night. He enjoyed the
food and noticed nothing unusual about the dinner.

Later  that  evening,  the  patron  had  an  upset  stomach.  He  slept  well
through  the  night,  went  to  work  the  next  day,  and  ate  three  meals.  His
stomach discomfort persisted, and by Tuesday morning he was too ill to go
to work.

Eventually,  the  patron  consulted  his  doctor,  who  found  that  the  patron
was  infected  with  a  bacterium  that  can  be  contracted  from  contaminated
food.  Food  can  be  contaminated  when  those  who  prepare  it  do  not
adequately wash their hands.

The  patron  sued  the  restaurant  for  damages.  He  introduced  testimony
from  a  health  department  official  that  various  health  code  violations  had
been found at the restaurant both before and after the patron's dinner, but that
none of the restaurant's employees had signs of bacterial infection when they
were tested one month after the incident.

The restaurant's best argument in response to the patron's suit would be

that

 (A) No one else who ate at the restaurant on Sunday complained about

stomach discomfort.

(B) The restaurant instructs its employees to wash their hands carefully and
is not responsible if any employee fails to follow these instructions.

(C) The patron has failed to establish that the restaurant's food caused his

illness.

(D) The patron assumed the risk of an upset stomach by choosing to eat

spicy food.

 Question 54

As an encyclopedia salesman approached the grounds on which a house was
situated,  he  saw  a  sign  that  said,  ‘‘No  salesmen.  Trespassers  will  be
prosecuted. Proceed at your own risk.'' Although the salesman had not been
invited to enter, he ignored the sign and drove up the driveway toward the
house.  As  he  rounded  a  curve,  a  powerful  explosive  charge  buried  in  the
driveway exploded, and the salesman was injured.

Can the salesman recover damages from the homeowner for his injuries?

 (A) Yes, if the homeowner was responsible for the explosive charge under

the driveway.

(B) Yes, unless the homeowner, when he planted the charge, intended only

1089

to deter, not to harm, a possible intruder.

(C) No, because the salesman ignored the sign, which warned him against

proceeding further.

(D) No, if the homeowner reasonably feared that intruders would come and

harm him or his family.

 Question 55

A  construction  company  was  digging  a  trench  for  a  new  sewer  line  in  a
street in a high-crime neighborhood. During the course of the construction,
there  had  been  many  thefts  of  tools  and  equipment  from  the  construction
area.  One  night,  the  construction  company's  employees  neglected  to  place
warning lights around the trench. A delivery truck drove into the trench and
broke  an  axle.  While  the  delivery  driver  was  looking  for  a  telephone  to
summon  a  tow  truck,  thieves  broke  into  the  delivery  truck  and  stole
$350,000  worth  of  goods.  The  delivery  company  sued  the  construction
company to recover for the $350,000 loss and for $1,500 worth of damage
to  its  truck.  The  construction  company  stipulated  that  it  was  negligent  in
failing  to  place  warning  lights  around  the  trench,  and  admits  liability  for
damage to the truck, but denies liability for the loss of the goods.

On cross-motions for summary judgment, how should the court rule?

 (A) Deny both motions, because there is evidence to support a finding that
the construction company should have realized that its negligence could
create an opportunity for a third party to commit a crime.

(B) Grant the construction company's motion, because no one could have

foreseen that the failure to place warning lights could result in the loss
of a cargo of valuable goods.

(C) Grant the construction company's motion, because the criminal acts of

third persons were a superseding cause of the loss.

(D) Grant the delivery company's motion, because but for the construction

company's actions, the goods would not have been stolen.

 Question 56

The personnel director of an investment company told a job applicant during
an  interview  that  the  company  was  worth  millions  of  dollars  and  that  the
company's portfolio would triple in the next several months. The applicant
was  very  excited  about  the  company's  prospects  and  accepted  an  offer  to
work for the company. Two days later, the applicant read in the newspaper
that  the  investment  company  had  filed  for  bankruptcy  reorganization.  As  a

1090

result of reading this news, the applicant suffered severe emotional distress
but he immediately found another comparable position.

Is 

the  applicant 

likely 

to  prevail 

in  his  action  for  negligent

misrepresentation?

 (A) No, because the applicant did not suffer any physical injury or

pecuniary loss.

(B) No, because the personnel director's statement was purely speculative.
(C) Yes, because the applicant relied on the personnel director's

misrepresentations about the investment company.

(D) Yes, because the personnel director should have foreseen that his

misrepresentations would cause the applicant to be upset.

 Question 57

A bus passenger was seated next to a woman whom he did not know. The
woman stood to exit the bus, leaving a package on the seat. The passenger
lightly tapped the woman on the back to get her attention and to inform her
that  she  had  forgotten  the  package.  Because  the  woman  had  recently  had
back  surgery,  the  tap  was  painful  and  caused  her  to  twist  and  seriously
injure her back.

If the woman sues the passenger to recover for the back injury, will she

prevail?

 (A) No, because she is presumed to have consented to the ordinary contacts

of daily life.

(B) No, because she was not put in apprehension because of the touching.
(C) Yes, because the passenger intentionally touched her.
(D) Yes, because the passenger's intentional touching seriously injured her.

 Question 58

A  smoker  and  a  nonsmoker  were  seated  at  adjoining  tables  in  a  small
restaurant.  The  smoker's  table  was  in  the  smoking  section,  and  the
nonsmoker's  table  was  in  the  nonsmoking  section.  When  the  smoker  lit  a
cigarette,  the  nonsmoker  politely  requested  that  he  not  smoke,  explaining
that  she  had  a  severe  allergy  to  cigarette  smoke.  The  smoker  ignored  the
nonsmoker's  request  and  continued  to  smoke.  As  a  result,  the  nonsmoker
was hospitalized with a severe allergic reaction to the smoke.

The nonsmoker brought a battery action against the smoker.

1091

Which  of  the  following  questions  will  NOT  be  an  issue  in  the  battery

action?

 (A) Did the smoker intend to cause the nonsmoker's contact with the

cigarette smoke?

(B) Does smoke have the physical properties necessary for making the kind

of contact required for battery?

(C) Is contact with cigarette smoke from a lawful smoking section in a

restaurant the kind of contact one must endure as a voluntary restaurant
patron?

(D) Was the smoker's conduct unreasonable under the circumstances?

 Question 59

While driving his open-bed truck with a friend in the open bed, the driver
swerved, throwing his friend to the pavement. The friend sustained severe
injuries.  The  friend  had  often  ridden  in  the  open  bed  of  the  driver's  truck,
and  on  some  of  those  occasions  the  driver  had  swerved  to  frighten  his
friend. The friend sued the driver to recover both compensatory damages for
his injuries and punitive damages.

Which cause of action would NOT permit the friend to recover punitive

damages?

 (A) Assault.
(B) Battery.
(C) Negligence.
(D) Recklessness.

 Question 60

As a shopper was leaving a supermarket, an automatic door that should have
opened  outward  opened  inward,  striking  and  breaking  the  shopper's  nose.
The  owner  of  the  building  had  installed  the  automatic  door.  The  lease,
pursuant  to  which  the  supermarket  leased  the  building,  provided  that  the
supermarket was responsible for all maintenance of the premises.

The shopper sued the supermarket. At trial, neither the shopper nor the
supermarket offered any testimony, expert or otherwise, as to why the door
had  opened  inward.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  proofs,  both  the  shopper  and
the supermarket moved for judgment.
How should the trial judge rule?

1092

 (A) Grant judgment for the shopper, because it is undisputed that the door

malfunctioned.

(B) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to join

the owner of the building as a defendant.

(C) Grant judgment for the supermarket, because the shopper failed to offer

proof of the supermarket's negligence.

(D) Submit the case to the jury, because on these facts negligence may be

inferred.

 Question 61

A dentist was anesthetizing a patient's gum before pulling a tooth. Although
the  dentist  used  due  care,  the  hypodermic  needle  broke  off  in  the  patient's
gum, causing injury. The needle broke because of a manufacturing defect that
the dentist could not have detected.

Is the patient likely to recover damages in an action against the dentist

based on strict products liability and malpractice?

 (A) No, on neither basis.
(B) Yes, based on malpractice, but not on strict products liability.
(C) Yes, based on strict products liability, but not on malpractice.
(D) Yes, on both bases.

 Question 62

Two lawyers are the only members of a law partnership in a small town that
has  only  one  other  lawyer  in  it.  Both  attorneys  do  a  substantial  amount  of
personal injury work. A client was severely and permanently injured in an
automobile  collision  when  struck  by  an  automobile  driven  by  a  motorist.
The  client  employed  the  law  partnership  to  represent  her  in  obtaining
damages for her injuries. At the time the client employed the partnership, the
statute of limitations had six weeks to run on her claim. The complaint was
prepared but not filed. Each lawyer thought that the other lawyer would file
the complaint. The statute of limitations ran out on the client's claim against
the motorist.

The client has filed suit against both lawyers for negligence. That case

is on trial with a jury in a court of general jurisdiction.

In order to establish a breach of standard of care owed to her by the two

lawyers, the client

1093

 (A) must have a legal expert from the same locality testify that the

defendants' conduct was a breach.

(B) must have a legal expert from the same state testify that the defendants'

conduct was a breach.

(C) can rely on the application of the jurors' common knowledge as to

whether there was a breach.

(D) can rely on the judge, as an expert in the law, to advise the jury whether

there was a breach.

 Question 63

A hiker sustained a head injury when he was struck by a limb that fell from a
tree.  At  the  time  of  his  injury,  the  hiker  was  walking  through  a  forest  on
private property without the property owner's knowledge or permission. It
was  determined  that  the  limb  fell  because  the  tree  was  infested  with
termites.

In  an  action  by  the  hiker  against  the  property  owner  to  recover  for  his

head injury, will the hiker prevail?

 (A) No, because the property owner could not foresee that anyone would be

injured.

(B) No, because the property owner breached no duty to the hiker, who was

a trespasser.

(C) Yes, because the property owner had a duty to prevent the trees on his

property from becoming dangerous.

(D) Yes, because the property owner is liable for hidden dangers on his

property.

 Question 64

A homeowner resented the fact that joggers and walkers would sometimes
come onto his property just beside the sidewalk in order to enjoy the feel of
walking or running on grass. He put up a ‘‘No Trespassing'' sign, but it did
not stop the practice. He then put up a ‘‘Beware of Skunk'' sign and bought a
young  skunk.  He  took  the  skunk  to  a  vet  to  have  its  scent  gland  removed.
Unfortunately, the vet did not perform the operation properly, and the scent
gland was not removed. The homeowner was unaware that it had not been
removed.

One  day  a  walker  was  out  for  a  stroll.  When  she  came  to  the
homeowner's property, she walked on the grass alongside the sidewalk on

1094

the  homeowner's  property.  The  skunk  came  up  behind  the  walker  and
sprayed  her  with  its  scent.  The  smell  was  overpowering,  and  she  fainted.
She struck her head on the sidewalk and suffered serious injuries.

The probable result of the walker's claim against the homeowner is that

she will

 (A) recover, because the skunk was a private nuisance.
(B) recover, because the skunk was not a domesticated animal.
(C) not recover, because the walker was a trespasser.
(D) not recover, because the vet was the cause of the injury.

 Question 65

A  driver  negligently  ran  over  a  pedestrian.  A  bystander  witnessed  the
accident from across the street. The bystander ran to the pedestrian, whom
he  did  not  know,  and  administered  first  aid,  but  the  pedestrian  died  in  the
bystander's  arms.  The  bystander  suffered  serious  emotional  distress  as  a
result  of  his  failure  to  save  the  pedestrian's  life,  but  he  experienced  no
resulting physical manifestations. The bystander brought a negligence action
against the driver.

Is the bystander likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the bystander assumed the risk.
(B) No, because the bystander had no familial or other preexisting

relationship with the pedestrian.
(C) Yes, because danger invites rescue.
(D) Yes, because the bystander was in the zone of danger.

 Question 66

A motorist was driving his pickup truck along a lonely road on a very cold
night. The motorist saw the apparently injured plaintiff lying in a field by the
side  of  the  road.  The  motorist  stopped  his  truck,  alighted,  and,  upon
examining the plaintiff, discovered that the plaintiff was intoxicated and in
danger  of  suffering  from  exposure  to  the  cold.  However,  the  motorist
returned to his truck and drove away without making any effort to help the
plaintiff.  The  plaintiff  remained  lying  at  the  same  place  and  was  later
injured  when  struck  by  a  car  driven  by  a  traveler,  who  was  drowsy  and
inattentive  and  had  veered  off  the  road  into  the  field,  hitting  the  plaintiff.
The traveler did not see the plaintiff prior to hitting him.

1095

If  the  plaintiff  asserts  a  claim  against  the  motorist  for  damages  for  his

injuries, will the plaintiff prevail?

 (A) Yes, because by stopping and examining the plaintiff, the motorist

assumed a duty to aid him.

(B) Yes, if a reasonably prudent person under the circumstances would have

aided the plaintiff.

(C) No, if the motorist did not, in any way, make the plaintiff's situation

worse.

(D) No, because the plaintiff himself created the risk of harm by becoming

intoxicated.

 Question 67

A  homeowner  owned  a  large  poisonous  snake,  which  had  been  defanged
and  was  kept  in  a  cage.  A  storm  damaged  the  homeowner's  house  and  the
snake's  cage,  allowing  it  to  escape.  During  the  cleanup  after  the  storm,  a
volunteer worker came across the snake. The worker tried to run away from
the snake and fell, breaking his arm.

In a suit by the worker against the homeowner based on strict liability in

tort to recover for his injury, will the worker prevail?

 (A) No, because the snake's escape was caused by a force of nature.
(B) No, because the worker should have anticipated an injury during his

volunteer work.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner did not take adequate precautions to

secure the snake.

(D) Yes, because the worker's injury was the result of his fear of the

escaped snake.

 Question 68

A  company  manufactured  metal  stamping  presses  that  were  usually  sold
with an installed safety device that made it impossible for a press to close
on  a  worker's  hands.  The  safety  device  produced  a  substantially  safer
machine  without  affecting  the  machine's  ease  of  use,  and  cost  the
manufacturer little. The company strongly recommended that its presses be
purchased  with  the  safety  device  installed,  but  would  sell  a  press  without
the  safety  device  at  a  slightly  reduced  price.  This  alternative  model
included a warning that the press created a risk of closing on the operator's
hand and crushing it.

1096

Rejecting  the  company's  advice,  a  worker's  employer  purchased  a
stamping press without the safety device. The press closed on the worker's
hand,  crushing  it.  In  an  action  brought  by  the  worker  against  the  company,
will the worker prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the company's press was the cause in fact of the worker's

injury.

(B) Yes, because the company sold the press to the worker's employer

without an installed safety device.

(C) No, because the failure of the worker's employer to purchase the press

with a safety device was a superseding intervening cause of the
worker's injury.

(D) No, because the company strongly recommended that the worker's

employer purchase the press with the safety device.

 Question 69

A child was bitten by a dog while playing in a fenced-in common area of an
apartment complex owned by a landlord. The child was the guest of a tenant
living in the complex, and the dog was owned by another tenant. The owner
of the dog knew that the dog had a propensity to bite, but the landlord did
not have any notice of the dog's vicious propensities.

In an action by the child against the landlord, will the child prevail?

 (A) Yes, because in these circumstances a landlord is strictly liable.
(B) Yes, because a landlord's duty to protect a tenant's guests from

dangerous conditions is non-delegable.

(C) No, because the landlord did not have any notice of the dog's vicious

propensities.

(D) No, because a landlord owes no duty to a tenant's gratuitous guests.

 Question 70

A host pointed an unloaded revolver at her guest, threatening to shoot him.
The  guest  knew  that  the  revolver  was  not  loaded,  and  that  the  ammunition
for the revolver was stored in a locked basement closet, two stories below
where the two were then standing.

In  an  action  brought  by  the  guest  against  the  host  for  assault,  will  the

guest prevail?

1097

 (A) No, because the host did not intend to shoot her guest.
(B) No, because the host did not put her guest in apprehension of an

imminent contact.

(C) Yes, because the ammunition was accessible to the host.
(D) Yes, because the host threatened her guest with a revolver.

 Question 71

A driver, returning from a long shift at a factory, fell asleep at the wheel and
lost control of his car. As a result, his car collided with a police car driven
by an officer who was returning to the station after having responded to an
emergency.  The  police  officer  was  injured  in  the  accident.  The  police
officer sued the driver in negligence for her injuries. The driver moved for
summary judgment, arguing that the common-law firefighters' rule barred the
suit.

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because the firefighters' rule does not apply to police officers.
(B) No, because the police officer's injuries were not related to any special

dangers of her job.

(C) Yes, because the accident would not have occurred but for the

emergency.

(D) Yes, because the police officer was injured on the job.

1098

ANSWERS

REAL PROPERTY

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

1099

 
Answers

TORTS

 Answer 1

 (A) is the best response,

because  a  manufacturer  has  no  obligation  to  warn  against  obvious
dangers.

In  a  suit  based  on  strict  product  liability  (as  the  suit  here  would
likely be), the manufacturer's failure to warn of a danger can itself make
the product defective, and trigger strict liability for injuries caused by
that  defect.  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Prod.  Liab.),  §§  1,  2(c).  But  the  seller  or
manufacturer  of  a  product  is  generally  not  liable  for  failing  to  warn
against  a  danger  that  should  be  obvious  to  foreseeable  users  of  the
product. Id. at §2, Comment j. That's because “warning of an obvious
or generally known risk in most instances will not provide an effective
additional measure of safety.” Id.

Here, the ordinary dangers of working on a ladder are obvious. And
there  appears  to  be  nothing  about  using  a  ladder  to  clean  this  furnace
that increases the danger of ladder use generally. So the manufacturer's
failure to warn about the dangers of ladder use did not make the furnace
defective. And nothing else in these facts supplies any other ground for
imposing either strict liability or liability for negligence.

 (B) is not the best response

because  there  was  no  reason  for  the  homeowner  to  believe  that  he
could not safely maintain the furnace.

There is nothing in these facts to suggest that the homeowner should
have hired a professional to clean the furnace. Even if the homeowner's
decision  to  clean  the  furnace  himself  rather  than  hiring  an  expert  was
found to be “misuse” of the product, in most courts that misuse would
merely  reduce  the  homeowner's  damages  under  comparative-fault
principles, not eliminate his recovery; so misuse would not prevent the
homeowner  from  “prevailing,”  and  the  question  asks  whether  he  will
that  a
“prevail.”  Furthermore, 
“professional”  would  be  less  likely  to  fall  from  a  ladder  than  the

is  no  reason 

to  suspect 

there 

1100

homeowner was — this choice is referring to one who is a professional
cleaner of furnaces, not one who is a professional ladder-climber, and
there is no reason to believe that a professional furnace-cleaner would
be in materially less danger of losing his balance on a ladder than the
homeowner would be.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the absence of a ladder did not make the product defective.

The  manufacturer  could  be  liable  only  if  either  the  product  was
defective,  or  the  manufacturer  was  negligent.  There  is  no  reason  to
believe  that  the  manufacturer's  failure  to  supply  a  ladder  made  the
furnace  defective,  because  ladders  are  a  readily-available  household
item,  and  there  is  no  indication  that  a  special-purpose  ladder  would
have been safer than a standard ladder that the homeowner could have
bought at a hardware store. (That is, the homeowner could have fallen
just as readily from a manufacturer-supplied ladder as from a standard
one bought by the homeowner.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because a manufacturer is not required to warn of obvious dangers.

A  manufacturer's  failure  to  warn  of  dangers  in  using  the  product
may  make  the  product  defective,  thus  triggering  strict  liability.  But  a
manufacturer is not required to give warnings of obvious dangers, as is
further described in Choice A. There is no indication from these facts
that  there  was  a  way  to  clean  the  furnace  without  climbing  on  a  step
ladder,  so  the  presence  of  a  warning  would  not,  even  if  it  had  been
issued and followed, have prevented the homeowner from standing on a
ladder  tall  enough  to  facilitate  the  cleaning.  The  only  thing  the
manufacturer could have warned about was to be careful while standing
on top of such a ladder, and that would have been a warning against an
obvious danger, something that a manufacturer is not required to give.

 Answer 2

 (B) is the best response,

because  assault  requires  that  the  plaintiff  become  aware  of  the
defendant's attempt to inflict a harmful or offensive contact before the
attempt has been terminated.

The  defendant  is  liable  to  the  plaintiff  for  assault  if  “(a)  [the

1101

defendant]  acts  intending  to  cause  a  harmful  or  offensive  contact  with
the  person  of  the  [plaintiff]  or  a  third  person,  or  an  imminent
apprehension of such a contact, and (b) the [plaintiff] is thereby put in
such imminent apprehension.” Rest. 2d Torts, § 21.

So  even  if  the  defendant  intends  to  cause  a  harmful  or  offensive
contact  with  the  plaintiff,  the  defendant  won't  be  liable  for  assault
unless  the  plaintiff  is  “thereby  put  in  .  .  .  imminent apprehension”  of
such a contact. It's not enough that the plaintiff learns of the threatened
contact after the threat has passed — “An attempt to inflict a harmful or
offensive contact or to cause an apprehension of such contact does not
make the actor liable for an assault if the other does not become aware
of the attempt before it is terminated.” Rest. 2d Torts, § 22. Since the
attempt  was  over,  and  the  knife  was  under  the  bed,  by  the  time  the
student  woke  up,  there  was  no  moment  at  which  the  student  feared  an
imminent (future) contact.

 (A) is not the best response,

because assault could have occurred even without any sort of touching.
If you look at the definition of assault in the first full paragraph of
the discussion of choice B above, you'll see that no actual touching is
required for the tort; the only real-world consequence required is that
the  plaintiff  have  been  put  in  imminent  apprehension of  a  harmful  or
offensive  touching.  So  if  the  student  had  been  awake  at  the  time  the
roommate approached him with the ice pick, and the student had been
afraid of being struck, the student could have recovered for assault even
if  the  roommate  changed  his  mind  at  the  last  instant.  Therefore,  this
choice asserts the correct outcome, but gives the wrong reason for it.

 (C) is not the best response,

because fear that is felt after the threat of imminent harmful contact has
passed does not suffice for assault.

As  the  discussion  of  choice  B  explains,  the  plaintiff  in  an  assault
action must have felt an apprehension of imminent harmful or offensive
contact.  A  plaintiff  who  does  not  learn  of  the  danger  until  after  the
threat  has  passed  does  not  qualify.  So  no  fear  that  the  plaintiff  might
feel  beginning  on  the  day  after  the  attack  could  qualify,  however
reasonable it might be for the plaintiff to feel that fear. And even if the
plaintiff reasonably feared that there might be another episode — that
the  expelled  roommate  might  sneak  back  into  the  dorm  and  conduct

1102

another attack against the plaintiff — that fear won't suffice, because it
is not fear of an “imminent” attack.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not address the requirement that the plaintiff suffer an
apprehension of imminent contact.

The fact that the roommate intended to inflict serious harm satisfies
the  first  requirement  for  assault,  that  the  defendant  “acts  intending  to
cause a harmful or offensive contact with the person of the [plaintiff] or
a third person, or an imminent apprehension of such a contact[.]” Rest.
2d  Torts,  §  21.  But  there  is  a  second  requirement,  that  the  plaintiff
actually be “put in such imminent apprehension.” Id. This choice does
not  address 
the  second
requirement is not satisfied here, because the student was asleep while
the threat was imminent, preventing him from “apprehending” that threat
until after it had passed.

the  second  requirement,  and, 

indeed, 

 Answer 3

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  was  reasonably  foreseeable  that  negligence  by  the  car's
manufacturer might lead to physical harm to a rescuer.

Where  the  defendant's  negligence  places  one  person  at  physical
risk,  it  is  quite  foreseeable  that  another  person  might  come  to  the
rescue, and herself be injured. When this happens, the negligence by the
defendant  is  deemed  to  be  the  proximate  cause  of  the  injuries  to  the
rescuer.  See  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Liab.  Phys.  Harm),  §  32,  Comment  b:
“[A]n actor, whose tortious conduct puts the actor or another at risk, is
subject to liability to a third person who is injured while attempting to
come to the aid of the actor or the other imperiled person.”

This  choice,  by  saying  that  the  situation  “invited  the  rescue,”  is
virtually  quoting  the  leading  case  on  the  subject,  in  which  Judge
Cardozo famously wrote, “Danger invites rescue. The cry of distress is
the  summons  to  relief.”  Wagner  v.  International  Railway  Company,
232 N.Y. 176 (1921).

Here,  it  was  foreseeable  to  one  in  the  car  manufacturer's  position
that if the car's negligent design made the car unduly liable to roll over
after  a  blowout,  a  passerby  might  try  to  rescue  the  inhabitants  of  the
rolled-over car and be injured during that attempt. So the manufacturer

1103

will  be  liable  to  the  would-be  rescuer.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  the
particular  sequence  by  which  the  truck  driver  was  injured  (here,
returning  to  his  truck  after  having  ceded  the  rescue  attempts  to  the
professional  rescuers)  was  especially  foreseeable;  it's  enough  for
proximate  cause  that  car  accidents  in  general  tend  to  invoke  rescue
attempts,  and  that  rescuers  are  often  injured  in  some  way  or  another
during the rescue attempt.

 (A) is not the best response,

because 
proximate cause of the truck driver's injuries.

the  manufacturer's  negligence  would  be  considered  a

It's true that the chain of causation here is somewhat lengthy. But as
a general principle, it's reasonably foreseeable that where a person is
placed in peril, someone else may try to rescue that person, and herself
be  injured  in  the  attempt.  Therefore,  courts  generally  hold  that  the
defendant's  negligence  towards  one  person  is  the  proximate  cause  of
injury  to  someone  else  who  is  injured  during  an  attempt  to  rescue  the
first  person.  And  that's  true  even  if  the  particular  chain  of  events  by
which the rescuer comes to be injured would have been somewhat hard
to foresee.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the truck driver would not be deemed to have assumed the risk
of injury here.

The plaintiff will not be found to have assumed a particular risk of
harm  unless  he  “voluntarily”  assumed  that  risk.  And  where  the
defendant,  through  his  negligence,  has  left  the  plaintiff  with  no
reasonable  choice  but  to  encounter  the  risk,  the  plaintiff's  decision  to
take  the  risk  is  not  voluntary.  See  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  496  E(2):  “The
plaintiff's  acceptance  of  a  risk  is  not  voluntary  if  the  defendant's
tortious  conduct  has  left  him  no  reasonable  alternative  course  of
conduct in order to (a) avert harm to himself or another[.]” See also
id.,  Illustr.  3  (D  railroad  negligently  fails  to  warn  that  a  train  is
approaching a crossing, and thereby endangers B, a blind man who is
about to cross; when C, a bystander, rushes onto the track to push B to
safety and is himself struck by the train, C has not assumed the risk).

Here,  the  truck  driver  was  driving  close  behind  the  motorist,  and
could  reasonably  have  believed  that  if  he  didn't  stop  to  help,  no  one
else would help quickly enough. So in the words of the Restatement, the

1104

car manufacturer's negligence left the truck driver with “no reasonable
alternative course of conduct in order to . . . avert harm to . . . another,”
thereby  preventing  the  truck  driver  from  being  deemed  to  have
voluntarily assumed the risk of danger.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it does not deal with the proximate cause issue posed by these
facts.

Even  a  negligent  defendant  will  not  be  liable  for  injuries  if  the
defendant's  negligent  conduct  was  not  the  “proximate  cause”  of  the
injuries.  Here,  where  the  causal  sequence  between  the  manufacturer's
negligent design of the vehicle and the truck driver's being struck down
by  a  speeding  car  is  somewhat  attenuated,  an  explanation  of  why  the
truck  driver  wins  would  have  to  establish  why  the  manufacturer's
negligence  was  the  proximate  cause  of  the  injury.  This  choice,  by
stating  merely  that  “it  is  foreseeable  that  injuries  can  result  from
rollovers,”  might  be  enough  to  explain  why  the  car  manufacturer  is
liable to an occupant of the rolled-over car. But it does not explain why
the  manufacturer's  liability  should  extend  to  a  would-be  rescuer.  The
only type of explanation that would successfully deal with this extended
proximate-cause  issue  is  one  that  focuses  on  the  fact  that,  where  a
negligent  act  creates  a  peril,  the  act  also  tends  to  induce  a  rescue
response.  Therefore,  this  choice,  although  it  correctly  predicts  the
outcome,  is  much  less  good  an  explanation  than  Choice  D's  rescue-
oriented explanation.

 Answer 4

 (C) is the best response,

because the decline in both the volume of the business and the value of
the  property  demonstrate  that  the  refinery's  interference  with  the
landowner's  use  and  enjoyment  of  his  property  was  substantial  and
unreasonable.

One  who  intentionally  causes  a  substantial  and  unreasonable
interference  with  another  person's  use  or  enjoyment  of  the  latter's
property  without  a  valid  defense  is  liable  for  private  nuisance.  To
prevail on such a nuisance claim, the landowner will have to make two
major showings: (1) that the interference with his use and enjoyment of
his  property  was  “substantial  and  unreasonable”;  and  (2)  that  the

1105

interference was “intentional” (unless he can show that the interference
was negligent, reckless, or involved an abnormally dangerous activity).
Let's take these requirements one at a time.

The landowner should be able to show that the interference with his
use and enjoyment was “substantial and unreasonable” by virtue of the
fact  that  the  mini-golf  business  “greatly  declined”  as  a  result  of  the
fumes, and the market value of the property had “markedly” decreased.
Even  if  the  gas  company  is  carrying  on  a  socially  useful  activity,  the
impact  on  the  landowner  will  be  classified  as  “unreasonable”  if  the
harm to him is “greater than he ought to be required to bear under the
circumstances,  at  least  without  compensation.”  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  822,
Comment  g.  Given  the  objectively-measurable,  severe  damage  to  the
landowner's  economic  interests,  this  test  for  unreasonableness  seems
clearly satisfied.

With respect to requirement (2), the landowner will have to prove
that the gas company had one of the mental states required for private
nuisance liability. The plaintiff in a private nuisance action must show
that  the  defendant's  interference  with  the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment
was either (a) intentional; (b) negligent; (c) reckless; or (d) stemming
from  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity.  See  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  822(b).
Because there is no evidence in these facts of negligence, recklessness,
or  the  conducting  of  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity,  the  landowner
will,  as  a  practical  matter,  have  to  show  that  the  interference  was
“intentional.”  In  other  words,  outside  of  the  abnormally-dangerous-
activity  scenario,  there  is  no  nuisance  liability  for  unintentional  non-
negligent interference with another's use and enjoyment of land.

However,  the  word  “intentional”  is  defined  quite  broadly  in  this
context.  It's  not  necessary  that  the  defendant  act  for  the  purpose  of
causing  the  interference.  Rather,  it's  enough  that  the  defendant  knows
that  the  interference  is  either  occurring,  or  is  substantially  certain  to
occur in the future, as a result of the defendant's conduct. Rest. 2d Torts,
§ 825(b). So even if the gas company was originally unaware that the
fumes it was emitting were making people on the landowner's property
sick,  once  the  gas  company  received  complaints  that  this  was
happening,  and  continued  with  the  conduct,  the  interference  became
“intentional.” (We don't actually know specifically that the  landowner
complained,  but  we  know  he  brought  a  nuisance  suit,  so  at  the  very
least,  once  the  gas  company  continued  emitting  the  fumes  after  it
received the complaint, it was acting in an “intentional” manner.)

1106

 (A) is not the best response,

because  negligence  by  the  gas  company  is  not  an  element  that  the
landowner is required to prove.

It's true that there is no strict liability for private nuisance (outside
of the special case of an abnormally dangerous activity). But it does not
follow  that  the  plaintiff  must  establish  negligence  by  the  defendant.
Other  mental  states  suffice,  one  of  which  is  that  the  interference  was
“intentional.” As is described in the last paragraph of Choice C above,
as  long  as  the  gas  company  knew  that  the  interference  was  occurring,
that knowledge was enough to meet the requirement of an “intentional”
interference, making it unnecessary for the landowner to show that the
gas company behaved negligently. So even if the gas company used all
plausible  measures  to  reduce  fumes,  it  would  still  be  liable  for  an
intentional  interference,  simply  because  it  knew  that  the  interference
was continuing to occur.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  refinery's  conformance  to  zoning  requirements  is  not
dispositive.

To establish a case for private nuisance, the plaintiff must show that
the  defendant's  interference  with  the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment  is
“unreasonable.”  And  the  fact  that  the  defendant's  use  is  in  conformity
with the local zoning rules is certainly a factor tending to show that the
interference is not unreasonable. But that factor is not at all dispositive
— the court is free to conclude that the activity, despite being permitted
by  zoning,  so  greatly  interferes  with  the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment
that he should not be required to bear it without compensation, making
the activity “unreasonable.”

 (D) is not the best response,

because  a  mere  decline  in  the  value  of  the  property  is  not  enough  to
establish a nuisance.

The  plaintiff  in  a  private  nuisance  case  must  show  that  the
defendant's  activity  has  “substantially  and  unreasonably”  interfered
with  the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment  of  his  land.  The  mere  fact  that
there  was  some  decline  in  the  value  of  the  property  would  not  be
enough to establish either that the interference was “substantial” or that
it was “unreasonable.” The additional facts that many people are being

1107

sickened while being on the property for more than a few minutes, and
that  far  fewer  people  are  playing  mini-golf  as  a  result,  help  establish
that the interference was substantial and unreasonable. So this choice,
although it states the correct outcome, is not the best explanation of why
the plaintiff will prevail.

 Answer 5

 (D) is the best response,

because the statutory violation will cause the court to apply the doctrine
of negligence per se.

Under  the  doctrine  of  negligence  per se,  if  the  defendant,  without
excuse, violated a criminal statute that was designed to protect against
the  type  of  accident  that  occurred,  then  the  violation  automatically
constitutes  negligence.  See  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Liab.  Phys.  Harm),  §  14
(“An  actor  is  negligent  if,  without  excuse,  the  actor  violates  a  statute
that  is  designed  to  protect  against  the  type  of  accident  the  actor's
conduct causes, and if the accident victim is within the class of persons
the statute is designed to protect.”)

Here, it's pretty obvious that the purpose of the criminal statute is to
prevent  fires,  once  they've  started,  from  spreading.  So  the  statute  was
designed  to  protect  against  the  type  of  accident  that  occurred  here  —
spreading  of  a  fire,  regardless  of  how  the  fire  originated.  Therefore,
even though there is no evidence that the defendant's acts or omissions
contributed to the start of the fire, the violation of the statute is enough
to  permit  a  jury  to  conclude  that  the  defendant  was  negligent  in  not
trying to stop the fire once it began.

Notice  that  you're  not  required  to  say  whether  the  plaintiff  will  in
fact  win;  you're  only  asked  to  say  whether  it  is  “possible”  for  him  to
prevail.  Since  the  negligence  per se  doctrine  will  entitle  him  to  meet
the negligence element of his prima facie case, and thus get to the jury,
this choice correctly explains why it is “possible” that the plaintiff will
win.

Notice, by the way, that neither this choice nor any other part of the
question  mentions  the  magic  phrase  “negligence  per  se.”  Where  an
MBE  fact  pattern  turns  on  a  doctrine  with  an  unusual  and  evocative
name,  examiners  typically  go  out  of  their  way  to  avoid  explicitly
mentioning that doctrine, so as not to tip you off. (“Res ipsa loquitur”
is another good example of such a doctrine.) So it's up to you to notice

1108

that the doctrine applies, and to figure out which choice represents use
of the doctrine. Here, the phrase “violation of a statute that was meant
to protect against this type of occurrence” is the sort of formulation that
should immediately cause you to be thinking about negligence per se.

 (A) is not the best response,

because even a statute setting only criminal penalties can establish the
standard of care in a negligence case, by use of the negligence per se
doctrine.

Under  the  doctrine  of  negligence  per se,  if  the  defendant,  without
excuse, violated a criminal statute that was designed to protect against
the  type  of  accident  that  occurred,  then  the  violation  automatically
constitutes negligence. (See the discussion of Choice D.) This choice,
by  asserting  that  a  statute  that  provides  “only  for  criminal  penalties”
cannot  be  relevant  in  this  civil  action,  is  flatly  inconsistent  with  the
negligence per se doctrine.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the statute imposed a duty on the defendant to install sprinklers
in order to stop the spread of any fire, even one that the defendant did
not negligently start.

This  choice  is  factually  true:  There  is  no  evidence  that  the
defendant negligently (or in any other way) caused the fire to start. But
the criminal statute imposed on him a duty to install sprinklers, so as to
have  at  least  a  chance  of  stopping  any  fire,  regardless  of  how  it  was
caused. Then, the doctrine of negligence per se applies to transform the
defendant's failure to obey the statute into a negligent failure to attempt
to stop the fire.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  doctrine  of  Rylands v. Fletcher  would  not  apply  to  these
facts, since there was no abnormally dangerous activity.

When  Rylands  v.  Fletcher  was  first  decided  in  the  19th  century,
some American courts interpreted it to make a landowner strictly liable
for the spread of fire from his premises. But today, the case stands for
the  more  limited  proposition  that  one  who  carries  on  an  abnormally
dangerous  activity  is  strictly  liable  for  any  harm  caused  by  that
activity.  Here,  there  is  no  evidence  that  defendant  was  carrying  on  an
abnormally  dangerous  activity  in  his  warehouse.  Therefore,  strict

1109

liability under the Rylands v. Fletcher doctrine would not apply.

 Answer 6

 (D) is the best response,

because even if the patient is indigent, she can still be held liable for
negligence.

The  key  to  this  question  is  to  recognize  that  the  patient's  best
defense is assumption of risk. As it turns out, all of the choices except
D support this defense, whereas D is not relevant either to that defense
or to any other disputed fact in the case.

At this stage of the litigation, the patient's lawyer's job is to avoid a
judgment against the patient. The fact that the patient is indigent has no
bearing on whether the patient has behaved negligently, or on any other
issue  in  the  liability  or  damages  portions  of  the  case.  The  patient's
indigent  status  might  well  prevent  any  eventual  judgment  from  being
satisfied, but the lawyer is not at this point trying to avoid satisfaction
of  a  judgment,  merely  to  avoid  the  entry  of  a  judgment  in  the  first
instance.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the nurse's status as a professional caregiver would be relevant
to a defense based on assumption of risk.

The patient might succeed with a defense of assumption of risk. “A
plaintiff  who  voluntarily  assumes  the  risk  of  harm  arising  from  the
negligent or reckless conduct of the defendant cannot recover for such.”
Rest. 2d Torts, § 496 A. Here, if assumption of risk applies, it would be
“implied”  rather  than  “express”  assumption.  Implied  assumption
applies  where  a  plaintiff  (1)  “fully  understands  a  risk  of  harm  .  .  .
caused  by  the  defendant's  conduct,”  and  (2)  voluntarily  chooses  to
encounter  the  risk,  “under  circumstances  that  manifest  [the  plaintiff's]
willingness to accept [that risk].” Rest. 2d Torts, § 496 C(1). The fact
that  the  nurse  was  a  professional  caregiver  would  be  circumstantial
evidence  that  she  understood  the  risk  posed  by  possibly-violent
patients,  and  that  by  choosing  to  work  in  the  psychiatric  facility,  she
voluntarily manifested her willingness to accept that type of risk.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  nurse's  specialized  training  would  support  the  defense  of

1110

assumption of risk.

B is not the best response for the same reason as Choice A: The fact
that the nurse was trained to care for schizophrenic patients would be
relevant evidence in support of an assumption-of-risk defense. Implied
assumption  of  risk  would  apply  if  and  only  if  the  nurse  “fully
understood” the risk of harm from the patient's conduct. The fact that the
nurse  was  trained  in  the  care  of  schizophrenic  patients  would  be
circumstantial  evidence  that  she  fully  understood  the  risk  that  such
patients are sometimes violent.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the patient's mental state bears on whether the risk was one the
nurse assumed.

This  choice,  like  choices  A  and  B,  refers  to  a  fact  that  would  be
relevant on the issue of whether the nurse assumed the risk of the type
of attack that occurred. Even if the nurse was found to have impliedly
assumed the risk of an attack caused by the patient's schizophrenia, the
nurse would not necessarily be found to have assumed the risk of harm
from  some  non-schizophrenia-related  cause  (e.g.,  the  risk  that  the
patient,  while  in  a  completely  normal  frame  of  mind,  might  trip  and
bump  into  the  nurse,  knocking  her  down  the  stairs).  The  fact  that  the
patient thought she was being attacked by an elephant is strong evidence
that the patient's conduct was a product of her schizophrenia, bringing
the injury within the scope of the risk that the nurse arguably assumed
by taking a position in the psychiatric facility that required her to care
for schizophrenic patients.

 Answer 7

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  farmer  should  have  realized  that  the  child's  entry  could
have been repelled by lesser force.

A property owner is privileged to use reasonable force to prevent
or end a trespasser's intrusion on his land. So the farmer was permitted
to use some degree of force to escort the child off the premises. But a
landowner  exercising  the  privilege  to  defend  his  property  is  not
permitted  to  use  a  level  of  force  that  is  “intended  or  likely  to  cause
bodily  harm  .  .  .  in  excess  of  that  which  the  [owner]  correctly  or
reasonably  believes  to  be  necessary  to  prevent  or  terminate  the

1111

other's  intrusion.”  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  81(1).  The  farmer  could  not
reasonably  have  believed  that  striking  a  ten-year-old  girl  in  the  face,
hard  enough  to  break  her  nose,  was  necessary  to  end  her  intrusion  on
the  property;  grabbing  her  by  the  arm  and  removing  her  from  the
property, for instance, would almost certainly have sufficed. Therefore,
the farmer is liable for “so much of the force . . . as is excessive.” Rest.
2d  Torts,  §  82(a).  Consequently,  the  farmer  is  liable  for  the  broken
nose, which would not have occurred had he used an appropriate level
of force.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  farmer  was  not  privileged  even  to  use  the  level  of  non-
deadly force employed here.

As  is  discussed  in  greater  detail  in  Choice  D,  a  person  defending
his  property  is  only  permitted  to  use  the  level  of  force  reasonably
needed to repel the intrusion. Since the farmer should have realized that
a  lesser  degree  of  force  would  suffice  to  remove  the  child  from  the
premises  (e.g.,  grabbing  her  by  the  arm  and  marching  her  off  the
premises), the farmer has exceeded the level of permissive force even
though the force he used was probably not deadly (i.e., was probably
not likely to cause death or serious bodily harm).

 (B) is not the best response,

because even though the farmer had probable cause to believe that the
child was a thief, he was not entitled to use a greater level of force than
was reasonably required to repel the intrusion.

It's true that a property owner may use reasonable force to repel an
intruder, and certainly that is so when the owner has probable cause to
believe  that  the  intruder  is  a  thief.  So  the  farmer  was  entitled  to  use
some degree  of  force  against  the  child.  But  as  is  discussed  in  greater
detail in Choice D, a person defending his property is only permitted to
use the level of force reasonably needed to repel the intrusion. Since
the  farmer  should  have  realized  that  a  lesser  degree  of  force  would
suffice to remove the child from the premises (e.g., grabbing her by the
arm  and  marching  her  off  the  premises),  the  farmer  has  exceeded  the
level of permissive force. So the farmer is liable for the excess, despite
his having had probable cause to believe that the child was a thief.

 (C) is not the best response,

1112

because the farmer had the right to use reasonable force even without
having posted a “No Trespassing” sign.

A property owner has a privilege to use reasonable force to protect
his  property  from  trespass.  And  that's  true  even  if  the  owner  has  not
posted  a  “No  Trespassing”  sign.  (The  presence  or  absence  of  such  a
sign might be a factor in deciding whether the owner's overall reaction
to the danger of trespass was reasonable or not, but there is no absolute
requirement that the owner post a sign — it is up to the third person to
know that he is intruding on another person's property, and to presume
that  the  intrusion  is  without  permission.)  So  although  this  choice
correctly states that the farmer will lose, it misstates the reason — the
real reason the farmer will lose is that he used a greater level of force
than  was  reasonably  needed  to  repel  the  intrusion  (as  discussed  in
Choice D).

 Answer 8

 (C) is the best response,

because assumption of risk can be a defense to a strict liability action,
and the employee here assumed the risk of an accident like the one that
occurred.

The  particular  type  of  strict  liability  that  the  employee  would  be
claiming  here  is  strict  liability  for  the  conducting  of  an  abnormally
dangerous activity. Assumption of risk is a defense to an action brought
on  abnormally-dangerous-activity  grounds.  See  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  523:
“The  plaintiff's  assumption  of  the  risk  of  harm  from  an  abnormally
dangerous activity bars his recovery for the harm.” Since the employee
knew that he was auditing the safety of a mine, a potentially dangerous
activity, he will be held to have knowingly and willingly assumed the
risk  of  the  type  of  accidents  that  make  mining  possibly  abnormally
dangerous. A reasonable jury could certainly find that dynamite is often
stored  at  mines,  and  that  explosion  of  stored  dynamite  is  one  of  the
risks that a person who chooses to perform audits of mine safety knows
about  and  assumes  the  risk  of.  (Notice  that  you're  not  asked  to  say
whether the mining company would succeed with the defense — you're
just asked to determine which the “best” defense is. The assumption of
risk defense has a plausible chance of success here, unlike the defenses
listed in the other three choices.)

1113

 
(A) is not the best defense,

because the facts tell us that the storage of explosives is considered to
be an abnormally dangerous activity in the jurisdiction.

If  you  were  called  upon  to  say  whether  the  storage  of  explosives
here was an abnormally dangerous activity, the fact that mine was in a
remote location would indeed cut against a finding that the activity was
abnormally dangerous. But the facts tell you that in the jurisdiction, the
storage of dynamite is automatically deemed abnormally dangerous —
so  implicitly,  there  is  no  exception  given  for  remote  locations.
Therefore, the mining company's position won't be improved by citing
the remoteness of the mine. (In any event, even if the status of storage of
explosives as ultrahazardous was at issue, many courts would hold that
such  storage  is  ultrahazardous  even  when  it  occurs  in  a  remote
location.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the suit is premised on carrying out an abnormally dangerous
activity,  and  the  defendant  does  not  have  to  have  manufactured  the
dangerous item in order to be liable.

If  the  action  were  based  on  strict  products  liability,  then  the  fact
that the defendant did not manufacture the dynamite (or sell it) would be
a defense. But the suit here, though it seeks to impose strict liability, is
based upon the conducting of an abnormally dangerous activity, not the
sale of a dangerous product. Therefore, since the dynamite was part of
the  activity  that  the  mining  company  was  carrying  on,  the  fact  that  the
company did not manufacture the dynamite is irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because liability for conducting an abnormally dangerous activity is not
negated by the fact that the defendant used all possible care.

If this were a suit based on negligence, the fact that the defendant
used  state-of-the-art  methods  to  store  the  dynamite  would  strongly
indicate that it did not behave negligently. But the action here is based
on  the  conducting  of  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity.  One  of  the
requirements for classifying an activity as abnormally dangerous is that
the  activity  cannot  be  carried  out  with  perfect  safety  no  matter  how
carefully  the  defendant  behaved.  So  by  definition,  the  fact  that  the
defendant used state-of-the-art methods cannot be a defense.

1114

 Answer 9

 (B) is the best response,

because one who negligently causes an initial injury to another is also
liable for a second injury to the other that is a normal consequence of
the initial injury.

It's clear that the driver's negligence was the proximate cause of the
pedestrian's knee injury. The challenging part of this question is that it
requires  you  to  say  whether  the  driver  is  also  liable  for  the  “second”
injury, the shoulder injury. This choice correctly states that the answer
is “yes” if and only if the second injury is a “normal consequence” of
the  first  injury.  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  460,  covers  precisely  this  situation,
and  applies  the  “normal  consequence”  test:  “If  the  negligent  actor  is
liable  for  an  injury  which  impairs  the  physical  condition  of  another's
body,  the  actor  is  also  liable  for  harm  sustained  in  a  subsequent
accident  which  would  not  have  occurred  had  the  other's  condition
not  been  impaired,  and  which  is  a  normal  consequence  of  such
impairment.”

Notice that it does not matter whether the driver should reasonably
have foreseen that his negligent driving would or might ultimately cause
this  “second  injury.”  We  evaluate  the  second  injury  by  looking  at  the
facts as they existed after the first injury, and the defendant is liable if
the  second  injury  is  a  “normal  consequence”  of  the  first  injury,  no
matter how unlikely the second injury may have seemed viewed as of
the moment of the defendant's initial negligence.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it cites a principle that does not apply on these facts.

The saying that the defendant “takes his victim as he finds him” is a
famous, and true, statement. But it refers to a different situation than the
one here. The phrase refers to the principle that a negligent defendant is
responsible  for  the  full  extent  of  the  plaintiff's  initial  injuries,  even
injuries that stem from the plaintiff's unusual preexisting vulnerability.
That is, “takes his victim as he finds him” refers to the so-called “thin
skull” type of problem, exemplified by a plaintiff who receives a blow
to the head caused by the defendant's negligence and suffers unusually
bad injuries due to the plaintiff's preexisting thin skull. Here, the injury
to the plaintiff's shoulder is not due to his preexisting susceptibility to
such injuries, but is rather due to the earlier injury at issue in the case.

1115

So the saying “takes his victim as he finds him” does not explain why
the defendant would be liable for the shoulder injury.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  separability  of  injuries  matters  only  when  there  are  multiple
defendants.

The  separability  of  injuries  (also  known  as  the  “divisibility”  of
injuries)  becomes  significant  only  when  there  are  not  only  multiple
injuries, but also multiple defendants — if the injuries can be allocated
among  the  multiple  defendants  (i.e.,  the  injuries  are  separable),  then
each defendant is liable only for those injuries that can be specifically
attributed to that defendant's fault. Here, both injuries were caused by a
single  defendant  (the  driver),  so  the  separability  of  the  injuries  never
becomes an issue.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  driver  will  be  liable  for  the  shoulder  injury  if  it  was  a
“natural consequence” of the knee injury, even if it was not reasonably
foreseeable at the time of the negligent driving.

These  facts  involve  the  problem  of  the  “second  injury,”  i.e.,  the
situation in which the defendant's negligence causes an initial injury to
plaintiff,  and  the  plaintiff  then  sustains  a  second  injury  of  which  the
initial injury was the but-for cause. In this scenario, the defendant who
caused the first injury will be liable  for  the  second  injury  no  matter
how unforeseeable that second injury might have been as of the time
of the defendant's negligence, so long as we can say after the fact that
the second injury was a “normal consequence” of the first injury. (For
more  about  this,  see  the  discussion  of  Choice  B.)  Since  this  choice
asserts that the driver is off the hook so long as the second injury (the
fall  down  the  stairs)  was  not  foreseeable  at  the  time  of  the  driver's
negligence, it understates the scope of the driver's liability.

 Answer 10

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  rancher's  belief  that  the  neighbor  was  armed  was
unreasonable.

A landowner can be privileged to use even deadly force to prevent
an  intrusion  on  his  land.  However,  such  a  use  of  deadly  force  is

1116

privileged  “if,  but  only  if,  the  [owner]  reasonably  believes  that  the
intruder,  unless  expelled  or  excluded,  is  likely  to  cause  death  or
serious  bodily  harm  to  the  [owner]  or  to  a  third  person  whom  the
[owner] is privileged to protect.” Rest. 2d Torts, § 79. So the fact that
the  rancher  genuinely  believed  that  the  neighbor  had  a  gun  and  might
well use it was not enough to permit the rancher to use deadly force of
his  own:  The  rancher's  belief  had  to  be  reasonable,  not  just  genuine.
This  was  not  the  case  here,  since  the  rancher  “could  point  to  nothing
that would have reasonably justified” his belief that the neighbor was
armed.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the no-retreat rule, even if adopted by the jurisdiction, would
not apply here, since the attack was not in the rancher's dwelling place.
Most  states  (and  the  Second  Restatement)  apply  the  “stand  your
ground” rule, under which the defendant may sometimes defend himself
from harm, even by the use of deadly force, and even if he could avoid
injury  by  retreating.  But  in  states  that  apply  this  rule,  the  rule  applies
only to an attack that takes place within the defendant's dwelling place
(which  must  not  also  be  the  dwelling  place  of  the  attacker).  Rest.  2d
Torts,  §  65(2)(a).  For  this  purpose,  “dwelling  place”  means  a  home,
i.e.,  a  building  in  which  the  defendant  resides.  Here,  the  rancher  was
standing outside on his land, not in his house, so the attack was not in
his  dwelling  place.  Therefore,  even  in  a  stand-your-ground  state  the
rancher was not permitted to stand his ground by using deadly force, if
he could have retreated safely (as it appears he could have).

Furthermore,  even  if  the  attack  had  taken  place  in  the  rancher's
dwelling, he still would have been permitted to use deadly force only if
he  had  a  reasonable  belief  that  he  was  himself  being  threatened  with
deadly force; here, the rancher's belief that the neighbor was armed may
have been genuine, but it was not reasonable.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the rancher's belief that the neighbor was not armed was not a
reasonable one.

A landowner's privilege to use deadly force to defend his property
against  intrusion  applies  only  where  the  owner  reasonably  believes
that  the  intruder,  if  not  repelled,  will  himself  use  deadly  force.  (See
Rest.  2d  Torts,  §  79,  quoted  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  D  above.)

1117

Here,  the  rancher's  belief  that  the  neighbor  was  armed  (and  thus
threatening to use deadly force) may have been genuine, but it was not
reasonable.  So  that  belief  did  not  justify  the  rancher's  use  of  deadly
force.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is overly broad, and fails to take account of the possibility
that a “property dispute” may escalate into an encounter that threatens
death or serious injury.

It  is  true  that  if  the  dispute  concerns  only  possession  of  property,
neither  side  may  use  deadly  force  in  connection  with  the  dispute.  But
disputes  that  are  initially  about  property  may  escalate  to  a  point  at
which  one  party  is  threatening  the  other  with  death  or  serious  bodily
harm. When that happens, the threatened person may use deadly force in
self-defense  or  defense  of  property,  if  he  reasonably  believes  that  a
lesser degree of force would not suffice.

So here, even though the dispute started as a “property dispute,” if
the  rancher  had  had  a  reasonable  belief  that  the  neighbor  was  armed
and  might  shoot  him  after  he  came  over  the  fence,  the  rancher  would
have prevailed if he could convince the court that no lesser amount of
force  would  likely  have  sufficed.  The  problem  for  the  rancher  is  that
his belief that the neighbor was threatening the use of deadly force (i.e.,
was  armed)  was  not  supported  by  objective  circumstances,  and  was
thus  not  reasonable.  So  this  choice  explains  the  correct  outcome  (the
rancher  loses),  but  does  so  by  incorrectly  stating  that  deadly  force  is
“never appropriate” if the dispute is about property.

 Answer 11

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  driver  had  the  privilege  of  necessity,  making  the
homeowner's removal of the car wrongful.

First,  a  person  has  the  privilege  of  “private  necessity”  to  enter
another's land, if that entry is or reasonably appears to be necessary to
prevent  serious  harm  to  the  person  or  his  chattels.  Rest.  2d  Torts,  §
197(1).  So  the  driver  had  a  privilege  to  park  his  car  in  the  owner's
driveway since that seemed to be the only way for him to avoid water
damage to the car. (If the driver, by parking, had damaged the owner's
land, the driver would have been responsible for the damage; that's why

1118

the  private  necessity  privilege  is  called  an  “incomplete  privilege.”)
Once the driver properly exercised his privilege to enter the driveway,
the  owner  was  under  a  duty  to  allow  the  entry  to  continue  until  the
danger  had  passed.  See  Rest.  2d,  §  197,  Comment  k:  “The  important
difference  between  the  status  of  one  who  is  a  trespasser  on  land  and
one who is on the land pursuant to an incomplete privilege is that the
latter is entitled  to  be  on  the  land  and  therefore  the  possessor  of  the
land  is  under  a  duty  to  permit  him  to  come  and  remain  there  and
hence  is  not  privileged  to  resist  his  entry.”  So  the  homeowner,  by
rolling  the  car  back  down  the  driveway,  violated  this  duty  to  let  the
driver  remain,  and  is  responsible  for  the  damages  caused  by  that
violation.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the absence of “no trespassing” signs was irrelevant.

The  driver  committed  what  normally  would  have  been  a
trespassory entry on the owner's land, and that entry would have been a
trespass  regardless  of  whether  the  land  was  posted  with  “no
trespassing”  signs.  What  made  the  driver's  entry  lawful  was  his
privilege  of  necessity,  as  discussed  in  choice  A.  So  this  choice,
although  it  correctly  predicts  the  outcome,  does  so  on  an  incorrect
theory.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the driver had a privilege to enter, even though his entry was
intentional.

As  is  discussed  in  choice  A,  the  driver,  when  he  entered  the
owner's  land,  was  acting  pursuant  to  a  privilege  of  private  necessity.
That privilege applies even though the entry is “intentional.” Since the
entry was privileged, the owner had a duty to let the driver's car remain
for the duration of the emergency, making the owner responsible to pay
for damages caused by his violation of that duty.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  homeowner  was  not  in  fact  privileged  to  remove  the  car
from his property.

The driver was entitled to enter the homeowner's land by virtue of
the  privilege  of  private  necessity,  since  that  entry  was  reasonably
necessary  to  avoid  water  damage  to  the  car.  Because  the  entry  was

1119

privileged,  the  homeowner  had  a  duty  to  allow  the  entry  to  continue
until  the  danger  was  over.  So  it  is  not  accurate  to  say,  as  this  choice
does, that the homeowner had a privilege to remove the car. Rather, the
homeowner  must  pay  damages  for  violation  of  his  duty  to  allow  the
driver to exercise the driver's privilege of entry.

 Answer 12

 (A) is the best response,

because a possessor of land open to the public owes the public a duty
to  keep  the  premises  reasonably  safe,  and  this  duty  may  not  be
delegated to an independent contractor.

First, all courts agree that when a business or other land-possessor
holds its land open to the public, the land-possessor owes the public a
duty  to  use  reasonable  care  to  keep  the  property  in  a  safe  condition.
See, e.g., Rest. 3d Torts (Liab. Phys. Harm), § 40(b)(3). Second, most
courts  now  agree  that  where  a  possessor  of  land  owes  such  a  duty  of
care, that duty cannot be delegated to an independent contractor who
will  do  repairs,  at  least  if  the  possessor  retains  possession  of  the
premises  during  the  repair  activity.  See,  e.g.,  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Liab.
Phys.  Harm),  §  62(a)(2),  (the  duty  of  care  cannot  be  delegated  to  an
independent contractor if “the harm occurs while the possessor retains
possession of the premises during the [repair] activity”).

So here, since the hotel premises were held open to the public, the
hotel  owed  to  any  member  of  the  public  who  was  properly  on  the
premises a duty to use reasonable care to keep the premises safe. When
the  hotel  assigned  the  pool-rebuilding  job  to  the  contractor,  the  hotel
“retained possession.” (We know this because the facts tell us that “the
hotel continued to operate while the pool was being rebuilt.”) Since the
hotel  retained  possession,  its  duty  to  use  reasonable  care  was  not
delegable to the contractor. Therefore, any negligence by the contractor
will be treated as if it was the negligence of the hotel. Since we know
that  the  accident  was  caused  by  the  contractor's  negligence  in  leaving
the pool unguarded, the hotel will be treated as the negligent cause of
the accident. The fact that the hotel used all possible care in selecting
that  particular  contractor  is  irrelevant  —  that's  the  significance  of
deeming the hotel's duty of care to be non-delegable.

 (B) is not the best response,

1120

because  the  indemnification  agreement,  even  though  effective,  did  not
relieve the hotel of liability to the guest.

For the reasons discussed in choice A, the hotel owed its guests a
duty to use reasonable care to keep its premises safe, and that duty was
not delegable to the independent contractor. The fact that the contractor
agreed to indemnify the hotel for any negligence by the contractor has
no effect on the hotel's duty to its guests. If the hotel is required to pay
damages  to  the  guest  (as  will  almost  certainly  be  the  case),  the
indemnification  agreement  means  that  the  hotel  can  recover  from  the
independent contractor any damages it has to pay. But that's between the
hotel and the contractor — the hotel still has to answer to the guest in
the first instance.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  hotel's  duty  of  care  was  non-delegable,  even  though  the
contractor was the “actively negligent” party.

For the reasons discussed in choice A, the hotel owed its guests a
duty to use reasonable care to keep its premises safe, and that duty was
not  delegable  to  the  independent  contractor.  That  non-delegability
applies  regardless  of  whether  the  contractor's  negligence  is  classified
as “active” or “passive.” Therefore, the contractor's negligence will be
imputed  to  the  hotel.  (Distinctions  between  active  and  passive
negligence  may  once  have  been  significant,  but  such  distinctions  are
now outmoded.)

 Answer 13

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  plaintiff  was  required  to  show  that  the  defendant  either
knew  the  statement  was  false  or  had  serious  doubts  about  whether  it
was true.

The Supreme Court has held that the First Amendment requires that
a public figure, in order to recover for defamation, must prove that the
defendant acted with more than mere negligence with regard to the truth
or  falsity  of  the  defamatory  statement.  The  public  figure  plaintiff  (a
category  that  includes  a  “candidate  for  high  political  office,”  as  we
have  here)  must  show  that  the  defendant  made  his  statement  with
“actual malice.” That term was originally defined in New York Times v.
Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254 (1964), to require that the defendant acted either

1121

“with  knowledge  that  [the  statement]  was  false  or  with  reckless
disregard of whether it was false or not.”

The  candidate  would  like  to  be  able  to  argue  that  the  editor's
unreasonable  failure  to  investigate  the  accusation  before  publishing  it
constituted  “reckless  disregard”  of  whether  the  accusation  was  false.
But this argument is expressly foreclosed by the post-Sullivan case of
St. Amant v. Thompson, 390 U.S. 727 (1968). There, the Court said that
“reckless  conduct  is  not  measured  by  whether  a  reasonably  prudent
man  would  have  published,  or  would  have  investigated  before
publishing.”  Rather,  the  Court  said,  for  recklessness  “there  must  be
sufficient  evidence  to  permit  the  conclusion  that  the  defendant  in  fact
entertained  serious  doubts  as  to  the  truth  of  his  publication.”  Since
we're told that the editor honestly believed that the accusation was true,
he did not “entertain[] serious doubts as to the truth,” and therefore did
not act recklessly. Thus, he did not act with “actual malice,” and cannot
be liable.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  was  a  statement  of  alleged  fact,  even  though  it
appeared in an editorial.

It's true that a pure statement of opinion may not be the basis for a
defamation  action.  Rather,  the  First  Amendment  requires  that  only
statements that purport to be statements of fact may be made actionable.
But the mere fact that a statement is contained within something labeled
as an “editorial” does not establish that the statement is a pure opinion
rather  than  a  statement  of  fact.  Here,  a  reasonable  reader  of  the
editorial  would  understand  that  the  editor,  during  the  course  of
expressing his opinion about whether the candidate should be elected,
was stating as a fact that the candidate used illegal drugs. So the fact-
versus-opinion  distinction  does  not  supply  the  correct  reason  the
candidate will lose. Instead, he will lose because, as a public figure, he
was required to prove that the editor acted with “actual malice,” and he
has not met that burden of proof, as explained in Choice B.

 (C) is not the best response,

because even a statement that is defamatory per se must, if made about
a public figure, be made with “actual malice.”

First, the fact that a statement is “defamatory per se” matters only in
the  case  of  slander  actions,  not  actions  for  libel.  (In  a  slander  action,

1122

the  plaintiff  must  prove  pecuniary  damages,  unless  the  statement  falls
into  one  of  the  “defamatory  per  se”  categories,  which  include  an
accusation  of  serious  criminal  behavior.)  Since  the  suit  here  is  based
upon  a  written  statement,  it  is  an  action  for  libel,  not  slander,  so  the
statement's status as “defamatory per se” couldn't make any difference
to the outcome.

Second,  even  if  this  were  one  of  the  situations  in  which  the
statement's  status  as  defamation  per  se  mattered,  the  candidate  would
still lose, because, as a public figure, he was required to prove that the
editor  acted  with  “actual  malice,”  and  he  has  not  met  that  burden  of
proof. (See the further explanation in Choice B.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the candidate is required to prove “actual malice,” in addition
to the elements recited in this choice.

It's  true  that  the  candidate  was  required  to  prove  both  that  the
accusation  was  false  and  that  it  was  injurious  to  his  reputation.  The
candidate succeeded in proving these elements. But these were not the
only elements he was required to prove. As a public figure, he was also
required to prove that the editor acted with “actual malice,” and he has
not met that burden of proof. (See the further explanation in Choice B.)

 Answer 14

 (B) is the best response,

because the neighbor can be held responsible for all damage other than
that attributable to the plaintiff.

The  instructions  for  the  MBE  tell  you  to  assume  that  “joint  and
several liability, with pure comparative negligence, is the relevant rule
unless  otherwise  indicated.”  This  fact  pattern  does  not  indicate
otherwise.  So  the  key  is  to  figure  out  how  to  apply  to  these  facts  (1)
joint  and  several  liability;  and  (2)  pure  comparative  negligence.  Let's
take these doctrines one at a time, but in reverse order.

When we say that “pure comparative negligence” applies, we mean
that the plaintiff's recovery will be reduced “in proportion to the share
of  responsibility  the  factfinder  assigns  to  the  plaintiff.”  Rest.  3d
(Apport.), § 7. Since the plaintiff was found to be 10 percent at fault,
his total recovery will be reduced by 10 percent, compared with what
it would have been had he not been at fault at all. So his $100,000 total

1123

“damages pot” becomes $90,000.

Next,  when  we  say  that  there  is  “joint  and  several  liability,”  we
mean that “the injured person may sue for and recover the full amount
of recoverable damages from any jointly and severally liable person.”
Rest. 3d (Apport.), § 10. So the question becomes, given that this is a
joint-and-several  jurisdiction,  are  the  two  defendants  here  jointly  and
severally  liable?  The  answer  is  “yes”:  “[I]f  the  independent  tortious
conduct of two or more persons is a legal cause [i.e., proximate cause]
of an indivisible injury, each person is jointly and severally liable for
the  recoverable  damages  caused  by  the  tortious  conduct.”  Rest.  3d
Torts  (Apport.),  §  A18.  Here,  the  jury  found  that  the  neighbor  had
negligently entrusted his car to the teenager, and that independently, the
teenager acted negligently. Since there was only one indivisible harm (a
single  set  of  injuries  to  the  driver),  the  neighbor's  negligence  and  the
teenager's  negligence  were  each  a  “legal  cause  of  [the]  indivisible
injury,”  making  the  two  jointly  and  severally  liable.  Therefore,  the
driver may recover the full amount of his “recoverable damages” (i.e.,
the full sum of $90,000) from either defendant. If he chooses to recover
all $90,000 from the neighbor, the neighbor will then have the right to
recover  “contribution”  from  the  teenager,  i.e.,  the  teenager's  $60,000
share of the $90,000.

Neither Choice A, C, or D is the best response, because each is in
some way inconsistent with the above analysis. Choice A wrongly fails
to  deduct  the  plaintiff's  share  of  the  fault.  Choice  C  wrongly  fails  to
apply  joint  and  several  liability  —  it  (correctly)  makes  the  neighbor
responsible for the teenager's share of the fault, but omits to make the
neighbor  responsible  for  his  own  share.  Choice  D  has  the  opposite
problem from C — it (correctly) makes the neighbor responsible for his
own share of the fault, but fails to make the neighbor responsible for his
co-defendant's share (i.e., fails to apply joint and several liability).

 Answer 15

 (A) is the best response,

because res ipsa loquitur would apply, and the court would be likely to
shift  onto  the  defendants  the  burden  of  coming  forward  with  some
evidence about which defendant(s) behaved negligently.

This  fact  pattern  virtually  mirrors  the  facts  of  one  of  the  most
famous cases in Torts, Ybarra v. Spangard, 154 P.2d 687 (Cal. 1944),

1124

in  which  a  surgical  patient  who  was  injured  while  under  anesthesia
was  able  to  show  that  his  injuries  would  not  have  happened  without
negligence  by  some  member  of  the  surgical  team,  but  could  not  show
which  member  was  likely  negligent.  In  Ybarra,  the  court  placed  on
every defendant who had at any point had control of an instrumentality
that  could  have  been  responsible  for  the  injury  the  burden  of  coming
forward with at least an initial explanation of who was negligent. Most
modern  courts  follow  the  approach  of  Ybarra,  at  least  in  the  narrow
surgery-under-anesthesia context.

Here,  the  plaintiff  would  begin  by  using  the  basic  doctrine  of  res
ipsa loquitur,  under  which  the  jury  “may  infer  that  the  defendant  has
been negligent when the accident causing the plaintiff's harm is a type
of accident  that  ordinarily  happens  as  a  result  of  the  negligence  of  a
class of actors  of  which  the  defendant  is  the  relevant  member.”  Rest.
3d Torts (Liab. Phys. Harm), § 17. A reasonable jury could infer that a
severe burn during otherwise-normal childbirth is the type of accident
that  does  not  ordinarily  happen  except  as  a  result  of  negligence  by
someone on the surgical team.

The trickier aspect, of course, is that there are many defendants, and
the  plaintiff  has  not  produced  any  evidence  tending  to  show  that  any
particular  defendant  was  especially  likely  to  have  been  negligent  in  a
way  that  caused  the  burn.  But  in  Ybarra,  the  court  held  that  because
each of the many defendants had had control of the patient's care at one
point  or  another  during  the  operation,  it  was  fair  to  place  on  the
defendants  collectively,  rather  than  on  the  unconscious  plaintiff,  the
burden of coming forward with an explanation of which defendant was
negligent.  A  modern  court  would  likely  agree,  mainly  as  a  way  of
preventing  the  defendants  from  erecting  a  “wall  of  silence”  under
which  no  medical  professional  would  be  willing  to  testify  against  his
colleagues.  See  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Liab.  Phys.  Harm),  §  17,  Comment  f,
approving of the Ybarra approach in surgical cases.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  defendants  jointly  engaged  in
negligent activity.

“Acting  in  concert”  refers  to  “jointly  engaging”  in  the  negligent
activity. Here, there is no evidence that two or more defendants jointly
acted negligently — the burn could easily have occurred due solely to
the negligent action of a single defendant. So although this choice is on
the  right  general  wavelength,  it  relies  on  the  existence  of  a  factor  —

1125

acting in concert — that has not been shown to be present in the facts.
(The best argument for requiring all defendants to stand trial is the one
made  in  choice  A,  which  implicitly  relies  on  the  idea  that  fairness
requires shifting the burden of explanation to the defendants, regardless
of whether they acted jointly.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  deal  with  the  lack  of  evidence  pointing  to  any
particular defendant(s) as the cause of the harm.

The  affidavits  help  the  plaintiff  establish  that  someone  on  the
surgical  team  likely  was  negligent.  (But  the  plaintiff  could  probably
have  established  that  fact  even  without  the  affidavits,  based  on  the
common-sense notion that serious burns do not occur during the course
of  otherwise-normal  anesthesia-assisted  childbirth.)  The  key  issue  in
the  case  is  that  the  plaintiff  has  not  shown  any  evidence  pointing  to
which  particular  defendant(s)  negligently  caused  the  burn.  The
affidavits  do  not  help  the  plaintiff  with  this  central  problem,  so  an
argument based on them can't be the best argument.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  deal  with  the  need  for  the  plaintiff  to  identify  the
particular defendant(s) who caused the injury.

It's  certainly  true  that  the  plaintiff  can  benefit  from  the  doctrine  of
res ipsa loquitur,  and  that  a  plaintiff  who  wants  to  use  res ipsa  must
normally show that her own conduct was not the cause of the harm. So
the  fact  that  the  patient  was  unconscious  helps  her  res ipsa  argument.
But  the  key  issue  in  the  case  is  that  the  plaintiff  has  not  shown  any
evidence  pointing  to  which  particular  defendant(s)  negligently  caused
the  burn.  The  fact  that  the  plaintiff  can  show  that  she  herself  was  not
one of the responsible persons doesn't help with this key issue, so this
argument can't be the best one.

 Answer 16

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  conversion  occurred  at  the  time  the  bank  wrongfully
refused to return the certificate.

Conversion is “an intentional exercise of dominion or control over
a  chattel  which  so  seriously  interferes  with  the  right  of  another  to

1126

control it that the actor may justly be required to pay the other the full
value  of  the  chattel.”  Rest.  2d  Torts  §  222A.  One  form  of  conversion
occurs  when  a  person  is  initially  legitimately  in  possession  of  the
chattel, but then unjustifiably refuses to return it upon rightful demand
by the owner. Id. at § 237. That's what happened here — the bank was
initially entitled to hold the certificate as security, but was required to
return  it  as  soon  as  the  customer  repaid  the  loan  and  demanded  the
return. A brief delay in return — while, say, the bank made reasonable
efforts to figure out whether any money was still owed — might have
been sufficiently unserious that it would have constituted either no tort
at all, or merely trespass to chattels.

But a delay of two full months, and the collateral's extreme loss of
value during the delay, were, taken together, serious enough that it's fair
to treat the delay as a forced sale (i.e., a conversion).

The  conversion  will  be  deemed  to  have  occurred  at  the  time  the
bank  wrongfully  refused  the  customer's  demand  that  the  stock  be
returned. Therefore, the “forced sale” will be deemed to have occurred
at that moment of refusal. So the bank will be deemed to have “bought”
the  stock  for  its  market  value  as  of  that  moment,  $20,000.  (The  bank
then “owned” the stock, so the bank then had the right to keep it and sell
it for whatever it was worth.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states a fact that, while true, is legally irrelevant.

Conversion  sometimes  occurs  when  the  defendant  initially  and
wrongfully  takes  dominion  over  a  chattel.  But  the  tort  can  also  occur
when the defendant initially comes into rightful possession of a chattel,
and  later  wrongfully  refuses  to  surrender  it.  (See  the  discussion  of
choice D for more about this.) That's what happened here. So the fact
that  the  bank's  possession  of  the  certificate  was  originally  lawful
doesn't give it a defense for having later refused to return the certificate
as soon as the loan was repaid.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it calculates the damages as of a time later than when the tort
occurred.

The  tort  of  conversion  occurred  at  the  moment  the  customer  first
rightfully  demanded  return  of  the  certificate  and  the  bank  refused  the
demand. So that was the moment at which the “forced sale” of the item

1127

— which is the essence of conversion — occurred. Therefore, that's the
moment  as  of  which  the  market  value  of  the  certificate  is  to  be
computed (and the moment as of which the bank became the equitable
owner of the certificate). The value as of the later moment at which the
bank  changed  its  mind  and  offered  to  return  the  certificate  is  legally
irrelevant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it calculates the damages as of a time before the tort occurred.
The bank's initial possession of the certificate was lawful, since the
possession  was  with  the  customer's  consent.  So  the  value  of  the
certificate at the time of the bank's first possession cannot be the time
for valuing the “forced sale” of the item. It was not until the bank later
rejected the customer's rightful request for return of the certificate that
the  bank  committed  conversion  (and  involuntarily  “bought”  the  item),
so  that's  the  time  as  of  which  the  certificate's  market  value  must  be
computed.

 Answer 17

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  rental  agency  could  only  be  liable  for  harm  proximately
caused  by  its  negligence,  and  failing  to  check  for  a  bomb  whose
presence was not reasonably foreseeable was not negligent.

You  are  told  that  the  action  was  brought  on  a  negligence  theory.
(And, indeed, on these facts that's the only plausible theory — there's
no basis for any sort of strict liability.) So the agency can be liable only
if the plaintiff proves two things: (1) that the agency was negligent; and
(2) that that negligence was a proximate cause of the plaintiff's injuries.
The  plaintiff  will  not  be  able  to  show  the  first  of  these  things,
negligence.

There's  a  good  chance  that  a  court  would  hold  that  a  car  rental
agency,  before  renting  a  car,  has  a  general  duty  to  inspect  the  car  to
ensure that it is safe. But even if the court imposed such a general duty,
the  duty  would  require  only  an  inspection  addressed  to  reasonably-
foreseeable  dangers.  Since  there  had  been  no  reported  incidents  of
bombs being hidden in rental cars, the danger of such a bomb was not
one of the dangers that even a broadly-defined duty of inspection would
cover.  Therefore,  the  agency's  failure  to  perform  an  inspection

1128

addressed to that danger was not negligence at all.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the agency might have been liable for failing to discover that
someone else had hidden the bomb.

An agency that rents cars probably has an affirmative duty to make a
reasonable  inspection  to  ensure  that  the  car  is  safe  to  drive.  And  the
fact  that  a  safety  risk  stemmed  from  the  intentional  action  of  a  third
party  would  not  by  itself  immunize  the  defendant  from  negligence
liability for failing to reasonably inspect, find and correct the risk. So,
for instance, if there had been recent reports that terrorists had hidden
bombs in rental cars, it would likely be negligence for the agency not to
check  for  bombs  before  each  rental.  So  although  this  choice  correctly
predicts the outcome — no liability — it does not give a legally correct
explanation for that outcome.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the agency had no duty to conduct such an inspection, since the
risk in question was not foreseeable.

This  action  was  brought  in  negligence,  so  the  defendant  can  be
liable only if it failed to use reasonable care. The reasonable care that
the agency was required to use probably included a duty to inspect for
reasonably-foreseeable  dangers.  But  the  fact  that  no  cases  had  been
reported  in  which  terrorists  hid  bombs  in  rental  cars  means  that  the
danger of such a bomb was not reasonably foreseeable. Therefore, the
agency had no duty to inspect for that unforeseeable danger, even though
such  an  inspection,  had  it  been  conducted,  would  have  exposed  the
danger.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  agency  did  not  intentionally  conduct  an  abnormally
dangerous activity.

It's  true  that  one  who  intentionally  or  knowingly  carries  on  an
abnormally dangerous activity is strictly liable for harms that occur due
to  the  type  of  risk  that  made  the  activity  abnormally  dangerous.  But
there  are  two  reasons  why  this  choice  does  not  correctly  explain  the
outcome.

First, the facts tell us that the action is a “negligence action.” The
fact  that  an  activity  is  abnormally  dangerous  is  only  relevant  to  an

1129

action based on the special, narrow, doctrine imposing strict liability
(not  negligence  liability)  for  conducting  such  abnormally  dangerous
activities. Second, even if we were not told that the suit was brought in
negligence,  the  agency  would  still  not  be  liable  based  on  the
abnormally  dangerousness  of  the  car,  because  this  form  of  strict
liability applies only where the defendant intentionally carries out an
activity  known  to  be  abnormally  dangerous.  Since  the  agency  didn't
know of the hidden bomb, it didn't know it was carrying out (nor did it
intend to be carrying out) an abnormally dangerous activity.

 Answer 18

 (C) is the best response,

because it is the only response that establishes how the plaintiff would
satisfy his burden of proving that the pharmacy's error was the cause-
in-fact of his heart attack.

Notice  that  the  facts  do  not  specify  the  theory  on  which  the  man
brings his claim — all you're asked is whether the man has a “valid”
(but unspecified) claim. So it's up to you to figure out under what theory
of  liability  there  could  be  a  recovery.  Although  there  is  some
possibility of recovery under a strict product liability theory, the much
more straightforward theory on these facts is one based on negligence.
But no matter which of these two theories was used, the plaintiff would
bear the burden of proving that the pharmacy's error was the cause in
fact  of  the  heart  attack.  (If  the  man  would  probably  have  had  a  heart
attack anyway, even without the error, then no matter how negligent the
error was, and/or no matter how “defective” the product was under a
strict liability theory, there could be no recovery.)

This  choice  is  the  only  one  that  deals  head-on  with  the  causation
issue,  by  asserting  that  the  jury  could  reasonably  conclude  that  the
pharmacy's failure to provide the correct dosage was the but-for cause
(i.e., cause in fact) of the heart attack. Not only does this choice deal
with the causation issue, but it does so in a legally-accurate way: Given
that the man had had no previous history of heart problems, and given
that overdoses of the active ingredient had been previously associated
with  heart  problems  in  other  cases,  a  jury  could  reasonably  find  that,
more  likely  than  not,  the  man  would  not  have  suffered  a  heart  attack
except for the overdose.

For the plaintiff to win on a negligence theory, he would of course

1130

also  have  to  establish  that,  more  probably  than  not,  someone  at  the
pharmacy  behaved  negligently.  It's  true  that  the  facts  here  don't  say
anything  at  all  about  how  this  error  came  about,  so  there  is  no  direct
proof  of  negligence.  But  proof  of  negligence  does  not  always  require
proof  of  exactly  how  the  accident  came  about,  and  can  be  based  on
circumstantial evidence. On this point, the plaintiff can benefit from the
doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, which permits the jury to “infer that the
defendant  has  been  negligent  when  the  accident  causing  the  plaintiff's
harm  is  a  type  of  accident  that  ordinarily  happens  as  a  result  of  the
negligence of a class of actors of which the defendant is the relevant
member.”  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Liab.  Phys.  Harm),  §  17.  A  reasonable  jury
could  certainly  infer  that  when  a  pharmacy  employee  fills  a
prescription  by  giving  the  wrong  dosage,  there  has  been  negligence
because  such  a  prescription-filling  error  is  the  “type  of  accident  that
ordinarily  happens  as  a  result  of  the  negligence  of  a  class  of  actors”
(pharmacy workers) of which the employee is a member. Then, by the
doctrine  of  respondeat  superior,  the  pharmacy  would  be  vicariously
liable for the negligence inferred (via res ipsa) to have been committed
by the employee.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the suit could be successfully based on a negligence theory.

Plaintiff  might  or  might  not  be  able  to  win  on  a  strict  product
liability theory. (For instance, if plaintiff were somehow able to show
that  the  pills  had  been  mislabeled  by  the  factory  as  having  20  mg  of
active ingredients instead of the 30 mg they actually had, the pharmacy
would probably be strictly liable for selling a dangerously-mislabeled
product.) But plaintiff's suit certainly doesn't have to be based on strict
liability, and would be much easier to prove on a negligence theory. In
that  event,  the  unavailability  of  strict  liability  would  be  completely
irrelevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  res  ipsa  loquitur  could  be  used  to  justify  an  inference  of
negligence.

It's true that the man doesn't seem to be able to show exactly how
the  error  came  about,  and  therefore  can't  provide  “direct”  proof  of
anyone's negligence. But what's undisputed is that the prescription was
for 20 mg tablets, and the employee dispensed 30 mg tablets. That's the

1131

sort of “accident” that doesn't normally happen without the negligence
of  someone  at  the  pharmacy,  so  res ipsa  justifies  the  jury  in  inferring
that  more  likely  than  not,  the  employee  who  dispensed  the  pills  was
negligent;  that  employee's  negligence  would  be  attributable  to  be
pharmacy under respondeat superior. For more about res ipsa on these
facts, see the discussion of Choice C.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  pills  were  a  defective  product,
and in any event a negligence claim would not require such a showing.

As is discussed more fully in Choice C, the most plausible theory
for  the  plaintiff's  claim  is  on  a  negligence  theory,  not  a  strict  product
liability theory. If the claim is for negligence, it would not be necessary
(or  even  helpful)  for  the  plaintiff  to  prove  that  the  pills  were
“defective.” Furthermore, there is little if any evidence in these facts to
support the assertion that the pills were “defective,” which would have
to be proved if the suit was based on strict product liability. (Perhaps
the  bottle  was  mislabeled,  which  might  be  held  to  make  the  pills
defective.)  So  at  best,  this  explanation  is  a  much  more  speculative
explanation  than  Choice  C  about  why  the  plaintiff  would  win.  An
additional  problem  is  that  this  choice  completely  fails  to  address  the
vital causation-in-fact element, which Choice C deals with directly and
accurately.

 Answer 19

 (C) is the best response,

because the traveler's legal representative has met the requirements for
res ipsa loquitur.

The  doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur  (“the  thing  speaks  for  itself”)
permits the plaintiff to create an inference of the defendant's negligence
without  any  direct  evidence  showing  negligence.  There  are  four
requirements: (1) there must be no direct evidence of how the defendant
behaved  in  connection  with  the  event;  (2)  the  event  must  be  of  a  kind
which ordinarily does not occur except through the negligence (or other
fault)  of  someone;  (3)  the  instrument  that  caused  the  injury  must  have
been, at the relevant time, in the exclusive control of the defendant; and
(4) the injury must not have been due to the plaintiff's own actions.

Here, the four requirements of the doctrine are satisfied: (1) there is

1132

no direct evidence of how the defendant airline behaved, only that the
airplane  carrying  the  traveler  crashed;  (2)  airplanes  do  not  ordinarily
crash except through the negligence or fault of someone (the jury would
probably be entitled to take judicial notice of this, even if the traveler's
side  didn't  present  formal  proof  on  the  subject);  (3)  a  jury  could
reasonably find that the plane was in the exclusive control of the airline
and its pilots (since there is no evidence of, say, hijacking); and (4) the
injury suffered by the traveler was not due to his own action. Since all
the  requirements  for  res  ipsa  loquitur  are  met,  the  jury  must  be
permitted  to  draw  the  inference  that  the  plane  crashed  because  of  the
airline's negligence.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the res  ipsa  loquitur  doctrine  does  not  require  a  showing  of
evidence of the cause of the crash; indeed, the purpose of the doctrine
is to eliminate the need for a plaintiff to provide direct evidence of why
or how the accident or injury occurred.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur does not require the plaintiff
to  negate  the  possibility  that  the  defendant  might  not  have  been
negligent.

The second requirement for res ipsa loquitur (see the discussion of
choice  C)  is  that  the  plaintiff  show  that  the  event  was  of  a  kind  that
“ordinarily” does not occur except through the fault of someone. But the
plaintiff is not  required  to  show  that  the  event  couldn't  possibly  have
been  due  to  a  cause  not  involving  the  defendant's  fault  (as  the  phrase
“negating the possibility” implies).

 (D) is not the best response,

because common carriers are not strictly liable.

Common  carriers  (including  airlines)  are  required  to  exercise  a
very high degree of care toward their passengers and guests, which is
to say they are liable for even slight negligence. But they do not have
strict liability.

 Answer 20

1133

 
(D) is the best response,

because  the  shop  owner  took  reasonable  care  by  storing  the  rifle  and
bullets in a locked cabinet.

An action in tort for negligence has four elements: (1) the existence
of a duty on the part of the defendant to conform to a specific standard
of  conduct  for  the  protection  of  the  plaintiff  against  an  unreasonable
risk of injury; (2) breach of that duty by the defendant; (3) proof that the
breach was the actual and proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury; and
(4) damage to the plaintiff's person or property.

For the victim to make a case in negligence against the shop owner
for  the  harm  she  suffered,  she  would  have  to  show  that  he  did  not
exercise  reasonable  care  to  protect  her  against  injury.  The  facts  state
that the inmate escaped from a nearby prison, and then entered the shop
owner's store by breaking and entering. Once inside, the inmate had to
break  into  a  locked  cabinet  to  get  the  rifle  and  bullets.  Unless  it  was
foreseeable  that  someone  would  succeed  in  breaking  and  entering  the
shop owner's store and the locked cabinet, steal firearms, and then use
them in crime, the shop owner would not be held liable, whether or not
he negligently failed to activate the store's motion detector. Only with
evidence suggesting a high risk of theft and criminal use of his firearms
could the victim show that the shop owner failed to exercise reasonable
care.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  shop  owner  took  reasonable  care  by  storing  the  rifle  and
bullets in a locked cabinet.

Of  the  four  elements  for  negligence  (listed  in  the  discussion  of
choice  D  above),  the  second  is  breach  of  a  duty  on  the  part  of  the
defendant  to  conform  to  a  specific  standard  of  conduct  for  the
protection  of  the  plaintiff  against  an  unreasonable  risk  of  injury
(loosely, D's failure to behave with reasonable care). The mere fact that
there  was  some  other  act  that  the  shop  owner  could  have  taken  —
activation  of  the  motion  detector  —  that  would  have  prevented  the
injury is insufficient to make the shop owner liable. That is, other acts
taken  by  the  shop  owner  (e.g.,  keeping  the  guns  in  a  locked  cabinet
inside  a  locked  building)  may  have  already  been  enough  to  make  the
shop  owner's  conduct  non-negligent.  So  choice  A  is  not  a  good
explanation of the outcome.

1134

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  shop  owner  had  probably  already  met  the  standard  of
reasonable care when he locked the store and the cabinet.

For the victim to make a case in negligence against the shop owner
for  the  harm  she  suffered,  she  would  have  to  show  that  he  did  not
exercise reasonable care to protect her against injury. The shop owner
likely  met  that  requirement  when  he  locked  his  store  and  the  gun
cabinet,  even  if  he  was  negligent  in  failing  to  activate  the  motion
detector.  Since  choice  B  asserts  that  the  victim  wins  automatically
because of the shop owner's negligent failure to activate the detector —
and ignores the possibility that the shop owner's other protections met
the overall standard of due care — choice B is wrong.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the shop owner might be liable even under ordinary negligence
principles

As the discussion of choice D explains, the presence of a high risk
of  theft  of  firearms  might  be  enough  to  make  the  shop  owner  liable
under ordinary negligence principles, in which case the fact that there
was no abnormally dangerous activity would be irrelevant.

By the way, choice C is probably correct in stating that the storage
and  sale  of  firearms  and  ammunition  is  not  an  abnormally  dangerous
activity  (a.d.a.)  —  one  of  the  major  factors  in  determining  whether
something  is  an  a.d.a.  is  an  “inability  to  eliminate  the  risk  by  the
exercise of reasonable care.” Locking the material up securely is a way
to eliminate at least the risk of theft and subsequent use in crime, so this
factor seems not to be satisfied. Thus, were it not for the possibility that
the shop owner was liable under ordinary negligence principles, choice
C might well be correct.

 Answer 21

 (C) is the best response,

because the auctioneer was not a seller or distributor of the tractor the
new owner purchased.

Strict liability, as usually imposed, applies only against one who is
“engaged  in  the  business  of  selling”  the  type  of  product  involved.  A
court  would  almost  certainly  conclude  that  an  auctioneer  acting  at  the

1135

behest  of  a  creditor  to  sell  various  mortgaged  items,  one  of  which
happens  to  be  a  tractor,  is  not  “engaged  in  the  business  of  selling”
tractors.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly assumes that the auctioneer is a seller as defined
in strict liability.

If the auctioneer was “engaged in the business of selling” tractors,
choice  A  would  be  correct,  because  it  essentially  correctly  states  the
principle  of  strict  liability  (though  it  neglects  to  state  that  the  defect
must have caused the injury). But since the auctioneer is not so engaged
— as covered in choice C — choice A is wrong.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the auctioneer's alleged negligence would not be an element of
the new owner's strict liability suit.

Since  the  new  owner  is  suing  in  strict  liability,  the  fact  that  the
defendant did or did not behave in a negligent manner is irrelevant. The
defendant's  failure  to  make  an  inspection  might  be  evidence  of
negligence, but it has no bearing on whether there is strict liability.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  new  owner's  contributory  negligence  would  not  bar  his
strict  liability  recovery,  if  the  requirements  for  such  liability  were
otherwise met.

In states that have not adopted comparative fault principles (as the
facts state is the case here), a plaintiff's contributory negligence is not a
defense  to  strict  liability,  because  strict  liability  is  independent  of
general  negligence  principles.  (Indeed,  avoiding  the  total  bar  from
contributory  negligence  was  one  of  the  reasons  many  jurisdictions
initially adopted strict liability.)

 Answer 22

 (A) is the best response,

because the interference outweighs the utility of the light.

The  neighbor's  suit  here  would  be  based  on  private  nuisance.  A
private  nuisance  is  a  substantial,  unreasonable  interference  with

1136

another  individual's  use  or  enjoyment  of  his  property.  Since  the
interference with plaintiff's use of his land must be “unreasonable,” the
severity  of  the  inflicted  injury  must  outweigh  the  utility  of  the
defendant's  conduct.  Because  choice  A  specifies  that  the  homeowner
put in the light only to annoy the neighbor, we know that there was no
socially  accepted  “benefit”  to  the  homeowner  from  the  conduct.
Consequently, even a small burden to the neighbor (such as detracting
from his view of the lake) would outweigh the non-existent benefits to
the  homeowner.  Since  choice  A  is  the  only  choice  that  focuses  on  the
lack  of  utility  of  the  homeowner's  conduct  —  a  necessary  part  of  the
cost-benefit analysis — it is the only correct choice.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  a  plaintiff  need  only  show  an  unreasonable  interference  with
the use of his land, not loss of market value.

Plaintiffs  can  win  a  nuisance  suit  by  showing  that  the  interference
with their use and enjoyment of their property was substantial. There is
no requirement that the value of the property have been reduced. (For
instance,  suppose  that  the  plaintiff  made  a  special  use  of  the  property
that the defendant interfered with, and that most buyers of the property
wouldn't have made that use — the plaintiff can still win, even though
the  specialness  of  his  use  means  that  the  defendant's  conduct  didn't
reduce the market value of the property.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because  a  plaintiff  need  only  show  an  unreasonable  interference  with
the use of his land.

An  occasional  interference  with  a  plaintiff's  enjoyment  of  her
property  suffices,  if  the  interference  is  substantial  and  unreasonable.
There is no requirement that the interference be constant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the spotlight's purpose was not to add security.

If the homeowner had installed the light for the purpose of adding
security,  this  choice  might  well  be  correct,  since  the  existence  of  an
“unreasonable”  interference  with  the  plaintiff's  enjoyment  and  use  of
her  property  is  dependent  in  part  on  the  utility  of  the  defendant's
conduct.  But  since  the  facts  stipulate  that  the  only  reason  the
homeowner put in the light was to annoy the neighbor, the court won't

1137

consider  any  benefits  from  the  homeowner's  actions  that  didn't  in  fact
motivate  the  homeowner's  conduct.  Consequently,  this  side  benefit  is
irrelevant in weighing the costs against the benefits from the light.

 Answer 23

 (C) is the best response,

because the driver's unauthorized entry onto the homeowner's land was
not an intentional act, thus preventing trespass from occurring.

If the driver was negligent, then a suit based on ordinary negligence
could  succeed,  since  the  driver's  negligence  would  have  placed  the
homeowner and the homeowner's child in the zone of danger, and then
caused  emotional  distress.  So  if  the  driver  was  negligent,  the
homeowner would prevail, making this aspect of choice C correct.

If  the  driver  was  not  negligent,  the  homeowner's  suit  could  of
course  not  successfully  be  based  on  negligence.  In  that  event,  the  suit
would  have  to  be  based  on  trespass.  However,  trespass  requires  an
intentional  entry  onto  the  plaintiff's  property.  Here,  where  the  driver
came  onto  the  homeowner's  property  only  as  the  result  of  a  skid,  the
required  “intentional  entry”  would  not  be  found.  (By  the  way,  even  if
the driver intentionally chose to enter on the homeowner's property to
avoid hitting the child, the doctrine of private necessity would supply a
defense to trespass.)

So this choice is the only one that correctly turns on the culpability

of the driver's conduct.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  driver  entered  the  homeowner's  land  by
necessity  means  that  the  driver  did  not  need  the  homeowner's
authorization.

First,  assume  that  the  homeowner's  suit  was  based  on  trespass.  If
so, the suit would fail for two reasons, as detailed in the discussion of
choice  C:  (1)  the  entry  was  not  “intentional”  and  (2)  the  doctrine  of
private  necessity  would  apply.  The  fact 
the  entry  was
“unauthorized” would be irrelevant.

that 

Now, assume that the homeowner's suit was based on negligence. If
so,  the  suit  obviously  could  not  succeed  if  the  driver  did  not  behave
negligently, a factor that choice A ignores. (If there were no negligence,
the “unauthorized” nature of the entry would be irrelevant.)

1138

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  presence  of  serious  emotional  distress  is  irrelevant  if  the
driver violated no duty.

The  mere  fact  that  the  plaintiff  suffered  serious  emotional  distress
does not make the defendant liable — the defendant must have violated
some independent duty to the plaintiff. So the homeowner would have
to establish either that: (1) the driver committed the tort of negligence
(in  which  case  severe  emotional  distress  in  the  absence  of  physical
injury  would  not  be  a  barrier  to  recovery,  given  that  the  homeowner
was  in  the  “zone  of  danger”);  or  (2)  the  driver  committed  trespass.
Since, as detailed in the discussion of choice C, neither of these torts is
necessarily  established  by  the  facts,  choice  B's  focus  on  the  distress
cannot be a complete answer to why or whether the homeowner would
win.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  child's  exercise  of  reasonable  care  is  irrelevant  to  the
outcome.

First, let's assume the homeowner's suit is brought in negligence. If
so, the fact that the child was or wasn't careful is irrelevant. If the child
was  careful,  the  driver  still  may  or  may  not  have  behaved  with
reasonable  care.  If  the  child  wasn't  careful,  the  same  is  true  —  the
driver  might  have  been,  or  might  have  not  been,  careful.  If  the  driver
wasn't  careful,  the  child's  negligence  would  not  prevent  the  driver's
conduct from giving rise to liability — one of the common ways for a
driver  to  be  negligent  is  to  fail  to  be  attentive  to  other  people's,
especially  children's,  negligence.  (Nor  would  the  child's  lack  of  care
be imputed to the homeowner.)

Now, let's assume that the homeowner's suit is brought in trespass.
Again, the fact that the child was or wasn't careful would be irrelevant.
Either way, the driver's conduct was not an intentional and unprivileged
entry  onto  the  homeowner's  premises  (as  described  in  choice  C).  So
choice  D's  focus  on  the  carefulness  of  the  child  is  completely
irrelevant, no matter what the legal theory of the homeowner's suit.

 Answer 24

 (B) is the best response,

1139

because  it  correctly  states  the  damages  available  for  the  tort  of
conversion.

The  tort  of  conversion  is  the  interference  with  a  person's
possessory  rights  in  a  chattel  that  is  so  serious  as  to  warrant  that
defendant pay full value for the chattel.

Under  these  facts,  the  neighbor  borrowed  the  homeowner's
chainsaw without permission, thereby interfering with the homeowner's
possessory  rights.  The  facts  state  that  the  saw  broke  (as  opposed  to
becoming slightly damaged or in need of minor repair), so we can take
this as a serious interference as opposed to a minor one.

Under  the  law  governing  conversion,  the  neighbor  is  responsible
for the full value of the saw (but can keep it). In other words, the law of
conversion applies the rule, familiar from retailing, that “you break it,
you own it.”

The fact that the neighbor was doing something ostensibly to benefit
the  homeowner  would  be  deemed  irrelevant  —  the  homeowner
certainly didn't consent to this use, and indeed, the neighbor's entry onto
the  homeowner's  land  to  borrow  the  saw  without  permission,  and  his
consequent uses of it for his own purposes, would certainly be enough
to  outweigh  any  possible  defense  based  on  a  desire  to  help  the
neighbor.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states the damages for the tort of conversion.

Here “actual damages” would amount to less than the full value of
the  homeowner's  chattel,  the  chainsaw.  The  essence  of  conversion  is
that it is a “forced sale” of the chattel to the defendant. In other words,
the  homeowner  is  entitled  to  the  full  value  of  the  saw  before  it  was
taken,  not  just  the  actual  damage  amount  needed  to  return  it  to  the
condition it was in before the neighbor took it.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly suggests a defense to the tort of conversion.

The  tort  of  conversion  is  the  interference  with  a  person's
possessory  rights  in  a  chattel  that  is  so  serious  as  to  warrant  that
defendant pay full value for the chattel.

The  homeowner  is  entitled  to  the  exclusive  possession  of  his
chattel.  It  is  not  a  defense  that  the  neighbor  was  acting  for  the
homeowner's  benefit.  (Had  the  neighbor  been  using  the  chain  saw  to,

1140

say,  save  the  homeowner's  life  in  an  emergency,  the  defense  of
necessity might apply. But here, where the neighbor was initially acting
to further his own interests, and then “helping” the homeowner in a non-
emergency situation, the defense would not apply.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  an  intent  to  keep  the  chattel  is  not  a  necessary  element  in
conversion.

is 

the 

intentional 

Conversion 

interference  with  a  person's
possessory  rights  in  a  chattel  that  is  so  serious  as  to  warrant  that
defendant  pay  full  value  for  the  chattel.  A  person  who  makes  a
temporary but serious interference with another's chattel, in a way that
causes  substantial  damage  to  the  chattel,  has  committed  conversion
despite  his  intended  return  (or  indeed  his  actual  return)  of  the  chattel
soon after the taking. (For instance, if D takes P's car for a joy ride and
smashes it up, the fact that D promptly returns the wrecked car to P is
no defense.)

 Answer 25

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  reporter  has  the  privilege  of  making  a  fair  and  accurate
report of the events of a public proceeding.

The  tort  of  invasion  of  privacy  includes  public  disclosures  of
private facts about the plaintiff by the defendant. A plaintiff must show
two  elements:  (1)  that  defendant  published  private  information  about
defendant, and (2) that the matter made public is one that a reasonable
person would object to having made public.

A qualified privilege exists for accurate reports of public hearings,
meetings, or events of sufficient public interest. Under these facts, the
parents' disclosure came at a public meeting. Since the news story was
a fair and accurate publication of the facts, the qualified privilege for
reports of a public meeting applies, shielding the newspaper.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  statements  were  made  at  a  public  hearing
makes  the  issue  one  of  whether  the  facts  were  fairly  and  accurately
reported, not whether they were newsworthy. To put it another way, a
fact disclosed at a public meeting is, ipso facto, deemed newsworthy.

1141

 (B) is not the best response,

because (1) the son's parents would probably be held to have implicitly
consented to publication when they raised the issue at a public meeting;
and, in any event, (2) the privilege to give a truthful report of matters
discussed  at  a  public  meeting  exists  independently  of  whether  the
speaker (or the person on whose behalf the speaker spoke) consented.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  parents  knew  a  reporter  was  present  or  not  is
irrelevant to the invasion-of-privacy tort.

A privilege exists to give a truthful accounting of facts disclosed at
a  public  meeting  (as  discussed  in  the  discussion  of  choice  C).  This
privilege exists whether or not a speaker at that public meeting knows
of the reporter's presence.

 Answer 26

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the driver did not violate a duty of
reasonability as toward the neighbor.

There  are  really  two  prongs  to  analyzing  this  problem:  one  is  to
determine if the driver will be negligent per se due to the statute, and,
failing  that,  another  is  to  determine  whether  the  driver  was  negligent
otherwise.

The standard of care in a city ordinance can be the basis for a claim

of negligence per se if the following four elements are met:

1. The statute provides for a criminal penalty;
2. The statute was formulated to prevent the kind of harm suffered by

the plaintiff;

3. The plaintiff is a member of the class the legislature intended to

protect with the statute; and

4. The statute is clear as to the standard of conduct expected, and

from whom and when.

The  situation  here  does  not  satisfy  the  above  elements  for
negligence per se, because #3 is not satisfied (i.e., the neighbor is not
one  of  the  class  intended  to  be  protected  by  the  statute).  While  the

1142

 
 
question doesn't spell it out, you know from experience that the reason
you're  not  allowed  to  park  near  a  fire  hydrant  is  to  ensure  that  fire
trucks  can  reach  the  hydrant  in  an  emergency.  Since  the  neighbor
couldn't rely on the statute to establish negligence per se, he'll have to
establish  that  the  driver  behaved  unreasonably  under  a  traditional
negligence analysis. (By the way, negligence per se only means that the
defendant cannot argue that his conduct was reasonable.)

Under regular negligence analysis, you'd have to find that the driver
failed  to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  his  position
would have exercised, that this was a breach of the duty to prevent the
foreseeable risk of injury to anyone in the plaintiff's position, and this
breach must have caused the plaintiff's damages.

Here,  parking  by  a  fire  hydrant  couldn't  possibly  have  created  the
foreseeable risk that the car would flip over onto the hydrant. Thus, the
lack  of  foreseeability  means  the  driver  was  not  negligent  toward  the
neighbor. Since C correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because negligence per se will not apply under these facts.

Violation  of  a  statutory  standard  is  negligence  per  se,  as  long  as
there is a criminal penalty, violation of the statute caused the harm, the
plaintiff  was  a  member  of  the  class  intended  to  be  protected,  and  the
statute is clear in the standard of conduct expected. The problem here is
that the neighbor is not the one the statute is intended to protect; instead,
the purpose of such a statute is to enable fire trucks to reach the hydrant
in  the  event  of  a  fire.  As  a  result,  the  driver  will  not  be  liable  for
negligence per se.

(Note that this doesn't mean the driver couldn't be found negligent at
all. Instead, what negligence per se does is to stop the defendant from
arguing that his conduct was reasonable. Thus, the driver could still be
found  liable  for  ordinary  negligence.)  Since  choice  A  misapplies
negligence per se to these facts, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it understates the requirements for the neighbor to prevail on a
negligence claim.

In order for the driver to be liable in negligence, he would have to
have failed to exercise such care as a reasonable person in his position
would  have  exercised;  this  must  have  been  a  breach  of  the  duty  to

1143

prevent the foreseeable risk of harm to anyone in the plaintiff's position;
and  this  breach  must  have  caused  the  plaintiff's  damages.  As  to
causation, where there are multiple causes, the defendant can be liable
if his act was a “substantial factor” in causing the plaintiff's damages.
Thus,  while  a  continuing  wrong  that  contributed  to  the  neighbor's
injuries  could  be  the  basis  of  a  negligence  claim  where  there  are
multiple causes, choice B ignores the fact that the neighbor's injury was
not  a  reasonably  foreseeable  result  of  the  driver's  negligence,  so  the
driver did not violate a duty toward the neighbor, and can't be liable as
a result. Thus, B isn't the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.
In  fact,  the  standard  of  care  in  a  city  ordinance  can  be  the  basis  of  a
claim of negligence per se if the following four elements are met:

1. The statute provides for a criminal penalty;
2. The statute was formulated to prevent the kind of harm suffered by

the plaintiff;

3. The plaintiff is a member of the class the legislature intended to

protect with the statute; and

4. The statute is clear as to the standard of conduct expected, and

from whom and when.

If these elements are satisfied, the defendant is said to be negligent
per se, meaning that he cannot argue his conduct was reasonable. Thus,
D's  blanket  statement  that  violation  of  a  city  ordinance  does  not  give
rise to a civil cause of action is not correct. Under these specific facts
the  statute  won't  apply  because  the  neighbor  was  not  intended  to  be
protected by the statute, which was intended to keep the hydrant clear
for fire trucks. However, since D offers incorrect reasoning, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 27

 (B) is the best response,

because it recognizes the most important exception to the rule of non-
liability to trespassers.

The general rule is that a landowner owes no duty to a trespasser to

1144

 
 
make  his  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any other way.
The  most  important  exception  to  the  general  rule  of  non-liability  to
trespassers  is  that  once  the  owner  has  knowledge  that  a  particular
person is trespassing on his property, he is then under a duty to exercise
reasonable care for the latter's safety.

Under these facts the vintner owed no duty to the trespasser while
the trespasser remained undiscovered. However, if the vintner became
aware of the trespasser before the descending balloon hit him, then the
vintner  would  be  required  to  exercise  reasonable  care  to  protect  the
trespasser's safety.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  vintner  does  not  owe  the  trespasser  a  duty  to  protect  the
trespasser from harm.

The general rule is that a landowner owes no duty to a trespasser to
make  his  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any other way.
Here, if the trespasser brought suit under a negligence theory, he'd
have to show that the vintner owed him a duty to protect the trespasser
from  injury.  However,  as  just  stated  a  landowner  does  not  owe  an
undiscovered  trespasser  a  duty  to  protect  the  trespasser  in  any  way.
Therefore,  even  if  the  balloon's  crash  landing  was  caused  by  the
vintner's  negligence,  the  trespasser  will  not  be  able  to  make  a  prima
facie case for negligence if (as may have been the case) the vintner was
unaware of the trespasser's presence.

 (C) is not the best response,

because landowners have the right to engage in dangerous activities on
their own land if (as may have been the case) the owner doesn't know
of the trespasser's presence.

The general rule is that a landowner owes no duty to a trespasser to
avoid  carrying  on  dangerous  activities  on  it  that  might  injure  the
trespasser.  (There  is  an  exception  if  the  owner  knows  of  the
trespasser's  presence.)  So  even  if  the  trespasser  could  prove  that
balloon rides are abnormally dangerous (which is doubtful), the vintner
would not be liable to him for the injury, assuming the vintner was not
aware that the trespasser was present. Since choice C doesn't mention
the vintner's knowledge as a factor, it is not the best choice.

1145

 (D) is not the best response,

because the vintner's knowledge of frequent intruders would not make
the vintner's conduct negligent.

The general rule is that a landowner owes no duty to a trespasser to
make  his  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any other way.
An exception to the general rule is that if a landowner knows a limited
portion  of  his  land  is  frequently  used  by  trespassers,  he  must  use
reasonable care to make the premises safe.

However,  even  if  an  owner  knows  of  such  frequent  use  by
trespassers, the owner will not be liable unless he behaves without due
care  (e.g.,  by  failing  to  warn  of  a  known  danger).  On  the  facts  here,
nothing  suggests  that  the  crash-landing  was  due  to  the  vintner's
negligence. Since choice D does not factor any issue of negligence into
the analysis, it is not the best choice.

 Answer 28

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  addresses  the  central  issue  here  and  resolves  it:  The
neighbor won't be liable because he wasn't negligent.

Here,  there  are  only  two  ways  the  neighbor  could  possibly  be
liable: (1) his own acts or (2) vicarious liability for the thief's wrongful
acts.  There's  no  preexisting  relationship  justifying  the  neighbor's
liability  for  the  thief's  acts,  so  there's  no  basis  for  vicarious  liability.
As  to  his  own  behavior,  the  neighbor  did  nothing  unreasonable.  The
only  contribution  he  made  to  the  whole  series  of  events  here  was  to
leave his car in his garage, which, without more, is not unreasonable.
Without  unreasonableness,  there's  no  negligence.  The  thing  that  makes
this  question  a  little  tricky  is  that  your  gut  feeling  is  that  the  neighbor
should be liable to the rescuer, because, after all, the rescuer did save
the neighbor's property. However, this creates perhaps a moral duty on
the neighbor's part, but not a legal one.

Since  C  correctly  identifies  that  the  neighbor  won't  be  liable

because he wasn't negligent, C is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the result of the rescuer's action is not relevant to whether or

1146

not he'll prevail.

If  the  neighbor  is  to  be  liable  to  the  rescuer  at  all,  it  must  be
because  the  neighbor  breached  some  duty  toward  the  rescuer.  Under
these facts, the neighbor did nothing wrong. The genesis of the situation
here is that the thief was siphoning gas out of the neighbor's car in the
neighbor's  garage.  The  neighbor  did  nothing  unreasonable,  because
leaving  one's  car  in  one's  garage  is,  barring  some  unusual  additional
facts,  not  unreasonable.  Thus,  the  rescuer's  coincidentally  saving  the
neighbor's  property  in  his  effort  to  save  the  thief  does  not  create
liability  for  the  neighbor  in  the  absence  of  a  breach  of  duty  (or  some
basis for the neighbor to be liable for the thief's act). Since A focuses
incorrectly  on  the  results  of  the  rescuer's  acts  and  not  the  neighbor's
responsibility toward him, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it doesn't address an element that will determine the neighbor's
liability.

In order for the neighbor to be liable to the rescuer, he would have
to  have  either  breached  a  duty  toward  the  rescuer,  or  there  must  be
some  basis  for  holding  the  neighbor  vicariously  liable  for  the  thief's
acts.

First, there's no basis for vicarious liability for the thief's wrongful
act,  because  there's  no  preexisting  relationship  justifying  it.  Second,
under these facts, the neighbor did nothing unreasonable. He merely left
his  car  in  his  own  garage,  and  this,  barring  some  unusual  additional
facts,  is  not  unreasonable.  What  the  rescuer's  acting  reasonably  in  an
emergency  would  do  is  ensure  he  can  recover  from  the  thief,  as
wrongdoer,  under  the  rescuer  doctrine  (since  a  negligent  defendant  is
liable  to  anyone  who  attempts  to  help  his  victim,  since  rescue  is
considered “foreseeable”). Even if the rescuer had been negligent, he'd
still  be  able  to  recover  under  the  doctrine,  from  the  thief.  Thus,  the
rescuer's  reasonability  is  relevant  in  a  claim  against  the  thief,  but  not
against  the  neighbor.  Since  B  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores the central issue and misstates the facts.

D  misstates  the  facts  because  assumption  of  the  risk  would  not
apply  to  the  rescuer.  When  a  rescuer  reasonably  believes  help  is

1147

necessary, he can undertake to help without assuming any risk (as long
as his acts are reasonable). However, this isn't relevant in the rescuer's
claim against the neighbor, but in his claim against the thief, since the
thief, as the tortfeasor, would be the one who couldn't use assumption of
the risk against the rescuer.

But there's a world of difference between the thief and the neighbor:
The thief breached a duty of reasonability by placing himself in peril,
thus  inviting  rescue.  The  neighbor  didn't  breach  a  duty  toward  the
rescuer. All he did was leave his car in his garage, which, barring other
facts, is perfectly reasonable. Since D fails to recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 29

 (D) is the best response,

because  this  argument  correctly  states  a  requirement  for  the  tort  of
intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress  and  shows  that  the
requirement is not met.

To establish a prima facie case for intentional/reckless infliction of

emotional distress, the plaintiff must prove the following elements:

(1) an act by the defendant amounting to extreme and outrageous

conduct;

(2) intent on the part of the defendant to cause the plaintiff to suffer
severe emotional distress, or recklessness as to the effect of the
defendant's conduct;

(3) causation; and
(4) damages.

Here,  the  photographer  is  probably  correct  in  arguing  that  no
reasonable  person  could  conclude  that  the  conduct  here  satisfied
requirement  (1)'s  “extreme  and  outrageous  conduct”  standard.  As  the
Second  Restatement  puts  it,  the  conduct  must  be  “beyond  all  possible
bounds of decency . . . ” Rest. 2d Torts, § 46, cmt. d. The conduct here
—  which,  after  all,  involved  pursuit  of  a  newsworthy  story  by  use  of
the  public  airspace  —  does  not  seem  to  meet  this  standard.  (In  any
event, none of the other arguments has any real chance of prevailing, so
choice D is the “best” answer even though it is not certain to prevail.)

1148

 
 
 
(A) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  photographer  had  the  intent  to  photograph  the
prisoner or not is irrelevant, given the possibility of reckless infliction
of distress.

The facts say that the prisoner is suing for “intentional or reckless”
infliction  of  distress.  Therefore,  if  the  prisoner  can  show  that  the
photographer  recklessly  disregarded  both  the  possibility  that  he  was
including  the  prisoner  in  the  photo,  and  the  possibility  that  this
inclusion might well cause the prisoner distress, the prisoner could win
(if the “extreme and outrageous” standard were met, which it isn't). So
the  fact  that  the  photographer  didn't  specifically  intend  to  photograph
the prisoner (even if proven) would be irrelevant. (Also, a court would
probably disagree with the proposition that no reasonable person could
conclude  that  the  photographer  intended  to  include  the  prisoner  in  the
shot.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because physical injury suffered by a plaintiff is not an element of the
prima  facie  case  for  intentional  or  reckless  infliction  of  emotional
distress.

To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  intentional  infliction  of

emotional distress, the plaintiff must prove the following elements:

(1) an act by the defendant amounting to extreme and outrageous

conduct;

(2) intent on the part of the defendant to cause the plaintiff to suffer
severe emotional distress, or recklessness as to the effect of the
defendant's conduct;

(3) causation; and
(4) damages.

Because physical injury is not, according to the above list, one of
the required elements of intentional or reckless infliction of emotional
distress, choice B is wrong.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  no  “extra”  privilege  exists  for  news  photographers  to  take
photographs.

News  photographers  do  not  have  a  special  privilege  exempting

1149

 
 
them from tortious conduct. In other words, if the taking and publication
of  a  particular  photo  would  be  “extreme  and  outrageous”  (which  the
photo here wouldn't, as discussed with regard to choice A above), this
would  be  true  whether  the  photo  was  taken  by  a  professional  news
photographer or by an amateur with a disposable camera.

 Answer 30

 (C) is the best response,

because the storm was so severe that the absence of lifeboats made no
difference.

On  these  facts,  the  doctrine  of  “negligence  per  se”  might  have
applied.  This  doctrine  states  that  when  a  safety  rule  has  sufficiently
close application to the facts of the case at hand, an unexcused violation
of that statute is “negligence per se.” So here, the liner's failure to have
the  statutorily  required  lifeboats  would  automatically  be  deemed  to
constitute negligence.

But the negligence per se doctrine doesn't excuse the plaintiff from
showing  causation.  In  particular,  if  compliance  with  the  statute
wouldn't have prevented the harm from occurring, then the absence of
compliance  couldn't  have  been  the  cause  in  fact  of  the  injury,  and  the
plaintiff loses.

Here, that's what happened — the absence of the required lifeboat
made  no  factual  difference,  because  such  a  boat  couldn't  have  been
used, and thus couldn't have prevented the harm.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  not  having  the  lifeboats  required  by  the  statute  was  not  the
cause of the passenger's drowning.

The “negligence per se” doctrine states that when a safety rule has
sufficiently  close  application  to  the  facts  of  the  case  at  hand,  an
unexcused  violation  of  that  statute  is  “negligence  per  se.”  However,
even  where  the  statute  is  applicable  to  the  facts  of  the  case,  the
“negligence  per  se”  does  not  make  the  defendant  liable  unless  the
plaintiff  shows  that  there  is  a  causal  link  between  the  act  constituting
the  violation  and  the  resulting  injury.  Here,  since  the  presence  of  the
boats  would  have  made  no  difference,  this  causal  relationship  is
lacking.

1150

 (B) is not the best response,

because common carriers such as ocean liners are not held to the strict
liability standard.

It is true that common carriers are required to exercise a very high
degree of care toward their passengers and guests, which is to say they
are liable for even slight negligence. But this is not the same as “strict
liability.” So choice B, insofar as it asserts that strict liability applies,
is simply wrong.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the passenger did not knowingly assume the risk of not having
lifeboats.

The assumption-of-risk doctrine states that a plaintiff has assumed
the  risk  of  a  certain  harm  if  she  voluntarily  consented  to  take  her
chances that the harm would occur. Where such an assumption of risk is
shown, the plaintiff is completely barred from recovery.

Here,  the  passenger  may  well  have  assumed  the  general  risk  of  a
“rough voyage.” But the passenger would not be held to have assumed
the risk that the liner would fail to install statutorily required lifeboats.
Indeed,  where  (as  here)  a  statutory  safety  requirement  is  intended  to
protect a particular class of people who can't protect themselves, courts
are very hesitant to find that a member of that class assumed the risk of
non-compliance. In any event, here there is no evidence at all that the
passenger  knowingly  assumed  the  risk  of  failure  to  have  lifeboats,  so
assumption of risk could not apply.

 Answer 31

 (D) is the best response,

because intentional force that exceeded the basketball player's consent
would be an offensive contact constituting a battery.

An action for battery has three elements:

(1) the defendant's act bringing about a harmful or offensive contact

with the plaintiff's person;

(2) the defendant's intent to bring about such contact or to create the

apprehension of immediate contact; and

(3) causation.

1151

 
For the player to prevail in an action for battery he'd have to prove
an  offensive  contact.  Roughness  up  to  the  level  to  which  the  player
impliedly  consented  would  not  be  deemed  harmful  or  offensive.  But
consent would not be a defense if the opponent intentionally used more
than the consented-to level of force.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  what  is  at  issue  is  not  the  contact,  but  the  level  of  contact
consented to by the players in the game.

Apparent  consent  is  that  which  a  reasonable  person  would  infer
from  plaintiff's  conduct.  For  example,  somebody  who  voluntarily
engages  in  a  body  contact  sport  impliedly  consents  to  the  normal
contacts inherent in playing it.

If the opponent intended to strike the player, but in a way that was
consistent with the play of the game, then the player's consent would be
found to be implied by his participation in the game and his use of the
same tactics.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it ignores the significance of the plaintiff's consent.

What would otherwise be a harmful or offensive contact will not be
actionable if it was consented to. Because the player's participation in
the  rough  game,  and  his  use  of  the  same  tactics,  would  be  found  to
constitute implied consent to a certain level of roughness, the mere fact
that the opponent intended to cause, say, an offensive contact that was
consistent with the general game-play would not expose him to liability.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it ignores the possibility that the opponent may have exceeded
the scope of the implied consent.

It's  true  that  if  the  opponent  acted  merely  with  the  same  level  of
roughness  as  previously  manifested  by  various  players  in  the  game
(including the player), the player would be deemed to have consented
to  it.  But  the  opponent  may  have  used  more  than  the  level  of  force  to
which the player would be found to have consented. In that event, the
implied  consent  doctrine  wouldn't  apply,  and  the  opponent  could  be
liable.

1152

 
 
Answer 32

 (C) is the best response,

because the law does not recognize a claim for damages for emotional
distress incident to negligently caused property loss.

Where due to the defendant's negligence the plaintiff either suffers
physical  injury  or  narrowly  avoids  it,  the  plaintiff  can  recover  for
emotional distress, at least if it is accompanied by physical symptoms.
But  where  the  only  injury  or  physical  damage  from  the  defendant's
negligence  is  property  damage,  courts  are  unwilling  to  allow  the
plaintiff  to  recover  for  emotional  distress  at  the  property  damage.
(Courts  fear  inflated  claims  and  liability  without  a  natural  stopping
point.)  Since  the  restaurateur's  distress  is  due  to  the  property  damage
(not, say, due to the restaurateur's nearly being burned in the negligently
caused  fire),  this  rule  applies  here  to  deprive  the  restaurateur  of
recovery for the distress.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the law does not recognize a claim for damages for emotional
distress  incident  to  negligently  caused  property  loss,  for  the  reasons
discussed in choice C above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the law does not recognize a claim for damages for emotional
distress incident to negligently caused property loss.

Emotional  distress  harm  may  be  “as  real”  as  physical  harm,  but
courts fear that false claims of emotional harm are far easier to make,
and harder to disprove, than those of physical harm. Therefore, in cases
of  pure  property  damage,  they  do  not  allow  recovery  of  emotional
distress incident to that property damage.

 (D) is not the best response,

because even a showing of physical harm from the distress would not
suffice.

If the restaurateur had been threatened with imminent bodily injury
from the fire, then the fact that the restaurateur suffered physical harm
from  emotional  distress  at  his  near  escape  probably  would  make  the
difference (i.e., the restaurateur could recover for distress because he

1153

suffered  physical  symptoms,  and  couldn't  recover  if  he  didn't  have
physical  symptoms.)  But  where,  as  here,  there  was  no  danger  to  the
plaintiff of bodily injury, and his emotional distress is due solely to his
being upset at the property damage, courts do not allow recovery (for
the  reasons  discussed  in  choice  C  above)  even  if  there  are  physical
symptoms from the distress.

 Answer 33

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  elements  of  trespass  are  met  here,  and  the  damages  are
appropriate.

A  trespass  occurs  when  the  defendant  enters  the  plaintiff's  land,
and, when the trespass is intentional, no harm is required. Here, a valid
lease  was  in  effect,  and  therefore  the  law  student  is  entitled  to
exclusive possession of the apartment. Injunctive relief is appropriate,
as the trespasses are ongoing. Compensatory damages are appropriate,
as the landlord damaged the property by removing the handles from the
bathroom  and  kitchen  sinks.  Punitive  damages  are  appropriate,  as  the
repeated  pattern  of  the  trespasses,  combined  with  the  “pattern  of
harassment,” demonstrates malicious intent and ill will.

 (A) is not the best response,

because standing is met here.

The student possesses a leasehold, which is an interest in land that
entitles  him  to  exclusive  possession.  His  interest  in  the  property  is
sufficient to give him standing.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  damage  is  not  required  for  intentional  trespass,  and,  in  any
event, the landlord's actions did in fact damage the law student's leased
property.

A  trespass  occurs  when  the  defendant  enters  the  plaintiff's  land,
and,  when  the  trespass  is  intentional,  no  harm  is  required.  Here,
removing  handles  from  sinks  likely  makes  them  inoperable,  thereby
damaging the property.

 (C) is not the best response,

1154

because,  while  compensatory  damages  are  likely  to  be  awarded,
injunctive  relief  and  punitive  damages  are  likely  to  be  awarded  as
well.

A  trespass  occurs  when  the  defendant  enters  the  plaintiff's  land,
and, when the trespass is intentional, no harm is required. Here, a valid
lease  was  in  effect,  and  therefore  the  law  student  is  entitled  to
exclusive possession of the apartment. Injunctive relief is appropriate,
as the trespasses are ongoing. Compensatory damages are appropriate,
as the landlord damaged the property by removing the handles from the
bathroom  and  kitchen  sinks.  Punitive  damages  are  appropriate,  as  the
repeated  pattern  of  the  trespasses,  combined  with  the  “pattern  of
harassment,” demonstrates malicious intent and ill will.

 Answer 34

 (B) is the best response,

because res ipsa loquitur does not apply to these facts, and this answer
choice correctly notes that there is no evidence that the defendant knew
or should have known of the banana peel.

Res ipsa loquitur allows a plaintiff to create an inference that the
defendant  behaved  negligently,  even  though  there's  no  direct  evidence
that the defendant was negligent, if the plaintiff can prove that:

(1) there is no direct evidence of the defendant's conduct;
(2) the type of event in question ordinarily does not occur except

through the negligence of someone;

(3) the instrument that caused injury was in exclusive control of the

defendant; and

(4) the injury was probably not due to the plaintiff's own action.

Here, the banana peel was “fresh and clean except for a mark made
by  the  heel  of  a  customer's  shoe,”  indicating  that  the  banana  peel  had
not been on the floor for a long period of time. Therefore, there is not a
reasonable basis for concluding that the store employees were negligent
in not removing the banana peel from the floor. The second element of
res ipsa loquitur is not met, as the banana may have fallen to the floor
seconds before the customer's fall, which is not negligent behavior on
the part of the store.

1155

 
 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(A) is not the best response,

because even if it were true, the case could still go to the jury.

Under pure comparative negligence, even if a plaintiff is negligent
the  case  may  go  to  the  jury,  who  will  reduce  any  award  based  on  the
plaintiff's negligence. As the call of this question asks whether the case
should go to the jury, this answer is incorrect.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  even  if  it  were  true,  the  case  will  still  not  go  to  the  jury  as
there  is  not  a  reasonable  basis  for  inferring  that  the  grocer  knew  or
should have known of the banana peel.

This  answer  incorrectly  implies  that  strict  liability  applies,  but  it
does not because the banana was not defective. Furthermore, res ipsa
loquitur does not apply. Res ipsa loquitur allows a plaintiff to create
an inference that the defendant behaved negligently, even though there's
no direct evidence that the defendant was negligent, if the plaintiff can
prove that:

(1) there is no direct evidence of the defendant's conduct;
(2) the type of event in question ordinarily does not occur except

through the negligence of someone;

(3) the instrument that caused injury was in exclusive control of the

defendant; and

(4) the injury was probably not due to the plaintiff's own action.

Here,  the  second  element  in  the  above  list  of  res  ipsa  loquitur
requirements  —  that  the  type  of  event  in  question  ordinarily  does  not
occur  without  someone's  negligence  —  is  not  satisfied.  We  know  that
the  banana  peel  was  “fresh  and  clean  except  for  a  mark  made  by  the
heel of a customer's shoe,” indicating that the banana peel had not been
on  the  floor  for  a  long  period  of  time.  Therefore,  it  can't  be  said  that
this type of event (slipping on a fresh and clean banana peel) ordinarily
does  not  occur  except  through  someone's  negligence:  The  banana  may
have fallen to the floor seconds before the customer's fall, meaning that
it was not negligence by anyone (especially the store's employees) not
to have picked up the peel in time.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff will need to prove more than foreseeability.

1156

 
 
In  addition  to  proving  foreseeability,  the  plaintiff  must  also  prove
that  the  grocer  fell  below  the  standard  of  care  by  not  behaving  as  a
reasonably prudent person. Here, the banana peel was “fresh and clean
except  for  a  mark  made  by  the  heel  of  a  customer's  shoe,”  indicating
that the banana peel had not been on the floor for a long period of time.
Therefore, there is not a reasonable basis for concluding that the store
employees  were  not  behaving  like  a  reasonably  prudent  person  in  not
removing the banana peel from the floor. Indeed, the banana peel may
have fallen to the floor seconds before the customer's fall, which is not
negligent behavior on the part of the store.

 Answer 35

 (B) is the best response,

because it is the only choice that involves setting the standard of care,
rather than determining whether the defendant satisfied the appropriate
standard of care.

The  suit  has  been  brought  on  a  failure-to-warn  theory.  The  facts
stipulate that the dangers that the insulation  installer  says  should  have
been  warned  of  were  not  known  or  knowable  at  the  time  of  the
installer's  exposure.  Therefore,  the  judge  must  at  the  outset  answer  a
pure  question  of  law:  Does  a  defendant  who  is  selling  dangerous
substances  have  a  duty  to  warn  of  their  dangerousness  if  that
dangerousness  is  unknown  at  the  time?  Choice  B  encapsulates  this
issue, since if (and only if) the asbestos company is held to have a duty
to warn of these not-yet-known dangers can a reasonable jury possibly
find that the asbestos company is liable for failing to warn.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  (1)  the  issue  is  irrelevant  to  the  plaintiff's  failure-to-warn
theory, and (2) in any event, this is a question of fact, to be left to the
jury.

The plaintiff has sued on a failure-to-warn theory. Therefore, even
if no satisfactory, safe alternative exists even today, there could still be
a  duty  (even  today)  to  warn  of  these  unavoidable  dangers.  (One  in
plaintiff's  position  would  be  entitled  to  conclude  that  in  view  of  the
dangers, he should take a different job.) Consequently, the existence of
a satisfactory alternative is simply not relevant to the claim.

In any event, even if this issue were relevant, the answer would be

1157

a pure question of fact, not law.

 (C) is not the best response,

because (1) the issue posed may not even be a relevant issue, and (2)
the issue is in any event a question of fact.

As  to  (1),  the  judge  could  quite  plausibly  decide  (as  a  matter  of
law, and as described in choice B above), that the installer should be
held  to  have  had  a  duty  to  warn  of  not-yet-discoverable  risks.  If  the
judge so held, then the issue here (whether D in fact knew of the risks)
would be legally irrelevant.

As to (2), in any event, what any defendant should reasonably have
known at a particular moment is inevitably a factual issue, properly left
to the jury.

 (D) is not the best response,

because (1) “inherent dangerousness” is probably not an issue; and (2)
even if it were, this would be a factual issue to be left to the jury.

The  concept  of  “inherent  dangerousness,”  to  the  extent  that  it's
relevant  in  a  product-liability  suit,  generally  refers  to  the  issue  of
“unavoidable danger.” That is, if a product has some social utility, and
is  “unavoidably  dangerous”  (or  as  it  is  sometimes  put,  “inherently
dangerous”), the defendant may be able to argue that the product is not
“defective.” (That's because the idea of a “defect” involves something
that  is  “wrong”  and  needlessly  dangerous,  and  something  that  is
unavoidably hazardous does not meet this standard.)

Here, the case has been brought on a failure-to-warn theory. Even if
asbestos  is  “inherently  dangerous”  (and  thus  not  defective),  this  fact
would not spare the defendant from having a duty to warn of its inherent
dangers  (assuming  there  is  a  duty  to  warn  of  not-yet-knowable
dangers).  So  the  inherent  dangerousness  of  the  product  would  be
irrelevant.

In any event, even if inherent dangerousness were a relevant issue,
this would be a matter of fact, not law, and thus properly left to the jury.

 Answer 36

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  was  not  foreseeable  to  the  motorist  that  he  would  suffer  a
heart attack, and any violation of the red-light statute was not the result

1158

of an intentional act.

There is no direct evidence that the motorist failed to exercise due
care. Therefore, under ordinary negligence principles, the court would
clearly have to find, as a matter of law, that no reasonable jury could
find  the  motorist  liable  for  negligence  (the  only  plausible  basis  on
which the child could recover).

(Had  the  motorist  driven  in  the  face  of  knowledge  that  he  was
especially  vulnerable  to  a  heart  attack,  then  this  might  be  enough
indication  of  negligence  to  permit  the  case  to  go  to  the  jury.  But  the
facts carefully make it clear that this was not the case.)

The only interesting question is whether the fact that the motorist's
car drove through the red light, in violation of a statute, can give rise to
an  inference  of  negligence  through  operation  of  the  doctrine  of
negligence per se.

Here,  the  court  could  not  properly  apply  the  negligence  per  se
doctrine.  Since  the  motorist  was  unconscious  during  the  violation,  the
motorist  did  not  even  “commit”  a  violation,  since  an  unconscious  act
cannot be the basis for a statutory violation. Furthermore, even treating
this as a statutory violation, negligence per se would not apply because
the  court  would  conclude  that  any  statutory  violation  was  “excused”
due to the medical emergency.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  violation  of  the  motor  code  is  not  proof  of  the  motorist's
negligence per se.

As  is  described  in  the  treatment  of  choice  C  above,  the  motorist
would  not  be  deemed  to  have  committed  a  voluntary  violation  of  the
statute  at  all,  and  even  if  he  did,  any  violation  would  be  excused.
Therefore, the negligence per se doctrine would not be applied.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  requirements  of  proof  by  inference,  otherwise  known  as
“res ipsa loquitur,” are not met.

For  the  judge  to  issue  a  directed  verdict  for  the  child,  the  court
would  have  to  conclude  that  no  reasonable  jury  could  deny  that  the
motorist  was  negligent.  It  is  a  very  rare  fact  pattern  that  would  cause
the judge to find negligence as a matter of law.

The choice's reference to an “inference” of negligence is probably
intended to suggest that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur may apply. But

1159

there  are  at  least  two  impediments  to  applying  res  ipsa  here:  (1)  it
cannot be said that car accidents generally don't happen in the absence
of negligence by someone (which is why res ipsa is rarely applied in
car  accident  cases);  and  (2)  even  if  res  ipsa  did  apply,  the  doctrine
would  merely  entitle  the  child  to  get  to  the  jury  (i.e.,  supply  enough
evidence of negligence that a jury could properly find negligence), not
entitle  the  child  to  a  directed  verdict  on  negligence  (i.e.,  supply  such
incontrovertible evidence of negligence that the judge would conclude
that no reasonable jury could find that there wasn't negligence).

 (D) is not the best response,

because there is no evidence of the motorist's negligence.

As discussed in choice C above, there is no evidence at all of the
motorist's  negligence.  Therefore,  the  standard  for  issuing  a  directed
verdict against the child (that there is at least one element of plaintiff's
prima  facie  case  that  no  reasonable  jury  could  find  to  have  been
proved) is satisfied.

 Answer 37

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  explosion  was  caused  by  a  design  defect  in  a  part  of  the
plant unrelated to the filter system designed by the engineer.

The  only  plausible  basis  for  the  suit  here  would  have  to  be
negligence.  (Although  the  making  of  explosive  chemicals  may  have
been an “abnormally dangerous activity” — triggering strict liability —
the  engineer  was  not  herself  carrying  out  that  manufacturing  activity,
and  only  the  person  carrying  out  the  ultrahazardous  activity  has  strict
liability for it).

To be liable in negligence, the engineer would have to have had a
duty to avoid a particular type of harm, and then to have failed to use
reasonable care in carrying out that duty. If the engineer had worked on
the design that contained the defect, she certainly could have been held
liable in negligence. But since the engineer dealt only with the filtering
system, she never undertook any duty to ascertain the safety of the other
aspects of the plant design. Consequently, nothing she did (or didn't do)
could possibly have constituted a failure to use reasonable care in the
discharging of a duty.

1160

 (A) is not the best response,

because the engineer does not become liable for a design defect merely
by including that defect in her blueprints.

The  facts  state  that  the  engineer  was  retained  to  design  a  filter
system. Her duty was to protect people from unreasonable risk of injury
arising from her design.

The only way to show the design for the filter system was to include
the  rest  of  the  plant  in  which  the  filter  system  was  to  be  installed.
Showing the rest of the plant, including the design defect, does not make
her  liable  for  all  injuries  arising  for  all  design  defects  in  the  plant,
absent an affirmative requirement to review or inspect those other parts
of  the  blueprints.  There  is  no  principle  that  would  impose  on  an
engineer  such  an  affirmative  duty  to  review  the  safety  of  parts  of
blueprints for which the engineer has had no responsibility.

 (B) is not the best response,

because joint and several liability does not apply on these facts.

Where two or more tortious acts combine to proximately cause an
indivisible injury to a plaintiff, each tortfeasor is jointly and severally
liable for that injury.

Under these facts the engineer committed no tort. Merely including
a  part  of  the  defectively  designed  plant  in  her  drawings  absent  a
requirement that she knew or should have known of the defect does not
make  her  liable  in  tort  for  the  defect.  Without  the  engineer's  having
committed  a  tort  leading  to  the  plaintiff's  injury,  there  can  be  no  joint
and several liability.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  brought  suit  against  the  engineer
personally  means  that  it  doesn't  matter  whether  the  engineer  was  an
independent contractor or not.

Had the plaintiff brought suit against the company, then perhaps the
engineer's  status  with  the  company  —  that  is,  whether  she  was  an
employee  or  an  independent  contractor  —  might  be  relevant  to  the
company's liability.

However, the facts state that the plaintiff brought the action against
the engineer individually. The engineer's liability will depend solely on
whether the engineer behaved negligently, and that would be so (or not

1161

so) regardless of whether the company employed her or merely engaged
her.

 Answer 38

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  adds  an  element  that  would  create  liability  in  the  chemical
engineer.

The  central  problem  with  these  facts  is  that  they  don't  indicate  an
active  misrepresentation  by  the  chemical  engineer,  and  the  chemical
engineer had no duty to make an affirmative disclosure of the true value
of the stock. Such a duty of disclosure only arises where, for instance,
there  is  a  specific  query  about  the  matter,  a  special  (e.g.,  fiduciary)
relationship  exists,  or 
there  are  other  circumstances  requiring
disclosure  (e.g.,  a  half-truth,  subsequent  information  that  makes  prior
statement  misleading,  or  knowledge  of  undisclosed  facts  basic  to  a
transaction).  None  of  these  apply  to  these  facts;  thus,  for  there  to  be
liability,  an  option  would  have  to  add  facts  creating  liability.  That's
what  C  does,  by  adding  a  misrepresentation  —  that  the  stock  is  not
worth  more  than  $6.  This  qualifies  because  it  satisfies  all  the
requirements of a misrepresentation:

1. Defendant's misrepresentation of a material past or present fact;
2. Defendant's knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard for falsity;
3. Defendant's intent to induce plaintiff's reliance;
4. Plaintiff's actual, justifiable reliance; and
5. Damages.

Here, the chemical engineer would know the true value, where the
shareholder,  who  presumably  doesn't  share  the  chemical  engineer's
expertise,  would  be  justified  in  relying  on  the  chemical  engineer's
statement. The shareholder's reliance would be justifiable because the
chemical  company's  own  statements  show  that  the  stock's  worth  $5.
Furthermore, the chemical engineer would clearly intend to induce the
shareholder's reliance so she could get the stock at a bargain price.

Choice  C  is  thus  clever  in  adding  facts  that  create  liability  where
none  existed.  Since  C  accurately  assesses  the  chemical  engineer's
liability in the light of additional facts, it's the best response.

1162

 
 
 
(A) is not the best response,

because  it  understates  what  the  shareholder  must  prove  in  order  to
recover for misrepresentation due to nondisclosure.

Choice  A  suggests  that  the  chemical  engineer  didn't  tell  the
shareholder that the stock was worth more than $6 a share, but should
be liable for not telling because the chemical engineer knew the stock
was  worth  more.  In  fact, 
the  requirements  for
misrepresentation based on nondisclosure.

this  misstates 

The  general  rule  is  that  misrepresentation  requires  some  form  of
active  concealment  beyond  mere  silence.  Exceptions  to  this  rule
include:

1. An affirmative duty to disclose (due to a half-truth, subsequent

information making the prior statement misleading, or knowledge
of undisclosed facts basic to a transaction);

2. The plaintiff's specific query about the matter; or
3. Existence of a special (e.g., fiduciary) relationship between the

parties.

Under these facts, there's nothing to impose a duty of disclosure on
the  chemical  engineer.  In  point  of  fact,  the  chemical  engineer  got  a
bargain,  with  nothing  illegal  about  it.  Since  A  suggests  the  chemical
engineer had a duty to disclose the value of the stock when in fact she
didn't, A can't be the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the chemical engineer's failure to disclose the true value of the
inventory would not make her liable for misrepresentation.

The  general  rule  is  that  misrepresentation  requires  some  form  of
active  concealment  beyond  mere  silence.  Exceptions  to  this  rule
include:

1. An affirmative duty to disclose (due to a half-truth, subsequent

information making the prior statement misleading, or knowledge
of undisclosed facts basic to a transaction);

2. The plaintiff's specific query about the matter; or
3. Existence of a special (e.g., fiduciary) relationship between the

parties.

1163

 
 
 
Under these facts, there's nothing to trigger a duty of disclosure, so
the chemical engineer cannot be liable for misrepresentation even if she
didn't tell the shareholder the true value of the inventory. Since B states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the availability of the financial statement would not be relevant
to the shareholder's claim.

Furthermore,  as  a  public  company,  the  chemical  company's
statements would be available to the shareholder, as they would be to
anyone.

In any case, the statement says that the stock is worth $5, so it's not
the  value  as  stated  in  the  statement  that  would  furnish  the  basis  of  a
misrepresentation claim, but the chemical engineer's knowledge that the
statement did not reflect the true value of the stock.

Instead,  the  chemical  engineer  would  only  be  liable  if  she
misrepresented the value of the stock (since there's no duty to disclose
under  these  facts).  Since  D  does  not  address  an  element  that  will
determine the chemical engineer's liability, it's not the best response.

 Answer 39

 (C) is the best response,

because it focuses on the missing element of the aged father's claim, and
thus, as C states, would result in the officer's prevailing.

Third  parties  can  recover  for  emotional  distress,  where  someone

else is intentionally physically harmed, if:

1. They are present for the physical harm;
2. They are closely related to the injured person; and
3. The actor knows of the third party's presence, and must be able to
reasonably anticipate the third party's distress that will result
from the actor's conduct.

The  element  that's  missing  here  is  the  officer's  knowledge  of  the
aged  father's  presence.  Had  the  officer  known  about  it,  it's  quite
possible  the  aged  father  would  prevail  —  even  though  the  officer's
conduct is not extreme and outrageous vis-à-vis the aged father! Since
C  correctly  identifies  a  central  element  missing  on  these  facts,  and

1164

 
 
 
correctly determines the outcome, C is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it understates what the aged father will have to prove in order
to recover, and ignores a missing element in the claim.

Third  parties  can  recover  for  emotional  distress,  where  someone

else is intentionally physically harmed, if:

1. They are present for the physical harm;
2. They are closely related to the injured person; and
3. The actor knows of the third party's presence, and must be able to
reasonably anticipate the third party's distress that will result
from the actor's conduct.

Thus,  it  wouldn't  be  enough  that  the  officer's  acts  caused  the  aged
father's  severe  emotional  distress;  what's  missing  under  these  facts  is
that  the  officer  didn't  know  about  the  aged  father's  presence.  Since  A
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states an element that the aged father need not prove in order
to recover, and ignores a missing element to the claim the aged father
will actually have to prove.

Third  parties  can  recover  for  emotional  distress,  where  someone

else is intentionally physically harmed, if:

1. They are present for the physical harm;
2. They are closely related to the injured person; and
3. The actor knows of the third party's presence, and must be able to
reasonably anticipate the third party's distress that will result
from the actor's conduct.

Thus,  it's  not  necessary  that  the  actor's  conduct  be  extreme  and
outrageous  with  respect  to  the  third  party,  even  though,  under  these
facts,  the  onlooker  would  have  to  prove  this  as  part  of  her  emotional
distress claim against the officer. Instead, what choice B ignores is that
the officer can't be liable because he didn't realize the aged father was
present. As a result, B can't be the best response.

1165

 
 
 
 
 (D) is not the best response,

because it focuses on an irrelevant point, and ignores a missing element
of the aged father's claim.

Third  parties  can  recover  for  emotional  distress,  where  someone

else is intentionally physically harmed, if:

1. They are present for the physical harm;
2. They are closely related to the injured person; and
3. The actor knows of the third party's presence, and must be able to
reasonably anticipate the third party's distress that will result
from the actor's conduct.

Thus,  it's  not  necessary  that  the  aged  father  be  within  the  zone  of
physical danger. (If you chose this response, it's probably because you
recognize  the  “zone  of  danger”  language  from  an  outdated  emotional
distress claim.) In fact, it's not the third party's fear for his own safety
that  determines  liability,  but  his  reaction  to  the  harm  inflicted  on  the
victim. Thus, while his presence will be necessary, he needn't be in the
“zone of physical danger” to recover.

Instead, what's missing under these facts is the officer's knowledge
of the aged father's presence. Since D overlooks this, it can't be the best
response.

 Answer 40

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  most  completely  states  the  duty  owed  to  the  mom  as  an
invitee.

An invitee is a person who enters onto the premises in response to
an express or implied invitation of the landowner. The landowner owes
the  invitee  a  general  duty  to  use  reasonable  and  ordinary  care  in
keeping  the  property  safe  for  the  benefit  of  the  invitee.  That  duty
includes the duty to inspect for and correct hidden dangers and defects.
Under  these  facts,  the  mother  accompanied  her  daughter,  a  minor
patient.  That  makes  the  mother  an  invitee,  since  she  entered  the
premises  under  the  hospital's  implied  invitation.  At  issue  then  is
whether  the  hospital  used  reasonable  and  ordinary  care  to  keep  the
property safe.

The mere fact that the mother injured herself on a protruding fixture

1166

 
 
does not establish that the hospital failed to use due care to protect one
in  the  mother's  position.  (For  instance,  the  fixture  may  have  been
necessary to the functioning of the emergency room, and there may have
been nothing that could reasonably have been done to make it safer for
one  who  happened  to  faint  near  it).  On  the  other  hand,  it's  certainly
possible that inspection of the fixture would have shown that its shape
and or size posed an unreasonable risk to passersby, one which could
have been easily corrected by, say, the use of padding.

This  choice  is  the  only  one,  therefore,  that  turns  on  the  relevant
issue:  whether  the  hospital's  personnel  took,  or  failed  to  take,
reasonable  steps  to  safeguard  invitees  like  the  mother  from  dangers
posed by the fixture.

 (A) is not the best response,

because as an invitee the hospital only owed the mother a general duty
of reasonable and ordinary care.

The only way the hospital would be liable for damages suffered by
the  mother  was  if  it  did  not  exercise  ordinary  care.  To  the  extent  that
this choice suggests that the mother automatically wins because she was
an invitee, it's simply wrong as a matter of law.

 (B) is not the best response,

because whether the fixture on which the mother injured herself in her
fall was obvious, commonly used, and an essential part of the hospital's
equipment does not go to the level of care the hospital owed the mother,
or to whether the hospital failed to exercise that level of care.

For  example,  suppose  that  the  fixture  was  non-obvious  and  was
rarely used. As long as the device did not pose an unreasonable danger
to  those  around  it,  the  hospital  would  still  not  be  liable,  because  the
hospital  would  not  have  failed  to  use  reasonable  care  in  connection
with the device. Conversely, even if the fixture was obvious, commonly
used, and essential, the hospital may have negligently failed to protect
passersby  from  it  (e.g.,  by  putting  padding  around  it,  if  this  could  be
done without interfering with the device's function).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  hospital  owed  the  mother  the  duty  of  care  owed  to  an
invitee, which includes affirmative aspects.

An invitee is a person who enters onto the premises in response to

1167

an express or implied invitation of the landowner. The landowner owes
the  invitee  a  general  duty  to  use  reasonable  and  ordinary  care  in
keeping the property safe for the benefit of the invitee. For instance, the
owner owes invitees the duty to inspect the property so as to identify
and correct hidden dangers.

Since  the  mother  was  an  invitee  (see  the  discussion  of  choice  C
above),  the  hospital  owed  her  the  whole  package  of  duties  that
landowners  owe  to  invitees.  That  includes  the  affirmative  duty  to
inspect  and  safeguard  the  property  —  for  instance,  if  an  inspection
would  have  showed  that  the  fixture's  shape  or  location  posed  an
unreasonable risk of injury to passersby, the hospital owed the mother
the  affirmative  duty  of  finding  and  correcting  the  condition  (e.g.,  by
installing protective padding).

 Answer 41

 (D) is the best response,

because it offers a defense that is plausible under these facts and states
a result consistent with the reasoning.

A common law claim for defamation must satisfy four requirements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally communicated to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In addition, some degree of fault will have to be proven, and this,
under these facts, turns on whether the defendant hospital is entitled to a
qualified  privilege.  Without  it,  as  a  non-media  defamer,  the  hospital
would still have to be at least negligent. With a qualified privilege, the
plaintiff  would  have  to  prove  malice  to  recover.  No  matter  how  you
decide this issue — whether malice or only negligence is required —
choice D would be correct, because under its reasoning the defendant
hospital  wouldn't  even  be  negligent,  and  so,  without  fault  at  all,  it
couldn't be liable for defamation.

A  qualified  privilege  applies  when  the  statement  bears  some
relationship to a public or private interest, of either the publisher, the
reader/listener, or both, or of the general public. If the statement is in

1168

 
 
furtherance  of  the  interest,  it's  protected,  and  it  can  only  be  destroyed
by malice.

A common example of a statement covered by qualified privilege is
a past employer telling a prospective future employer of an employee's
thieving tendencies. Under the facts in this question, the statement by the
defendant  hospital  would  clearly  be  covered  by  the  privilege,  so  the
defendant  hospital  could  only  be  liable  if  it  knew  the  plaintiff  hadn't
taken the narcotics, or recklessly failed to determine whether or not she
had.  Thus,  if  the  defendant  hospital  reasonably  believed  the  plaintiff
took the narcotics, it wouldn't even be negligent, let alone reckless, so
it couldn't be liable.

Note  that  choice  D  uses  the  modifier  “if.”  That  means  that  the
reasoning  must  be  plausible  on  the  facts,  it  must  resolve  a  significant
issue, and the result must be consistent with the reasoning. Here, there's
nothing to suggest that the defendant hospital's belief was unreasonable.
Thus,  choice  D  is  plausible  on  the  facts.  This  resolves  a  significant
issue, because it means the defendant hospital acted without fault, and
thus can't be liable for defamation. Finally, the result in D mirrors this.
As a result, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because although it correctly reflects the facts, it does not address the
possibility  that  the  claim  was  true,  or  the  existence  of  a  qualified
privilege.

A common law claim for defamation must satisfy four requirements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally communicated to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In  addition,  some  degree  of  fault  will  have  to  be  proven.  That's
where  qualified  privilege  comes  into  play.  As  a  non-media  defamer,
without a qualified privilege, the defendant hospital would have to be
negligent  for  the  plaintiff  to  recover.  With  a  qualified  privilege,  the
plaintiff  would  have  to  prove  malice  —  knowledge  of  falsity  or
reckless disregard for the truth.

A  “qualified  privilege”  applies  when  the  statement  bears  some
relationship to a public or private interest, of either the publisher, the

1169

 
 
reader/listener, or both, or of the general public. If the statement is in
furtherance of the interest, it's protected. A common example is a past
employer  warning  a  prospective  future  employer  of  an  employee's
thieving  tendencies.  A  qualified  privilege  can  only  be  destroyed  by
malice, or by publishing a defamatory statement for a reason other than
the protection of the interest involved.

Here, the defendant hospital's statement would certainly be entitled
to a qualified privilege, so the plaintiff would have to prove malice —
a  knowing  falsehood  or  reckless  disregard  for  the  truth.  Thus,  merely
proving that the statement was false would be insufficient: The plaintiff
would  have  to  prove  the  defendant  hospital  knew  it  was  false  or
recklessly  failed  to  determine  if  it  was  true  or  false.  Since  choice  B
ignores the fault requirement, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the reasoning it states is not determinative of the outcome.

The  plaintiff  still  may  not  recover  even  if  she  did  not  take  the
narcotics,  due  to  the  existence  of  the  defendant  hospital's  qualified
privilege to defame.

A common law claim for defamation must satisfy four requirements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally communicated to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In  addition,  some  degree  of  fault  will  have  to  be  proven.  That's
where  qualified  privilege  comes  into  play.  As  a  non-media  defamer,
without a qualified privilege, the defendant hospital would have to be
negligent  in  order  for  the  plaintiff  to  recover.  With  a  qualified
privilege,  the  plaintiff  would  have  to  prove  malice  —  knowledge  of
falsity or reckless disregard for the truth.

A  “qualified  privilege”  applies  when  the  statement  bears  some
relationship to a public or private interest, of either the publisher, the
reader/listener, or both, or of the general public. If the statement is in
furtherance of the interest, it's protected. A common example is a past
employer  warning  a  prospective  future  employer  of  an  employee's
thieving  tendencies.  A  qualified  privilege  can  only  be  destroyed  by
malice, or by publishing a defamatory statement for a reason other than

1170

 
 
the protection of the interest involved.

Here, the defendant hospital's statement would certainly be entitled
to qualified privilege, so the plaintiff would have to prove malice — a
knowing  falsehood  or  reckless  disregard  for  the  truth.  Thus,  merely
proving that the statement was false would be insufficient: The plaintiff
would  have  to  prove  the  defendant  hospital  knew  it  was  false  or
recklessly  failed  to  determine  if  it  was  true  or  false.  Since  choice  B
ignores the fault requirement, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although its reasoning is true, it doesn't address the defamatory
“sting”  of  the  statement,  and  thus  would  not  exonerate  the  defendant
hospital.

This is an extremely sneaky issue, so don't be terribly disappointed

if you missed it.

A common law claim for defamation must satisfy four requirements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally communicated to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In  addition,  some  degree  of  fault  will  have  to  be  proven.  That's
where  qualified  privilege  comes  into  play.  As  a  non-media  defamer,
without a qualified privilege, the defendant hospital would have to be
negligent  for  the  plaintiff  to  recover.  With  a  qualified  privilege,  the
plaintiff  would  have  to  prove  malice  —  knowledge  of  falsity  or
reckless disregard for the truth.

As  a  general  matter,  truth  is  an  absolute  defense  to  defamation.
However, the truth must refer to the defamatory “sting” of the statement.
Here, it's not the fact that the narcotics were missing after the plaintiff's
shift that is itself defamatory, because if the hospital had been robbed
by an outsider during the plaintiff's shift, there would obviously be no
adverse reflection on the plaintiff. Instead, it's the implication that the
plaintiff  stole  the  narcotics  that  is  the  defamatory  “sting”  of  the
statement, and that's what would have to be proven true in order for a
defense based on truth to succeed.

What will actually determine the defendant hospital's liability is the
degree of fault required. Because the statement related to an interest of

1171

 
 
both the defendant hospital and the referral agency, as well as any other
hospitals  where  the  plaintiff  might  work,  the  statement  would  be
protected  by  a  “qualified  privilege,”  which  can  only  be  abrogated  by
malice.  Thus,  the  defendant  hospital  would  have  to  know  the  plaintiff
hadn't taken the narcotics or been reckless in determining whether she
had  or  hadn't.  Since  C  doesn't  recognize  that  the  defendant  hospital's
liability turns on this, and instead offers an incomplete truth defense, it's
not the best response.

 Answer 42

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  electrical  engineer  will  be
responsible  for  indemnifying  the  toy  company  because  he  created  the
defect.

While  the  facts  here  don't  state  it  explicitly,  the  girl's  claim  was
likely for strict liability, since she recovered from the toy company for
the  electrical  engineer's  improper  design  —  and  under  strict  liability,
the toy company could be liable as long as the product was dangerously
defective when it left the toy company's control, the toy company was in
the business of selling the product, and the product didn't substantially
change between the toy company and the girl. In a negligence claim, on
the  other  hand,  the  toy  company  could  only  be  held  liable  for  its  own
negligence. Since the facts here say the toy company was held liable for
the electrical engineer's defective design, that means the claim must be
for strict liability.

Indemnity  applies  to  strict  liability  in  such  a  way  that  subsequent
suppliers  can  seek  indemnity  from  those  before  them  in  the  supply
chain,  so  that  whoever  was  responsible  for  the  defect  is  ultimately
liable for it. This is how indemnity operates: The secondary tortfeasor
(here, the toy company) pays a judgment due to the tort of the primary
tortfeasor (here, the electrical engineer). The secondary tortfeasor can
seek  “indemnity”  from  the  primary  tortfeasor.  (A  common  example  of
this  is  an  employer  recovering  from  a  tortfeasor  employee  for
judgments  the  employer  paid  in  vicarious  liability).  Here,  this  would
mean  that  the  toy  company  can  recover  from  the  electrical  engineer.
Since A recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

1172

because it mischaracterizes the facts.

Joint  tortfeasors  are  tortfeasors  who  act  “in  concert”  (with  an
express or implied agreement) to produce a result. The damages must
be  indivisible  between  tortfeasors.  Under  joint  liability,  traditionally,
each  defendant  is  liable  for  all  the  damages.  (However,  many  states
modify  joint  liability  so  that  a  negligent  joint  tortfeasor  who  pays  a
judgment can recover pro rata shares from other joint tortfeasors.)

Under these facts, the electrical engineer and the toy company didn't
act  in  concert;  it  was  the  electrical  engineer's  improper  design  that
created the risk. As a result, they weren't joint tortfeasors. Even if they
were,  this  wouldn't  mean  that  the  toy  company  would  prevail  against
the  electrical  engineer  —  at  most,  in  some  states,  he  could  get  the
electrical  engineer's  pro  rata  share  of  the  damages.  In  any  case,  this
ignores the fact that under these facts, the toy company's claim is based
on indemnity.  In  indemnity  claims,  there  is  a  preexisting  relationship
between  the  two  parties  whereby  the  burden  of  a  judgment  will  be
shifted  from  a  secondary  to  a  primary  tortfeasor  (e.g.,  where  an
employer is held vicariously liable for an employee's torts, he can seek
indemnity  from  the  employee).  Since  B  mischaracterizes  the  facts,  it
can't be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because its reasoning doesn't agree with its result.

If  the  toy  company  was  held  strictly  liable  to  the  girl  for  a  defect
created  by  the  electrical  engineer,  then  the  electrical  engineer  would
have to indemnify the toy company. C states just the opposite.

While  the  facts  don't  state  it  explicitly,  it's  likely  the  girl's  claim
was  for  strict  liability,  because  the  girl  recovered  against  the  toy
company for the electrical engineer's improper design and under strict
liability  the  toy  company  could  be  liable  as  long  as  the  product  was
defective when it left the toy company's control. (In a negligence claim,
the toy company could only be liable for its own negligence, including
a negligent failure to inspect.)

Having  established  that  the  toy  company  was  held  liable  for  a
defect created by the electrical engineer, it follows that the toy company
could seek indemnity from the electrical engineer. Where strict liability
is  involved,  all  subsequent  suppliers  can  seek  indemnity  from  those
before  them  in  the  supply  chain,  so  that  the  one  responsible  for  the
defect is ultimately liable. Normally that will be the manufacturer, but
here,  the  defect  is  traceable  even  further  back,  to  the  designer  (the

1173

electrical engineer). Thus, C is incorrect in stating that the toy company
will be unable to seek indemnity, making it not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the original claim here was for strict liability, not negligence.
As such, the toy company will be able to recover in indemnity from the
electrical  engineer,  because  the  toy  company  was  held  liable  for  a
defect the electrical engineer created.

While  the  facts  don't  state  it  expressly,  it's  likely  the  girl's  claim
was  for  strict  liability,  since  she  recovered  from  the  toy  company  for
the  electrical  engineer's  improper  design  —  and  under  strict  liability,
the toy company could be liable as long as the product was defective
when  it  left  the  toy  company's  control.  In  a  negligence  claim,  on  the
other  hand,  the  toy  company  could  only  be  liable  for  its  own
negligence.  This  could  include  a  negligent  failure  to  inspect,  but  for
that  to  exist,  you'd  first  have  to  establish  that  the  toy  company  was
negligent in failing to inspect for defects in the design. In that case, the
toy  company  could  be  liable  for  its  own  negligence,  and  could  not
recover from the electrical engineer. However, under these facts, you're
told  the  toy  company  was  held  liable  for  the  electrical  engineer's
improper  design.  Since  D  fails  to  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 43

 (A) is the best response,

because  if  the  defendant  neighbor's  dam  unreasonably  interfered  with
the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment  of  his  property,  the  plaintiff  would
have a valid claim for private nuisance.

A  landowner  who  causes  a  substantial,  unreasonable  interference
with  a  neighbor's  use  or  enjoyment  of  his  property  without  a  valid
defense is liable for private nuisance.

Most courts apply this rule in the case of watercourses, holding that
an upstream owner may not completely block the flow of water if this
would  unreasonably  interfere  with  a  downstream  owner's  use  and
enjoyment  of  the  latter's  property.  So  choice  A  best  states  the
applicable rules of nuisance.

 (B) is not the best response,

1174

because the defendant's desire to affect the plaintiff's property is not an
element of the tort of private nuisance.

As described in the treatment of choice A above, private nuisance
is the unreasonable interference with another's use and enjoyment of the
latter's property.

Choice B is wrong mostly because it fails to factor in whether there
has  been  an  unreasonable  interference  with  the  plaintiff's  use  and
enjoyment  of  his  property.  For  instance,  if  the  damming  was  the  only
way to avoid flooding of the defendant's property, and the harm it posed
to  the  plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment  was  very  small,  a  court  would
conclude  that  the  damning  was  not  “unreasonable,”  and  the  plaintiff
would  lose,  even  though  the  defendant  “intended”  (in  the  sense  of
knowing  with  substantial  certainty)  that  the  plaintiff's  property  would
be “affected” (in the sense that water would no longer flow through it).

 (C) is not the best response,

because the tort of nuisance covers use and enjoyment, not just use.

A  landowner  who  causes  a  substantial,  unreasonable  interference
with  a  neighbor's  use  or  enjoyment  of  his  property  without  a  valid
defense is liable for private nuisance.

The  fact  that  the  plaintiff  never  goes  “close”  to  the  stream  is  not
inconsistent  with  her  having  sustained  an  unreasonable  interference
with  her  “use  and  enjoyment”  of  her  property.  For  instance,  it's  very
possible  that  the  plaintiff  used  to  like  to  view,  from  an  upstairs
window, the stream running through her property, and that she now has
much  less  pleasure  from  the  waterless  view.  Consequently,  her  “use
and  enjoyment”  have  been  substantially  impaired,  even  though  in  a
narrow sense she never “made use” of the stream.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  compliance  with  this  type  of  statute  would  not  preclude
liability for nuisance.

A  landowner  who  causes  a  substantial,  unreasonable  interference
with  a  neighbor's  use  or  enjoyment  of  his  property  without  a  valid
defense  is  liable  for  private  nuisance.  Many  nuisances  are  not  in
violation  of  any  particular  law,  since  “positive  law”  (statutes,
ordinances, and the like) do not purport to be the sole source of legal
obligations.  (For  instance,  a  factory  might  get  all  required  local
permits, but might still be a private nuisance because it's unreasonably

1175

loud and noisy).

Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  dam  satisfied  the  relevant  affirmative
laws  when  it  was  built  does  not  foreclose  the  possibility  of  a
successful nuisance suit.

 Answer 44

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  seller  should  have  fixed  the  roof  and  doesn't  escape
liability just because he sold the house.

A  landowner  is  required  to  use  reasonable  care  to  ensure  that  the
property does not pose an unreasonable danger to persons outside the
property.  For  example,  it's  completely  clear  that  if  the  seller  still
owned the house when the accident occurred, he would be liable if he
should  have  realized  that  the  roof  posed  an  unreasonable  danger  to
passersby.

The interesting question is whether the fact that the seller sold and
vacated the property changes the analysis. The answer is that, at least in
most jurisdictions, it does not. See Rest. 2d Torts, § 373(1) (“A vendor
of land who has created or negligently permitted to remain on the land a
structure  or  other  artificial  condition  which  involves  an  unreasonable
risk of harm to others outside of the land . . . is subject to liability to
such persons for physical harm caused by the condition after his vendee
has  taken  possession  of  the  land.”  Under  §  373(2),  except  in  the  case
where the vendor knowingly conceals the defect, the vendor's liability
under  §  373(1)  continues  “only  until  the  vendee  has  had  reasonable
opportunity  to  discover  the  condition  and  to  take  .  .  .  precautions.”)
Since  one  day  was  not  enough  for  the  buyer  to  discover  and  fix  the
defect, the seller remained on the hook for the defect under this rule, if
(as  choice  B  hypothesizes)  he  was  aware  of  the  condition  and  the
danger.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the seller wouldn't be strictly liable for a defective roof.

This choice turns only on whether the roof was “defective,” not on
whether  the  seller  was  negligent  in  any  way.  Therefore,  the  choice
could be the correct answer only if some type of strict liability applied.
Strict liability does not apply to landowners. It applies only in the
case  of  ultrahazardous  activities  and  sales  of  “products.”  When

1176

landowners sell real estate, courts normally do not apply strict product
liability, even though the structure on the real estate could be thought of
as being in some sense a “product.” The refusal to apply strict product
liability is especially likely where, as here, the seller is an “amateur”
seller (i.e., one not in the business of selling real estate).

 (C) is not the best response,

because as described in the discussion of choice B above, the fact that
the  seller  no  longer  owned  or  occupied  the  property  would  not  be  a
defense, if the seller negligently failed to notice and correct the danger
to persons outside the property, and the buyer hadn't yet had a chance to
discover and fix the problem.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  state  of  the  pedestrian's  knowledge  is  irrelevant  on  these
facts.

This  choice  is  pointing  you  towards  the  doctrine  of  assumption  of
risk — the theory is that if the pedestrian knew that slates had blown off
in  past  storms,  the  pedestrian  assumed  the  risk  that  this  might  happen
here.

However,  the  assumption-of-risk  doctrine  applies  only  where  the
pedestrian's  exposure  to  the  risk  is  “voluntary.”  Where,  as  here,  the
pedestrian is using the public right of way, it's extremely unlikely that a
court would conclude that the pedestrian's mere knowledge that slates
had fallen in past windstorms amounted to a “voluntary” assumption of
the  risk  that  this  might  happen  here,  especially  where  the  pedestrian
might have believed that only negligently maintained roofs were likely
to  have  this  problem.  (If  the  pedestrian  knew  that  speeding  cars  had
sometimes skidded over the curb during past rainstorms, would his use
of the curb constitute assumption of the risk that a speeding car would
strike him? Obviously not.)

 Answer 45

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  is  the  only  answer  that  correctly  requires  a  causal  link
between the surgeon's asserted negligence and the injury to the patient.

A plaintiff can prevail in a negligence claim only if she proves that
the  defendant's  negligence  was  the  cause  in  fact,  as  well  as  the

1177

proximate cause, of the plaintiff's injury. Since the asserted negligence
here  consists  of  failure  to  consult  a  cardiologist,  the  patient's
administrator must show that that failure to consult was, more probably
than not, the cause in fact (“but-for cause”) of the blood clot. The only
way this could be true is if the plaintiff shows that such a consultation
would,  more  likely  than  not,  have  led  to  advice  to  the  surgeon  that  if
followed would have prevented the clot from occurring. Since choice C
correctly asserts this requirement of a causal link between the asserted
negligence and the bad outcome, it is the correct answer.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  surgeon  would  not  be  liable  if  his  negligence  failed  to
contribute to the bad outcome.

As explained more fully in the discussion of choice C above, even
if the surgeon was negligent in not consulting a cardiologist, he cannot
be liable unless that negligence was a cause-in-fact of the bad outcome.
The only way the lack of a consultation could be the cause-in-fact of the
bad  outcome  is  if  the  consultation  would  probably  have  led  to  a
successful outcome. Since choice A does not reflect this requirement of
a causal link, it is not correct.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it, too, incorrectly eliminates any requirement of a causal link
between the negligence and the injury.

The facts tell us enough to know that the patient has made a prima
facie case of negligence (this was done by the testimony that accepted
medical  practice  would  require  consultation  with  a  cardiologist).  But
nothing in the facts indicates that the lack of a consultation changed the
outcome,  i.e.,  that  had  there  been  a  consultation,  the  outcome  would
likely have been different. The mere fact that the operation caused the
blot  clot  would  not  be  the  type  of  causal  link  required,  because  the
doing of the operation was not itself an act of negligence; only the doing
of it without a consultation constituted negligence. Since choice B does
not  correctly  reflect  this  requirement  of  a  causal  link  between  the
negligent omission and the bad outcome, it is incorrect.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly assumes that there can only be one cause of the
bad outcome.

1178

If the surgeon's failure to make the consultation was a cause-in-fact
(“but-for cause”), as well as a proximate cause, of the patient's death,
the surgeon would be liable even though there was also another cause-
in-fact/proximate  cause  of  the  death,  namely  the  disconnecting  of  the
life  support.  One  bad  outcome  can  have  multiple  proximate
causes/causes-in-fact, so the fact that the defendant was responsible for
only one of the causes is no defense at all. Here, if a consultation would
probably  have  led  to  use  of  a  different  procedure  that  would  have
eliminated  the  blot  clot,  the  lack  of  a  consultation  would  have  been  a
cause in fact of the death (the clot would not have happened without the
omission  of  a  consultation)  and  a  proximate  cause  of  it  (it  led
reasonably  directly  and  foreseeably  to  the  clot),  which  is  all  that  is
required causally.

 Answer 46

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies what the result will be.

Under the statute in these facts, the car owner could be held liable
for  damage  negligently  caused  by  the  mechanic,  since  he  was  driving
her  car  when  the  accident  occurred.  Thus,  the  bystander  could  win  a
judgment  against  the  car  owner,  or  the  car  owner  and  the  mechanic
jointly.

Here,  you're  told  that  the  bystander  sued  them  both,  and  that  the
bystander  could  recover  $100,000  solely  due  to  the  mechanic's
negligence. The key is that the car owner wasn't negligent at all. Since
the  car  owner  and  the  mechanic  didn't  act  in  concert,  they  couldn't  be
jointly  liable;  and  the  mechanic  caused  all  the  damages,  the  damages
aren't  divisible,  and  several  liability  won't  apply.  Instead,  indemnity
will  apply.  Under  indemnity,  the  secondary  tortfeasor,  who  is  without
any fault, can seek payment for any judgment he pays due to the tort of
the  primary  tortfeasor.  The  most  common  example  of  this  is  an
employer who pays a judgment, under vicarious liability, due to the tort
of an employee.

Due to operation of the statute in this problem, it would also apply
here  (since  the  statute  only  makes  available  a  potential  defendant;  it
doesn't  assess  fault  for  loaning  a  car).  Since  the  mechanic  was  solely
responsible  for  the  accident,  he's  the  only  one  who  will  ultimately  be
liable,  and  because  D  correctly  identifies  the  result,  it's  the  best

1179

response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  mistakenly  pins  the  car  owner,  ultimately,  with  half  of  the
damages.

Contrary  to  what  A  states,  the  car  owner  would  recover  from  the
mechanic  anything  she  actually  pays,  on  grounds  of  indemnity.  Under
indemnity,  the  burden  of  a  judgment  is  fully  shifted  from  a  secondary
tortfeasor  to  a  primary  tortfeasor.  As  it  applies  here,  the  car  owner
could  recover  from  the  mechanic  anything  she  pays  to  the  bystander,
since it was solely the mechanic's negligence that caused the accident.
In  fact,  the  car  owner  is  only  a  defendant  because  of  the  statute  that
makes  her  liable  for  any  negligence  by  anyone  driving  her  car.
However, since the mechanic was solely responsible for the accident,
he's the only one who will ultimately be liable.

If you chose this response, you were probably thinking of “several”
liability,  where  damages  are  divisible  on  a  logical  basis  between
tortfeasors,  based  on  the  damages  each  one  caused  —  and  each  one
must pay his share of the damages. However, under these facts the car
owner wasn't negligent at all, so she should be able to recover entirely
from the one who was — the mechanic. Since A doesn't recognize this,
it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not take into account operation of the statute.

Under  the  statute  in  these  facts,  the  car  owner  can  be  liable  for
damage  negligently  caused  by  the  mechanic,  since  he  was  driving  her
car  when  the  accident  occurred.  Thus,  the  bystander  could  win  a
judgment against the car owner, which choice B fails to recognize.

B does  recognize,  however,  what  will  ultimately  happen,  because
the mechanic will indemnify the car owner. Indemnity applies where a
secondary  tortfeasor  pays  a  judgment  due  to  the  tort  of  a  primary
tortfeasor. That's the case here, so the car owner could recover from the
mechanic. Since B ignores the intermediate step — that the car owner
could initially be held liable for some or all of the damages — it's not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it understates what the car owner will be able to recover from

1180

the mechanic.

Under the statute in these facts, the car owner could be held liable
for  damage  negligently  caused  by  the  mechanic,  since  he  was  driving
her  car  when  the  accident  occurred.  Thus,  the  bystander  could  win  a
judgment  against  the  car  owner,  or  the  car  owner  and  the  mechanic
jointly.

However,  where  C  goes  off  the  track  is  in  determining  how  much
the car owner could recover from the mechanic, under the doctrine of
indemnity.  Indemnity  applies  where  a  secondary  tortfeasor  pays  a
judgment due to the tort of a primary tortfeasor. That's the case here, so
the car owner could recover from the mechanic the entire amount the
bystander recovers from the car owner, not just 50 percent of it, as C
suggests.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  either  thinking  of  the  rule  of

contribution under joint liability, or of several liability.

In joint liability, two or more tortfeasors act “in concert” (with an
express or implied agreement) to produce a result. The damages must
be  indivisible  between  tortfeasors  (here,  the  damages  are  completely
divisible,  since  the  mechanic  caused  all  the  damage).  While  under
traditional  joint  liability  each  defendant  is  liable  for  all  the  damages,
many  states  modify  this  with  the  rule  of  “contribution,”  whereby  a
negligent  joint  tortfeasor  who  pays  a  judgment  can  recover  pro  rata
shares from other joint tortfeasors.

Under  several  liability,  damages  are  divisible  on  a  logical  basis
between  tortfeasors,  based  on  the  damages  each  caused.  Here,  the
damages aren't divisible — the mechanic caused them all.

As a result, indemnity  is  the  correct  doctrine,  not  joint  or  several

liability. Since C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 47

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly states exactly what damages the defendant will be
responsible for.

You're told under these facts that the defendant was negligent. Thus,
he'll be liable for any damages flowing from that negligence. Here, the
plaintiff's' house was already on fire when the accident occurred; thus,
that  portion  of  the  damage  is  not  attributable  to  the  defendant.  By
negligently hitting a fire truck on its way to a fire, the defendant created

1181

the  foreseeable  risk  of  loss  to  whoever's  house  the  fire  truck  was
heading. Here, the damages the defendant caused — for which he'll be
liable  —  are  the  part  of  the  loss  that  would  have  been  prevented  had
the  accident  not  occurred.  Since  A  correctly  states  this,  it's  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it overstates the damages the plaintiff will be able to recover
from the defendant.

The facts here tell you that the defendant was negligent. As a result,
he'll  be  liable  for  those  damages  caused  by  his  negligence.  Here,  the
plaintiff's' house was already on fire before the defendant's negligence
occurred, so the defendant couldn't be responsible for the whole house.
Even if the defendant hadn't been negligent at all, the firefighters would
only  have  been  able  to  salvage  part  of  the  house,  and  it's  only  that
portion for which the defendant would be liable. Since B ignores this,
it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  will  be  liable  for  damages  even  if  he  had  no
hand in starting the fire.

By negligently hitting a fire truck on its way to a fire, the defendant
created  the  foreseeable  risk  of  loss  to  whoever's  house  the  fire  truck
was heading. Here, the damages the defendant caused — for which he'll
be liable — is the part of the loss that would have been prevented had
the accident not occurred.

Of course, whoever started the fire will be liable as well, and the
defendant's  negligence  would  not  exonerate  the  arsonist  (since  the
defendant's negligence would be considered a foreseeable intervening
cause of the plaintiff's damages). However, what's at issue here is the
defendant's  liability,  and  not  having  started  the  fire  would  not
exonerate  the  defendant.  Since  C  states  otherwise,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  doesn't  correctly  analyze  the  issue  of  causation  on  these
facts.

Due to his negligence, the defendant will be liable for all damages
flowing  from  his  act.  Here,  the  defendant's  negligence  prevented  the

1182

fire truck from reaching the fire.

Thus, the part of the plaintiff's loss that would have been prevented
had  the  accident  not  occurred  is  a  direct  result  of  the  defendant's
negligence, since it would not have occurred “but for” the defendant's
negligence.  Thus,  it's  not  necessary  that  the  defendant's  negligence
created an “apparent danger” to the plaintiff. Since D states otherwise,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 48

 (C) is the best response,

because 
misappropriation-of-identity type of invasion of privacy.

this  choice  correctly 

states 

the 

standard 

for 

the

To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  invasion  of  privacy  by
appropriation of a plaintiff's picture or name, only one element needs to
be proved: that there was an unauthorized use by defendant of plaintiff's
picture or name for commercial advantage.

Under  these  facts  the  movie  star  consented  to  an  amateur
photographer  taking  his  picture  as  he  sat  drinking  the  wine  company's
wine at a nightclub. He did not consent to the wine company's using his
photo for commercial purposes. The wine company's advertisement in a
nationally  circulated  magazine  was  intended  for  the  wine  company's
commercial  advantage.  Since  choice  C  focuses  on  the  key  element  of
the wine company's liability, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the movie star's consent was to the amateur photographer, not
to the wine company's commercial use.

To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  invasion  of  privacy  by
appropriation of a plaintiff's picture or name, only one element needs to
be  proved:  that  there  was  an  unauthorized  use  by  a  defendant  of  a
plaintiff's picture or name for commercial advantage.

Here,  the  movie  star's  consent  was  specifically  to  an  amateur
photographer.  The  scope  of  the  movie  star's  consent  was  to  a  single
amateur photograph. He did not consent to the wine company using that
photograph  for  its  commercial  advantage.  Therefore,  his  “consent”
would not excuse the wine company from liability.

 (B) is not the best response,

1183

because public figures retain the right not to have their image utilized
for commercial advantage.

To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  invasion  of  privacy  by
appropriation of a plaintiff's picture or name, only one element needs to
be  proved:  that  there  was  an  unauthorized  use  by  a  defendant  of  a
plaintiff's picture or name for commercial advantage.

Here, the movie star was well known and so would be considered a
public  figure.  While  this  fact  might  conceivably  be  relevant  in  other
kinds of invasion of privacy claims, or in some defamation claims, it is
irrelevant  to  the  claim  here.  Therefore,  the  movie  star's  status  as  a
public figure does not exonerate the wine company.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  enjoyment  of  a  product  does  not  convey  the  rights  to
commercial use of an image.

To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  invasion  of  privacy  by
appropriation of a plaintiff's picture or name, only one element needs to
be  proved:  that  there  was  an  unauthorized  use  by  a  defendant  of  a
plaintiff's picture or name for commercial advantage.

Falsity  is  not  relevant  to  the  appropriation  form  of  invasion  of
privacy.  Therefore,  although  the  wine  company  was  accurate  in  its
statement that the movie star enjoyed the wine company's wine, that did
not  give  the  wine  company  the  right  to  make  commercial  use  of  the
movie star's image.

 Answer 49

 (C) is the best response,

because  all  the  facts  point  to  the  conclusion  that  the  day  care  center
exercised reasonable care.

We  know  that  a  “bright  nine-year  old  child”  chose  to  “sneak[]”
away  from  his  day  care  center.  Furthermore,  we  know  there  were  a
“reasonable number of qualified personnel” at the day care center who
exercised “reasonable care” to ensure the safety of the children. In this
context, the day care center did not violate its duty of care, even though
the child was injured.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  implies  that  the  day  care  center  can  be  strictly

1184

liable.

Day  care  centers  are  held  to  a  negligence  standard  for  injuries  to
children  under  their  care.  Here,  we  know  that  a  “bright  nine-year  old
child” chose to “sneak[]” away from his day care center. Furthermore,
we  know  there  were  a  “reasonable  number  of  qualified  personnel”  at
the  day  care  center  who  exercised  “reasonable  care”  to  ensure  the
safety of the children. In this context, the day care center did not violate
its duty of care, even though the child was injured in a nearby pond.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the location near a pond is not sufficient to establish liability
on the part of the day care center.

Day  care  centers  are  held  to  a  negligence  standard  for  injuries  to
children  under  their  care,  and  the  location  of  the  pond  by  itself  is  not
evidence  of  negligence.  Here,  we  know  that  a  “bright  nine-year  old
child” chose to “sneak[]” away from his day care center. Furthermore,
we  know  there  were  a  “reasonable  number  of  qualified  personnel”  at
the  day  care  center  who  exercised  “reasonable  care”  to  ensure  the
safety of the children. In this context, the day care center did not violate
its duty of care, even though the child was injured.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the day care center was not the owner or possessor of the land
on  which  the  child  trespassed  and,  thus,  the  child's  status  as  a
trespasser is irrelevant to a lawsuit against the day care center.

Here,  we  know  that  a  “bright  nine-year  old  child”  chose  to
“sneak[]” away from his day care center. Furthermore, we know there
were  a  “reasonable  number  of  qualified  personnel”  at  the  day  care
center  who  exercised  “reasonable  care”  to  ensure  the  safety  of  the
children. In this context, the day care center did not violate its duty of
care, even though the child was injured.

 Answer 50

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly analyzes how damages will be determined.

Here,  both  chemical  company  A  and  chemical  company  B  will  be
liable for some part of the rancher's damages, since each one's act was
a “substantial factor” in causing the rancher's damages.

1185

Joint  and  several  liability  addresses  the  divisibility  of  damages
between multiple tortfeasors. Joint liability applies where the damages
are not divisible between tortfeasors, making each defendant liable for
all the damages (some states apply the rule of contribution to negligent
joint  tortfeasors,  such  that  a  negligent  joint  tortfeasor  who  pays  a
judgment can recover pro rata shares from the other tortfeasors).

Several liability applies where the damages are divisible, making

each defendant liable only for the damages he caused.

You  can  remember  the  difference  between  the  two  this  way:  Say
two people are fighting over a gun and it goes off, injuring a plaintiff.
This  is  joint  liability,  because  there's  no  way  to  apportion  liability.  If
two  people,  each  of  whom  has  a  gun,  shoot  a  plaintiff,  causing  two
separate  injuries,  then  the  damages  can  be  apportioned,  and  there's
several liability.

Here, the percentage of the rancher's liability each defendant caused
hasn't  been  determined,  so  they'll  be  jointly  and  severally  liable.  (In
fact,  the  damages  are  not  likely  to  be  considered  divisible,  so  each
defendant would be liable under joint liability for the entire judgment.)
Since D correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  correctly  apply  principles  of  causation  to  these
facts.

A  negligence  claim  requires  proof  that  a  defendant  failed  to
exercise such care as a reasonable person in his position would have
exercised;  this  failure  must  have  been  a  breach  of  the  duty  to  prevent
the  foreseeable  risk  of  injury  to  anyone  in  the  plaintiff's  position;  and
this breach must have caused the plaintiff's damages. The rule used to
determine  causation  depends  on  how  many  causes  there  are:  A  single
cause  involves  the  “but  for”  test,  and  multiple  causes  involve  the
“substantial factor” test. Here, with chemical company A and chemical
company B each being a cause of the rancher's damages, each one will
be  liable  as  long  as  its  act  was  a  “substantial  factor”  in  creating  the
rancher's damages.

Under these facts, they were. Since choice A would exonerate each
one  because  it  wasn't  enough  alone  to  cause  the  damages,  it's  not  the
best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

1186

because  the  rancher's  recovery  would  not  depend  on  his  ability  to
precisely apportion damages.

In  order  to  prevail  on  a  negligence  claim,  a  defendant  must  have
failed  to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  his  position
would have exercised; this failure must have been a breach of the duty
to  prevent  the  foreseeable  risk  of  injury  to  anyone  in  the  plaintiff's
position; and this breach must have caused the plaintiff's damages.

Where there are multiple factual causes, as here, the plaintiff need
only prove that an individual defendant's act was a “substantial factor”
in causing the plaintiff's damages. Under these facts, this is true of both
chemical companies. Thus, they'll each be liable, regardless of whether
the rancher can assess how much pesticide each discharged.

What  the  ability  to  apportion  determines  is  whether  chemical
company A and chemical company B will be jointly or severally liable.
If the damages are indivisible between the tortfeasors, each defendant
will  be  liable  for  all  the  damages  (although  many  states  modify  joint
liability  with  the  rule  of  “contribution,”  whereby  a  negligent  joint
tortfeasor who pays a judgment can recover pro rata shares from other
joint  tortfeasors).  If  the  damages  are  divisible  on  a  logical  basis
between  tortfeasors,  based  on  the  damage  each  one  caused,  then  each
will only pay its share of the defendant's damages.

Remember  the  difference  this  way:  Say  two  people  are  fighting
over  a  gun,  and  it  goes  off,  injuring  a  plaintiff.  This  is  joint  liability,
because there's no way to apportion liability. If two people with a gun
each shoot a plaintiff, causing two separate injuries, then the damages
can be apportioned, and each will only be severally liable. Thus, while
divisibility of damages will determine how much each defendant can be
liable  for,  it  doesn't  determine  if  the  defendants  will  be  liable.  Since
choice B states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it presupposes that the damages are divisible equally.

While it may be that chemical company A and chemical company B
will each be liable for only one-half of the damages, this could not be
determined conclusively on these facts.

Since  each  company's  negligence  was  a  “substantial  factor”  in
causing the rancher's damages, they'll each be liable. The central issue
under these facts is: for how much? This will turn on whether or not the
damages  are  divisible  between  them.  If  they  are  not  divisible,  joint
liability  will  apply,  and  each  defendant  could  be  liable  for  the  entire

1187

judgment. If the damages are divisible on a logical basis between them,
based on the damage each one caused, they'll be severally liable, and
will only have to pay a fair share of the plaintiff's damages. Here, if the
damages  are  considered  severable  and  each  one  is  responsible  for
exactly  one-half  of  the  rancher's  damages,  C  would  be  correct.
However, on these facts, it's not clear that the damages are divisible (it
depends  on  whether  the  amount  of  pesticide  each  dumped  was
calculable), and thus the share of the rancher's damages that each must
pay  is  not  determinable.  Since  C  presupposes  settlement  of  an  issue
which is unsettled on these facts, it's not the best response.

 Answer 51

 (D) is the best response,

because it identifies the central issue.

Common law defamation has four elements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning the plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally “published” to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In  addition,  the  plaintiff  will  have  to  prove  some  level  of  fault,
depending on his and the defendant's status (e.g., media, public figure);
furthermore,  if  the  statement  was  slander  and  not  within  a  “per  se”
category, the plaintiff must prove “special” (pecuniary) damages.

se 

per 

slander 

categories 

As  D  correctly  points  out,  the  issue  here  is  whether  the  purchaser
suffered special damages. That's because the statement doesn't fit any of
the 
on
business/profession,  or  imputing  a  foul  and  loathsome  disease,  moral
turpitude  crime,  or  lack  of  chastity  in  a  woman),  and  it's  not  obvious
from these facts that the purchaser actually suffered any pecuniary loss.
Such damages include things like a lost job, inheritance, gift, customers,
and  the  like.  (General  damages,  on  the  other  hand,  cover  things  like
damage to reputation or personal relationships, and mental anguish.)

(reflecting 

adversely 

Note  that  D  says  the  purchaser  won't  recover  unless  he  can  prove
special  damages.  That  means  that  proving  special  damages  must  be
crucial to the purchaser's success in order for D to be correct. In fact, if

1188

 
 
the  purchaser  fails  to  prove  special  damages,  he'll  lose  the  case
entirely. Since D correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it ignores a central issue in the case.

It's true that the remark would have to have been heard by any of the
purchaser's neighbors, in order to satisfy the “publication” requirement
of defamation. (The other elements are the defamatory statement itself,
of  and  concerning  the  plaintiff,  the  plaintiff's  reputation  damaged,  and
some level of fault.) However, this isn't really at issue under these facts
—  after  all,  you're  told  that  many  of  the  neighbors  were  out  on  their
porches, and that the statement could be heard a block away.

Instead, the issue here is damages, because the purchaser will have
to  prove  “special”  (pecuniary)  damages  in  order  to  prevail  at  all.
That's because the bill collector's statement was slander, not libel, and
it  wasn't  in  one  of  the  four  slander  per  se  categories  (reflecting
adversely  on  business/profession,  or  imputing  a  foul  and  loathsome
disease, moral turpitude crime, or lack of chastity in a woman). Slander
not  within  the  four  “per  se”  categories  is  the  only  type  of  defamation
requiring  proof  of  special  damages.  Under  these  facts,  there's  no
indication the bill collector's statement resulted in any special damages
for the purchaser, so the best response would have to address this issue.
Since A doesn't, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  offers  an  element  which  is  not,  in  fact,  an  element  of  the
defamation claim.

Common law defamation has four elements:

1. The defendant's defamatory statement,
2. Of and concerning the plaintiff,
3. Negligently or intentionally “published” to at least one third

person,

4. Thereby damaged the plaintiff's reputation.

In  addition,  a  plaintiff  will  have  to  prove  some  level  of  fault
depending on his and the defendant's status (e.g., media, public figure);
furthermore,  if  the  statement  was  slander  and  not  within  a  “per  se”
category, a plaintiff must prove “special” (pecuniary) damages.

1189

 
 
Thus, a statement can be defamatory without having to be the result
of extreme and outrageous conduct, and the conduct can be extreme and
outrageous without satisfying the elements of defamation. If you chose
this response, you were probably thinking of an intentional infliction of
emotional  distress  claim,  which  does  require  extreme  and  outrageous
conduct.  However,  the  claim  here  is  for  defamation,  which  does  not
require such conduct, so B isn't the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  overstates  the  level  of  fault  the  purchaser  would  have  to
prove in order to prevail.

By using the modifier “unless,” C suggests that the only way the bill
collector could be liable is if he knowingly defamed the purchaser. In
fact, in order to recover from the bill collector, the purchaser will have
to satisfy these elements: a defamatory statement, of and concerning the
plaintiff,  negligently  or  intentionally  published  to  at  least  one  third
person,  and  the  plaintiff's  reputation  damaged  thereby.  In  addition,
because the statement here is slander not within one of the slander per
se categories (reflecting adversely on business/profession, or imputing
foul and loathsome disease, moral turpitude crime, lack of chastity in a
woman),  the  purchaser  will  have  to  prove  “special”  (pecuniary)
damages.

On the fault issue, it's likely the purchaser need only prove that the
bill  collector  was  negligent  in  not  determining  the  truth,  not  that  he
acted  knowingly.  Normally,  non-media  defamers  can  only  be  liable  if
they're negligent (as opposed to media defamers, where malice must be
proven, or where a qualified privilege exists due to a special interest of
the defamer, the defamed, or the general public). Even if the purchaser
had to prove malice, reckless disregard for the truth would suffice; he
still  wouldn't  have  to  prove  the  bill  collector  acted  knowingly.  Since
choice C overstates the level of fault the purchaser will have to prove,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 52

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  defense  of  “defense  of  others”  would  be  negated  if  the
jogger's belief about the danger was unreasonable.

Since  the  jogger  has  intentionally  caused  a  harmful  or  offensive

1190

contact with another, he's liable for battery unless he has a defense. The
only defense that plausibly applies here is “defense of others.” That is,
just as a person has the right to use self-defense to save himself from
harm, he has that right with respect to another person who is threatened
with harm (even a stranger, under the modern view).

However,  the  defense-of-others  defense,  like  the  right  of  self-
defense, requires that both the actor's belief that danger exists, and his
belief that the proposed conduct is a good way to deal with the danger,
be  reasonable.  If  the  jogger  should  have  realized  that  the  pedestrian
was  not  in  fact  in  danger,  this  requirement  for  the  defense-of-others
defense would not exist.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  an  alternative  method  of  dealing  with  the  danger
might  have  solved  the  problem  does  not  automatically  mean  that  the
jogger's method was unreasonable.

As  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  B  above,  the  jogger  was
entitled to the defense of defense of others unless either his choice of
methods, or his belief in the pedestrian's peril, was unreasonable. The
mere fact that the alternative method of shouting a warning might have
solved  the  problem  doesn't  mean  that  the  jogger's  approach  was
unreasonable.  (For  one  thing,  pushing  the  pedestrian  to  the  ground
merely threatened minor injury, whereas if she were hit she might well
be killed or seriously injured. For another, the jogger could reasonably
have  believed  that  the  pedestrian  wouldn't  hear  his  shout,  that  she
wouldn't  know  that  she  was  the  one  being  shouted  at,  or  that  there
wasn't time for her to react if she did hear.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because the jogger might be jointly and severally liable with the driver.
The  speeding  driver  would  clearly  be  a  cause  of  the  injury,  and
would therefore likely be jointly and severally liable with the jogger if
the  jogger  was  liable.  But  this  fact  wouldn't  save  the  jogger  from
liability, if the jogger's choice of methods (or his belief in the danger)
were  unreasonable.  Always  remember  that  a  given  injury  can  have
multiple causes, and can thus lead to multiple tortfeasors (even if they
did not act in concert) being held jointly liable.

Here,  the  jogger's  liability  would  (as  discussed  in  the  analysis  of
choice B above) turn on the reasonableness of his belief in the danger,

1191

not on the existence of some other jointly acting cause.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  jogger's  intent  to  save  the  pedestrian  wouldn't  immunize
him if his belief in the danger was unreasonable.

As is discussed in the analysis of choice B above, the jogger only
qualifies  for  the  defense  of  defense  of  others  if  his  belief  in  the
existence  of  the  danger,  and  his  choice  of  methods,  were  reasonable.
Since choice D ignores this fact, and focuses only on the genuineness of
the jogger's desire to save the pedestrian it is incorrect.

 Answer 53

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  plaintiff  cannot  prove  the  defendant  restaurant  actually
caused him to get sick.

A  plaintiff  bears  the  burden  of  proving  by  a  preponderance  of  the
evidence  that  a  defendant  actually  caused  his  injury,  just  as  he  must
bear the burden of proving the other parts of his prima facie case.

Under  these  facts,  the  plaintiff  cannot  produce  any  real  evidence
that  the  defendant  restaurant  caused  him  to  become  sick.  At  best  the
plaintiff  can  introduce  facts  that  raise  a  mere  suspicion  that  the
defendant restaurant was the cause. All the plaintiff can show is that he
had an upset stomach later in the evening and that various health code
violations had been found at the restaurant. What he cannot show is that
the meal was the but-for cause of his becoming ill; that is, but for the
defendant  restaurant's  actions  the  plaintiff  would  not  have  become  ill.
In  response  to  the  plaintiff's  facts,  the  defendant  restaurant  can  show
that the plaintiff had three meals after eating in their restaurant, any of
which could have caused his infection. The defendant restaurant could
also  argue  that  the  bacterium  causing  the  plaintiff's  illness  could  have
come from the plaintiff's own hands. While this “no causation” defense
might  not  work,  it  is  the  defendant  restaurant's  best  chance  of  those
defenses listed.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  no  one  else  became  ill  creates  only  an  inference
that the defendant restaurant was not the cause.

The  fact  that  no  one  else  got  sick  certainly  doesn't  prove  that  the

1192

defendant  restaurant  wasn't  the  cause  —  perhaps  one  employee  failed
to  wash  his  hands,  prepared  the  one  dish  eaten  by  the  plaintiff,  then
washed them. In any event, the defendant restaurant is better off making
the much more general argument (listed in choice C) that the plaintiff is
required to make an affirmative showing that the defendant restaurant's
negligence caused the illness, and that he has failed to carry this burden
by a preponderance of the evidence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  restaurant  is  responsible  for  the  acts  of  its
employees  while  in  the  course  of  their  duties,  even  if  they  disregard
instructions.

Under  the  doctrine  of  respondeat  superior,  an  employer  is
vicariously  liable  for  the  negligent  acts  of  its  employees,  done  within
the scope of the employment. The fact that the employee has disobeyed
rules  formulated  by  the  employer  is  not  a  defense.  Thus,  as  long  as
there was evidence that an employee failed to wash her hands and then
prepared  a  dish  eaten  by  the  plaintiff,  the  fact  that  this  happened  in
violation  of  the  defendant  restaurant's  instructions  would  not  prevent
respondeat superior from applying against it.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff brought suit for an illness caused by bacterium, not
an upset stomach caused by spicy food.

The assumption of the risk doctrine bars a plaintiff from recovery if

he voluntarily consented to take the chance that the harm will occur.

Here  the  plaintiff  may  have  assumed  the  risk  of  an  upset  stomach
caused  by  spicy  food,  but  he  did  not  assume  the  risk  of  becoming  ill
because  of  a  bacterium  in  contaminated  food.  Without  voluntary
consent, there can be no assumption of the risk.

 Answer 54

 (A) is the best response,

because a landowner may not use deadly force to defend property.

Defense of property is a defense to an intentional tort — one may
use  reasonable  force  to  prevent  trespass,  or  other  interference  with
one's land or chattels. However, deadly force (i.e., force that is likely
to cause death or serious bodily harm) cannot be used except to prevent

1193

an  intrusion  that  is  likely  to  cause  death  or  serious  injury  to  the
inhabitants. When a property owner uses force indirectly, by means of
an automatic mechanical device like the one here, the case is judged by
the same standards as if the owner were acting directly. Consequently,
if  a  live  person  in  the  owner's  position  would  not  reasonably  have
believed that the intruder posed a serious risk of death or serious injury
to the inhabitants, use of the deadly force mechanical device would not
be privileged.

By  this  standard,  even  though  the  salesman  was  an  outright
trespasser, because he did not pose a threat of death or serious bodily
harm  the  homeowner  was  only  entitled  to  use  reasonable,  non-deadly
force to deter him.

 (B) is not the best response,

because even if the intent is only to deter, deadly force cannot be used
against trespassers who do not pose a threat of death or serious injury
to the inhabitants, as is more fully explained in the analysis of choice A
above.

 (C) is not the best response,

because deadly force cannot be used against non-dangerous trespassers,
even if a warning is given.

As  is  described  more  fully  in  the  discussion  of  choice  A  above,
deadly  force  cannot  be  used  against  trespassers  who  do  not  pose  a
threat of death or serious injury to the inhabitants. This rule is true even
if  the  owner  gives  a  warning  against  entry.  (In  any  event,  the  warning
here  did  not  even  specify  that  serious  force,  posing  the  risk  of  bodily
injury or death, would be used, so it's doubly unlikely to immunize the
homeowner from liability.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  homeowner  did  reasonably  fear  that  intruders
would  come  to  harm  him  or  his  family,  the  salesman  himself  did  not
pose such a danger.

When  an  owner  uses  an  automatic  mechanical  device  to  protect
against intruders, the situation is judged by the same standards as if the
owner  were  personally  applying  the  force.  Therefore,  the  mechanical
device can supply deadly force (force likely to cause death or serious
bodily  injury)  only  if  the  owner  could  do  so  personally  on  the

1194

particular occasion in question. An owner could use such deadly force
only if the owner reasonably feared, in that particular situation, that the
intruder posed a risk of death or serious bodily harm to the owner or
other inhabitants.

Here, one in the homeowner's position would have realized that the
salesman was unlikely to pose such harm. Since the homeowner would
not  have  been  entitled  to  use  deadly  force  “by  hand”  against  the
salesman (e.g., by shooting him), he is not protected when his automatic
device applied deadly force.

 Answer 55

 (A) is the best response,

because  this  response  recognizes  the  exception  for  when  a  negligent
tortfeasor may be liable for the criminal acts of a third party.

When a tortfeasor should have realized the likelihood of the crime
at the time of his negligence, he may be liable for the criminal acts of a
third  party.  The  issue  of  foreseeability  is  generally  a  question  for  the
jury, so we must look closely at the facts of this question. Here, we are
informed  that  this  was  a  “high-crime  neighborhood”  and  “there  had
been  many  thefts  of  tools  and  equipment  from  the  construction  area.”
Thus,  there  is  enough  evidence  of  foreseeability  that  this  issue  should
go to the jury. Also note that the evidence must be overwhelming for the
judge  to  take  the  issue  away  from  the  jury  by  granting  summary
judgment for the defendant. Here, the evidence was not overwhelming
based on the criminal activity at the construction site.

 (B) is not the best response,

because enough facts of criminality in the neighborhood exist such that
it  might  have  been  foreseeable  that  a  damaged  vehicle  would  be
vulnerable to theft.

While  normally  a  negligent  tortfeasor  will  not  be  liable  for  the
criminal  acts  of  a  third  party,  an  exception  exists.  When  a  tortfeasor
should  have  realized  the  likelihood  of  the  crime  at  the  time  of  his
negligence, he may be liable for the criminal acts of a third party. The
issue of foreseeability is generally a question for the jury, so we must
look closely at the facts of this question. Here, we are informed that this
was  a  “high-crime  neighborhood”  and  “there  had  been  many  thefts  of
tools and equipment from the construction area.” Thus, there is enough

1195

evidence  of  foreseeability  that  this  issue  should  go  to  the  jury.  Also
note that the evidence must be overwhelming for the judge to take the
issue  away  from  the  jury  by  granting  summary  judgment  for  the
defendant.  Here,  the  evidence  was  not  overwhelming  based  on  the
criminal activity at the construction site.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  this  response  states  the  general  rule,  but  the  exception  to  the
rule applies here.

While  normally  a  negligent  tortfeasor  will  not  be  liable  for  the
criminal  acts  of  a  third  party,  an  exception  exists.  When  a  tortfeasor
should  have  realized  the  likelihood  of  the  crime  at  the  time  of  his
negligence, he may be liable for the criminal acts of a third party. The
issue of foreseeability is generally a question for the jury, so we must
look closely at the facts of this question. Here, we are informed that this
was  a  “high-crime  neighborhood”  and  “there  had  been  many  thefts  of
tools and equipment from the construction area.” Thus, there is enough
evidence  of  foreseeability  that  this  issue  should  go  to  the  jury.  Also
note that the evidence must be overwhelming for the judge to take the
issue  away  from  the  jury  by  granting  summary  judgment  for  the
defendant.  Here,  the  evidence  was  not  overwhelming  based  on  the
criminal activity at the construction site.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  theft  by  a  third  party  was  foreseeable  is  a  jury
question.

While  normally  a  negligent  tortfeasor  will  not  be  liable  for  the
criminal  acts  of  a  third  party,  an  exception  exists.  When  a  tortfeasor
should  have  realized  the  likelihood  of  the  crime  at  the  time  of  his
negligence, he may be liable for the criminal acts of a third party. The
issue of foreseeability is generally a question for the jury, so we must
look  closely  at  the  facts  of  this  question.  While  we  are  informed  that
this was a “high-crime neighborhood” and “there had been many thefts
of tools and equipment from the construction area,” this is not enough
evidence for a judge to conclude, as matter of law, that if a vehicle was
left  unattended  a  third  party  would  commit  a  theft.  This  is  a  factual
dispute  that  would  be  resolved  by  the  jury,  thus  mandating  that  the
motion be denied.

1196

 Answer 56

 (A) is the best response,

because the plaintiff did not suffer the appropriate damages.

For  a  claim  of  negligent  misrepresentation,  the  defendant's  mental
state  must  be  negligent,  the  defendant  must  have  made  the  statement
during  the  course  of  his  business  and  with  a  pecuniary  interest  in  the
transaction, and the plaintiff must be a person or member of a limited
group that the defendant intended to reach or who the defendant knows
a recipient of the information intended to reach. Even if these elements
are met, recovery for negligent misrepresentation is usually limited to
pecuniary  loss  unless  it  involves  a  risk  of  physical  harm.  Here,  the
applicant did not face any risk of physical harm, and he “immediately
found  another  comparable  position.”  His  emotional  distress,  standing
alone, is not sufficient to assert a claim for negligent misrepresentation.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  was  not  “purely”  speculative,  as  specific  facts
were mentioned.

It is true that if the defendant predicts something will happen it will
almost always be held to be merely an unactionable opinion, but, here,
some  of  information  conveyed  to  the  job  applicant  was  factual  (e.g.,
that  the  company  was  worth  millions).  This  factual  information  was
intended  to  assure  the  applicant  that  the  company  was  in  fact
economically strong and to induce reliance by the applicant. Thus, the
better choice would be to focus on the fact that plaintiff did not suffer
the appropriate damages, as in answer choice A.

 (C) is not the best response,

because this response states a necessary, but not sufficient, condition.

A  plaintiff  must  show  that  he  relied  on  the  misrepresentation  and
that  his  reliance  was  justifiable.  But,  another  element,  namely  the
appropriate  damages,  is  not  met  here.  Recovery  for  negligent
misrepresentation is usually limited to pecuniary loss unless it involves
a  risk  of  physical  harm.  Here,  the  applicant  did  not  face  any  risk  of
physical  harm,  and  he  “immediately  found  another  comparable
position.”  His  emotional  distress,  standing  alone,  is  not  sufficient  to
assert a claim for negligent misrepresentation.

1197

 (D) is not the best response,

because recovery for negligent misrepresentation does not extend to all
foreseeable damages, such as emotional distress.

Recovery  for  negligent  misrepresentation  is  usually  limited  to
pecuniary  loss  unless  it  involves  a  risk  of  physical  harm.  Here,  the
applicant did not face any risk of physical harm, and he “immediately
found  another  comparable  position.”  His  emotional  distress,  standing
alone, is not sufficient to assert a claim for negligent misrepresentation,
even if it was foreseeable.

 Answer 57

 (A) is the best response,

because 
inconsistent with ordinary social norms privileging such contacts.

touch  was  neither  unreasonable  nor

the  passenger's 

Here,  the  woman  gave  no  indication  that  she  did  not  want  to  be
subjected  to  the  ordinary  touches  that  are  part  of  life  in  crowded
society.  In  the  absence  of  such  an  indication  from  her,  the  passenger
was entitled to believe that she implicitly consented to a light tap to get
her attention.

 (B) is not the best response,

because,  while  this  would  prohibit  a  claim  for  assault,  it  would  not
prohibit a successful claim for battery or negligence.

An assault is the intentional causing of an apprehension of harmful
or offensive contact. Here, the woman would not be able to prove that
she thought that she was about to be touched, as she was tapped on the
back and likely did not see the passenger as he reached to tap her on the
back.  But,  the  call  of  this  question  states  that  “the  woman  sues  the
passenger  to  recover  for  the  back  injury”  and  thus  does  not  state  the
cause of action upon which she will rely. As the elements of negligence
or  battery  could  be  established  without  any  reference  to  whether  she
had  an  apprehension  of  being  touched,  the  reasoning  of  this  choice  is
incorrect.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, even if the passenger did intentionally touch her, he may still
effectively rely on the defense of consent.

1198

In  this  case,  the  passenger's  touch  was  neither  unreasonable  nor
inconsistent with ordinary social norms privileging such contacts. Here,
the woman gave no indication that she did not want to be subjected to
the  ordinary  touches  that  are  part  of  life  in  crowded  society.  In  the
absence  of  such  an  indication  from  her,  the  passenger  was  entitled  to
believe that she implicitly consented to a light tap to get her attention.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  serious  injury  is  neither  necessary  nor  sufficient  to  support
either battery or negligence.

Here,  even  though  she  was  seriously  injured,  the  passenger  may
still  effectively  rely  on  the  defense  of  consent.  In  this  case,  the
passenger's  touch  was  neither  unreasonable  nor  inconsistent  with
ordinary social norms privileging such contacts. Here, the woman gave
no  indication  that  she  did  not  want  to  be  subjected  to  the  ordinary
touches that are part of life in crowded society. In the absence of such
an  indication  from  her,  the  passenger  was  entitled  to  believe  that  she
implicitly consented to a light tap to get her attention.

 Answer 58

 (D) is the best response,

because the reasonableness of the defendant's conduct is irrelevant.

Battery is the intentional infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily
contact. Consequently, whether the defendant's conduct was reasonable
under the circumstances is irrelevant if in fact the defendant intended to
make a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff. Thus, it would be
relevant in a negligence action but not in a battery action.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the smoker's intent is an issue in a battery action.

Battery is the intentional infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily
contact. Consequently, the plaintiff must establish the smoker's intent to
cause contact with the plaintiff.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  smoke  is  bodily  contact  is  an  issue  in  a  battery
action.

1199

Battery is the intentional infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily
contact. Consequently, the plaintiff must prove that some sort of bodily
contact occurred.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff must establish that the contact was offensive.

Battery is the intentional infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily
contact.  Consequently,  the  legislative  determination  that  to  allow
restaurants to retain some space where patrons may smoke is, arguably,
evidence  that  this  type  of  touching  is  not  offensive  in  this  context.  As
the plaintiff must establish offensive contact, this will be an issue in a
battery action.

 Answer 59

 (C) is the best response,

because  punitive  damages  are  not  available  in  ordinary  negligence
cases. As this is the only cause of action listed that would NOT allow
punitive damages, it is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because punitive damages are available to victims of intentional torts.
Ordinary  negligence  cases,  however,  do  not  allow  for  punitive
damages.

 (B) is not the best response,

because punitive damages are available to victims of intentional torts.
Ordinary  negligence  cases,  however,  do  not  allow  for  punitive
damages.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  punitive  damages  may  be  available  to  victims  of  reckless
conduct. Ordinary negligence cases, however, do not allow for punitive
damages.

 Answer 60

1200

 
(D) is the best response,

because  the  theory  of  res  ipsa  loquitur  will  allow  the  jury  to  infer
negligence.

Res ipsa loquitur allows a plaintiff to create an inference that the
defendant behaved negligently, even if there's no direct evidence of that
the defendant was negligent, if the plaintiff can prove that:

(1) There is no direct evidence of the defendant's conduct;
(2) The type of event in question ordinarily does not occur except

through the negligence of someone;

(3) The instrument that caused injury was in exclusive control of the

defendant; and

(4) The injury was probably not due to the plaintiff's own action.
Here,  the  elements  are  met,  as  no  direct  evidence  was  offered  by
the plaintiff of defendant's conduct, the automatic door would normally
not  open  in  the  wrong  direction  absent  someone's  negligence,  the
supermarket had exclusive control of its maintenance, and the plaintiff
did not cause or contribute to his injury. Accordingly, negligence may
be inferred even without testimony as to why the door opened inward,
so  the  supermarket's  motion  should  be  denied.  The  shopper's  motion
should also be denied, because a reasonable jury could decide that the
supermarket  was  not  negligent,  if,  for  example,  the  injury  was  caused
by  the  owner's  installation.  Furthermore,  the  plaintiff  cannot  rely  on  a
strict  liability  theory,  as  there  is  neither  a  sale  of  a  product  nor  an
abnormally dangerous activity.

 (A) is not the best response,

because a reasonable jury could conclude that the supermarket was not
negligent.

Granting  judgment  for  the  shopper  is  only  permissible  when  a
reasonable  jury  could  only  conclude  that  the  defendant  is  negligent.
Here, based on the facts provided, a reasonable jury may conclude that
the supermarket was not negligent (e.g., the jury may determine that the
owner  was  negligent  when  he  installed  the  door).  Furthermore,  the
plaintiff cannot rely on a strict liability theory, as there is neither a sale
of a product nor an abnormally dangerous activity.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff is not required to sue all negligent persons.

The defendant supermarket may join the building owner as a third-

1201

party defendant, if it chooses to do so. Accordingly, the failure to join
the owner of the building as a defendant is not a sufficient reason that
plaintiff would triumph.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  theory  of  res  ipsa  loquitur  will  allow  the  jury  to  infer
negligence.

Res ipsa loquitur allows a plaintiff to create an inference that the
defendant  behaved  negligently,  even  though  there's  no  direct  evidence
that the defendant was negligent, if the plaintiff can prove that:
(1) There is no direct evidence of the defendant's conduct;
(2) The type of event in question ordinarily does not occur except

through the negligence of someone;

(3) The instrument that caused injury was in exclusive control of the

defendant; and

(4) The injury was probably not due to the plaintiff's own action.
Here,  the  elements  are  met,  as  no  direct  evidence  was  offered  by
the plaintiff of defendant's conduct, the automatic door would normally
not  open  in  the  wrong  direction  absent  someone's  negligence,  the
supermarket had exclusive control of its maintenance, and the plaintiff
did not cause or contribute to his injury. Accordingly, negligence may
be inferred even without testimony as to why the door opened inward,
and the supermarket's motion should be denied.

 Answer 61

 (A) is the best response,

because the plaintiff cannot satisfy his prima facie case for either cause
of action.

To  succeed  in  a  strict  products  liability  claim  in  this  context,
plaintiff  would  need  to  prove  that  a  product  was  sold  in  a  defective
condition  that  is  unreasonably  dangerous  to  the  user  or  consumer.  As
the  dentist  was  not  in  the  business  of  selling  the  product,  the  plaintiff
cannot succeed against the dentist (although the plaintiff could sue the
product's  manufacturer).  To  succeed  in  a  malpractice  claim  in  this
context,  the  plaintiff  must  prove  that  the  dentist  did  not  act  with  the
level  of  skill  and  learning  commonly  possessed  by  members  of  the
profession  in  good  standing.  Here,  the  dentist  used  “due  care,”  so  the
plaintiff cannot satisfy this burden.

1202

 (B) is not the best response,

because the dentist did not depart from a professional standard of care.
To succeed in a malpractice claim in this context, the plaintiff must
prove  that  the  dentist  did  not  act  with  the  level  of  skill  and  learning
commonly  possessed  by  members  of  the  profession  in  good  standing.
Here,  the  dentist  used  “due  care,”  so  the  plaintiff  cannot  satisfy  this
burden.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the dentist is not in the business of selling this product.

To  succeed  in  a  strict  products  liability  claim  in  this  context,  the
plaintiff  would  need  to  prove  that  a  product  was  sold  in  a  defective
condition  that  is  unreasonably  dangerous  to  the  user  or  consumer.  As
the  dentist  was  not  in  the  business  of  selling  the  product,  the  plaintiff
cannot succeed against the dentist (although the plaintiff could sue the
product's manufacturer).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff cannot satisfy his prima facie case for either cause
of action.

To  succeed  in  a  strict  products  liability  claim  in  this  context,  the
plaintiff  would  need  to  prove  that  a  product  was  sold  in  a  defective
condition  that  is  unreasonably  dangerous  to  the  user  or  consumer.  As
the  dentist  was  not  in  the  business  of  selling  the  product,  the  plaintiff
cannot succeed against the dentist (although the plaintiff could sue the
product's  manufacturer).  To  succeed  in  a  malpractice  claim  in  this
context,  the  plaintiff  must  prove  that  the  dentist  did  not  act  with  the
level  of  skill  and  learning  commonly  possessed  by  members  of  the
profession  in  good  standing.  Here,  the  dentist  used  “due  care,”  so  the
plaintiff cannot satisfy this burden.

 Answer 62

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly states that expert testimony will not be necessary to
determine whether the two attorneys breached their standard of care.

This is a bit of a tricky question, because to answer it correctly, you
must  be  able  to  eliminate  some  distractors  dealing  with  tort  law  on

1203

standards of care for professionals.

Under these facts, all the jury must do is determine whether the two
attorneys  filed  the  suit  within  the  period  authorized  by  the  statute  of
limitations.  Although  this  is  not  an  Evidence  question,  the  law  of
evidence  bears  on  whether  expert  testimony  was  required  on  this
matter. According to Federal Rule of Evidence 702, expert testimony is
used  where  the  court  determines  that  “scientific,  technical,  or  other
specialized  knowledge  will  assist  the  trier  of  fact  to  understand  the
evidence or to determine a fact in issue.” The timeliness issue here is
not  a  matter  that  would  require  the  kind  of  sophistication  that  would
trigger the need for expert testimony; all an expert would do, really, is
point to a deadline on a calendar. Since the jury can “understand” and
“determine”  the  issue  of  timeliness  of  filing  without  “specialized
knowledge,”  expert  testimony  was  not  needed,  making  C  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  erroneously  suggests  that  expert  testimony  is  necessary  to
determine breach of the standard of care, and, beyond that, it misstates
the standard by which the two attorneys would be judged.

Under FRE 702, expert testimony is only necessary where the court
determines  that  “scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge
will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a
fact  in  issue.”  Determining  whether  the  two  attorneys  missed  their
deadline  would  not  be  the  kind  of  matter  necessarily  meriting  expert
testimony. Furthermore, the standard against which lawyers are judged
is  the  minimum  common  skill  of  members  in  good  standing  in  their
profession. The “locality” requirement that choice A mentions is an old
concept, which is only one factor for juries to consider in modern cases
determining  if  the  actor  behaved  reasonably  in  the  circumstances;  and
even  when  this  rule  was  applied,  it  was  applied  generally  to  general
medical  practitioners.  Since  A  does  not  state  the  correct  result  or  the
correct standard, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  erroneously  suggests  that  expert  testimony  is  necessary  to
determine breach of the standard of care, and, beyond that, it misstates
the standard by which the two attorneys would be judged.

Under FRE 702, expert testimony is only necessary where the court

1204

determines  that  “scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge
will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a
fact  in  issue.”  Determining  whether  the  two  attorneys  missed  their
deadline  would  not  be  the  kind  of  matter  necessarily  meriting  expert
testimony,  because  all  that  needs  to  be  determined  is  if  the  two
attorneys  made  the  deadline.  Furthermore,  the  standard  against  which
lawyers are judged is the minimum common skill of members in good
standing in their profession. Thus, the “statewide” standard B suggests
would not be appropriate for the two attorneys. Since B misses both of
these points, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the judge is not competent as a witness in a case, and even if
he were, expert testimony is not appropriate here.

Even though the judge is (hopefully) an expert on the law, he cannot
testify as to whether the two attorneys breached their duty, since that is
a matter of fact, not law, and thus it's a matter for the jury to decide. The
judge cannot offer expert testimony, because judges are not competent
witnesses. FRE 605.

Even if the judge could offer expert testimony, it's not merited here.
Under  FRE  702,  expert  testimony  is  only  necessary  where  the  court
determines  that  “scientific,  technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge
will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a
fact  in  issue.”  Determining  whether  the  two  attorneys  missed  their
deadline  would  not  be  the  kind  of  matter  meriting  expert  testimony,
because  all  that  needs  to  be  determined  is  whether  the  two  attorneys
complied  with  the  deadline.  Since  D  mistakenly  states  that  the  judge
can  testify  as  an  expert  witness,  and  it  states  the  expert  testimony  is
needed on a matter where it's not, D is not the best response.

 Answer 63

 (B) is the best response,

because the trespasser was owed no duty.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous  activities  on  it,  or  to  protect  the  trespasser  in  any  way.
Although an exception carves out a duty to discovered trespassers, that
exception  would  not  apply  here,  as  the  hiker  was  on  the  property

1205

“without the property owner's knowledge or permission.”

 (A) is not the best response,

because  nothing  in  the  fact  situation  suggests  that  the  weakness  of  the
limb  could  not  have  been  discovered  by  the  exercise  of  reasonable
care.

If  the  property  owner  had  owed  a  duty  to  take  reasonable  care  to
protect  the  hiker,  he  might  have  been  required  to  make  regular
inspections  of  the  conditions  on  his  land.  But,  this  trespasser  was  not
owed such a duty. The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty
to a trespasser to make her land safe, to warn of dangers on it, to avoid
carrying on dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any
way.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the property owner did not have such a duty to trespassers.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous  activities  on  it,  or  to  protect  the  trespasser  in  any  way.
Although an exception carves out a duty to discovered trespassers, that
exception  would  not  apply  here,  as  the  hiker  was  on  the  property
“without the property owner's knowledge or permission.”

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  property  owner  is  not  liable  to  trespassers  for  hidden
dangers on his property.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous  activities  on  it,  or  to  protect  the  trespasser  in  any  way.
Although an exception carves out a duty to discovered trespassers, that
exception  would  not  apply  here,  as  the  hiker  was  on  the  property
“without the property owner's knowledge or permission.” Furthermore,
any  duty  owed  to  a  discovered  trespasser  would  make  the  landowner
liable only for artificial conditions highly dangerous to trespassers, and
the tree in this instance would not qualify.

 Answer 64

1206

 
(B) is the best response,

because it identifies the key reason the homeowner will be liable.

The rule is that the owner of a wild animal is strictly liable for the
animal's conduct creating damage. Thus, the point that B raises — that a
skunk  is  not  domesticated  —  is  the  lynchpin  of  the  homeowner's
liability. The wrinkle here is that you don't typically consider a skunk
“wild,”  in  the  sense  of  a  lion  or  tiger  or  Tasmanian  devil  or  other
animals of that ilk. Nonetheless, a skunk isn't domesticated, so it can be
a  source  of  strict  liability  for  the  homeowner.  Since  it  caused  the
walker's damages, and the walker's damages were within the scope of
the  extraordinary  risk  created  by  maintaining  a  skunk,  the  homeowner
will  be  strictly  liable.  Since  B  correctly  identifies  the  basis  of  the
homeowner's liability, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the private nuisance tort would not apply to these facts.

A  private  nuisance  is  an  act  by  a  defendant  that  creates  an
unreasonable,  substantial  interference  with  the  plaintiff's  use  or
enjoyment  of  property.  The  interest  protected  is  the  right  to  use  and
enjoy one's land. Here, the walker has no right to use and enjoy the land
she  was  on  when  she  was  injured;  she's  a  trespasser.  Thus,  private
nuisance  cannot  apply  to  these  facts.  Although  A  arrives  at  the  right
response, it ignores the real basis of liability: A person is strictly liable
for the torts of his pets if the pets are “wild animals,” of which a skunk
would be one. As a result, A is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  the  walker's  status  will  determine  the  duty  the
homeowner  owes  to  the  walker  as  an  entrant  on  the  land,  it  will  not
determine the homeowner's liability on these facts.

At  common  law,  the  landowner's  duty  to  trespassers  depended  on
whether  they  were  “discovered”  or  “undiscovered.”  The  landowner
owes  no  duty  to  undiscovered  trespassers;  whereas  a  discovered
trespasser  (i.e.,  one  whom  the  landowner  anticipates,  as  here,  due  to
the homeowner's knowledge the grass is used as a footpath) is owed a
duty of reasonable care, generally satisfied by a warning of man-made
dangers known to the landowner and unlikely to be discovered by the
trespasser.  The  modern  trend  is  to  consolidate  the  duties  owed  to
various levels of entrants into a “reasonable person” standard.

1207

In  any  case,  these  are  not  relevant  here  because  they  all  address
levels of fault  that  will  be  necessary  for  landowner  liability.  Instead,
here the homeowner will be liable without any fault at all because the
skunk will be considered a wild animal, making the homeowner strictly
liable  for  damage  it  creates.  As  a  result,  the  walker's  status  as  a
trespasser will not relieve the homeowner of liability.

This is a somewhat tricky choice in that your gut feeling is that the
walker shouldn't recover because she's a trespasser. However, as many
MBE  questions  show,  you  can't  react  instinctively  to  the  facts.  A
mechanical application of the law indicates that the homeowner will be
strictly liable to the walker, so C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  reasoning  it  states  would  not  relieve  the  homeowner  of
liability.

The  general  rule  is  that  owners  are  strictly  liable  for  the  torts  of
wild animals they keep as pets. Thus, even if the pet is caged, has its
teeth  removed,  is  declawed,  or  any  other  type  of  precaution  has  been
taken, the owner will still be liable, because strict liability requires no
proof  of  fault  —  merely  keeping  a  wild  animal  as  a  pet  will  be
sufficient  to  impose  liability  if  the  pet  causes  harm,  and  that  harm  is
within the extraordinary risk that merited imposing strict liability in the
first place. Admittedly, the vet was negligent under these facts, and the
homeowner  could  recover  against  him  for  any  damages  paid  to  the
walker. Nonetheless, this does not erase the fact that the homeowner's
skunk injured the walker, and this alone makes the homeowner liable.
Since D doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 65

 (B) is the best response,

because  even  states  that  allow  witnesses  who  are  not  in  the  zone  of
danger  to  recover  for  the  emotional  distress  of  observing  an  accident
limit  recovery  to  witnesses  who  are  closely  related  to  the  injured
person.

These states typically mandate that, to recover, a plaintiff who was

outside the zone of danger must

(1) be closely related to the injury victim;

1208

 
(2) be present at the scene of the injury-producing event and have

been aware that the event was causing an injury to the victim; and
(3) have suffered serious emotional distress as a result of his or her

presence at the scene.

While  the  plaintiff  in  this  problem  clearly  satisfies  the  latter  two
requirements, he does not satisfy the first, and therefore his claim will
fail. The requirement of close relation to the injury victim is meant as a
limitation of liability. Otherwise, in every car accident there could be a
hundred potential bystanders who witnessed the accident and suffered
compensable severe emotional distress.

 (A) is not the best response,

because one who negligently injures another is liable to rescuers even
when the rescuer voluntarily comes to the aid of the injured person.

Accordingly, an assumption of the risk defense will not work in this
scenario.  Instead,  this  suit  will  fail  because  the  bystander  had  no
familial  or  other  preexisting  relationship  to  the  pedestrian,  which  is
required by most states that allow witnesses who are not in the zone of
danger to recover for the emotional distress of observing an accident.

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  is  true  that  one  who  negligently  injures  another  is
liable  to  rescuers  who  are  physically  injured  in  the  course  of  the
rescue, the bystander was not physically injured.

The  bystander  was  across  the  street  when  the  accident  happened
and only suffered emotional injuries. Lacking either physical harm or a
close relationship with the injured person, the bystander cannot recover
in negligence for his emotional distress, as discussed in the analysis of
choice B above. Thus, this suit will fail because the bystander had no
familial  or  other  preexisting  relationship  to  the  pedestrian,  which  is
required by most states that allow witnesses who are not in the zone of
danger to recover for the emotional distress of observing an accident.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is not supported by the facts.

Here, the bystander “witnessed the accident from across the street.”
As such, he was not in the path of the car and therefore was not in the
zone of danger. Instead, this suit will fail because the bystander had no

1209

 
familial  or  other  preexisting  relationship  to  the  pedestrian,  which  is
required by most states that allow witnesses who are not in the zone of
danger to recover for the emotional distress of observing an accident.

 Answer 66

 (C) is the best response,

because it most closely identifies the reason why the motorist will not
be liable to the plaintiff. The key here is duty to aid, since the motorist
came upon the plaintiff, who was obviously in need of help, and didn't
aid him.

This  is  one  of  those  questions  on  the  MBE  that  is  made  difficult
because  your  instinct  is  that  the  motorist  should  be  liable.  You  may
feel, and rightly so, that the motorist had a moral duty to stop and help
the plaintiff. This, however, doesn't equate with a legal duty, and since
the motorist had no legal duty to help, his merely not helping wouldn't
render him liable.

The general rule is that there is no duty to aid unless one of these
elements exist: the defendant's negligence created the peril, a “special
relationship”  mandates  affirmative  acts  (e.g.,  parent-child),  or  the
defendant  had  previously  undertaken  to  act  for  the  plaintiff's  benefit.
Thus,  unless  the  motorist  made  the  plaintiff's  situation  worse,  he  was
not under a duty to help, and thus couldn't be liable. Note that C says the
motorist  will  not  be  liable  if  he  didn't  make  the  plaintiff's  situation
worse. Where “if” is the modifier, the reasoning must be plausible on
the facts, it must resolve a central issue in the question, and the result
must  be  consistent  with  the  reasoning.  Here,  it's  possible  that  the
motorist  didn't  exacerbate  the  plaintiff's  condition;  this  resolves  the
motorist's duty to aid, which is the central issue here. As a result, C is
the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  facts  it  cites  —  stopping  and  examining  the  plaintiff  —
would not create liability in the motorist.

The central issue here is the duty to aid. As a general rule, there is
no  duty  to  aid  unless  one  of  these  elements  exist:  a  defendant's
negligence  created  the  peril,  a  “special  relationship”  mandates
affirmative  acts  (e.g.,  common  carrier-patron),  or  a  defendant  has
previously undertaken to act for a plaintiff's benefit. Here, although the

1210

motorist  stopped  and  examined  the  plaintiff,  he  did  not  make  his
condition worse, and it couldn't be said that he'd undertaken to act for
the plaintiff's benefit. True, it's morally repugnant that the motorist left
the plaintiff in the field, but this doesn't make him legally liable. Since
A states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  state  a  basis  on  which  the  motorist  can  be  held
liable.

What  a 

reasonably  prudent  person  would  do  under 

the
circumstances  doesn't  make  the  motorist's  doing  something  else
tortious;  that  is,  it  isn't  what  the  reasonable  person  would  do,  but
whether the behavior the motorist undertook was unreasonable. This is
the standard for negligence, which requires that a defendant must have
failed  to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  his  position
would have exercised. This failure to exercise care must have been a
breach of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of harm to anyone in
the plaintiff's position, and this breach must have caused the plaintiff's
damages.

The problem here is duty: the motorist didn't have one. As a general
rule,  there  is  no  affirmative  duty  to  aid,  unless  one  of  these  elements
exist:  a  defendant's  negligence  created 
the  peril,  a  “special
relationship”  mandates  affirmative  acts  (e.g.,  parent-child),  or  the
defendant  has  previously  undertaken  to  act  for  the  plaintiff's  benefit.
None of these exist under these facts, so the motorist had no duty to aid
the plaintiff. As a result, he could not be held liable for not aiding the
plaintiff. Since B states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not address the motorist's liability.

If the motorist was under a duty to aid the plaintiff and didn't do so,
he'd  be  liable,  even  if  the  plaintiff  had  created  the  risk  of  harm  to
himself.  As  a  general  rule,  one  is  under  no  affirmative  duty  to  aid,
unless one of these elements exist: a defendant's negligence created the
peril,  a  “special  relationship”  mandates  affirmative  acts  (e.g.,
guardian-ward), or a defendant has previously undertaken to act for the
plaintiff's benefit. None of these exist under these facts, so the motorist
had no duty to aid the stranger. What D implies is that the plaintiff was
contributorily  negligent,  which  would  be  a  defense  to  the  motorist's

1211

negligence.

However, negligence requires breach of a duty, and here, there was
no  breach.  Thus,  even  though  D  correctly  recognizes  that  the  motorist
will not be liable, it does not identify the reason why, so it cannot be
the best response.

 Answer 67

 (D) is the best response,

because an owner of a wild animal or an abnormally dangerous animal
is strictly liable for harm caused by that animal's dangerous nature.

Part  of  what  makes  wild  animals  dangerous  is  that  third  persons
who encounter the animal may well experience acute fear, whether that
fear is well-founded or not as to the particular animal. Rest. 2d Torts, §
507, cmt. g and illus. 1. Here, even though the snake was defanged, the
worker had no reason to know this. Therefore, his injury was caused by
a foreseeable aspect of the animal's wild and dangerous nature, namely,
its tendency to cause fear of being bitten.

 (A) is not the best response,

because owners of dangerous animals are strictly liable even when the
harm would not have occurred but for the operation of a force of nature.
Thus, the fact that a storm caused the snake to be released, rather than
any  action  on  the  part  of  the  homeowner,  does  not  limit  the
homeowner's liability.

 (B) is not the best response,

because an owner of a wild animal or an abnormally dangerous animal
is strictly liable for harm caused by that animal's dangerous nature.

The contributory negligence of the worker would not be a defense
to strict liability, and in any case there is nothing in the facts to indicate
that  the  worker  would  have  reason  to  foresee  the  risk  of  a  poisonous
snake.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, while this answer correctly states that the worker will prevail,
it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

There is probably not enough evidence here to support a finding of

1212

negligence.  In  any  event,  whether  the  owner  did  or  did  not  take
precautions  that  would  be  “adequate”  (i.e.,  that  would  constitute
reasonable care), this won't matter — the whole point of strict liability
for  keeping  wild  animals  is  that  if  the  wild  animal  causes  harm  in  a
way that is related to its wildness, the plaintiff does not have to show
negligence  by  the  owner.  Nor  does  it  matter  that  the  snake  was
defanged;  the  worker  had  no  reason  to  know  this,  and  his  injury  falls
within  the  risk  run  by  the  homeowner  because  it  was  caused  by  the
worker's foreseeable reaction to seeing an escaped snake.

 Answer 68

 (B) is the best response,

because  a  product  is  defective  if  it  fails  to  include  a  feasible  safety
device that would prevent injuries foreseeably incurred in ordinary use.
If  a  plaintiff  is  injured  by  a  product  with  a  defective  design,  the
manufacturer of the product is strictly liable. A plaintiff can prove that
a product's design is defective by pointing out a reasonable alternative
design  that  offers  a  better  balance  of  costs  and  benefits.  Usually  this
better balance means that the alternative design is safer without being
significantly more expensive or less useful than the design the defendant
used.  See  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Prod.  Liab.),  §  2,  cmt.  f.  In  this  case,  the
plaintiff can make that showing easily enough: The manufacturer itself
had  designed  an  alternative  model  that  we  are  told  was  considerably
safer, only slightly more expensive, and equally useful. The existence of
that  safer  model  makes  the  model  sold  here  unreasonably  dangerous.
Note that if a product is unreasonably dangerous, its maker is not saved
from  liability  either  by  a  warning  or  by  the  consumer's  free  choice  in
selecting  the  product  —  a  manufacturer  is  obliged  to  take  all
reasonable, cost-effective steps to make the product safe.

 (A) is not the best response,

because a plaintiff cannot win a claim based on a design defect simply
by  showing  that  the  defendant's  product  was  a  cause  in  fact  of  his
injury.

As explained in the discussion of choice B above, the plaintiff also
must  show  that  the  product  was  defective.  In  a  case  involving  a
product's  design,  this  means  showing  that  a  safer  “reasonable
alternative design” was available. See  Rest.  3d  (Prod.  Liab.),  §  2(b);

1213

Dobbs, § 361.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  manufacturer  of  a  defective  product  is  strictly  liable  for
harm that it causes.

A  consumer's  decision  to  buy  the  product,  and  not  to  buy  a  safer
one,  does  not  cut  off  the  manufacturer's  liability.  Moreover,  a
“superseding  intervening  cause”  of  an  accident  generally  has  to  be
some event that could not be foreseen by the party who committed the
initial  tortious  act  —  here,  the  manufacturer.  But  in  this  case  the
supposed  “intervening  cause”  was  simply  the  employer's  decision  to
buy a cheaper press. This was foreseeable, and indeed was foreseen:
The  manufacturer  produced  a  model  just  for  that  purpose.  The
foreseeability of the buyer's decision to buy the less-safe model is one
of the reasons why the manufacturer should not have sold the less-safe
model at all.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  as  explained  in  the  discussion  of  choice  B  above,  a
manufacturer  cannot  insulate  itself  from  liability  for  its  defective
products by warning about the defects.

The  manufacturer  is  obliged  to  produce  a  reasonably  safe  product
—  in  other  words,  a  product  that  can  easily  be  made  safer.  If  the
manufacturer  fails  to  do  that,  its  liability  is  clear  regardless  of
whatever warnings it may give. See Dobbs, § 363.

 Answer 69

 (C) is the best response,

because, due to his lack of notice of the dog's propensities, the landlord
acted reasonably.

Any duty that the landlord may have in this context is at most a duty
to  act  reasonably.  If  the  landlord  had  no  reason  to  know  that  the  dog
posed  a  risk  to  those  on  his  property,  his  failure  to  take  precautions
against that risk was not negligent.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the landlord is not the possessor of the dog.

1214

The  possessor  of  a  vicious  dog  may  be  strictly  liable  to  those
injured by the dog, but the landlord here is not in possession of the dog.
Moreover, the liability, where it exists, is limited to cases in which the
possessor  has  reason  to  know  the  dog  is  unusually  dangerous.  Thus,
while the owner may be strictly liable, the landlord is not.

 (B) is not the best response,

because a dog does not qualify as a dangerous condition.

A landlord may have a non-delegable duty to protect persons who
come upon the land from dangerous conditions of the property, such as
cracked walks and broken stairs, but the presence of the dog is not such
a  condition.  Furthermore,  the  landlord's  duty  is  only  a  duty  to  act
reasonably,  and  there  is  no  evidence  here  that  the  landlord  acted
unreasonably,  as  he  “did  not  have  any  notice  of  the  dog's  vicious
propensities.”

 (D) is not the best response,

because a landlord does owe a duty to those who are foreseeably on the
land, including guests of his tenants.

As  this  is  a  business  venture  of  the  landlord,  guests  of  his  tenants
would  be  the  landlord's  invitees.  However,  any  duty  that  the  landlord
may  have  is  at  most  a  duty  to  act  reasonably.  If  the  landlord  had  no
reason to know that the dog posed a risk to those on his property, his
failure to take precautions against that risk was not negligent.

 Answer 70

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  plaintiff  did  not  have  apprehension  of  imminent  bodily
contact.

Assault  is  the  intentional  causing  of  an  imminent  apprehension  of
harmful  or  offensive  contact.  Thus,  assault  requires  an  effect:  The
plaintiff must either actually undergo a harmful or offensive contact or
be  put  in  immediate  apprehension  of  such  a  contact.  Here,  the
apprehension  of  harm  is  missing,  as  the  guest  knew  that  the  revolver
was  not  loaded  and  that  the  ammunition  was  in  “a  locked  basement
closet, two stories below where the two were then standing.”

1215

 
(A) is not the best response,

because it chooses the wrong legal basis for the conclusion.

Assault  is  the  intentional  causing  of  an  imminent  apprehension  of
harmful or offensive contact. Here, the host may have intended to cause
the guest apprehension of getting shot, even if the host did not intend to
shoot  the  guest.  The  better  choice  here  focuses  on  the  guest's  missing
apprehension  of  harm,  as  the  guest  knew  that  the  revolver  was  not
loaded and that the ammunition was in “a locked basement closet, two
stories below where the two were then standing.”

 (C) is not the best answer,

because the harm was not imminent.

Assault  is  the  intentional  causing  of  an  imminent  apprehension  of
harmful or offensive contact. Here, the host could not quickly retrieve
ammunition from a “locked basement closet, two stories below where
the  two  were  standing.”  The  better  choice  here  focuses  on  the  guest's
missing apprehension of harm, as the guest knew that the revolver was
not loaded and the ammunition was far away.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because  a  threat  alone  is  not  enough  to  cause  an  assault  unless  the
apprehension of bodily contact is imminent.

Thus,  assault  requires  an  effect:  The  plaintiff  must  either  actually
undergo  a  harmful  or  offensive  contact  or  be  put  in  immediate
apprehension  of  such  a  contact.  Here,  the  apprehension  of  harm  is
missing, as the guest knew that the revolver was not loaded and that the
ammunition was in “a locked basement closet, two stories below where
the two were then standing.”

 Answer 71

 (B) is the best response,

because this answer choice correctly applies the firefighters' rule to the
facts.

The common-law “firefighters' rule” says that when firefighters or
police officers are injured during the course of the job, they normally
have  no  claim  against  the  person  whose  conduct  created  the  peril.
Dobbs,  §  285.  Not  all  states  follow  the  firefighters'  rule.  But  even

1216

among those that do, the doctrine is generally limited to risks that are
inherent  in,  and  special  to,  that  particular  occupation.  Dobbs,  §  286.
This  limit  means  that  the  doctrine  will  not  apply  here  because  being
struck by a car in normal traffic is not one of the special risks inherent
to  dangerous  police  work.  So  the  driver  can  be  held  liable  under
ordinary  negligence  principles.  (Also,  many  courts  say  that  the
firefighters'  rule  applies  only  where  the  negligently  created  peril  was
responsible for the officer's presence at the scene, and that approach,
too,  would  cause  the  rule  not  to  apply  here,  since  the  officer  was  not
responding to the risk caused by the driver and was instead present at
the scene by coincidence.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  although  this  answer  correctly  states  that  the  driver's  motion
should be denied, it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

The firefighters' rule, although named with reference to firefighters,
also  covers  police  officers.  They,  too,  are  public  servants  at  risk  of
injury by the perils that they have been employed to confront.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  but-for  causation  is  not  sufficient  to  support  the  firefighters'
rule defense here.

As  further  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  B  above,  the
firefighters'  rule  applies  to  bar  liability  only  when  the  risk  that
materialized  was  one  of  the  unique  risks  inherent  to  the  officer's
dangerous  work.  Here,  the  fact  that  the  officer  was  returning  from  an
emergency when she was struck was just a coincidence. So the driver
could still be held liable for his negligence because being struck by a
car in normal traffic is not one of the special risks inherent in dangerous
police work.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it overstates the scope of the firefighters' rule.

The  firefighters'  rule  only  bars  claims  for  injuries  that  result  from
risks  that  are  unique  or  special  to  the  plaintiff's  inherently  dangerous
work.  Thus  where,  as  here,  the  officer  is  injured  on  the  job,  but  by  a
risk  that  was  not  part  of  what  makes  the  officer's  job  inherently
dangerous,  the  firefighters'  rule  will  not  apply,  and  the  driver  can  be
held liable under garden-variety negligence principles.