CONSTITUTIONAL LAW Q&A BY TOPIC

All cases cited are U.S. Supreme Court cases unless otherwise noted.

CHAPTER 1
THE SUPREME COURT’S AUTHORITY
AND THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL POWER

I.    THE SUPREME COURT’S AUTHORITY AND

THE FEDERAL JUDICIAL POWER

A.  Supreme Court review of state court decision

1.  “Independent and adequate state grounds”

a.  Violations of state and federal constitutions

i.  How to tell

Question  1:  A  state  constitution  provides  that  in  every
criminal trial “the accused shall have the right to confront all
witnesses  against  him  face  to  face.”  A  defendant  was
convicted  in  state  court  of  child  abuse  based  on  testimony
from  a  six-year-old  child.  The  child  testified  while  she  was
seated behind one-way glass, which allowed the defendant to
see the child but did not allow the child to see the defendant.
The  defendant  appealed  to  the  state  supreme  court  claiming
that the inability of the witness to see the defendant while she
testified  violated  both  the  United  States  Constitution  and  the
state 
federal
constitutional  issue,  the  state  supreme  court  reversed  the
defendant’s  conviction  and  ordered  a  new  trial.  The  state
supreme court held that “the constitution of this state is clear,
and  it  requires  that  while  testifying  in  a  criminal  trial,  a
witness  must  be  able  to  see  the  defendant.”  The  state
petitioned  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  for  a  writ  of

constitution.  Without 

addressing 

the 

46

certiorari.

On  which  ground  should  the  United  States  Supreme  Court
DENY the state’s petition?

(A)  A state may not seek appellate review in the United States
Supreme  Court  of  the  reversal  of  a  criminal  conviction
by its own supreme court.

(B)  The decision of the state supreme court was based on an

adequate and independent state ground.

(C)    The  Sixth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution
does  not  require  that  a  witness  against  a  criminal
defendant be able to see the defendant while the witness
testifies.

(D)  The state supreme court’s decision requires a new trial,

and therefore it is not a final judgment.

Answer 1: Choice (B) is correct. The Supreme Court may not
review  a  judgment  by  the  highest  court  of  a  state  if  that
judgment  is  supported  entirely  by  state  law  and  is  wholly
independent  of  the  interpretation  and  application  of  federal
law.  In  this  case,  although  the  defendant  claimed  a  violation
of  the  Sixth  Amendment  of  the  U.S.  Constitution,  the  state
supreme  court  based  its  decision  entirely  on  the  state
constitution  without  addressing  the  federal  constitutional
issue.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  Supreme  Court  may  review  a
judgment  of  the  highest  court  of  a  state  reversing  a  criminal
conviction,  if  the  state  high  court’s  decision  turns  on  a
question arising under federal law. (But what happened here
was that the state court decision was based entirely on state,
not federal, law.)
(C)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons.  First,  the  Sixth  Amendment
right of a criminal defendant (even in a state-court rather than
federal-court  proceeding)  to  confront  the  witnesses  against
him does usually include the right to view the witness, so this
choice  is  wrong  as  a  matter  of  law.  Second,  the  Supreme
Court would not reach even the merits of the defendant’s Sixth
Amendment claim, for the reason stated in (B) above.
(D) is wrong because, although the Supreme Court may only
review  final  judgments  and  decrees  from  the  highest  state

47

courts,  this  judgment  qualifies  because  it  finally  settled  the
confrontation  issue  (i.e.,  that  issue  would  not  arise  again  on
re-trial,  so  the  present  petition  provided  the  U.S.  Supreme
Court  with  its  only  opportunity  to  review  the  confrontation
issue).

Question  2:  Plaintiff  challenged  the  constitutionality  of  a
state  tax  law,  alleging  that  it  violated  the  Equal  Protection
Clauses  of  both  the  United  States  Constitution  and  the  state
constitution. The state supreme court agreed and held the tax
law  to  be  invalid.  It  said:  “We  hold  that  this  state  tax  law
violates  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the  United  States
Constitution and also the equal protection clause of the state
constitution  because  we  interpret  that  provision  of  the  state
constitution  to  contain  exactly  the  same  prohibition  against
discriminatory  legislation  as  is  contained  in  the  Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution.”

The state sought review of this decision in the United States
Supreme  Court,  alleging  that  the  state  supreme  court’s
issue  was
determination  of 
incorrect.

the  federal  constitutional 

How  should  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  dispose  of  the
case  if  it  believes  that  this  interpretation  of  the  federal
Constitution  by  the  state  supreme  court  raises  an  important
federal question and is incorrect on the merits?

(A)    Reverse  the  state  supreme  court  decision,  because  the
equal  protection  clause  of  a  state  constitution  must  be
construed by the state supreme court in a manner that is
congruent  with  the  meaning  of  the  Equal  Protection
Clause of the federal Constitution.

(B)  Reverse the state supreme court decision with respect to
the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the  federal  Constitution
and remand the case to the state supreme court for further
proceedings, because the state and federal constitutional
issues  are  so  intertwined  that  the  federal  issue  must  be
decided so that this case may be disposed of properly.

(C)  Refuse to review the decision of the state supreme court,
because  it  is  based  on  an  adequate  and  independent

48

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

ground of state law.

(D)  Refuse to review the decision of the state supreme court,
because  a  state  government  may  not  seek  review  of
decisions of its own courts in the United States Supreme
Court.

Answer 2: Choice (B) is correct. Although the state supreme
court  made  a  finding  about  what  the  state  constitution
required, this decision was not truly “independent” of federal
constitutional  law,  because  the  facts  make  it  clear  that  the
state court was first determining what the federal Constitution
required,  and  only  then  concluding  that  the  state  constitution
required  the  same  thing.  Therefore,  the  Supreme  Court  can
and  should  correct 
in  federal
constitutional  law.  Once  the  Supreme  Court  has  done  this,  it
should  then  remand  in  order  to  give  the  state  court  the
opportunity to conclude, after further reflection, that the state
constitution’s  ban  on  discriminatory  legislation  goes  further
than the federal ban.

the  state  court’s  error 

Choice  (A)  is  wrong  as  a  pure  matter  of  law:  Even  where
provisions  of  a  state  and  the  federal  Constitution  contain
identical  language,  the  state  court  is  always  free  to  interpret
the state  constitution  as  imposing  different  requirements  than
the apparently-identical federal provision.

Choice  (C)  is  wrong  because,  for  the  reasons  described
above, the state court’s decision was not in fact based on an
adequate and independent state ground.

Choice  (D)  is  wrong  as  a  pure  matter  of  law:  Nothing
prevents  a  state  government  from  seeking  review  of  the
decisions of its own courts in the U.S. Supreme Court, as long
as the decision poses some serious question of federal law.

Question  3:  A  baseball  fan  had  a  fierce  temper  and  an
extremely  loud  voice.  Attending  a  baseball  game  in  which  a
number  of  calls  went  against  the  home  team,  the  fan
repeatedly stood up, brandished his fist, and angrily shouted,
“Kill  the  umpires.”  The  fourth  time  he  engaged  in  this
conduct, many other spectators followed the fan in rising from
their seats, brandishing fists, and shouting, “Kill the umpires.”
The  home  team  lost  the  game.  Although  no  violence  ensued,

49

spectators  crowded  menacingly  around  the  umpires  after  the
game.  As  a  result,  the  umpires  were  able  to  leave  the  field
and stadium only with the help of a massive police escort.

For his conduct, the fan was charged with inciting to riot and
was convicted in a jury trial in state court. He appealed. The
state supreme court reversed his conviction. In its opinion, the
court  discussed  in  detail  decisions  of  the  United  States
Supreme  Court  dealing  with  the  First  Amendment  Free
the  Fourteenth
incorporated 
Speech  Clause  as 
Amendment. At the end of that discussion, however, the court
stated  that  it  “need  not  resolve  how,  on  the  basis  of  these
cases,”  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  would  decide  the
fan’s case. “Instead,” the court stated, “this court has always
given the free-speech guarantee of the state’s constitution the
broadest possible interpretation. As a result, we hold that in
this  case,  where  no  riot  or  other  violence  actually  occurred,
the  state  constitution  does  not  permit  this  conviction  for
incitement to riot to stand.”

into 

The United States Supreme Court grants a writ of certiorari to
review this decision of the state supreme court. In this case,
the United States Supreme Court should
(A)    affirm  the  state  supreme  court’s  decision,  because  the
fan’s  ballpark  shout  is  commonplace  hyperbole  that
cannot,  consistently  with  the  First  and  Fourteenth
Amendments, be punished.

(B)  remand the case to the state supreme court with directions
that it resolve the First and Fourteenth Amendment free-
speech issue that it discussed in such detail.

(C)    dismiss  the  writ  as  improvidently  granted,  because  the
state  supreme  court’s  decision  rests  on  an  independent
and adequate state law ground.

(D)  reverse the decision of the state supreme court, because
incitement  to  violent  action  is  not  speech  protected  by
the First and Fourteenth Amendments.

Answer 3: Choice (C) is correct, because the decision for the
fan was reached entirely on state grounds. The Supreme Court
may hear a case from a state only if the state court judgment
turned on federal grounds. The Court must refuse jurisdiction

50

if  it  finds  adequate  and  independent  non-federal  grounds  to
support the state decision. To be “adequate,” the non-federal
grounds  must  be  fully  dispositive  of  the  case.  To  be
“independent,”  the  state  court’s  interpretation  of  the  state
provision  must  be  based  on  the  court’s  own  reasoning  about
state  law,  not  based  in  whole  or  part  on  the  state  court’s
conclusion about what federal law provides.

Here, the state grounds mentioned by the state supreme court
were “adequate” to support the decision, because that court’s
decision was based entirely on its own practice of giving the
broadest  possible  interpretation  to  the  state  constitution’s
free-speech guarantee. The state grounds were “independent”
because,  although  the  state  court  discussed  in  detail  the
Supreme Court’s First and Fourteenth Amendment decisions,
the  state  court  specifically  stated  that  its  determination  was
independent  of  how  the  Supreme  Court  would  decide  the
federal  constitutionality  of  the  statute.  Because  there  were
both  adequate  and  independent  state  grounds,  the  Court  can
and  should  dismiss  the  writ  of  certiorari  as  improvidently
granted.

(A) is wrong because it is an incorrect statement of the law.
First,  the  Court  may  not  hear  the  case  at  all,  for  the  reason
given  in  the  discussion  of  choice  C  above.  But  even  if  the
Court did hear the case, choice A would not explain what the
Court should do. One of the categories of speech unprotected
by the First Amendment is “fighting words” — that is, words
that  are  likely  to  induce  the  person  to  whom  they  are
addressed  to  commit  an  immediate  act  of  violence.  (To
constitute “fighting words” it is not enough that the speaker’s
words  make  the  listeners  angry;  an  incitement  to  immediate
violence  is  required.)  The  fan’s  ballpark  shout  could
constitutionally  be  punished  under  this  “fighting  words”
doctrine,  because  it  tended  to  incite  the  other  spectators  to
violence.
(B) is wrong because the state court’s decision was reached
on independent state grounds. The Court may not hear the case
due  to  the  presence  of  an  independent  and  adequate  state
ground,  as  described  in  the  discussion  of  choice  C  above.
Therefore,  the  Court  does  not  have  jurisdiction  to  issue  a

51

“remand” (which is itself an exercise of federal jurisdiction,
and thus inappropriate here).

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Court  does  not  have  jurisdiction.
The  Court  may  not  hear  the  case  due  to  the  presence  of  an
independent  and  adequate  state  ground,  as  described  in  the
discussion of choice C above. Therefore, the Court does not
have  jurisdiction  to  reverse  the  state  court  decision.  (If  the
Court did have jurisdiction, because the state court had rested
its  decision  partly  or  fully  on  federal-constitutional  grounds,
then  choice  D  would  be  a  correct  statement  of  what  the
Supreme Court should do, since incitement to violent action is
not protected speech, under the “fighting words” doctrine.)

B.  Supreme Court’s jurisdiction

Question 4: A federal statute provides that the United States
Supreme  Court  has  authority  to  review  any  case  filed  in  a
United States court of appeals, even though that case has not
yet been decided by the court of appeals.

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), an agency in the
executive  branch  of  the  federal  government,  issued  an
important  environmental  rule.  Although  the  rule  had  not  yet
been  enforced  against  them,  companies  that  would  be
adversely  affected  by  the  rule  filed  a  petition  for  review  of
the  rule  in  a  court  of  appeals,  seeking  a  declaration  that  the
rule  was  invalid  solely  because  it  was  beyond  the  statutory
authority  of  the  EPA.  The  companies  made  no  constitutional
claim.  A  statute  specifically  provides  for  direct  review  of
EPA rules by a court of appeals without any initial action in a
district court.

The companies have filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in
the Supreme Court requesting immediate review of this case
by the Supreme Court before the court of appeals has actually
decided  the  case.  The  EPA  acknowledges  that  the  case  is
important enough to warrant Supreme Court review and that it
should be decided promptly, but it asks the Supreme Court to
dismiss the petition on jurisdictional grounds.
The  best  constitutional  argument  in  support  of  the  EPA’s
request is that
(A)    the  case  is  not  within  the  original  jurisdiction  of  the

52

Supreme Court as defined by Article III, and it is not a
proper  subject  of  that  court’s  appellate  jurisdiction
because it has not yet been decided by any lower court.

(B)    the  case  is  appellate  in  nature,  but  it  is  beyond  the
appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court,  because
Article  III  states  that  its  jurisdiction  extends  only  to
cases arising under the Constitution.

(C)    Article  III  precludes  federal  courts  from  reviewing  the
validity  of  any  federal  agency  rule  in  any  proceeding
other than an action to enforce the rule.

(D)    Article  III  provides  that  all  federal  cases,  except  those
within  the  original  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court,
must be initiated by an action in a federal district court.

the  Court’s  original  nor  appellate 

Answer 4: Choice (A) is correct, because no lower court has
yet  reached  a  decision  in  the  case.  The  best  argument  in
support  of  the  EPA’s  request  that  the  Supreme  Court  dismiss
the petition on jurisdictional grounds is that the case is within
neither 
jurisdiction.
Original  jurisdiction:  Under  Article  III,  §  2,  the  Supreme
Court  has  original  jurisdiction  in  (and  only  in)  all  cases
affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  and  counsels,
and those in which a state shall be a party. The case here does
not  involve  any  of  those  categories,  so  original  jurisdiction
does not exist.

Appellate jurisdiction: Article III, § 2, also provides that in
those  cases  arising  under  the  Constitution,  by  an  Act  of
Congress,  or  by  treaty,  the  Supreme  Court  shall  have
appellate  jurisdiction.  It’s  true  that,  as  the  facts  tell  us,  a
federal  statute  gives  the  Supreme  Court  the  authority  to
review any case filed in a U.S. court of appeals, even though
that case has not yet been decided by the court of appeals. But
that  statute  presumes  a  decision  by  a  lower  court,  which
hasn’t  yet  happened  in  this  case.  Indeed,  for  the  Supreme
Court  to  hear  this  case,  in  the  absence  of  any  lower-court
decision, would not be an exercise of “appellate” jurisdiction
at all — there is no decision being appealed from.
(B) is wrong because the answer is an inaccurate statement of
what  Article  III  provides.  Article  III,  §  2,  provides  that  in
addition to cases arising under the Constitution, the Supreme

53

Court  shall  have  appellate  jurisdiction  in  cases  arising
relating  to  an  act  of  Congress  or  a  treaty.  So  insofar  as  this
choice  says  that  the  Supreme  Court’s  appellate  jurisdiction
extends “only” to cases “arising under the Constitution” (and
implies that there is no jurisdiction over cases arising under
federal statutes), it’s flatly wrong.

(C) is wrong because the answer is an inaccurate statement of
the  law.  Article  III,  §  2,  limits  federal  court  jurisdiction  to
“cases” and “controversies” and so the federal courts may not
issue “advisory opinions” (i.e., opinions giving advice about
particular  legislative  or  executive  action,  when  no  party  is
before  the  court  who  has  suffered  or  imminently  faces
specific 
issue
declaratory  judgments,  where  the  court  is  not  requested  to
award  damages  or  an  injunction,  but  rather  is  requested  to
state  what  the  legal  effect  would  be  of  proposed  conduct  by
one of the parties. Because an action for declaratory judgment
would be within federal courts’ Article III power, yet such an
action would not be an “action to enforce the rule,” choice C
is wrong.

injury).  Federal  courts  can,  however, 

(D) is wrong because the answer is an inaccurate statement of
the  law.  This  choice  states  that  all  federal  cases  not  falling
within  the  Supreme  Court’s  original  jurisdiction  must  be
“initiated  by  an  action  in  federal  district  court.”  This  is
simply an untrue statement. For example, the Court may hear a
case  originally  filed  with  and  heard  by  a  U.S.  court  of
appeals, if Congress authorizes this arrangement.

II.   CONGRESS’S CONTROL OF FEDERAL

JUDICIAL POWER

A.  Congress’s power to decide

1.  Limits by Congress

Question 5: Assume that Congress passed and the President
signed the following statute:
“The  appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States  Supreme
Court  shall  not  extend 
the
constitutionality of any state statute limiting the circumstances

to  any  case 

involving 

54

in  which  a  woman  may  obtain  an  abortion,  or  involving  the
constitutionality of this statute.”

The  strongest  argument  against  the  constitutionality  of  this
statute is that

(A)  Congress may not exercise its authority over the appellate
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in a way that seriously
interferes  with  the  establishment  of  a  supreme  and
uniform body of federal constitutional law.

(B)  Congress may only regulate the appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court over cases initially arising in federal
courts.

(C)  the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court may only

be altered by constitutional amendment.

(D)    the  statute  violates  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the

Fourteenth Amendment.

Answer  5:  The  correct  choice  is  (A).  In  cases  not  falling
within  the  Supreme  Court’s  original  jurisdiction  (e.g.,  cases
in which a state is a party), the Supreme Court has “appellate
Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions,
and  under  such  Regulations  as  the  Congress  shall  make.”
(Article  III,  Sec.  2,  Cl.  2.)  So  Congress,  acting  under  this
clause,  has  the  power  to  regulate  (including  limit)  the
appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court.  However,  the
Court  held  in  U.S.  v.  Klein  that  Congress  cannot  use  this
power to specify jurisdiction as a “mean to an end” to make a
particular  substantive  question  come  out  a  certain  way.
Choice  (A)  best  captures  this  limitation,  by  suggesting  that
Congress  was  attempting  to  freeze  then-current  abortion  law
and  to  prevent  a  future  Supreme  Court  from  developing
constitutional  law  in  this  area  as  the  Court  sees  fit.  This
argument  might  not  succeed,  but  it  is  the  only  choice  that
could even theoretically work.
(B)  is  simply  wrong — Congress  can  under  Article  III,  Sec.
2,  Cl.  2  regulate  the  appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme
Court  whether  the  case  originally  arose  in  federal  court  or
state court (and the only significance of where the case arose
is  that  in  those  rare  cases  falling  within  the  original
jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court  itself,  no  “appellate

55

jurisdiction”  is  necessary,  so  that  there  is  no  appellate
jurisdiction which Congress might limit.)

(C)  is  also  simply  wrong — as  discussed  in  (A)  above,
Article  III,  Sec.  2,  Cl.  2  lets  Congress,  acting  without  a
constitutional amendment, change the appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment’s  Equal
Protection  Clause  protects  only  against  classifications  made
by state governments, and if there is any classification being
made  here  (doubtful),  it  is  being  made  by  Congress,  not  a
state.

Question 6: Which of the following acts by the United States
Senate would be constitutionally IMPROPER?

(A)  The Senate decides, with the House of Representatives,
that  a  disputed  state  ratification  of  a  proposed
constitutional amendment is valid.

(B)  The Senate determines the eligibility of a person to serve

as a senator.

(C)  The Senate appoints a commission to adjudicate finally a

boundary dispute between two states.

(D)  The Senate passes a resolution calling on the President to

pursue a certain foreign policy.

Answer 6: Choice (C) is correct. Art. III, Sec. 2, says that the
federal judicial power extends “to controversies between two
or more States.” Art. III, Sec. 3 then says that “in all cases . . .
in which a State shall be a Party, the supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction.” That same article says that the Supreme
jurisdiction”  shall  be  “with  such
Court’s  “appellate 
exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make.”  There  is  no  similar  provision  allowing  Congress  to
make exceptions to (i.e., restrictions on) the Supreme Court’s
original  jurisdiction,  so  Congress  can’t  restrict  the  Supreme
Court’s  original  jurisdiction.  Since  a  boundary  dispute
between two states is a dispute in which “a State shall be a
Party,” since the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction over
cases involving a party, and since Congress is not authorized
to  limit  the  Supreme  Court’s  original  jurisdiction,  it  follows
that  Congress  cannot  “adjudicate  finally”  (i.e.,  remove  the

56

Supreme Court’s right to adjudicate) the boundary dispute.

Choice  (A)  is  wrong  because,  under  Coleman  v.  Miller
(1939),  the  House  and  Senate  together  do  have  the  right
(indeed, the exclusive right) to determine whether a disputed
state ratification of an amendment is valid.

Choice  (B)  is  incorrect  because  the  Senate  does  have  the
power  to  determine  the  eligibility  of  its  members — Art.  I,
Sec. 5, Cl. 1 says that “each House shall be the judge of the
Elections, Returns, and Qualifications of its own Members.”

Choice  (D)  is  wrong  because  Art.  I,  Sec.  7,  Cl.  3  says  that
“Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence
of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary
. . . shall be presented to the President of the United States[.]”
This  clause  implicitly  gives  each  House  the  power  to  adopt
resolutions;  a  resolution  will  not  become  law  unless  signed
by  the  President,  but  the  clause  means  that  either  House’s
adoption of a resolution is proper.

57

CHAPTER 2
POWERS OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT; THE SEPARATION OF
POWERS

I.    POWERS OF THE THREE FEDERAL

BRANCHES

A.  Powers of the three branches

1.  Congress

a.  Federal property

Question 7:  The  National  Ecological  Balance  Act  prohibits
the  destruction  or  removal  of  any  wild  animals  located  on
lands owned by the United States without express permission
from the Federal Bureau of Land Management. Violators are
subject to fines of up to $1,000 per offense.

After  substantial  property  damage  was  inflicted  on  residents
of  a  state  by  hungry  coyotes,  the  state  legislature  passed  the
Coyote Bounty Bill, which offers $25 for each coyote killed
or captured within the state. A National Forest, owned by the
federal government, is located entirely within that state. Many
coyotes live in the National Forest.

Without  seeking  permission  from  the  Bureau  of  Land
Management,  a  hunter  shot  several  coyotes  in  the  National
Forest and collected the bounty from the state. As a result, he
was  subsequently  tried  in  federal  district  court,  convicted,
and  fined  $1,000  for  violating  the  National  Ecological
Balance Act. The hunter appealed his conviction to the United
States court of appeals.

On  appeal,  the  court  of  appeals  should  hold  the  National
Ecological Balance Act, as applied to the hunter, to be
(A)  constitutional, because the Property Clause of Article IV,
Section  3,  of  the  Constitution  authorizes  such  federal
statutory controls and sanctions.

(B)    constitutional,  because  Article  I,  Section  8,  of  the

58

Constitution  authorizes  Congress  to  enact  all  laws
necessary and proper to advance the general welfare.
(C)    unconstitutional,  because  Congress  may  not  use  its
delegated powers to override the Tenth Amendment right
of  the  state  to  legislate  in  areas  of  traditional  state
governmental  functions,  such  as  the  protection  of  the
property of its residents.

(D)  unconstitutional, because Congress violates the Full Faith
and Credit Clause of Article IV when it punishes conduct
that has been authorized by state action.

Answer 7: Choice (A) is correct. Art. IV, Sec. 3, Cl. 2 gives
Congress  the  power  to  “make  all  needful  Rules  and
Regulations  respecting 
the  Territory  or  other  Property
belonging to the United States[.]” Since the National Forest is
federally-owned  property,  this  clause  gives  Congress  the
power to pass regulations governing it. Under the Supremacy
Clause,  those  regulations  would  take  precedence  over  any
conflicting  state  regulations,  such  as  the  right  to  kill  coyotes
implied by the state bounty bill.
(B) is wrong because it suggests that there is an independent
congressional power to act to advance “the general welfare.”
This is not so — there’s a power to “tax  and  spend  .  .  .  for
the  general  welfare,”  but  that’s  not  what’s  at  issue  here
(because  Congress  is  doing  pure  regulating,  not  taxing  or
spending).

(C) is wrong because if Congress has been given an explicit
power  in  a  certain  area  (here,  the  power  to  regulate  on
federal  lands),  Congress  can  indeed  override  whatever  right
the  state  might  otherwise  have  to  legislate  in  areas  of
traditional state governmental functions.
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit  Clause  does
not  block  Congress  from  punishing  conduct  that  has  been
authorized by a state; the Clause merely requires one state to
enforce every other state’s judgments.

2.  President

a.  CEO of the U.S., and “Executive Orders”

i.  Direction to private party

59

Question  8:  The  President  issued  an  executive  order  in  an
effort to encourage citizens to use the metric (Celsius) system
of  temperatures.  Sec.  1  of  the  executive  order  requires  the
United States Weather Bureau, a federal executive agency, to
state temperatures only in Celsius in all weather reports. Sec.
2  of  the  executive  order  requires  all  privately  owned
federally  licensed  radio  and  television  stations  giving
weather  reports  to  report  temperatures  only  in  Celsius.  No
federal statute is applicable.

Is the President’s executive order constitutional?

(A)  Sec. 1 is constitutional, but Sec. 2 is not.
(B)  Sec. 2 is constitutional, but Sec. 1 is not.
(C)  Sections 1 and 2 are constitutional.
(D)  Sections 1 and 2 are unconstitutional.
Answer  8:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Sec.  1  of  the  executive
order  is  constitutional,  because  the  President,  as  the  chief
executive  officer  of  the  U.S.  government,  has  authority  to
direct the actions of federal executive agencies, so long as the
President’s  directives  are  not  inconsistent  with  an  act  of
Congress.  (The  facts  state  that  there  is  no  applicable  statute
here.)  Sec.  2  of  the  executive  order  is  unconstitutional.  At
least as a general rule, the President does not have authority
to  direct  the  actions  of  persons  outside  the  executive  branch
unless  the  President’s  direction  is  authorized  by  an  act  of
Congress.  There  are  no  circumstances  presented  in  the  facts
(such  as  a  sudden  attack  on  the  U.S.)  that  might  justify  an
exception to this general rule.

(B), (C), and (D) are wrong because each is inconsistent with
the above analysis.

b.  Pardons

Question 9: Congress passed a bill prohibiting the President
from  granting  a  pardon  to  any  person  who  had  not  served  at
least  one-third  of  the  sentence  imposed  by  the  court  which
convicted that person. The President vetoed the bill, claiming
that it was unconstitutional. Nevertheless, Congress passed it
over his veto by a two-thirds vote of each House.

This act of Congress is

60

(A) 

it  was  enacted  over 
  constitutional,  because 
President’s veto by a two-thirds vote of each House.
(B)  constitutional, because it is a necessary and proper means

the

of carrying out the powers of Congress.

(C)    unconstitutional,  because  it  interferes  with  the  plenary

power of the President to grant pardons.

is 

(D)  unconstitutional, because a Presidential veto based upon
constitutional  grounds  may  be  overridden  only  with  the
concurrence of three-fourths of the state legislatures.
Answer 9: The correct choice is (C). The President’s pardon
power 
indeed  plenary.  Therefore,  when  Congress
purported to place conditions on that power, those conditions
were ineffective. For the same reason, Choices (A), (B), and
(D)  are  wrong.  (By  the  way,  Choice  (D)  is  also  grossly
incorrect  as  a  statement  of  the  law  of  vetoes:  Where  the
President vetoes a bill passed by Congress, Article I, Sec. 7,
Cl.  2  says  that  the  veto  can  be  overwritten  by  a  two-thirds
vote  of  both  Houses.  There  is  no  procedure  by  which  the
concurrence of three-fourths of state legislatures can act as an
overriding method.)

II.   THE FEDERAL COMMERCE POWER

A.  Summary of modern view

1.  “Substantially affecting” commerce

a.  Activity is commercial

Question 10: A federal statute prohibits the sale or resale, in
any  place  in  this  country,  of  any  product  intended  for  human
consumption  or  ingestion  into  the  human  body  that  contains
designated  chemicals  known  to  cause  cancer,  unless  the
product is clearly labeled as dangerous.
The constitutionality of this federal statute may most easily be
justified on the basis of the power of Congress to
(A)  regulate commerce among the states.
(B)  enforce the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C)  provide for the general welfare.
(D)  promote science and the useful arts.

61

Answer  10:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  key  point  is  that
Congress  can  use  its  commerce  powers  to  regulate  even
entirely  intrastate  transactions,  on  the  theory  that  such
transactions  are  being  regulated  as  part  of  a  broader
regulation  of  interstate  transactions,  and  excluding  purely
intrastate  transactions  from  the  overall  scheme  would  be
unwieldy.  So,  for  instance,  Congress  here  can  forbid  a
farmer’s  sale,  at  a  roadside  stand  adjacent  to  his  farm,  of  a
tomato that he had raised, where the farmer sprayed a cancer-
causing  substance  produced  inside  that  same  state  onto  the
tomato — even though this is an entirely intrastate transaction,
it  is  still  a  “commercial”  transaction,  and  can  be  regulated
pursuant 
interstate-commerce
regulatory scheme.

to  Congress’s 

broader 

(B)  is  wrong  for  several  reasons;  most  importantly,  the
Fourteenth Amendment protects only against various conduct
(e.g., denials of equal protection and due process) involving
“state action,” and while Congress has the power to enforce
that Amendment by appropriate legislation, Congress here is
not focused on attempting to prohibit any state from violating
the Amendment.

(C) is wrong because there is no general congressional power
to “provide for the general welfare”; there is only a power to
tax and spend for the general welfare.

(D)  is  similarly  incorrect  because  there  is  no  general
congressional power to “promote science and the useful arts”;
there  is  only  the  limited  power  in  Art.  I,  Sec.  8,  Cl.  8  to
“promote  the  progress  of  science  and  useful  arts”  by
“securing  for  limited  times  to  authors  and  inventors  the
exclusive  right  to  their  respective  writings  and  discoveries”
(i.e., the power to issue patents and copyrights).

Question 11: “Look-alike drugs” is the term used to describe
nonprescription  drugs  that  look  like  narcotic  drugs  and  are
sold on the streets as narcotic drugs. After extensive hearings,
Congress  concluded  that  the  sale  of  look-alike  drugs  was
widespread in this country and was creating severe health and
law  enforcement  problems.  To  combat  these  problems,
Congress  enacted  a  comprehensive  statute  that  regulates  the
manufacture,  distribution,  and  sale  of  all  nonprescription

62

drugs in the United States.

Which of the following sources of constitutional authority can
most  easily  be  used  to  justify  the  authority  of  Congress  to
enact this statute?

(A)  The spending power.
(B)  The Commerce Clause.
(C)  The general welfare clause.
(D)  The enforcement powers of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Answer 11: Choice (B) is correct. All of the activities being
regulated by Congress here — manufacturing, distribution and
sale  of  drugs — pertain  to  commerce.  Therefore,  Congress’s
power to regulate commerce is an ample source of authority
for  the  regulatory  scheme  here.  That  is  true  even  though  the
overall objectives being sought by Congress — the protection
of health and the enforcement of law at the local level — are
arguably “local” concerns traditionally left to the states.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  congressional  statute  here  is
essentially  regulatory,  and  does  not  involve  significant
spending of federal funds.

(C) is wrong because there is no “general welfare” clause in
the  sense  of  a  freestanding  congressional  power  to  legislate
for the general welfare; there is, instead, only the power to tax
and spend to achieve the general welfare, and Congress is not
doing meaningful taxing or spending in the regulation at issue
here.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  protects
only against various conduct (e.g., denials of equal protection
and  due  process)  involving  “state  action,”  and  while
Congress  has  the  power  to  enforce  that  Amendment  by
appropriate  legislation,  Congress  here  is  not  focused  on
attempting  to  prohibit  states  from  violating  the  Amendment;
for  instance,  there  is  no  indication  that  Congress  is  trying  to
prevent  the  states  from  discriminating  in  the  sale  of
nonprescription drugs or from denying anyone due process as
to such drugs.

legislation
Question  12:  Congress  wishes 
prohibiting discrimination in the sale or rental of housing on

to  enact 

63

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

the basis of the affectional preference or sexual orientation of
the potential purchaser or renter. Congress wishes this statute
to  apply  to  all  public  and  private  vendors  and  lessors  of
residential  property  in  this  country,  with  a  few  narrowly
drawn exceptions.

The  most  credible  argument  for  congressional  authority  to
enact such a statute would be based upon the

(A)    general  welfare  clause  of  Article  I,  Section  8,  because
the  conduct  the  statute  prohibits  could  reasonably  be
deemed to be harmful to the national interest.

(B)    Commerce  Clause  of  Article  I,  Section  8,  because,  in
inseverable  aggregates,  the  sale  or  rental  of  almost  all
housing  in  this  country  could  reasonably  be  deemed  to
have a substantial effect on interstate commerce.

(C)  enforcement clause of the Thirteenth Amendment, because
that Amendment clearly prohibits discrimination against
the class of persons protected by this statute.

(D)    enforcement  clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,
because that Amendment prohibits all public and private
actors from engaging in irrational discrimination.

Answer 12:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  the  “substantial
effect  on  commerce”  rationale  has  been  accepted  by  the
Supreme  Court.  For  instance,  in  Wickard  v.  Filburn  (1942),
the  Court  held  that  Congress  could  regulate  even  the
consumption  of  wheat  on  the  farm  where  it  was  produced,
because  such  intrastate  uses,  when  aggregated,  had  a
substantial effect on interstate commerce. The same principle
would apply here: (1) the rental or sale of property is clearly
“commercial”;  and  (2)  even  a  local  (“intrastate”)  sale  or
rental of property would indirectly affect interstate commerce
(e.g.,  by  substantially  affecting  the  demand  for  housing-
construction materials from out of state).
Note  that  this  question  does  not  raise  the  same  commerce
problem as N.F.I.B. v. Sebelius (2012), where the Court said
that  the  commerce  power  doesn’t  allow  Congress  to  require
someone who is not presently in the market for an interstate
good or service to buy or sell such a good or service. Here,
the  statute  implicitly  applies  only  to  one  who  is  already

64

proposing to rent or sell housing property, and all the statute
does  is  to  prevent  the  seller  or  landlord  from  engaging  in
certain types of discrimination in choosing the other party. But
suppose  Congress  instead  passed  a  statute  saying,  “Anyone
who  has  a  vacant  housing  unit  that  is  suitable  for  habitation
must  make  good  faith  efforts  to  rent  it  to  the  first  financially
qualified  applicant  for  no  more  than  $x  per  square  foot  per
year.” This statute would run afoul of N.F.I.B. (i.e., would be
beyond  Congress’s  commerce  powers),  because  Congress
would be forcing someone not already in the “be a landlord”
market to enter that market.

(A) is wrong, because Congress has no power to regulate for
the general welfare. Article I § 8 gives Congress the power to
“tax and spend” for the general welfare, but that’s not what’s
happening here — what’s happening here is pure regulation.

(C)  is  wrong,  because  the  Thirteenth  Amendment  almost
certainly cannot be used to protect against sexual-orientation
discrimination. The Thirteenth Amendment expressly protects
against slavery. Its enforcement clause has been interpreted to
allow  Congress  to  legislate  against  the  “badges  of  slavery,”
and  to  prohibit  even  private  actors  from  practicing  racial
discrimination. The Court has never held that the Amendment
may  be  used  outside  of  the  racial  area.  It’s  possible  (though
not  certain)  that  Congress  could  rely  on  the  Amendment  to
prohibit  private  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  ethnicity  and
national origin in addition to race, since these are similar to
racial  discrimination.  But 
the
Amendment  can  be  used  to  bar  private  discrimination  on
grounds so distinct from slavery as sexual orientation.

it’s  very  unlikely 

that 

(D) is wrong, because it is a misstatement of law. The Equal
Protection  Clause  of 
the  Fourteenth  Amendment  bars
discrimination only when there is state action. When a purely
private actor practices discrimination, Congress’s Fourteenth
Amendment § 5 remedial powers do not permit it to prohibit
that  discrimination.  So,  although  Congress  could  probably
rely  on  its  §  5  powers  to  prohibit  public  entities  (states  and
cities, for instance) from discriminating on grounds of sexual
orientation, if there was evidence such entities had frequently
committed such discrimination in the past, Congress cannot do

65

so  with  respect  to  purely  private  discrimination.  See,  e.g.,
U.S.  v.  Morrison  (2000)  (Congress  can’t  use  its  Fourteenth
Amendment  §  5  powers  to  let  victims  of  gender-motivated
violent crimes sue in federal court).

B.  The Tenth Amendment as a limit on Congress’s power

Question 13:  A  federal  law  provides  that  all  motor  vehicle
tires  discarded  in  this  country  must  be  disposed  of  in
facilities  licensed  by  the  federal  Environmental  Protection
Agency.  Pursuant  to  this  federal  law  and  all  proper  federal
procedural  requirements,  that  agency  has  adopted  very  strict
standards for the licensing of such facilities. As a result, the
cost of disposing of tires in licensed facilities is substantial.
The  state  of  East  Dakota  has  a  very  large  fleet  of  motor
vehicles,  including  trucks  used  to  support  state-owned
commercial activities and police cars. East Dakota disposes
of  used  tires  from  both  kinds  of  state  motor  vehicles  in  a
state-owned  and  -operated  facility.  This  state  facility  is
unlicensed, but its operation in actual practice meets most of
the  standards 
federal  Environmental
Protection Agency on facilities it licenses to dispose of tires.

imposed  by 

the 

Consistent with United States Supreme Court precedent, may
the state of East Dakota continue to dispose of its used tires in
this manner?

(A)  No, because a state must comply with valid federal laws
that regulate matters affecting interstate commerce.
(B)  No, because some of the tires come from vehicles that are
used by the state solely in its commercial activities.
(C)    Yes,  because  some  of  the  tires  come  from  vehicles  that
are  used  by  the  state  in  the  performance  of  core  state
governmental functions such as law enforcement.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  legitimate  needs  of  the  federal
government  are  satisfied  by  the  fact  that  the  unlicensed
state disposal scheme meets, in actual practice, most of
the federal standards for the licensing of such facilities.

Answer 13:  The  correct  choice  is  (A).  The  federal  law  on
tire  disposal  was  a  proper  exercise  of  Congress’s  power  to
regulate interstate commerce, so the law was validly enacted.
The  fact  that  Congress  has  chosen  to  regulate  the  actions  of

66

state governments does not prevent an otherwise-valid statute
from being constitutional. There is one major exception — the
Tenth Amendment prevents Congress from “commandeer[ing]
the legislative processes of the states” by directly compelling
states to enact or enforce a federal regulatory program [New
York  v.  U.S.]  But  here,  although  Congress  is  regulating  the
states,  it  is  not  forcing  the  states  to  enact  or  enforce  any
federal regulatory program (merely forcing the states to obey
the federal program in the state’s own internal operations), so
the exception does not apply.

Choice (B) is wrong because, although it reaches the correct
conclusion, it does so for the wrong reasons; even if none of
the tires came from vehicles used by the state in commercial
activities, the federal regulation would still be valid.

Choice (C) is wrong because Congress has power to regulate
interstate commerce in a way that binds the states, and there is
no  exception  to  this  power  for  regulation  of  “core  state
if
governmental  functions”  (although  as  noted  above, 
Congress were actually ordering the state to enact or enforce
a  regulatory  program,  this  would  be  beyond  Congress’s
commerce powers).
Choice (D) is wrong because the fact that the unlicensed state
disposal  facility  meets  most  federal  standards  is  irrelevant;
Congress has the power to insist that the state strictly obey the
federal  requirement  that  only  licensed  disposal  facilities  be
used.

1.  Not a source of state authority

Question  14:  Widgets  are  manufactured  wholly  from  raw
materials mined and processed in the state of Green. The only
two  manufacturers  of  widgets  in  the  United  States  are  also
located in that state. However, their widgets are purchased by
retailers located in every state. The legislature of the state of
Green  is  considering  the  adoption  of  a  statute  that  would
impose a tax solely on the manufacture of widgets. The tax is
to be calculated at 3% of their wholesale value.
Which of the following arguments would be LEAST helpful to
the  state  in  defending  the  constitutionality  of  this  proposed
state tax on widgets?

67

(A)  At the time widgets are manufactured and taxed they have
not yet entered the channels of interstate commerce.
(B)  The economic impact of this tax will be passed on to both
in-state  and  out-of-state  purchasers  of  widgets  and,
therefore, it is wholly nondiscriminatory in its effect.
(C)    Because  of  the  powers  reserved  to  them  by  the  Tenth
Amendment,  states  have  plenary  authority  to  construct
their tax system in any manner they choose.

(D)  A tax on the manufacture of widgets may be imposed only
by  the  state  in  which  the  manufacturing  occurs  and,
therefore,  it  is  not  likely  to  create  the  danger  of  a
multiple tax burden on interstate commerce.

Answer 14:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  If  this  tax  scheme  has  a
problem, the problem is likely to have to do with the fact that
Green  is  imposing  a  tax  on  widgets  that  are  shipped
throughout  the  U.S.,  and  that  tax  may  be  a  burden  on
commerce. The Tenth Amendment does not solve this problem
for  Green — if  Green  is  unduly  burdening  commerce,  the
Tenth Amendment won’t save it. And it’s certainly inaccurate
to say that the states “have plenary authority to construct their
tax  system  in  any  manner  they  choose” — for  instance,  if  a
state intentionally designs its tax system so as to put most of
the  burden  on  out-of-staters  who  derive  some  revenue  from
customers  in  the  state  and  who  don’t  vote  in  state  elections,
the  scheme  would  clearly  violate  the  dormant  commerce
clause.

(A),  (B),  and  (D)  each  arguably  helps  the  state  rebut  the
plaintiff’s  argument  that  the  tax  is  an  undue  burden  on
commerce  and  that  it  thus  violates  the  dormant  commerce
clause.  Therefore,  each  of  these  arguments  might  help  the
state.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

III.  THE TAXING AND SPENDING POWERS

A.  Taxing power

1.  Regulation

a.  Adverse economic consequences no problem

Question 

15:  The  Sports  Championship  Revenue

68

Enhancement Act is a federal statute that was enacted as part
of  a  comprehensive  program  to  eliminate  the  federal  budget
deficit.  That  act  imposed,  for  a  period  of  five  years,  a  50%
excise  tax  on  the  price  of  tickets  to  championship  sporting
events.  Such  events  included  the  World  Series,  the  Super
Bowl, major college bowl games, and similar championship
sports events.

This federal tax is probably

(A)  constitutional, because the compelling national interest in
reducing the federal budget deficit justifies this tax as a
temporary emergency measure.

(B)  constitutional, because an act of Congress that appears to
be a revenue raising measure on its face is not rendered
it  may  have  adverse  economic
invalid  because 
consequences for the activity taxed.

(C)    unconstitutional,  because  a  50%  tax  is  likely  to  reduce
attendance  at  championship  sporting  events  and,
therefore,  is  not  rationally  related  to  the  legitimate
interest of Congress in eliminating the budget deficit.
(D)    unconstitutional,  because  Congress  violates  the  equal
protection component of the Fifth Amendment by singling
out  championship  sporting  events  for  this  tax  while
tax  other  major  sporting,  artistic,  or
failing 
entertainment events to which tickets are sold.

to 

Answer  15:  Choice  (B)  is  correct;  a  federal  tax  that  will
raise revenue is not rendered invalid by virtue of the fact that
it  has  regulatory  consequences,  including  a  lessening  of
demand  for  the  product  or  activity  being  taxed.  (That’s  true,
by the way, whether or not Congress intended that lessening of
demand.)

(A) is incorrect because the tax would be valid as a revenue-
raising measure even in the absence of a compelling national
interest.
(C)  is  incorrect  for  the  same  reason  that  Choice  (B)  is
correct — as long as the tax is on its face a revenue-raiser, it
does  not  even  have  to  be  rationally  related  to  some  broader
federal interest like deficit-reduction (and in any event the tax
probably is rationally related to deficit-reduction even though

69

sporting attendance may go down — the rational-relation test
is very easy to satisfy, and you should beware of any choice
that  requires  you  to  conclude  that  a  means  chosen  by
to  a  particular
government 
governmental goal).

rationally 

is  not 

related 

(D)  is  incorrect  because  where,  as  here,  a  legislative
classification involves economics and does not implicate any
suspect  class  or  fundamental  right,  equal  protection  is
satisfied  as  long  as  the  classification  is  rationally  related  to
the  achievement  of  some  legitimate  governmental  objective;
here,  the  objective  is  revenue-raising,  and  the  fact  that  other
similar  activities  are  spared  the  tax  does  not  prevent  the  tax
from being rationally-related to that objective.

b.  No relation needed between activity taxed and how funds

are spent

Question 16: In order to provide funds for a system of new
major airports near the ten largest cities in the United States,
Congress levies a tax of $25 on each airline ticket issued in
the United States. The tax applies to every airline ticket, even
those for travel that does not originate in, terminate at, or pass
through any of those ten large cities.

As  applied  to  the  issuance  in  the  United  States  of  an  airline
ticket for travel between two cities that will not be served by
any of the new airports, this tax is

(A)  constitutional, because Congress has broad discretion in
choosing  the  subjects  of  its  taxation  and  may  impose
taxes on subjects that have no relation to the purpose for
which those tax funds will be expended.

(B)    constitutional,  because  an  exemption  for  the  issuance  of
tickets  for  travel  between  cities  that  will  not  be  served
by  the  new  airports  would  deny  the  purchasers  of  all
other tickets the equal protection of the laws.

(C)  unconstitutional, because the burden of the tax outweighs
its  benefits  for  passengers  whose  travel  does  not
originate in, terminate at, or pass through any of the ten
largest cities.

(D)    unconstitutional,  because  the  tax  adversely  affects  the

fundamental right to travel.

70

Answer  16:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  choice  accurately
restates the fundamental rule about Congress’s power to tax:
As long as Congress can rationally be said to be pursuing the
general  welfare  (not  a  meaningful  constraint),  Congress  can
pick  pretty  much  any  activity  it  wishes  as  the  subject  of
taxation, and can then spend the funds for a purpose that has
no  relation  to  the  activity  taxed.  So  here,  the  fact  that
Congress is taxing trips that do not involve the 10 large cities,
and  then  spending  the  funds  solely  for  the  benefit  of
passengers whose travel does involve those 10 cities, makes
no difference.

(B) is wrong because, although the main conclusion is correct
(that the tax is constitutional), giving an exemption for cities
that would not be served would certainly not deny any other
purchasers  equal  protection.  In  the  case  of  economic
regulation not involving a suspect class or fundamental right,
the classification scheme merely needs to withstand easy-to-
satisfy  mere-rationality  review,  and  giving  an  exemption  for
travel  between  cities  not  involving  the  new  airports  would
certainly pass this easy test.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  burden/benefit  analysis  used  here
would not be the proper test for a federally-imposed tax; the
burden/benefit  analysis  would  be  a  proper  way  to  analyze  a
state  regulation  that  might  burden  interstate  travel  and  thus
violate the dormant commerce clause, but the regulation here
is not by a state.

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  Supreme  Court  has
occasionally  recognized  a  fundamental  “right  to  travel”  for
equal  protection  purposes,  these  cases  have  involved  what
would better be called the right to “migrate interstate,” (e.g.,
the  right  to  change  one’s  state  of  residence  and  still  receive
welfare benefits), not the right to take a trip from one state to
another.

B.  Spending power

1.  General welfare

Question  17:  A  newly  enacted  federal  statute  appropriates
$100  million  in  federal  funds  to  support  basic  research  by
universities located in the United States. The statute provides

71

that “the ten best universities in the United States” will each
receive  $10  million.  It  also  provides  that  “the  ten  best
universities” shall be “determined by a poll of the presidents
of  all  the  universities  in  the  nation,  to  be  conducted  by  the
United States Department of Education.” In responding to that
poll, each university president is required to apply the well-
recognized  and  generally  accepted  standards  of  academic
quality that are specified in the statute. The provisions of the
statute are inseverable.

Which  of  the  following  statements  about  this  statute  is
correct?

(A)    The  statute  is  unconstitutional,  because  the  reliance  by
Congress  on  a  poll  of  individuals  who  are  not  federal
officials  to  determine  the  recipients  of  its  appropriated
funds  is  an  unconstitutional  delegation  of  legislative
power.

(B)  The statute is unconstitutional, because the limitation on
recipients  to  the  ten  best  universities  is  arbitrary  and
capricious and denies other high-quality universities the
equal protection of the laws.

(C)    The  statute  is  constitutional,  because  Congress  has
plenary authority to determine the objects of its spending
and  the  methods  used  to  achieve  them,  so  long  as  they
may reasonably be deemed to serve the general welfare
and  do  not  violate  any  prohibitory  language  in  the
Constitution.

(D)  The validity of the statute is nonjusticiable, because the
use  by  Congress  of  its  spending  power  necessarily
involves  political  considerations  that  must  be  resolved
finally  by  those  branches  of  the  government  that  are
closest to the political process.

Answer 17: Choice (C) is correct. Although Congress, when
it  spends,  must  spend  “for  the  general  welfare,”  this  test  is
extremely easy to satisfy — as the choice correctly states, all
that is required is that the spending be “reasonably deemed to
serve  the  general  welfare,”  and  that  it  not  violate  some
specific  constitutional  ban  (e.g.,  the  Establishment  Clause’s
ban on spending for the purpose of advancing religion). Since
Congress  could  rationally  have  believed  that  rewarding  the

72

“best  universities”  would  promote  the  country’s  general
welfare,  and  that  determining  the  “ten  best”  by  this  kind  of
vote  was  a  rational  way  to  go  about  attaining  that  end,  the
spending is constitutional.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  statute  here  is  an  acceptable
exercise  of  legislative  delegation:  Congress  has  made  it
reasonably  clear  to  the  Dept.  of  Education  what  they  are  to
do, and how they are to do it, so there is no “unconstitutional
delegation” despite the fact that non-federal officials will be
somehow involved in the process.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  when  a  governmental  classification
does  not  involve  a  suspect  or  semi-suspect  class  or
fundamental  right,  equal  protection  requires  only  a  rational
relation  between 
legitimate
governmental objective, and the means and end here meet this
easy-to-satisfy  standard.  (To  put  it  another  way,  limiting  the
money to the “top ten,” and picking the top ten this way, are
not “arbitrary and capricious” methods.)

the  means  chosen  and  a 

(D) is wrong because the mere fact that Congress’s use of its
spending power is being challenged does not make the matter
a nonjusticiable political question.

IV.  THE SEPARATION OF POWERS

A.  Separation of powers generally

1.  President can’t make the laws

a.  Delegation

i.  Requirements for delegation

Question 18: Congress passed a statute directing the United
States Forest Service, a federal agency, to issue regulations to
control  campfires  on  federal  public  lands  and  to  establish  a
schedule  of  penalties  for  those  who  violate  the  new
regulations.  The  statute  provided  that  the  Forest  Service
regulations  should  “reduce,  to  the  maximum  extent  feasible,
all  potential  hazards  that  arise  from  campfires  on  Forest
Service lands.” The Forest Service issued the regulations and
the  schedule  of  penalties  directed  by  Congress.  The

73

regulations include a rule that provides for the doubling of the
fine  for  any  negligent  or  prohibited  use  of  fire  if  the  user  is
intoxicated by alcohol or drugs.

Which of the following is the best argument for sustaining the
constitutionality of the Forest Service’s rule providing for the
fines?

(A)  The executive branch of government, of which the Forest
Service  is  part,  has  inherent  rule-making  authority  over
public lands.

(B)    The  rule  is  issued  pursuant  to  a  valid  exercise  of
Congress’s  power  to  delegate  rule-  making  authority  to
federal agencies.

(C)    The  rule  is  justified  by  a  compelling  governmental

interest in safeguarding forest resources.

(D)  The rule relates directly to law enforcement, which is an
executive  rather  than  legislative  function,  and  hence  it
does not need specific congressional authorization.
Answer  18:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Congress  can  only
delegate powers it possesses, so you first have to determine
whether Congress itself has power to regulate federal lands.
The  answer  is  “yes,”  because  Art.  I,  Sec.  8,  Cl.  17  gives
Congress power to regulate federal lands. Next, you have to
determine whether Congress validly delegated this power that
it  possesses.  Here,  too,  the  answer  is  “yes.”  Congress  may
delegate  rule-making  authority  to  federal  agencies  through
statutes  that  set  concrete  objectives  for  the  agency,  and  that
list  adequate  criteria  for  carrying  out  those  objectives.  The
Supreme  Court  has  been  very  deferential  in  applying  these
“concrete  objectives”  and  “adequate  criteria”  requirements.
The  objective  being  pursued  here  (control  of  campfires  on
federal lands) is quite concrete, and the criteria specified by
Congress  for  achieving  that  objective  (use  of  a  penalty
schedule  for  rule  violators)  seem  quite  adequate.  Therefore,
the  statute’s  provision  of  authority  to  the  Forest  Service
would likely be held to satisfy the requirements.
(A) is incorrect, because the executive branch does not have
inherent  rule-making  authority  over  public  lands.  The  only
source of federal power to regulate public lands is the grant

74

in Art. I, Sec. 8, Cl. 17, to Congress to regulate such lands, as
discussed  above.  So  the  executive’s  rule-making  authority
over  public  lands  comes  from  delegation  by  Congress,  not
from any inherent authority.

is  wrong  because 

the  compelling  nature  of 

(C) 
the
government’s  regulatory  interest  is  neither  necessary  nor
sufficient  to  justify  the  Forest  Service’s  regulation.  The
constitutional  requirement  is  merely  that  the  regulation  be
pursuant to a valid act of Congress, and that it not violate any
specific  constitutional  prohibition.  Since  the  act  is  a  valid
exercise  of  Congress’s  power  to  regulate  federal  lands,  and
since  the  delegation  was  validly  done  (as  described  in  (B)
above),  that’s  the  end  of  the  matter,  and  the  strength  of  the
federal interest never becomes relevant.

(D)  is  wrong  because,  although  law  enforcement  is  an
executive function, the constitutional exercise of that function
requires  that  the  executive  act  pursuant  to  congressional
authorization provided by law.

2.  Presidential Commissions

Question 19:  The  vaccination  of  children  against  childhood
contagious  diseases  (such  as  measles,  diphtheria,  and
whooping cough) has traditionally been a function of private
doctors  and  local  and  state  health  departments.  Because
vaccination rates have declined in recent years, especially in
urban areas, the President proposes to appoint a Presidential
Advisory  Commission  on  Vaccination  which  would  be
charged  with  conducting  a  national  publicity  campaign  to
encourage vaccination as a public health measure. No federal
statute authorizes or prohibits this action by the President. The
activities  of  the  Presidential  Advisory  Commission  on
funds
Vaccination  would  be 
appropriated  by  Congress  to  the  Office  of  the  President  for
“such other purposes as the President may think appropriate.”
May  the  President  constitutionally  create  such  a  commission
for this purpose?
(A)    Yes,  because  the  President  has  plenary  authority  to
provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the people
of the United States.

financed  entirely 

from 

75

(B)  Yes, because this action is within the scope of executive
authority vested in the President by the Constitution, and
no federal statute prohibits it.

(C)    No,  because  the  protection  of  children  against  common
diseases  by  vaccination  is  a  traditional  state  function
and,  therefore,  is  reserved  to  the  states  by  the  Tenth
Amendment.

(D)  No, because Congress has not specifically authorized the
creation and support of such a new federal agency.
Answer  19:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  setting  up  of  a
presidential advisory commission, such as the one here, falls
within  the  President’s  executive  powers — nothing  in  the
facts  indicates  that  the  commission  will  have  legislative  or
judicial powers, so the commission is a proper delegation by
the President of his executive power. As to funding: Congress
has the right to earmark specified federal monies to be spent
as the President shall determine. Therefore, nothing about this
arrangement violates any constitutional provision.
(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  President  does  not  have  “plenary
power  to  provide  for  the  health,  safety,  and  welfare  of  the
people. . . .” For instance, the President does not have power
to  spend  federal  money  for  what  he  determines  to  be  the
health  needs  of  “the  people.”  This  answer  ignores  both  the
source  of  the  President’s  authority  (which  is  limited  to  the
executive  power,  that  is,  the  power  to  see  that  the  laws  are
carried out) and the need for all funding to be appropriated by
Congress.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  states  the  effect  of  the
Tenth  Amendment.  The  Tenth  Amendment  states  that  the
powers  not  delegated  to  the  federal  government  by  the
Constitution, and not prohibited to the states, are reserved to
the  states.  The  Tenth  Amendment  has  relatively  little  force
today as a limit on federal power. (About the only force it has
as  a  limit  on  federal  powers  is  to  prevent  Congress  from
directly  forcing  the  states  to  enact  or  enforce  federal
policies.)  The  Amendment  does  not  mean  that  the  federal
government may not exercise power over a “traditional state
function.” So the fact that vaccination has traditionally been a
function  handled  by  the  states  does  not  mean  that  the  Tenth

76

Amendment  bars  the  federal  government  from  taking  action
with respect to vaccinations.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  Congress  does  not  need  to  authorize
the  creation  of  a  temporary  commission.  An  Advisory
Commission on Vaccination is not a new federal agency — it
is an advisory group, set up for a specific purpose and having
a 
temporary  existence.  The  President  does  not  need
congressional  approval  to  create  such  an  organization.  Nor
has Congress prohibited its creation (which if it had happened
might  bar  creation  of  the  Commission)  because,  as  the  facts
state, no federal statute authorizes or prohibits this action.

3.  The veto power, and Congress’s power to override it

Question 20: An appropriations act passed by Congress over
the President’s veto directs that one billion dollars “shall be
spent”  by  the  federal  government  for  the  development  of  a
new military weapons system, which is available only from a
particular  arms  manufacturer.  On  the  order  of  the  President,
the secretary of defense refuses to authorize a contract for the
purchase  of  the  weapons  system.  The  manufacturer  sues  the
secretary  of  defense,  alleging  an  unlawful  withholding  of
these federal funds.

strongest  constitutional  argument 

The 
manufacturer is that

for 

the  arms

(A)    passage  of  an  appropriation  over  a  veto  makes  the

spending mandatory.

(B)    Congress’s  power  to  appropriate  funds  includes  the
power to require that the funds be spent as directed.
(C)  the President’s independent constitutional powers do not

specifically refer to spending.

(D)  the President’s power to withhold such funds is limited to
cases where foreign affairs are directly involved.

Answer  20:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  it’s  the  only
choice  that  addresses  the  central  issue  under  these  facts,
impoundment,  and  offers  a  solid  argument  for  the  arms
manufacturer.  “Impoundment”  is  the  President’s  refusal  to
spend  funds  appropriated  by  Congress.  The  rule  is  that  the
President  does  not  have  the  power  to  refuse  to  spend  funds
that  were  appropriated  with  an  express  mandate  from

77

Congress  that  the  funds  be  spent.  Kendall  v.  United  States
(1838).  Here,  Congress  mandated  that  the  billion  dollars
“shall  be  spent”  for  the  weapons  system;  thus,  the  President
must authorize the contract for purchase of the system. (Note,
incidentally, that the Supreme Court has decided only that the
President may not impound funds that Congress has expressly
mandated  be  spent;  where  Congress  merely  appropriates
without  an  expresss  “you  must  spend”  direction  to  the
President, the Supreme Court has never decided whether the
President may impound.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  Congress’s  passing  an  appropriation
over a veto does not by itself require the President to spend
the  appropriated  funds.  A  veto  occurs  when  the  President
refuses  to  sign  a  bill  passed  by  Congress.  Congress  can
override  a  presidential  veto  with  a  two-thirds  vote  of  both
Houses.  The  President’s  power  to  impound  does  not  depend
on whether the bill became law because the President signed
it, or because Congress overrode the President’s veto. Rather,
as  noted  in  Choice  (B)  above,  the  Court  has  held  that  the
President does not have the power to impound funds that were
appropriated with an express mandate from Congress that the
funds  be  spent,  a  rule  that  does  not  depend  on  the  exact
process  by  which  the  law  appropriating  the  funds  became
law.
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  argument  it  makes  would  not
funds
authorize 
appropriated  by  Congress.  It’s  true  that  Congress  holds  the
enumerated  power  to  tax  and  spend  for  the  general  welfare.
The  President,  on  the  other  hand,  has  the  power  to  enforce
laws,  which 
includes  carrying  out  spending  programs
authorized  by  Congress  once  those  programs  become  law
(either  because  the  President  signed  the  bill  authorizing  the
program,  or  because  Congress  passed  the  bill  over  the
President’s  veto).  However,  this  choice  doesn’t  specifically
address  whether  the  President  can  refuse  to  spend  funds
appropriated  by  Congress;  the  answer  is  that  he  cannot  so
refuse,  at  least  where  Congress  “directs”  that  he  spend  the
funds, a situation best addressed by Choice (B).
(D) is wrong, because the President’s power of impoundment

the  President 

to  withhold 

spending 

78

does not turn on the subject matter of the legislation. It’s true
that the President holds broad powers with respect to foreign
affairs, and it’s possible that, since the spending here involves
a  weapons  system,  the  President’s  power  to  spend  or  not
spend  would  control.  But  even  if  it  did,  this  certainly
wouldn’t  be  a  good  argument  for  the  arms  manufacturer,
which  would  be  trying  to  argue  that  the  President  has  no
power  to  withhold  spending  funds  Congress  appropriated,
and in this question you’re looking for the manufacturer’s best
argument.  This  choice  ignores  the  central  issue  under  these
facts:  the  President’s  right  of  impoundment,  i.e.,  his  right  to
refuse  to  spend  funds  appropriated  by  Congress.  Choice  (B)
correctly deals with that issue.

4.  Appointment and removal of executive personnel

Question  21:  A  federal  statute  with  inseverable  provisions
established  a  new  five-member  board  with  broad  regulatory
powers  over  the  operation  of  the  securities,  banking,  and
commodities  industries,  including  the  power  to  issue  rules
with  the  force  of  law.  The  statute  provides  for  three  of  the
board  members  to  be  appointed  by  the  President  with  the
advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate.  They  serve  seven-year
terms and are removable only for good cause. The other two
members of the board were designated in the statute to be the
respective  general  counsel  of  the  Senate  and  House  of
Representatives Committees on Government Operations. The
statute stipulated that they were to serve on the board for as
long as they continued in those positions.

Following  all  required  administrative  procedures,  the  board
issued an elaborate set of rules regulating the operations of all
banks,  securities  dealers,  and  commodities  brokers.  A
securities  company,  which  was  subject  to  the  board’s  rules,
sought  a  declaratory  judgment  that  the  rules  were  invalid
because 
board  was
unconstitutional.  In  this  case,  the  court  should  rule  that  the
statute establishing the board is
(A)  unconstitutional, because all members of federal boards
having broad powers that are quasi-legislative in nature,
such as rulemaking, must be appointed by Congress.

establishing 

statute 

the 

the 

79

(B)    unconstitutional,  because  all  members  of  federal  boards
exercising  executive  powers  must  be  appointed  by  the
President  or  in  a  manner  otherwise  consistent  with  the
Appointments Clause of Article II.

(C)  constitutional, because the Necessary and Proper Clause
authorizes  Congress  to  determine  the  means  by  which
members  are  appointed  to  boards  created  by  Congress
under its power to regulate commerce among the states.

(D)    constitutional,  because  there  is  a  substantial  nexus
between  the  power  of  Congress  to  legislate  for  the
general welfare and the means specified by Congress in
this statute for the appointment of board members.
Answer  21:  The  correct  choice  is  (B),  because  Congress
cannot constitutionally designate two members of this board.
Under the Appointments Clause, the President, not Congress,
is  given  the  power  to  appoint  federal  officers.  So  Congress
itself  may  not  make  any  appointments  of  federal  officers
(defined as federal officials who exercise executive power).
The  statute  here  endowed  the  board  with  broad  rule-making
powers. In Buckley v. Valeo (1976), the Court held that rule-
making  is  an  executive  function,  so  that  the  members  of  a
board or agency with rule-making powers are federal officers
who must be appointed by the President. So here, the fact that
two  of  the  board’s  five  members  are  directly  designated  by
Congress violates the Appointments Clause.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  powers  here  are  not  “quasi-
legislative.”  Congress  may  make  its  own  appointments  of
persons  to  exercise  powers  that  are  essentially  of  an
investigative or informative nature — such powers would be
“quasi-legislative.”  But  where  the  appointee’s  powers  are
essentially  rule-making  rather  than  investigative,  this  is  an
executive function, not a legislative function. Consequently, as
described  in  Choice  (B)  above,  it  is  the  President,  not
Congress, that has the right of appointment. So this choice is
correct  that  the  statute  is  unconstitutional  on  account  of
separation-of-powers  problems,  but  incorrect  about  what
those problems are.
(C)  is  wrong  because  although  the  Necessary  and  Proper
Clause  gives  the  Congress  the  power  to  create  the  board,  it

80

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

does  not  give  Congress  the  power  to  appoint  the  board’s
members. It’s true that where Congress is exercising one of its
enumerated powers, it may enact any law which is “necessary
and  proper  for  carrying  into  execution”  that  power.  So
Congress  can  regulate  the  securities  and  banking  industries
pursuant  to  its  commerce  power,  and  it  can  enact  laws  to
carry out that regulation. But as explained in the discussion of
Choice (B), the Appointments Clause means that the power to
appoint members of the board (who are exercising rulemaking
authority and are thus “federal officers”) falls to the President
under the Appointments Clause. Nothing in the Necessary and
Proper Clause overcomes this Appointments-Clause problem.

(D) is wrong because (1) it ignores the Appointments-Clause
problem described in the discussion of Choice (B); and (2) it
falsely  indicates  that  Congress  has  a  free-standing  power  to
pass  laws  that  are  for  the  “general  welfare.”  As  to  (1),  the
Appointments Clause, as interpreted by the Court, means that
“Officers  of  the  United  States”  must  be  appointed  by  the
President,  not  Congress.  The  board  members  here  are
exercising rule-making powers, which makes them executive-
branch members (i.e., “federal officers), so the fact that two
of them are appointed by Congress violates this Clause. As to
(2),  the  general  welfare  clause,  Article  1,  §  8  states  that
Congress shall have the power to lay and collect taxes, to pay
debts and to provide for the common defense and the general
welfare. This clause gives Congress the substantive power to
tax and appropriate money. But it does not confer on Congress
a  free-standing  power  to  regulate  to  achieve  the  general
welfare. So Congress’s general welfare power is irrelevant to
the constitutionality of the regulatory statute here.

81

CHAPTER 3
TWO LIMITS ON STATE POWER: THE
DORMANT COMMERCE CLAUSE AND
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION

I.    THE DORMANT COMMERCE CLAUSE

A.  Dormant Commerce Clause generally

1.  Protectionism

Question 22: A toy manufacturer that has its headquarters and
sole  manufacturing  plant  in  the  state  of  Green  developed  a
“Martian”  toy  that  simulates  the  exploration  of  Mars  by  a
remote-controlled  vehicle.  It  accurately  depicts  the  Martian
landscape and the unmanned exploratory vehicle traversing it.
The  toy  is  of  high  quality,  safe,  durable,  and  has  sold  very
well.  Other  toy  manufacturers,  all  located  outside  Green,
developed  similar  toys  that  are  lower  in  price.  These
manufacturers  have  contracts  to  sell  their  Martian  toys  to
outlets  in  Green.  Although  these  toys  are  safe  and  durable,
they  depict  the  Martian  landscape  less  realistically  than  the
toys  manufactured  in  Green.  Nevertheless,  because  of  the
price difference, sales of these toys have cut severely into the
sales  of  the  Martian  toys  manufactured  in  Green.  The  Green
legislature subsequently enacted a law “to protect the children
of  Green  from  faulty  science  and  to  protect  Green  toy
manufacturers from unfair competition.” This law forbids the
to  represent
sale 
extraterrestrial  objects  and  does  not  satisfy  specified
scientific  criteria.  The  Martian  toy  manufactured  in  Green
satisfies all of these criteria; none of the Martian toys of the
competing manufacturers meets the requirements.
Is the Green law constitutional?
(A)  No, because it abrogates the obligations of the contracts
between  the  other  toy  manufacturers  and  their  Green
outlets who have agreed to sell their Martian toys.
(B)    No,  because  it  imposes  an  undue  burden  on  interstate

in  Green  of  any 

that  purports 

toy 

commerce.

82

(C)  Yes, because it deals only with a local matter, the sale of

toys in Green stores.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  state’s  interest  in  protecting  the  state’s
children  from  faulty  science  justifies  this  burden  on
interstate commerce.

Answer  22:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  Commerce  Clause
gives  Congress  the  power  to  regulate  commerce  among  the
states  and,  by  negative  implication,  restricts  the  regulatory
power of the states with respect to interstate commerce. Any
state law that has a substantial effect on interstate commerce
must  not  be  protectionist  (i.e.,  must  not  benefit  in-state
interests at the expense of out-of-state interests) or otherwise
impose an undue burden on interstate commerce. A state law
that discriminates against interstate commerce is protectionist
unless  it  serves  a  legitimate  local  interest  that  cannot  be
served  by  nondiscriminatory  legislation.  By  barring  the  sale
in Green of the Martian toys manufactured in other states, the
state  law  here  has  a  substantial  negative  effect  on  interstate
commerce. Although the law does not explicitly discriminate
against  the  out-of-state  toy  manufacturers,  it  has  a  purely
discriminatory  effect  against  them,  and  the  state  has  less
discriminatory alternatives available to protect the legitimate
interests cited in the law (e.g., better public education about
the  nonsensicality  of  extraterrestrialism).  The  state  law
therefore violates the negative implications of the Commerce
Clause.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  is  true  that  the  Green  law  is
unconstitutional,  this  answer  misstates  the  basis  for  this
conclusion.  The  Contracts  Clause  (Article  I,  Section  10,
Clause  1  of  the  Constitution)  does  not  forbid  state  laws
affecting contractual relations between private parties so long
as  they  are  reasonably  related  to  a  legitimate  state  interest.
Because  the  courts  typically  defer  to  state  regulations  of
private contracts as reasonable, the statute at issue here is not
likely to be found unconstitutional under the Contracts Clause.
(C) is wrong because the fact that the matter being regulated
is  arguably  a  “local  matter”  is  not  a  defense  to  a  dormant
commerce  clause  claim,  if  the  state’s  form  of  regulation
discriminates  against  out-of-state  producers.  So  the  fact  that

83

education is arguably a “local” state matter won’t protect the
obviously-protectionist statute here.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  a  defense  to  protectionist
legislation  (i.e.,  legislation  that  intends  to  protect  in-state
economic interests at the expense of out-of-staters, or has that
clear effect) that the state is also attempting to achieve some
otherwise-permissible  state  objective.  So  here,  although  the
state’s  interest  in  protecting  children  from  faulty  science  is
legitimate,  that  interest  does  not  justify  the  law’s  intentional
discrimination  against  out-of-staters  where  the  state  has  less
discriminatory  alternatives  available  to  protect  that  interest
(e.g., better science education).

Question 23:  Small  retailers  located  in  the  state  of  Yellow
were  concerned  about  the  loss  of  business  to  certain  large
retailers  located  nearby  in  bordering  states.  In  an  effort  to
deal  with  this  concern,  the  legislature  of  Yellow  enacted  a
statute  requiring  all  manufacturers  and  wholesalers  who  sell
goods  to  retailers  in  Yellow  to  do  so  at  prices  that  are  no
higher  than  the  lowest  prices  at  which  they  sell  them  to
retailers  in  any  of  the  states  that  border  Yellow.  Several
manufacturers  and  wholesalers  who  are  located  in  states
bordering  Yellow  and  who  sell  their  goods  to  retailers  in
those states and in Yellow bring an action in federal court to
challenge the constitutionality of this statute.

Which  of  the  following  arguments  offered  by  these  plaintiffs
is  likely  to  be  most  persuasive  in  light  of  applicable
precedent?

The state statute

(A)    deprives  them  of  their  property  or  liberty  without  due

process of law.

(B)  imposes an unreasonable burden on interstate commerce.
(C)    deprives  them  of  a  privilege  or  immunity  of  national

citizenship.

(D)  denies them the equal protection of the laws.
Answer 23: Choice (B) is correct. This is a classic case of
protectionism:  The  in-state  retailers  have  persuaded  the
legislature to strengthen the in-staters’ economic position vis-
à-vis out-of-state retailers (since small in-state retailers now

84

get an advantage that small out-of-state retailers don’t get, and
get  an  unearned  cost-equality  with 
large  out-of-state
retailers).  So  out-of-state  retailers  are  being  discriminated
against  (treated  less  favorably  by  virtue  of  their  out-of-state
status).  This  sort  of  protectionism  is  virtually  a  per  se
violation of the dormant commerce clause, and is certainly an
undue burden on commerce.

(A)  is  wrong  because  economic  regulation  that  does  not
involve  a  suspect  class  or  fundamental  right  (and  the
regulation  here  involves  neither)  will  receive  only  mere-
rationality  review  under  the  Due  Process  Clause,  and  the
measure here would pass that review.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  privileges  and  immunities  of
“national” (as opposed to state) citizenship are guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment, Sec. 1; that P&I Clause, however,
would not protect the plaintiffs here because only a few rights
have  been  recognized  as  rights  of  national  citizenship  for
purposes  of  the  Clause  (e.g.,  the  right  to  travel  physically
from state to state, to move from state to state, and to vote in
national elections), and the right of an out-of-stater to be free
of economic discrimination is not one of them. (The plaintiffs
might  win  with  an  argument  based  on  Art.  IV’s  P&I  Clause,
which  protects  against  discrimination  by  a  state  against  out-
of-staters;  however,  that  Clause  doesn’t  protect  the  rights  of
“national  citizenship,”  but  rather, 
the  rights  of  state
citizenship.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  economic  regulations  that  do  not
involve a suspect or semi-suspect class or fundamental right
receive only easy-to-satisfy mere-rationality review under the
Equal Protection Clause, and the statute here would pass that
review (since the legislature could reasonably have believed
that  its  citizens  would  fare  better,  overall,  if  small  local
retailers  were  not  at  a  disadvantage  to  large  out-of-state
retailers).

2.  Lack of uniformity

Question  24:  In  recent  years,  several  large  corporations
incorporated and headquartered in a state have suddenly been
acquired  by  out-of-state  corporations  that  have  moved  all  of

85

the  state.  Other  corporations
their  operations  out  of 
incorporated and headquartered in the state have successfully
resisted  such  attempts  at  acquisition  by  out-of-state
corporations,  but  they  have  suffered  severe  economic  injury
during those acquisition attempts.

In  an  effort  to  preserve  jobs  in  the  state  and  to  protect  its
domestic corporations against their sudden acquisition by out-
of-state  purchasers,  the  state  legislature  enacts  a  statute
in  all  corporations
governing  acquisitions  of  shares 
incorporated  in  the  state.  This  statute  requires  that  any
acquisition of more than 25 percent of the voting shares of a
corporation incorporated in the state that occurs over a period
of less than one year must be approved by the shareholders of
record of a majority of the shares of the corporation as of the
day  before  the  commencement  of  the  acquisition  of  those
shares.  The  statute  expressly  applies  to  acquisitions  of  in-
state  corporations  by  both  in-state  and  out-of-state  entities.
Assume  that  no  federal  statute  applies.  Is  this  state  statute
constitutional?

(A)    No,  because  one  of  the  purposes  of  the  statute  is  to
prevent out-of-state entities from acquiring corporations
incorporated and headquartered in the state.

(B)  No, because the effect of the statute will necessarily be to
hinder  the  acquisition  of  in-state  corporations  by  other
corporations,  many  of  whose  shareholders  are  not
residents  of  the  state  and,  therefore,  it  will  adversely
affect the interstate sale of securities.

(C)  Yes, because the statute imposes the same burden on both
in-state  and  out-of-state  entities  wishing  to  acquire  a
corporation in the state, it regulates only the acquisition
of  in-state  corporations,  and  it  does  not  create  an
impermissible  risk  of  inconsistent  regulation  on  this
subject by different states.

(D)    Yes,  because  corporations  exist  only  by  virtue  of  state
law  and,  therefore,  the  negative  implications  of  the
Commerce  Clause  do  not  apply  to  state  regulations
governing their creation and acquisition.

Answer  24:  The  correct  choice  is  (C),  because  the  state’s
statute does not violate the dormant commerce clause, in that

86

it  neither  unduly  burdens,  nor  intentionally  discriminates
against,  out-of-state  economic  interests.  Under  the  dormant
commerce clause, a regulation will be valid if it: (1) does not
intentionally  discriminate  against  out-of-state  competition  to
benefit  local  economic  interests;  and  (2)  is  not  unduly
burdensome,  in  that  the  incidental  burden  on  interstate
commerce  does  not  outweigh  the  legitimate  local  benefits
produced by the regulation. The statute here is constitutional
because it passes both tests. As to the first test: Although the
statute  seeks  to  benefit  local  economic  interests,  it  does  not
discriminate against out-of-state competition in the method it
employs to protect domestic corporations. That is so because
the statute, by requiring that any acquisition of more than 25%
of the voting shares of a corporation incorporated in the state
be  approved  by  the  holders  of  record  of  a  majority  of  the
corporation’s  shares,  imposes  exactly  the  same  burden  on
both in-state and out-of-state entities wishing to acquire an in-
state corporation.

to 

The second requirement is that the regulation not be “unduly
burdensome” 
interstate  commerce.  The  statute  here
regulates  only  the  acquisition  of  in-state  corporations,  and
there is no obvious large burden on out-of-staters that want to
acquire 
in-state  corporations.  Since  only  corporations
incorporated  in  the  state  are  covered  by  the  statute,  one
important  form  of  undue  burden — the  inconsistent  state-by-
state regulation of a corporation incorporated in another state 
— does  not  occur.  Thus,  the  second  prong  of  the  test  is
satisfied.

it  harder 

The  act  here  is  similar  to  one  upheld  by  the  Court  against
Commerce Clause attack in CTS Corp. v. Dynamics Corp. of
Amer.  (1987)  (statute  making 
to  acquire  a
corporation incorporated in the state upheld because, “to the
limited extent that the Act affects interstate commerce, this is
justified  by  the  State’s  interests  in  defining  the  attributes  of
shares in its corporations and in protecting shareholders.”)
(A)  is  wrong  because  dormant  commerce  clause  attacks
generally  won’t  succeed  unless  the  plaintiff  shows  either  a
discriminatory intent (less-favored treatment of out-of-staters
than in-staters) or an “undue burden” on commerce. (See the

87

discussion of Choice (C) above.) The mere fact that one of the
regulation’s  purposes  is  to  prevent  out-of-staters  from  doing
something  unsatisfactory  won’t  be  enough,  if  in-staters  are
also prevented (since then there is no discrimination).

(B) is wrong because the presence of an “adverse effect” on
an  interstate  market  does  not  suffice  for  a  violation  of  the
dormant commerce clause. As is discussed more fully in the
treatment  of  Choice  (C)  above,  a  plaintiff  in  a  dormant
show  either
commerce  clause  case  must  generally 
discrimination  against  interstate  commerce,  or  a  “substantial
burden” on it. (B), by making the test be whether there is any
sort of “adverse effect” at all, is not the right test.

true 

(D)  is  wrong  because  it’s  an  incorrect  statement  about  what
the  dormant  commerce  clause  prohibits.  It’s 
that
corporations  exist  only  by  virtue  of  state  law.  It’s  also  true
that a state probably has greater freedom in how it regulates
its  own  domestic  (i.e.,  state-chartered)  corporations  than  in
some  other  areas  of  regulation.  But  an  anti-takeover  statute,
even  if  applied  only  to  state-chartered  targets,  would  still
violate  the  dormant  commerce  clause  if  it  discriminated
against — i.e., treated less favorably — out-of-state acquirers
than  in-state  acquirers  (for  instance,  by  requiring  a  higher
percentage  of  target  stockholders  to  approve  an  out-of-state
takeover than a domestic takeover). So when (D) says that the
“negative implications of the commerce clause” (an accurate
way to refer to the dormant commerce clause) “do not apply
to  state  regulations  governing  [domestic  corporations’]
creation  and  acquisition,”  the  choice  is  not  stating  the  law
correctly.

3.  Discrimination against foreign commerce

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question 25: In response to massive layoffs of employees of
automobile assembly plants located in the state of Ames, the
legislature  of  that  state  enacted  a  statute  which  prohibits  the
parking  of  automobiles  manufactured  outside  of  the  United
States in any parking lot or parking structure that is owned or
operated  by  the  state  or  any  of  its  instrumentalities.  This
statute does not apply to parking on public streets.
Which of the following is the strongest argument with which

88

to challenge the constitutionality of this statute?

(A)    The  statute  imposes  an  undue  burden  on  foreign

(B) 

commerce.
  The  statute  denies 
automobiles the equal protection of the laws.

the  owners  of  foreign-made

(C)    The  statute  deprives  the  owners  of  foreign-made
automobiles  of  liberty  or  property  without  due  process
of law.

(D)    The  statute  is  inconsistent  with  the  privileges  and

immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Answer  25:  The  correct  choice  is  (A).  Ames  is  making
foreign  cars  materially  less  attractive  to  Ames  residents,  so
residents are likely to buy fewer of them. Therefore, Ames is
discriminating  against  foreign  imports  and  in  favor  of  U.S.-
made cars. Since such a rule would clearly be held to be an
undue  burden  on  “domestic”  interstate  commerce  if  it  were
applied to the parking of cars made in U.S. states other than
Ames,  it  will  found  to  be  an  undue  burden  here,  since
restraints  on  foreign  commerce  are  if  anything  scrutinized
more strictly than restraints on domestic interstate commerce.

(B)  is  wrong  because  this  is  an  economic  regulation  not
involving  a  suspect  class  or  fundamental  right  (there’s  no
fundamental right to park in state-operated parking facilities),
so  it  will  be  upheld  as  long  as  it’s  rationally  related  to
achievement of a legitimate state objective; the measure here
would meet this easy-to-satisfy test, since it’s at least rational
to believe that making it harder to park will cut down on the
number of foreign cars sold in Ames and thus make in-state-
produced cars more economically viable.

is  not  “fundamental”  (parking 

(C) is wrong, because (1) it’s not clear that a person has any
liberty  or  property  interest  in  being  able  to  park  in  a  state-
owned  facility;  and  (2)  even  if  there  is  such  an  interest,  the
interest 
in  state-owned
facilities has not been held to be a fundamental right for due
process  purposes — only  some  privacy/autonomy-related
rights have this status), so the measure would merely need to
satisfy the easy rational-relation test, which it does.
(D) is wrong because the Fourteenth Amendment P&I Clause

89

protects only the rights of “national citizenship,” and the right
to  park  in  a  state-owned  facility  is  certainly  not  a  right  of
national citizenship.

II.   CONGRESSIONAL PRE-EMPTION AND
CONSENT; THE SUPREMACY CLAUSE

A.  The Supremacy Clause and federal pre-emption

1.  Direct conflict

a.  Congress forbids, state allows

Question 26: Congressional hearings determined that the use
of  mechanical  power  hammers  is  very  dangerous  to  the
persons  using  them  and  to  persons  in  the  vicinity  of  the
persons  using  them.  As  a  result,  Congress  enacted  a  statute
prohibiting  the  use  of  mechanical  power  hammers  on  all
construction  projects  in  the  United  States.  Subsequently,  a
study  conducted  by  a  private  research  firm  concluded  that
nails  driven  by  mechanical  power  hammers  have  longer-
lasting  joining  power  than  hand-driven  nails.  After  learning
about this study, the city council of the city of Green enacted
an amendment to its building safety code requiring the use of
mechanical  power  hammers  in  the  construction  of  all
buildings intended for human habitation.

This amendment to the city of Green’s building safety code is

(A)  unconstitutional, because it was enacted subsequent to the

federal statute.

(B)  unconstitutional, because it conflicts with the provisions

of the federal statute.

(C)    constitutional,  because  the  federal  statute  does  not
expressly indicate that it supersedes inconsistent state or
local laws.

(D)    constitutional,  because  the  long-term  safety  of  human
habitations  justifies  some  additional  risk  to  the  people
engaged in their construction.

Answer  26:  The  correct  choice  is  (B).  This  is  a  relatively
easy  case  in  which  Congress  is  forbidding  action  X  (use  of
mechanical  power  hammers)  and  the  state  is  purporting  to

90

allow  that  very  same  action  X.  So  this  is  about  as  simple  a
case of preemption by operation of the Supremacy Clause as
could be imagined.

(A) is wrong because where federal and state rules conflict,
the Supremacy Clause causes the state regulation to be invalid
even if it was enacted subsequent to the federal rule.

(C)  is  wrong  because  state  rules  that  directly  conflict  with
federal 
federal
invalid  even 
pronouncement does not expressly indicate that it supersedes
inconsistent state or local laws.

rules  are 

though 

the 

(D) is wrong because whether or not a state regulation might
represent a better balance of risk and reward than a directly-
conflicting  federal  regulation,  the  state  law  must  yield  on
account of the Supremacy Clause.

b.  Conflict between aims

Question  27:  The  United  States  Department  of  the  Interior
granted the plaintiff the food and drink concession in a federal
park located in the state of Purple. The plaintiff operated his
concession out of federally owned facilities in the park. The
federal  statute  authorizing  the  Interior  Department  to  grant
such concessions provided that the grantees would pay only a
nominal  rental  for  use  of  these  federal  facilities  because  of
the  great  benefit  their  concessions  would  provide  to  the
people of the United States.

The  legislature  of  the  state  of  Purple  enacted  a  statute
imposing  an  occupancy  tax  on  the  occupants  of  real  estate
within  that  state  that  is  not  subject  to  state  real  estate  taxes.
The  statute  was  intended  to  equalize  the  state  tax  burden  on
such occupants with that on people occupying real estate that
is subject to state real estate taxes. Pursuant to that statute, the
Purple  Department  of  Revenue  attempted  to  collect  the  state
occupancy tax from the plaintiff because the federal facilities
occupied by the plaintiff were not subject to state real estate
taxes. The plaintiff sued to invalidate the state occupancy tax
as applied to him.
The strongest ground upon which the plaintiff could challenge
the occupancy tax is that it violates the

91

(A)    Commerce  Clause  by  unduly  burdening  the  interstate

tourist trade.

(B)    Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment  by  interfering  with  the  fundamental  right  to
do business on federal property.

(C)    Equal  Protection  of  the  Laws  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment  because  the  tax  treats  him  less  favorably
than  federal  concessionaires  in  other  states  who  do  not
have to pay such occupancy taxes.

(D)    Supremacy  Clause  of  Article  VI  and  the  federal  statute

authorizing such concessions.

Answer  27:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  federal  concession
statute, by requiring a nominal rental on account of the great
public  benefit  from  concessions,  shows  a  federal  intent  to
keep  the  total  occupancy  costs  for  concessionaires  low.  The
state  occupancy  tax  has  the  effect  (and  purpose)  of  making
occupancy  costs  higher  for  the  affected  taxpayers  than  it
would otherwise be. This fact is coupled with the fact that the
state  is  singling  out  taxpayers  on  non-state-taxed  property,
including  federally-owned  property,  so  the  interference  with
federal interests is especially acute. Therefore, a court might
well  hold  that  the  state  law  so  undermines  the  federal
purposes  as  to  be  invalid  under  the  Supremacy  Clause.  The
court would not necessarily reach this conclusion, but this is
the most powerful of the four arguments.

(A) is wrong because the occupancy tax does not discriminate
against interstate commerce (since the effect on tourists from
inside Purple is the same as on out-of-state tourists), and it is
unlikely that subjecting the plaintiff to the same overall level
of  taxation  as  businesses  located  in  state-taxable  facilities
would be found to be an “undue burden.”

(B) is wrong because the Fourteenth Amendment’s Privileges
and  Immunities  Clause  protects  only  certain  very  limited
rights of “national citizenship” (mostly the right to travel from
state  to  state),  and  the  Clause  has  never  been  interpreted  to
protect  a  “fundamental  right  to  do  business  on  federal
property.” (It’s true that the P&I Clause of Art. IV protects the
fundamental right to pursue one’s business or profession, but
the  examiners  have  tried  to  trick  you  here  by  using  the

92

Fourteenth Amendment’s P&I Clause, not the Art. IV Clause.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  Equal
Protection Clause protects only against a given state’s unfair
classification  of  multiple  persons,  not  against  one  state’s
treating  a  person  less  favorably  than  other  states  treat
similarly-situated  persons.  (Also,  any  classification  being
done  by  Purple  here  does  not  involve  a  suspect  or  semi-
suspect  class  or  a  fundamental  right,  so  the  classification
merely  has  to  be  rationally  related  to  the  achievement  of  a
legitimate  state  objective,  and  the  occupancy  tax  here  meets
this easy-to-satisfy standard.)

Question  28:  Road  Lines  is  an  interstate  bus  company
operating in a five-state area. A federal statute authorizes the
Interstate  Commerce  Commission  (ICC)  to  permit  interstate
carriers  to  discontinue  entirely  any  unprofitable  route.  Road
Lines  applied  to  the  ICC  for  permission  to  drop  a  very
unprofitable  route  through  the  sparsely  populated  Shaley
Mountains.  The  ICC  granted  that  permission  even  though
Road  Lines  provided  the  only  public  transportation  into  the
region.

Foley  is  the  owner  of  a  mountain  resort  in  the  Shaley
Mountains,  whose  customers  usually  arrived  on  vehicles
operated  by  Road  Lines.  After  exhausting  all  available
federal administrative remedies, Foley filed suit against Road
Lines  in  the  trial  court  of  the  state  in  which  the  Shaley
Mountains  are  located  to  enjoin  the  discontinuance  by  Road
Lines  of  its  service  to  that  area.  Foley  alleged  that  the
discontinuance  of  service  by  Road  Lines  would  violate  a
statute  of  that  state  prohibiting  common  carriers  of  persons
from  abandoning  service  to  communities  having  no  alternate
form of public transportation.
The state court should
(A)  dismiss the action, because Foley lacks standing to sue.
(B)    direct  the  removal  of  the  case  to  federal  court,  because

this suit involves a substantial federal question.

(C)  hear the case on its merits and decide for Foley because,
on  these  facts,  a  federal  agency  is  interfering  with
essential state functions.

93

(D)    hear  the  case  on  its  merits  and  decide  for  Road  Lines,
because a valid federal law preempts the state statute on
which Foley relies.

Answer  28:  The  correct  choice  is  (D).  There  is  a  direct
conflict between the federal and state regulations in this case,
and  it  is  impossible  for  the  regulated  party  (Road  Lines)  to
obey  both  regulations  simultaneously.  That  is,  the  ICC  has
expressly permitted Road Lines to drop its route, and the state
statute  appears  to  prohibit  Road  Lines  from  dropping  the
route. Since the federal action is constitutional (it falls within
Congress’s  commerce  power),  under  the  Supremacy  Clause
the federal action preempts the state action.

(A) is wrong, because Foley does have standing. It’s true that
the  ICC,  in  taking  the  challenged  action  (letting  Road  Lines
drop  the  service),  was  not  intending  to  affect  Foley  and
probably was not even aware of Foley’s interest in the matter.
But  since  Foley  would  suffer 
imminent  and  concrete
economic  harm  from  the  challenged  action,  and  since  the
injury  he  would  suffer  will  be  at  least  somewhat  different
from that suffered by every local resident, Foley has standing
even though the challenged action was not directed at him.
(B) is incorrect because the state court does not have power
to order a removal to the federal courts. There is no process
by  which  a  state  court  judge  (rather  than  the  defendant)  can
compel  a  pending  state-court  case  to  be  removed  to  the
federal  courts.  And  that’s  true  whether  the  case  falls  within
the  state  court’s  jurisdiction  or  not.  So  the  case  will  not  be
removed unless the defendant takes action to remove it.

(C) is wrong because (1) there is probably no constitutional
rule that prevents the federal government from interfering with
any “essential state function”; and (2) even if there were such
a  rule,  it’s  highly  unlikely  that  such  an  interference  is
happening  here  (since  the  federal  government  is  merely
allowing  a  private  party  to  do  something,  not,  for  instance,
ordering the state to change or eliminate any state function).

2.  Congressional pre-emption

a.  Federal occupation of field

i.  State common law

94

Question  29:  Lee  contracted  with  Mover,  an  interstate
carrier, to ship household goods from the state of Green to his
new home in the state of Pink. A federal statute provides that
all liability of an interstate mover to a shipper for loss of or
damage  to  the  shipper’s  goods  in  transit  is  governed
exclusively  by  the  contract  between  them.  The  statute  also
requires  the  mover  to  offer  a  shipper  at  least  two  contracts
with different levels of liability. In full compliance with that
federal  statute,  Mover  offered  Lee  a  choice  between  two
shipping agreements that provided different levels of liability
on the part of Mover. The more expensive contract provided
that  Mover  was  fully  liable  in  case  of  loss  or  damage.  The
less  expensive  contract  limited  Mover’s  liability  in  case  of
loss or damage to less than full value. Lee voluntarily signed
the  less  expensive  contract  with  Mover,  fixing  Mover’s
liability at less than the full value of the shipment.

Mover’s  truck  was  involved  in  an  accident  in  the  state  of
Pink. The accident was entirely a product of the negligence of
Mover’s  driver.  Lee’s  household  goods  were 
totally
destroyed. In accordance with the contract, Mover reimbursed
Lee for less than the full value of the goods. Lee then brought
suit  against  Mover  under  the  tort  law  of  the  state  of  Pink
claiming  that  he  was  entitled  to  be  reimbursed  for  the  full
value of the goods. Mover filed a motion to dismiss.

In this suit, the court should

(A)    dismiss  the  case,  because  the  federal  statute  governing
liability  of  interstate  carriers  is  the  supreme  law  of  the
land and preempts state tort law.

(B)    dismiss  the  case,  because  the  contractual  relationship
between Lee and Mover is governed by the Obligation of
Contracts Clause of the Constitution.

(C)    deny  the  motion  to  dismiss,  because  the  Full  Faith  and
Credit Clause of the Constitution requires that state tort
law be given effect.

(D)  deny the motion to dismiss, because it is unconstitutional
for a federal statute to authorize Mover to contract out of
any degree of liability for its own negligence.

Answer 29: Choice (A) is correct. When Congress passed the

95

statute saying that all liability of interstate movers would be
“governed  exclusively”  by  the  contract  between  the  two
parties, this manifested Congress’s intent to preempt the entire
field  of  regulation  of  liability  of  such  movers,  and  to  block
any non-contract form of recovery (such as recovery in tort).
If  Lee  were  permitted  to  recover  under  Pink  tort  law,  the
results would be at odds with this clear congressional intent
to occupy the field. This is, therefore, a classic illustration of
the supremacy of federal law over conflicting state law.

(B)  is  wrong  because  (in  part)  the  Obligation  of  Contracts
Clause  blocks  the  states  from  modifying  contracts  in  some
circumstances,  and  does  not  serve  as  any  kind  of  a  limit  on
when  Congress  may  modify  contracts.  (Also,  no  contract  is
being  modified  here,  so  even  if  the  state  had  said  by  statute
what  Congress  said  here,  there  would  be  no  obligation-of-
contracts problem.)

(C)  is  wrong,  because  (in  part)  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit
Clause does not act as a limit on what Congress may do (and
in  any  event  no  state  is  refusing  to  enforce  another  court’s
judgment, which is what the FF&C Clause requires states to
do).
(D)  is  wrong  because  nothing  in  constitutional  law  prevents
Congress from authorizing private parties to “contract out of .
.  .  liability  for  [their]  own  negligence,”  assuming  Congress
was acting pursuant to some enumerated power (such as, here,
the power to regulate interstate commerce).

3.  No conflict

a.  More stringent state regulations

Question  30:  Radon  is  a  harmful  gas  found  in  the  soil  of
certain  regions  of  the  United  States.  A  statute  of  the  state  of
Magenta  requires  occupants  of  residences  with  basements
susceptible to the intrusion of radon to have their residences
tested  for  the  presence  of  radon  and  to  take  specified
remedial  steps  if  the  test  indicates  the  presence  of  radon
above  specified  levels.  The  statute  also  provides  that  the
testing  for  radon  may  be  done  only  by  testers  licensed  by  a
state agency. According to the statute, a firm may be licensed
to test for radon only if it meets specified rigorous standards

96

relating  to  the  accuracy  of  its  testing.  These  standards  may
easily be achieved with current technology; but the technology
required  to  meet  them  is  50%  more  expensive  than  the
technology  required  to  measure  radon  accumulations  in  a
slightly less accurate manner.

The  United  States  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)
does  not  license  radon  testers.  However,  a  federal  statute
authorizes  the  EPA  to  advise  on  the  accuracy  of  various
methods of radon testing and to provide to the general public
a list of testers that use methods it believes to be reasonably
accurate.

WeTest,  a  recently  established  Magenta  firm,  uses  a  testing
method that the EPA has stated is reasonably accurate. WeTest
is  also  included  by  the  EPA  on  the  list  of  testers  using
methods  of  testing  it  believes  to  be  reasonably  accurate.
WeTest  applies  for  a  Magenta  radon  testing  license,  but  its
application is denied because WeTest cannot demonstrate that
the method of testing for radon it uses is sufficiently accurate
to meet the rigorous Magenta statutory standards. WeTest sues
appropriate  Magenta  officials  in  federal  court  claiming  that
Magenta  may  not  constitutionally  exclude  WeTest  from
performing the required radon tests in Magenta.
In this suit, the court will probably rule in favor of
(A)  WeTest, because the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
Constitution requires Magenta to respect and give effect
to the action of the EPA in including WeTest on its list of
testers that use reasonably accurate methods.
the
  WeTest,  because 
Constitution requires Magenta to respect and give effect
to the action of the EPA in including WeTest on its list of
testers that use reasonably accurate methods.

the  Supremacy  Clause  of 

(B) 

(C)  Magenta, because the federal statute and the action of the
EPA  in  including  WeTest  on  its  list  of  testers  that  use
reasonably  accurate  methods  are  not  inconsistent  with
the  more  rigorous  Magenta  licensing  requirement,  and
that  requirement  is  reasonably  related  to  a  legitimate
public interest.

(D)  Magenta, because radon exposure is limited to basement

97

areas,  which,  by  their  very  nature,  cannot  move  in
interstate commerce.

if 

it  does  not  violate  any 

Answer  30:  The  correct  choice  is  (C).  The  question,  of
course,  is  whether  the  federal  regulation  on  radon  detectors
preempts  the  state  regulation.  The  issue  is  always  one  of
intent: If the federal government did not intend to preempt the
state,  or  to  occupy  the  entire  field,  then  the  state  regulation
will  survive 
independent
constitutional  prohibition.  Here,  there  are  strong  clues  that
neither  Congress  nor  the  EPA  intended  to  displace  more-
rigorous  state  regulation  of  radar  detection:  The  federal
government  has  not  chosen  to  actually  license  radon  testers,
and the EPA is merely purporting to give useful information to
the  public,  not  to  “regulate.”  Furthermore,  it  appears  that  a
radon tester can comply simultaneously with both the federal
“reasonably  accurate”  standard  and 
the  more-rigorous
Magenta standard. All of this justifies the conclusion that the
EPA’s  maintenance  of  its  reasonably-accurate-methods  list
was  not  intended  to  displace  more-rigorous  state  licensing
standards.
(A)  is  wrong  because  (among  other  reasons)  the  Full  Faith
and Credit Clause applies only to require a state to honor the
statutes  and  judgments  of  another  state,  not  those  of  the
federal government.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  for  the  reasons  described  above,  the
EPA’s  list  was  not  intended  to  displace  or  preempt  more-
rigorous  state  licensing  methods,  so  the  Supremacy  Clause
never came into action.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  what  is  being  regulated
cannot “move in interstate commerce” does not dispose of the
issue  of  whether  federal  regulation  has  preempted  the  state
regulation.  For  instance,  Congress  could  have  (but  did  not)
authorized  the  EPA  to  enact  radon-testing  regulations  that
would  displace  any  more-stringent  state  regulation;  in  doing
so  Congress  could  have  used  its  commerce  power  based  on
the  fact  that  radon  detectors  move  in  or  affect  interstate
commerce even though the basement areas being measured do
not themselves move in interstate commerce.

B.  Consent by Congress

98

Question  31:  A  state  legislature  conducted  an  investigation
into  a  series  of  fatal  accidents  in  the  state  involving
commercial  trucks  with  trailer  exteriors  made  of  polished
aluminum. The investigation revealed that the sun’s glare off
of  these  trucks  blinded  the  drivers  of  other  vehicles.  The
state’s legislature then enacted a law prohibiting commercial
trucks with polished aluminum trailer exteriors from traveling
on the state’s highways.

interstate 

Litigation over the state law resulted in a final decision by the
United  States  Supreme  Court  that  the  law  impermissibly
burdened 
therefore,  was
commerce 
unconstitutional.  Congress  later  enacted  a  statute  permitting
any  state  to  enact  a  law  regulating  the  degree  of  light
reflectiveness of the exteriors of commercial trucks using the
state’s highways.

and, 

Is this federal statute constitutional?

(A)    No,  because  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  already
determined  that  state  laws  of  this  type  impermissibly
burden interstate commerce.

(B)    No,  because  Article  III  vests  the  judicial  power  in  the
federal  courts,  the  essence  of  judicial  power  is  the
ability  to  render  a  final  judgment,  and  this  statute
overrules a final judgment of the federal Supreme Court.
(C)    Yes,  because  Article  I,  Section  8  grants  Congress
authority  to  enact  statutes  authorizing  states  to  impose
burdens on interstate commerce that would otherwise be
prohibited.

(D)    Yes,  because  Article  I,  Section  8  grants  Congress
authority  to  enact  statutes  for  the  general  welfare,  and
Congress  could  reasonably  believe  that  state  laws
regulating  the  light  reflectiveness  of  the  exteriors  of
trucks promote the general welfare.

Answer 31: Choice (C) is correct. Congress has the power to
consent  to  state  conduct  that  would,  in  the  absence  of
congressional consent, violate the dormant commerce clause.
That’s what has happened here. And the usual rule prohibiting
Congress  from  enacting  a  statute  overruling  a  constitutional
decision  of  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  does  not  apply  here:

99

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Congress is not “overruling” the Court’s judgment, it’s simply
changing  the  law  for  future  cases,  which  is  an  action  that  is
within  the  legislative  power  of  Congress  and  that  doesn’t
encroach on the Court’s power to decide cases.

(A) is wrong because this is one area in which Congress may
reverse the impact of prior Supreme Court decisions. In many
areas  of  constitutional  law  (e.g.,  the  meaning  of  the  equal
protection, due process and free speech guarantees), Congress
does  not  have  power  to  prospectively  overrule  decisions  of
the  Supreme  Court.  But  that  is  not  true  of  the  Court’s
decisions in some other areas. In particular, Congress has the
power to authorize state conduct that would otherwise violate
the  dormant  commerce  clause,  and  the  fact  that  the  Supreme
Court  has  already  held  that  particular  state  conduct  violates
the dormant commerce clause does not negate this power.

(B) is wrong because it mischaracterizes what the statute did.
The  congressional  statute  permitting  any  state  to  regulate  the
degree of light reflectiveness of the exteriors of trucks using
the  state’s  highways  did  not  overrule  the  U.S.  Supreme
Court’s  judgment.  If  the  Court  had,  for  example,  awarded
damages  or  attorney’s  fees  to  the  prevailing  party  in  that
earlier  suit,  those  awards  would  remain  in  effect  after
Congress  enacted  the  statute,  and  Congress  would  not  have
had the power to reverse those litigant-specific outcomes. But
here,  Congress’s  statute  simply  changed  the  law  for  future
cases, which is an action that is within the legislative power
of Congress and that does not encroach on the Court’s judicial
power to decide cases within its jurisdiction.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  relies  on  a  non-existent  source  of
congressional  power.  While  the  Constitution  gives  Congress
the  power  to  appropriate  money  to  promote  the  general
welfare  of  the  United  States  (i.e.,  to  “tax  and  spend”  for  the
general  welfare),  it  does  not  give  Congress  the  power
generally  to  enact  regulatory-type  statutes  on  the  basis  that
they promote the general welfare.
Since there is no taxing or spending being done by the statute
here, the concept of “general welfare” is irrelevant.

Question  32:  A  federal  statute  provides  that  the  cities  in

100

which certain specified airports are located may regulate the
rates and services of all limousines that serve those airports,
without  regard  to  the  origin  or  destination  of  the  passengers
who use the limousines.

The cities of Redville and Greenville are located adjacent to
each other in different states. The airport serving both of them
is located in Redville and is one of those airports specified in
the  federal  statute.  The  Redville  City  Council  has  adopted  a
rule that requires any limousines serving the airport to charge
only the rates authorized by the Redville City Council.

Airline  Limousine  Service  has  a 
lucrative  business
transporting passengers between Greenville and the airport in
Redville,  at  much  lower  rates  than  those  required  by  the
Redville  City  Council.  It  transports  passengers  in  interstate
traffic only; it does not provide local service within Redville.
The  new  rule  adopted  by  the  Redville  City  Council  will
require Airline Limousine Service to charge the same rates as
limousines operating only in Redville.

Must Airline Limousine Service comply with the new rule of
the Redville City Council?
(A)    Yes,  because  the  airport  is  located  in  Redville  and,
therefore,  its  city  council  has  exclusive  regulatory
authority over all transportation to and from the airport.

(B)    Yes,  because  Congress  has  authorized  this  form  of
regulation  by  Redville  and,  therefore,  removed  any
constitutional impediments to it that may have otherwise
existed.

(C)  No, because the rule would arbitrarily destroy a lucrative
existing  business  and,  therefore,  would  amount  to  a
taking without just compensation.

(D)    No,  because  Airline  Limousine  Service  is  engaged  in
interstate commerce and this rule is an undue burden on
that commerce.

Answer 32: The correct choice is (B). The Redville rule, by
requiring higher limo prices for interstate trips than would be
set by the market, might well be an undue burden on interstate
commerce  (and  thus  a  violation  of  the  dormant  commerce
clause) if there were no federal legislation on the subject. But

101

Congress has the power to allow state regulation that would
otherwise  violate  the  dormant  commerce  clause,  and  that’s
what  happened  here:  Congress  gave  the  city  containing  the
airport the right to set limo rates without respect to the rates’
effect on commerce, so there is no dormant commerce clause
problem.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  explains  the  correct
result.  If  Congress  had  not  specifically  allowed  the  city  in
which  any  specified  airport  is  located  to  regulate  limos
serving that city, Redville would be acting unconstitutionally
by  burdening  interstate  commerce.  That  is,  as  a  general
principle  it  is  not  correct  to  say  that  a  city  has  exclusive
regulatory  authority  over  all  transportation  to  and  from  an
airport located within the city. (Under the dormant commerce
clause, no city or state may intentionally discriminate against,
or unduly burden, interstate commerce, even if that commerce
relates to a facility located within the city or state that’s doing
the  regulating.)  Only  the  special  congressional  authorization
validates the Redville regulation.

(C)  is  wrong  because  what  Redville  is  doing  here  is
regulating,  not  “taking.”  Only  if  a  regulation  destroys  all
economic value of a business will it be deemed to be a Fifth
Amendment  “taking”  for  which  compensation  must  be  paid.
And there’s no evidence that the regulation here will destroy
all  economic  value  of  the  plaintiff’s  business.  Furthermore,
even  in  the  exceptionally  unlikely  event  that  a  court  would
conclude  that  there  had  been  a  taking,  the  proper  remedy
would be an order that Redville pay “just compensation,” not
a decree holding the regulation itself invalid.

(D) is wrong because Congress has authorized the regulation
in question. If Congress had not expressly authorized the type
of  regulation  at  issue  here  (limo  rates  for  airport  traffic,
imposed by the city where the airport is located), this choice
would  likely  be  correct,  because  the  uniform-rate  regulation
probably would unduly burden (and discriminate against) out-
of-state-based limo companies. But Congress always has the
power  to  authorize  what  would  otherwise  be  a  violation  of
dormant-commerce-clause  principles,  and  that’s  what  it  has
done here.

102

Question 33:  The  United  States  Congress  enacted  a  federal
statute providing that any state may “require labeling to show
the  state  or  other  geographic  origin  of  citrus  fruit  that  is
imported  into  the  receiving  state.”  Pursuant  to  the  federal
statute,  a  state  that  produced  large  quantities  of  citrus  fruit
enacted a law requiring all citrus fruit imported into the state
to be stamped with a two-letter postal abbreviation signifying
the state of the fruit’s origin. The law did not impose any such
requirement  for  citrus  fruit  grown  within  the  state.  When  it
adopted the law, the state legislature declared that its purpose
was  to  reduce  the  risks  of  infection  of  local  citrus  crops  by
itinerant diseases that have been found to attack citrus fruit. A
national  association  of  citrus  growers  sued  to  have  the  state
law declared unconstitutional. The association claims that the
law  is  prohibited  by  the  negative  implications  of  the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  best  argument  in  favor  of  the
state’s effort to have this lawsuit dismissed?

(A)  Any burden on interstate commerce imposed by the state

law is outweighed by a legitimate state interest.

(B)    Congress  has  the  authority  to  authorize  specified  state
regulations  that  would  otherwise  be  prohibited  by  the
negative  implications  of  the  Commerce  Clause,  and  it
has done so in this situation.

(C)    The  state  law  does  not  discriminate  against  out-of-state

citrus growers or producers.

(D)    The  state  law  furthers  a  legitimate  state  interest,  the
burden  it  imposes  on  interstate  commerce  is  only
incidental, and the state’s interest cannot be satisfied by
other  means  that  are  less  burdensome  to  interstate
commerce.

Answer  33:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  In  the  absence  of
congressional action, the state rule here probably would be a
violation of the dormant commerce clause (what the question
calls  the  “negative  implications  of  the  Commerce  Clause”),
because  it  discriminates  against  out-of-state  growers.  But
Congress  may  use  its  commerce  power  to  permit  states  to
discriminate  against  interstate  commerce.  The  federal  statute
here  explicitly  authorizes  states  to  enact  state-of-origin

103

labeling requirements on imported citrus fruit.

(A) is incorrect, because the balancing argument would work
only if: (1) Congress had not enacted a statute authorizing the
state  regulation  at  issue;  and  (2)  the  state  law  did  not
discriminate  against  interstate  commerce.  In  this  case,
however,  neither  of  these  conditions  is  satisfied:  Congress
has  authorized  state-of-origin 
labeling  requirements  on
imported citrus fruit, and the state law is discriminatory.

(C)  is  incorrect,  because  the  state  law  does  discriminate
against  out-of-state  citrus  growers,  in  that  the  law  requires
that all citrus fruit “imported” into the state be stamped with
the state of origin, while the law imposes no such requirement
on citrus fruit grown within the state.

(D)  is  incorrect,  because  although  this  argument  correctly
paraphrases  the  burden  on  the  state  to  justify  a  law  that
discriminates  against  interstate  commerce,  the  argument
would be less likely to succeed than the “Congress authorized
it”  argument:  In  the  absence  of  congressional  authorization,
the burden on a state to justify its discriminatory regulation is
a  heavy  one,  and  states  only  rarely  succeed  in  carrying  it.
Here, the availability of less-discriminatory alternatives (e.g.,
requiring in-state growers, not just out-of-staters, to stamp the
state’s two-letter code on the fruit) makes it unlikely that the
state would win with this argument.

104

CHAPTER 4
INTERGOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITIES;
INTERSTATE RELATIONS

I.    TAX AND REGULATORY IMMUNITIES

A.  Several types of immunities

1.  Federal immunity from state regulation

a.  Applies to generally-applicable rules

Question 34: A federally owned and operated office building
in the state of Red is heated with a new, pollution-free heating
system. However, in the coldest season of the year, this new
system is sometimes insufficient to supply adequate heat to the
building.  The  appropriation  statute  providing  the  money  for
construction  of  the  new  heating  system  permitted  use  of  the
old,  pollution-generating  system  when  necessary  to  supply
additional  heat.  When  the  old  heating  system  operates  (only
about  two  days  in  any  year),  the  smokestack  of  the  building
emits smoke that exceeds the state of Red’s pollution-control
standards.
May the operators of the federal office building be prosecuted
successfully  by  Red  authorities  for  violating  that  state’s
pollution control standards?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  regulation  of  pollution  is  a  legitimate

state police power concern.

(B)  Yes, because the regulation of pollution is a joint concern
of  the  federal  government  and  the  state  and,  therefore,
both of them may regulate conduct causing pollution.
(C)  No, because the operations of the federal government are
immune  from  state  regulation  in  the  absence  of  federal
consent.

(D)  No, because the violations of the state pollution-control
standards involved here are so de minimis that they are
beyond the legitimate reach of state law.

Answer  34:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  operations  of  the
federal government are indeed immune from state regulation,

105

no  matter  how  reasonable  the  state  regulation,  and  even
though the regulation is a generally-applicable one that treats
the federal government no differently than anyone else. Since
the  office  building  is  owned  by  and  operated  by  the  federal
government, this regulatory immunity applies.

(A) is wrong, because even though the regulation of pollution
may  be  a  legitimate  state  police  power  concern,  that
regulation must give way to federal regulatory immunity.

(B) is wrong because, even if regulation of pollution is a joint
concern of the federal and state governments, and even though
both  governments  can  regulate  private  parties  (assuming  that
the  state  regulation  is  not  inconsistent  with  the  federal
regulation),  it  does  not  follow  that  the  state  can  regulate  the
federal  government — under  the  principles  of  regulatory
immunity, the state cannot do so.

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  is  no  “de  minimis”  exception  to
the principle that states may regulate pursuant to their inherent
police power. (The sole problem here is the federal immunity
from regulation, which applies whether the asserted violation
of the state’s regulation is de minimis or not.)

Question  35:  The  United  States  Department  of  Energy
regularly  transports  nuclear  materials  through  Centerville  on
the way to a nuclear weapons processing plant it operates in a
nearby  state.  The  city  of  Centerville  recently  adopted  an
ordinance  prohibiting  the  transportation  of  any  nuclear
materials  in  or  through  the  city.  The  ordinance  declares  that
its purpose is to protect the health and safety of the residents
of that city.

May  the  Department  of  Energy  continue  to  transport  these
nuclear materials through the city of Centerville?
(A)    No,  because  the  ordinance  is  rationally  related  to  the

public health and safety of Centerville residents.

(B)  No, because the Tenth Amendment reserves to the states

certain unenumerated sovereign powers.

(C)    Yes,  because  the  Department  of  Energy  is  a  federal
agency  engaged  in  a  lawful  federal  function  and,
therefore,  its  activities  may  not  be  regulated  by  a  local
government without the consent of Congress.

106

(D)    Yes,  because  the  ordinance  enacted  by  Centerville  is
invalid  because  it  denies  persons  transporting  such
materials the equal protection of the laws.

Answer 35: Choice (C) is correct — the federal government,
including  the  operations  of  federal  agencies,  are  essentially
immune from state regulation. Notice that the answer does not
use  the  word  “immunity” — it’s  up  to  you  to  recognize  that
when  the  choice  says  “may  not  be  regulated,”  what’s  being
referred to is the concept of immunity.

(A)  is  incorrect,  because  of  federal  immunity;  note  that  if
there were no federal immunity involved (e.g., the entity being
regulated was a private company pursuing its own interests),
this  choice  would  be  correct,  at  least  if  the  regulation  were
challenged on equal protection grounds.

(B) is wrong because the Tenth Amendment has no relevance
here.  The  Tenth  Amendment  does  not  restrict  the  powers  of
the federal government as long as the latter is not purporting
to  require  the  state  to  enact  laws  or  regulations.  Here,  the
Dept.  of  Energy  isn’t  requiring  the  state  to  enact  a  federal
regulatory  program — the  DOE  is  merely  pursuing  its  own
regulatory  program.  And  the  Tenth  Amendment  doesn’t  limit
DOE’s ability to do that.

(D) is wrong because the Equal Protection Clause would not
invalidate  this  ordinance.  The  ordinance  is  an  economic
regulation, and clearly satisfies the applicable rational-basis
test  (see  the  discussion  of  Choice  (A)  above).  It’s  only
federal  immunity  from  state  regulation  that  causes  the
ordinance not to be enforceable against the DOE’s activities.

II.   THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT CLAUSE

A.  How tested on the MBE

1.  Effect of Clause

a.  Collection of money judgments

Question 36: The state of Red sent three of its employees to a
city  located  in  the  state  of  Blue  to  consult  with  a  chemical
laboratory there about matters of state business. While in the
course  of  their  employment,  the  three  employees  of  Red

107

negligently  released  into  local  Blue  waterways  some  of  the
chemical  samples  they  had  received  from  the  laboratory  in
Blue.

Persons in Blue injured by the release of the chemicals sued
the  three  Red  state  employees  and  the  state  of  Red  in  Blue
state  courts  for  the  damages  they  suffered.  After  a  trial  in
which all of the defendants admitted jurisdiction of the Blue
state  court  and  fully  participated,  plaintiffs  received  a
judgment  against  all  of  the  defendants  for  $5  million,  which
became final.

Subsequently,  plaintiffs  sought  to  enforce  their  Blue  state
court  judgment  by  commencing  a  proper  proceeding  in  an
appropriate court of Red. In that enforcement proceeding, the
state  of  Red  argued,  as  it  had  done  unsuccessfully  in  the
earlier action in Blue state court, that its liability is limited by
a law of Red to $100,000 in any tort case. Because the three
individual employees of Red are able to pay only $50,000 of
the  judgment,  the  only  way  the  injured  persons  can  fully
satisfy their Blue state court judgment is from the funds of the
state of Red.
Can the injured persons recover the full balance of their Blue
state court judgment from the state of Red in the enforcement
proceeding they filed in a court of Red?
(A)    Yes,  because  the  final  judgment  of  the  Blue  court  is
entitled to full faith and credit in the courts of Red.
(B)  Yes, because a limitation on damage awards against Red
for tortious actions of its agents would violate the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C)  No, because the Tenth Amendment preserves the right of a
state to have its courts enforce the state’s public policy
limiting its tort liability.

(D)    No,  because  the  employees  of  Red  were  negligent  and,
therefore,  their  actions  were  not  authorized  by  the  state
of Red.

Answer 36: Choice (A)  is  correct.  The  Blue  court  issued  a
valid judgment against the plaintiffs. Therefore, the Red state
court  was  required  by  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit  Clause  to
enforce that judgment, even though the only solvent defendant

108

in  the  Blue  proceeding  is  the  state  of  Red  itself.  The
constitutional  requirement  of  Full  Faith  and  Credit  does  not
recognize  any  exception  just  because  the  state  in  which
enforcement  is  sought  happens  to  itself  be  the  defendant
against which the original judgment was issued. (By the way,
it’s  important  that  all  the  defendants  admitted  jurisdiction  in
the  original  Blue  proceedings — if  the  Blue  courts  had  not
had  jurisdiction,  the  defendants  could  make  a  “collateral
attack”  on  the  original  judgment  in  Red  court,  and  full  faith
and credit would not have applied.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  gives  an  incorrect  reason  for  the
current  result.  A  state  may,  without  violating  the  Equal
Protection Clause, cap (or even abolish entirely) its liability
for torts by its employees or agents. The correct reason Red
must pay the judgment is as given in (A).

(C) is wrong because (1) although a state does, as a general
rule, have the right to enforce a public policy limiting its tort
liability, this right does not derive from the Tenth Amendment;
and (2) in any event, a state’s obligation to enforce an out-of-
state  judgment  under  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit  Clause  takes
priority over the state’s own public policy, at least where the
out-of-state judgment came after all defendants had a full and
fair opportunity to litigate in a court that had jurisdiction over
them.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Red  courts  must  enforce  the  Blue
court’s  judgment,  regardless  of  whether  a  Red  court  would
have  reached  the  same  conclusion  on  the  merits  as  the  Blue
court  did  about  whether  Red  as  employer  is  liable  for  these
torts by its agents.

b.  First state’s error of law

Question 37: A man bought an antique car from a car dealer
in State A. Under State A law, a person who buys from such a
dealer  acquires  good  title,  even  if  the  property  was  stolen
from a previous owner. The man showed the car at an antique
car  show  in  State  B.  A  woman  recognized  the  car  as  having
been  stolen  from  her.  Under  State  B  law,  a  person  whose
property  is  stolen  may  reclaim  it,  even  if  the  current
possessor is an innocent purchaser. The woman sued the man

109

in  a  State  B  court  to  reclaim  the  car.  The  man  defended,
claiming  that  he  had  good  title  under  the  law  of  State  A.
Nevertheless, the State B court applied State B law, and the
woman prevailed.  The  man  did  not  appeal.  The  sheriff  gave
the  woman  possession  of  the  car.  Several  months  later,  the
woman drove the car to State A. The man brought a new suit
against the woman, claiming that the State B court in the prior
suit  should  have  applied  the  State  A  law,  which  protected
innocent  purchasers.  The  woman  appeared  and  moved  to
dismiss the suit.

What should the State A court do?

(A)  Apply the federal law of sale of goods, because the car

has moved in interstate commerce.

(B)    Apply  the  State  A  law,  because  the  car  is  currently

located in State A.

(C)  Dismiss the suit, because the State A court must give full

faith and credit to the State B judgment.

(D)    Remove  the  case  to  federal  court,  because  the  car  has
moved  in  interstate  commerce,  and  therefore  the  case
raises a federal question.

Answer 37: Choice (C)  is  correct.  The  Full  Faith  &  Credit
(FF&C) Clause prohibits state courts from re-litigating cases
in  which  the  courts  of  another  state  have  rendered  final
judgment.  Even  if  the  first  court  should  have  applied  the
second court’s laws under standard conflict rules, the FF&C
Clause bars the second court from re-hearing the case. (If the
State B courts had not had jurisdiction over the man, and the
jurisdiction issue had not been litigated or waived, the FF&C
Clause might not bar the State A courts from hearing the new
suit.  But  the  facts  tell  us  that  the  man  “defended”  on  the
merits,  thus  waiving  any  claim  he  might  have  had  that  the
State B courts lacked jurisdiction over him.) Accordingly, the
court in State A was required to dismiss the suit.
(A) is incorrect, because the FF&C Clause prevents the court
in  State  A  from  re-litigating  the  merits,  and  the  fact  that  the
woman  drove  the  car  to  State  A  has  no  effect  on  the
constitutional analysis.
(B) is, similarly, wrong because the location of the car has no

110

effect on the constitutional analysis.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  movement  of  the  car  across  state
lines did not create a federal question.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

111

CHAPTER 5
THE DUE PROCESS CLAUSE

I.    SUBSTANTIVE DUE PROCESS — ECONOMIC

AND SOCIAL WELFARE REGULATION

A.  Economic and social welfare regulation

1.  Easy to satisfy

Question 38: A state statute requires each insurance company
that offers burglary insurance policies in the state to charge a
uniform rate for such insurance to all of its customers residing
within  the  same  county  in  that  state.  So  long  as  it  complies
with  this  requirement,  a  company  is  free  to  charge  whatever
rate the market will bear for its burglary insurance policies.

An insurance company located in the state files suit in federal
district  court  against  appropriate  state  officials  to  challenge
this statute on constitutional grounds. The insurance company
wishes to charge customers residing within the same county in
the  state  rates  for  burglary  insurance  policies  that  will  vary
because  they  would  be  based  on  the  specific  nature  of  the
customer’s  business,  on  its  precise  location,  and  on  its  past
claims record.

In this suit, the court should

(A)    hold  the  statute  unconstitutional,  because  the  statute
deprives the insurance company of its liberty or property
without due process of law.

(B)    hold  the  statute  unconstitutional,  because  the  statute
imposes an undue burden on interstate commerce.
(C)    hold  the  statute  constitutional,  because  the  statute  is  a

reasonable exercise of the state’s police power.

(D)    abstain  from  ruling  on  the  merits  of  this  case  until  the
state  courts  have  had  an  opportunity  to  pass  on  the
constitutionality of this state statute.

Answer  38:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  is  a  classic
illustration  of  a  state  regulation  in  the  economic  or  social-
welfare  area,  where  no  fundamental  right  is  involved.

112

(Insurers  don’t  have  a  fundamental  right  to  adopt  any
particular  pricing  mechanism.)  Since  the  “one  price  for  all”
scheme  is  rationally  related  to  achieving  one  or  more
legitimate state objectives (e.g., promoting a sense of fairness
and non-discrimination among insurance customers living in a
particular  county,  or  avoiding  race-based  redlining),  the
scheme does not violate the insurer’s due process rights.

(A) is wrong for the same reason (C) is right — the company
may have a due process right not to be irrationally deprived
of  its  desired  pricing  mechanism,  but  the  requirement  of
uniform pricing here is not irrational.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  statute  does  not  unduly  burden
interstate  commerce  (it  only  applies  to  policies  written  in-
state,  and  it  does  not  discriminate  against  out-of-state
insurers).

(D)  is  wrong  because  federal  courts  do  not  have  a  duty  to
abstain  from  passing  on  the  case  until  the  state  courts  have
had an opportunity to pass on the constitutionality of this state
statute. When a litigant believes that a state statute violates the
federal  Constitution,  the  litigant  may  sue  immediately  in
federal court for a determination that this is so, as long as the
requirements  of  justiciability  (e.g.,  ripeness,  actual  injury  to
the plaintiff, etc.) are met. In other words, there is no sense in
which  state  courts  get  “first  shot”  to  determine  the  federal
constitutionality of a state statute.

II.   SUBSTANTIVE DUE PROCESS — 

REGULATIONS AFFECTING FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHTS

A.  Abortion

1.  Consent

a.  Parental consent

i.  Emancipation or maturity

Question 39: A state statute requires, without exception, that
a woman under the age of 18 notify one of her parents at least
48  hours  before  having  an  abortion.  A  proper  lawsuit

113

challenges the constitutionality of this state statute.

In that suit, should the court uphold the constitutionality of the
statute?

(A)  No, because a 48-hour waiting period is excessively long
and, therefore, it imposes an undue burden on a woman’s
right to procure an abortion.

(B)    No,  because  the  state  law  does  not  provide  a  bypass
procedure that would allow a court to authorize a minor
to obtain an abortion without prior parental notification
under appropriate circumstances.

(C)    Yes,  because  parents’  rights  to  supervise  their  minor
daughter’s health care outweighs any individual right she
may have.

(D)    Yes,  because  such  parental  notification  and  waiting-
period requirements do not impose an undue burden on a
minor’s right to procure an abortion.

Answer  39:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  Supreme  Court  has
held  that  parental  notification  requirements  constitute  an
undue burden on the minor’s right to abortion, and thus violate
the minor’s substantive right to due process, unless there is a
satisfactory judicial bypass procedure. Such a procedure must
allow  a  court  to  approve  an  abortion  for  a  minor  without
parental notification if the court finds either that: (1) the minor
is  sufficiently  mature  and  informed  to  make  an  independent
decision to obtain an abortion; or (2) the abortion would be in
the  minor’s  best  interest.  Because  no  such  bypass  procedure
is  included  in  the  statute  at  issue,  the  court  will  hold  the
statute unconstitutional.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  is  true  that  the  statute  at
issue  is  unconstitutional,  this  answer  misstates  the  basis  for
this  conclusion — the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  a  short
waiting  period  does  not  constitute  an  undue  burden  on  a
woman’s right to an abortion.
(C) is incorrect, because the rights of parents to supervise the
health care of their minor children do not always prevail over
the individual rights of their children — as discussed above,
the  Court  has  held  that  parental  notification  requirements
violate  a  minor’s  right  to  an  abortion  unless  there  is  a

114

satisfactory judicial bypass procedure, which is not included
in the statute at issue.

(D)  is  incorrect,  because  the  Court  has  held  that  parental
notification  requirements  are  an  undue  burden,  and  violate  a
minor’s  right  to  an  abortion,  unless  there  is  a  satisfactory
judicial bypass procedure.

2.  Public funding

Question 40: A state statute prohibits the use of state-owned
or  state-operated  facilities  for  the  performance  of  abortions
that  are  not  “necessary  to  save  the  life  of  the  mother.”  That
statute  also  prohibits  state  employees  from  performing  any
such  abortions  during  the  hours  they  are  employed  by  the
state.

A woman was in her second month of pregnancy. She sought
an abortion at a state-owned and state-operated hospital. The
woman  did  not  claim  that  the  requested  abortion  was
necessary  to  save  her  life.  The  officials  in  charge  of  the
hospital  refused  to  perform  the  requested  abortion  solely  on
the  basis  of  the  state  statute.  The  woman  immediately  filed
suit  against  those  officials  in  an  appropriate  federal  district
court.  She  challenged  the  constitutionality  of  the  state  statute
and  requested  the  court  to  order  the  hospital  to  perform  the
abortion she sought. In this case, the court will probably hold
that the state statute is

(A)    unconstitutional,  because  a  limit  on  the  availability  of
abortions  performed  by  state  employees  or  in  state-
owned or state-operated facilities to situations in which
the  mother
it 
impermissibly  interferes  with  the  fundamental  right  of
the woman to decide whether to have a child.

is  necessary 

to  save 

life  of 

the 

(B)    unconstitutional,  because  it  impermissibly  discriminates
against  poor  persons  who  cannot  afford  to  pay  for
abortions in privately owned and operated facilities and
against persons who live far away from privately owned
and operated abortion clinics.

(C)  constitutional, because it does not prohibit a woman from
having  an  abortion  or  penalize  her  for  doing  so,  it  is
rationally related to the legitimate governmental goal of

115

encouraging childbirth, and it does not unduly burden the
voluntary  performance  of  abortions  by  private
physicians in private facilities.

(D)    constitutional,  because  the  use  of  state-owned  or  state-
operated  facilities  and  access  to  the  services  of  state
employees are privileges and not rights and, therefore, a
state may condition them on any basis it chooses.

in  abortions,  without 

Answer 40: Choice (C) is correct. The Court held in Webster
v.  Reproductive  Health  Services  (1989)  that  a  state  could
constitutionally  forbid  the  use  of  all  public  facilities  and
publicly-employed  staff 
thereby
violating the substantive due process right to abortion. If the
state forbade all facilities in the state — public or private — 
from performing abortions, that would be an unconstitutional
“undue  burden”  on  abortion,  but  the  availability  of  private-
facility  abortions  here  prevents  an  undue  burden  from
occurring. And the fact that the state here is allowing the use
of  public  facilities  for  those  abortions  necessary  to  save  the
life of the mother makes it even more clear that the regulation
is constitutional. (Probably under Webster such an exception
is not even required.)

(A) is wrong because the Court has held (in Webster, supra)
that the availability of private-facility abortions means that a
ban  on  the  use  of  public  facilities  does  not  impermissibly
interfere with the right of abortion.

(B) is wrong because the Court has held (in Harris v. McRae
(1980))  that  government’s  refusal  to  fund  abortions  for
patients  who  cannot  afford  them  does  not  constitute  an
to
interference  with 
abortion.

the  constitutionally-protected  right 

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Court  no  longer  uses  the
privilege/right  distinction  in  deciding  cases  involving  the
exercise  of  the  important  constitutional  interests,  and  it  is
certainly  not  the  case  that  the  state  may  condition  access  to
public  facilities  for  an  abortion  “on  any  basis  it  chooses.”
(For  instance,  the  state  could  not  say  that  it  will  fund
abortions  at  state-owned  facilities  for  white  women  but  not
black women.)

116

III.  PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS

A.  Process required

1.  Time for hearing

Question 41: A state statute declares that after five years of
continuous  service  in  their  positions  all  state  employees,
including faculty members at the state university, are entitled
to  retain  their  positions  during  “good  behavior.”  The  statute
also  contains  a  number  of  procedural  provisions.  Any  state
employee  who  is  dismissed  after  that  five-year  period  must
be  given  reasons  for  the  dismissal  before  it  takes  effect.  In
addition,  such  an  employee  must,  upon  request,  be  granted  a
post-dismissal hearing before an administrative board to seek
reinstatement  and  back  pay.  The  statute  precludes  any  other
hearing  or  opportunity  to  respond  to  the  charges.  That  post-
dismissal  hearing  must  occur  within  six  months  after  the
dismissal takes effect. The burden of proof at such a hearing
is on the state, and the board may uphold the dismissal only if
it  is  supported  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence.  An
employee  who  is  dissatisfied  with  a  decision  of  the  board
after a hearing may appeal its decision to the state courts. The
provisions of this statute are inseverable.

A  teacher  who  had  been  employed  continuously  for  seven
years  as  a  faculty  member  at  the  state  university  was
dismissed. A week before the dismissal took effect, she was
informed  that  she  was  being  dismissed  because  of  a  charge
that she accepted a bribe from a student in return for raising
the  student’s  final  grade  in  her  course.  At  that  time  she
requested an immediate hearing to contest the propriety of her
dismissal.
Three  months  after  her  dismissal,  she  was  granted  a  hearing
before  the  state  administrative  board.  The  board  upheld  her
dismissal,  finding  that  the  charge  against  her  was  supported
by a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing.
The  faculty  member  did  not  appeal  the  decision  of  the  state
administrative board to the state courts. Instead, she sought a
declaratory judgment in federal district court to the effect that
the  state  statute  prescribing  the  procedures  for  her  dismissal

117

is unconstitutional.

In this case, the federal district court should

(A)    dismiss  the  suit,  because  a  claim  that  a  state  statute  is
unconstitutional is not ripe for adjudication by a federal
court until all judicial remedies in state courts provided
for by state law have been exhausted.

(B)  hold the statute unconstitutional, because the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires a state to
the  facts
demonstrate  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt 
constituting  good  cause  for  termination  of  a  state
employee.

(C)  hold the statute unconstitutional, because a state may not
ordinarily deprive an employee of a property interest in
a  job  without  giving  the  employee  an  opportunity  for
some  kind  of  pre-dismissal  hearing  to  respond  to  the
charges against that employee.

(D)    hold  the  statute  constitutional,  because  the  Due  Process
Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  entitles  state
employees  who  have  a  right  to  their  jobs  during  good
behavior  only  to  a  statement  of  reasons  for  their
dismissal  and  an  opportunity  for  a  post-dismissal
hearing.

Answer 41: Choice (C) is correct. Since the government had
previously  agreed  that  the  teacher  could  only  be  fired  if  she
were shown not to have had “good behavior,” she had a due
process  “property”  interest  in  maintaining  her  job.  The
Supreme  Court  has  held  that  once  a  person  has  a  property
interest  in  a  job  or  benefit,  only  the  courts,  not  the
government, may prescribe the procedures that are to be used
to  terminate  that  job  or  benefit.  So  the  fact  that  the  statute
provides only for a post-discharge hearing does not mean that
this is all that the teacher is due. Instead, the Court has held
that  the  job  holder  is  entitled  to  a  hearing  before  the
termination  (or  at  least  before  the  termination  of  salary).
Cleveland Bd. of Ed. v. Loudermill (1985). Since the statute
here did not give the teacher such a pre-termination hearing,
the  statute  was  unconstitutional.  And  the  statute  did  not  get
saved  by  the  government’s  holding  a  hearing  three  months
after the termination.

118

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  true  that  a  claim  that  a  state
statute  is  unconstitutional  is  not  ripe  until  all  state-court
remedies have been exhausted. When a litigant believes that a
state statute violates the federal Constitution, the litigant may
sue immediately in federal court for a determination that this
is  so,  as  long  as  the  requirements  of  justiciability  are  met.
And  although  it’s  true  that  one  of  the  requirements  of
justiciability is that the case be “ripe,” ripeness merely means
that  the  plaintiff  has  already  suffered,  or  imminently  faces,
actual injury.

(B)  is  wrong  for  at  least  two  reasons:  (1)  not  all  state
employees have the right not to be dismissed except for good
cause  (and  this  choice  implies  that  all  of  them  do);  and  (2)
even if an employee such as the teacher here had a right not to
be  dismissed  except  for  good  cause,  the  burden  of  proof  on
the  government  would  be  just  a  preponderance-of-the-
evidence  standard,  not 
the  hard-to-satisfy  “beyond  a
reasonable doubt” standard.

(D) is wrong because the Supreme Court has held that, where
a  state  employee  has  a  right  to  hold  her  job  during  good
behavior, the employee is entitled not only to a pre-dismissal
statement of reasons but a pre-dismissal hearing (and the fact
that  the  statute  provides  only  for  a  post-dismissal  hearing
does  not  change  the  constitutional  requirement  of  a  pre-
dismissal one). Cf. Loudermill, supra.

119

CHAPTER 6
EQUAL PROTECTION

I.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL LAWS —  THE

“MERE RATIONALITY” TEST

A.  Non-suspect, non-fundamental rights (economic and social

legislation)

1.  “Grandfather clause” as rational classification

Question 42:  A  city  has  had  a  severe  traffic  problem  on  its
streets.  As  a  result,  it  enacted  an  ordinance  prohibiting  all
sales  to  the  public  of  food  or  other  items  by  persons  selling
directly  from  trucks,  cars,  or  other  vehicles  located  on  city
streets.  The  ordinance  included  an  inseverable  grandfather
provision exempting from its prohibition vendors who, for 20
years  or  more,  have  continuously  sold  food  or  other  items
from such vehicles located on the streets of the city.

A retail ice cream vendor qualifies for this exemption and is
the  only  food  vendor  that  does.  A  yogurt  company  is  a
business  similar  to  the  ice  cream  company,  but  the  yogurt
company  has  been  selling  to  the  public  directly  from  trucks
located  on  the  streets  of  the  city  only  for  the  past  ten  years.
The  yogurt  company  filed  suit  in  an  appropriate  federal
district  court  to  enjoin  enforcement  of  this  ordinance  on  the
ground that it denies the yogurt company the equal protection
of the laws.

In this case, the court will probably rule that the ordinance is
(A)    constitutional,  because  it  is  narrowly  tailored  to
implement  the  city’s  compelling  interest  in  reducing
traffic  congestion  and,  therefore,  satisfies  the  strict
scrutiny test applicable to such cases.

(B)    constitutional,  because  its  validity  is  governed  by  the
rational  basis  test,  and  the  courts  consistently  defer  to
economic  choices  embodied  in  such  legislation  if  they
are even plausibly justifiable.

(C)  unconstitutional, because the nexus between the legitimate

120

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

purpose of the ordinance and the conduct it prohibits is
so tenuous and its provisions are so underinclusive that
the ordinance fails to satisfy the substantial relationship
test applicable to such cases.

(D)    unconstitutional,  because  economic  benefits  or  burdens
imposed  by  legislatures  on  the  basis  of  grandfather
provisions  have  consistently  been  declared  invalid  by
courts  as  per  se  violations  of  the  Equal  Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

Answer 42: Choice (B) is correct. The city here is engaging
in  economic  regulation,  and  no  suspect  class  or  fundamental
right is involved. The “even plausibly justifiable” standard is
a good summary of the extreme deference that courts give to
government choices in the economic-regulatory area where no
suspect  class  or  fundamental  right  is  at  issue.  Grandfather
schemes  in  which  people  with  longtime  track  records  of
pursuing  an  activity  are 
than
newcomers  to  that  activity  are  a  good  illustration  of
classifications that are very likely to be upheld.

treated  more  favorably 

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  applies  strict  scrutiny;
strict  scrutiny  would  be  appropriate  for  a  regulation  that
intentionally  disfavored  a  suspect  class  (e.g.,  persons  of  a
particular race) or substantially impaired a fundamental right
(e.g., the right to vote), but the classification here does not do
either of these things.

(C) is wrong because the grandfather scheme here would not
be found to be so “tenuous” or “underinclusive” as to fail the
easy-to-satisfy rational-basis test.

(D)  is  wrong  as  a  statement  of  law;  so  long  as  no  suspect
class or fundamental right is impaired, grandfather clauses are
usually found valid, and are certainly not “per se violations”
of equal protection.

2.  Non-suspect classes

a.  Status as convicted criminal

Question 43:  A  city  zoning  ordinance  requires  anyone  who
proposes  to  operate  a  group  home  to  obtain  a  special  use
permit  from  the  city  zoning  board.  The  zoning  ordinance
defines  a  group  home  as  a  residence  in  which  four  or  more

121

unrelated  adults  reside.  An  individual  applied  for  a  special
use permit to operate a group home for convicts during their
transition  from  serving  prison  sentences  to  their  release  on
parole.  Although  the  proposed  group  home  met  all  of  the
requirements  for  the  special  use  permit,  the  zoning  board
denied  the  individual’s  application  because  of  the  nature  of
the  proposed  use.  The  individual  sued  the  zoning  board
seeking  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief  on  constitutional
grounds.

Which of the following best states the appropriate burden of
persuasion in this action?

(A)  Because housing is a fundamental right, the zoning board
must demonstrate that denial of the permit is necessary to
serve a compelling state interest.

(B)    Because  the  zoning  board’s  action  has  the  effect  of
discriminating against a quasi-suspect class in regard to
a  basic  subsistence  right,  the  zoning  board  must
demonstrate that the denial of the permit is substantially
related to an important state interest.
invidiously
the  zoning  board’s  action 
  Because 
discriminates  against  a  suspect  class,  the  zoning  board
must demonstrate that denial of the permit is necessary to
serve a compelling state interest.

(C) 

(D)  Because the zoning board’s action is in the nature of an
economic  or  social  welfare  regulation,  the  individual
seeking the permit must demonstrate that the denial of the
permit  is  not  rationally  related  to  a  legitimate  state
interest.

Answer  43:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Note  that  the  only
plausible ground for plaintiff’s attack is the Equal Protection
Clause — government is saying that certain groups of four or
more  people  can  live  together  without  a  permit  and  others
can’t.  Persons  convicted  of  crimes  have  not  been  held  to
constitute  either  a  suspect  or  a  quasi-suspect  class  for  equal
protection  purposes.  Therefore,  the  zoning  board’s  denial  of
the permit discriminated against neither a suspect class nor a
quasi-suspect class. Nor did it unduly burden the exercise of a
fundamental  right  (since  housing  has  not  been  held  to  be  a
fundamental  right  for  equal  protection  purposes).  The  denial

122

therefore triggers rational basis scrutiny.

(A)  is  wrong  because  housing  has  been  held  not  to  be  a
fundamental  right  for  equal  protection  purposes.  Lindsey  v.
Normet  (1972).  Therefore,  the  strict  scrutiny  standard
articulated in this choice would not be appropriate.

(B) is wrong because convicts have never been held to be a
semi-suspect  class. 
semi-suspect  classes
(The  only 
recognized by the Court to date are gender and illegitimacy.)
Nor does housing have any special equal protection status as
a  “basic  subsistence  right.”  Therefore,  the  intermediate
standard of review (which this choice correctly describes as
the  “substantially  related  to  an  important  state  interest”  test)
would not apply here.

(C)  is  wrong  because  convicts  do  not  constitute  a  suspect
class  for  equal  protection  purposes.  Therefore,  while  this
would  be  the  correct  test  if  the  legislative  classification
involved  a  suspect  class  (e.g.,  race  or  national  origin),  it  is
not the correct test for this case.

II.   SUSPECT CLASSIFICATIONS, ESPECIALLY

RACE

A.  Suspect classifications

1.   Race

Question  44:  The  United  States  government  demonstrated
that  terrorist  attacks  involving  commercial  airliners  were
perpetrated exclusively by individuals of one particular race.
In  response,  Congress  enacted  a  statute  imposing  stringent
new airport and airline security measures only on individuals
of that race seeking to board airplanes in the United States.
Which  of  the  following  provides  the  best  ground  for
challenging the constitutionality of this statute?
(A)  The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(B)  The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
(C)  The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.
(D)    The  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth

Amendment.

123

Answer 44: Choice (B) is correct. What makes this question
slightly challenging is that you’re expecting a choice that uses
the  phrase  “equal  protection”  (since  the  government  is
treating  members  of  one  race  differently  than  those  of  other
races). But the key is that the way equal protection principles
apply to the federal government is via the Fifth Amendment’s
Due Process Clause — the Supreme Court held, in Bolling v.
Sharpe  (1954),  that  the  equal  protection  principles  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  apply  to  actions  of  the  federal
government  through  incorporation  into  the  Due  Process
Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment.  The  new  security  measures
presumptively violate equal protection because they contain a
racial  classification:  The  new  measures  apply  only  to
individuals  of  one  race.  A  court  therefore  would  uphold  the
measures  only  if  the  government  could  prove  that  they  are
necessary  to  serve  a  compelling  public  interest,  a  standard
that the government typically cannot meet and would be very
unlikely to meet here.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  statute  here  would  be  a  proper
exercise of the commerce power, if it did not violate the Due
Process  Clause.  The  Commerce  Clause  grants  Congress
plenary  power  to  regulate  the  safety  of  air  travel  because
airlines are instrumentalities of interstate commerce.

(Instead,  the  problem  is  that  the  new  security  measures
presumptively violate equal protection, as made applicable to
the states via the Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause. See
Choice (B) for more details.)

(C) is wrong because the Privileges and Immunities Clause of
Article  IV  prohibits  only  actions  by  states  that  improperly
discriminate  against  the  citizens  of  other  states.  The  Clause
does not apply to actions of the federal government.
(D) is wrong because the Privileges or Immunities Clause of
the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prohibits  states  from  depriving
individuals  of  the  privileges  or  immunities  of  United  States
citizenship.  The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  never  applied  the
Clause to actions of the federal government.
(Furthermore, even where state rather than federal action is at
issue,  be  skeptical  of  any  choice  that  finds  a  governmental

124

action  unconstitutional  on  the  grounds  that  it  violates  the
Fourteenth Amendment P&I Clause. That Clause protects only
the privileges and immunities of “national citizenship.” There
immunities  of  national
are  very  few  privileges  and 
citizenship, mainly the right to vote in national elections, the
right to travel physically from state to state, and the right not
to be discriminated against by virtue of one’s having recently
moved to the state from a different state.)

2.  Purposeful discrimination

a.  Peremptory jury challenges

to 

to  call  attention 

Question  45:  The  executive  director  of  an  equal  housing
opportunity  organization  was  the  leader  of  a  sit-in  at  the
offices of a real estate management company. The protest was
the  company’s  racially
designed 
discriminatory  rental  practices.  When  police  demanded  that
the  director  desist  from  trespassing  on  the  company’s
property,  she  refused  and  was  arrested.  In  her  trial  for
trespass, the prosecution peremptorily excused all non-whites
from the jury, arguing to the court that even though the director
was  white,  minority  groups  would  automatically  support  her
because  of  her 
in  housing
accommodations.

against 

racism 

fight 

If  the  director  is  convicted  of  trespass  by  an  all-white  jury
and appeals, claiming a violation of her constitutional rights,
the court should

(A)    affirm  the  conviction,  because  the  director  was  not  a

member of the class discriminated against.

(B)    affirm  the  conviction,  because  peremptory  challenge  of
the  non-whites  did  not  deny  the  director  the  right  to  an
impartial jury.
the  conviction,  because  racially  based
  reverse 
peremptory  challenges  violate  equal  protection  of  the
law.

(C) 

(D)  reverse the conviction, because the director was denied
the right to have her case heard by a fair cross-section of
the community.

Answer 45: Choice (C) is correct, because the prosecution’s
dismissal  of  jurors  solely  on  racial  grounds  violates  the

125

defendant’s  equal  protection  rights.  A  state  may  not  permit
litigants  (including  litigants  who  are  state  actors,  such  as
prosecutors) to exclude jurors based solely on racial grounds.
This  constitutes  a  violation  of  the  other  litigant’s  equal
protection rights. Batson v. Ky. (1986). And that’s especially
true where the exclusion is based upon the reasoning that “the
jurors would decide the case solely on racial considerations,”
as the prosecution is claiming here.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  director’s  race  wouldn’t  matter.
Prosecutors  may  not  use  peremptory  challenges  to  dismiss
potential jurors based solely on the race of the juror. (See the
discussion  of  choice  C  above.)  That’s  true  regardless  of
whether  the  litigant  who  is  raising  the  equal  protection
argument (here, the director) is or isn’t a member of the race
being discriminated against.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  use  of  peremptory  challenges  to
dismiss  potential  jurors  based  solely  on  the  juror’s  race  is
automatically deemed to be a denial of an impartial jury. The
use of peremptory challenges based solely on the race of the
potential  jurors  violates  equal  protection.  Batson  v.  Ky.,
supra.  The  litigant  who  is  objecting  to  the  practice  doesn’t
have to make a specific showing that this exclusion denied her
an  impartial  jury — the  mere  fact  of  intentional  exclusion
suffices to create an equal protection violation.

(D) is wrong, because “fair cross-section of the community”
is not the appropriate legal standard. When a litigant excludes
potential  jurors  based  solely  on  racial  grounds,  the  other
litigant’s equal protection rights have been violated. (See the
discussion  of  choice  C  above.)  A  litigant  has  the  right  to  an
“impartial” jury, and a jury of her peers. But there is no right
to a jury consisting of “a fair cross-section of the community.”

III.  MIDDLE-LEVEL REVIEW (GENDER,
ILLEGITIMACY AND ALIENAGE)

A.  Gender

1.  Male or female plaintiff

Question 46: A public high school has had a very high rate of

126

pregnancy among its students. In order to assist students who
keep their babies to complete high school, the high school has
established  an  infant  day-care  center  for  children  of  its
students,  and  also  offers  classes  in  child  care.  Because  the
child-care classes are always overcrowded, the school limits
admission  to  those  classes  solely  to  students  at  the  high
school  who  are  the  mothers  of  babies  in  the  infant  day-care
center.

A  male  student  at  the  high  school  has  legal  custody  of  his
infant son. The school provides care for his son in the infant
day-care center, but will not allow the male student to enroll
in  the  child-care  classes.  He  brings  suit  against  the  school
challenging, on constitutional grounds, his exclusion from the
child-care classes.

Which of the following best states the burden of persuasion in
this case?

(A)    The  student  must  demonstrate  that  the  admission
requirement  is  not  rationally  related  to  a  legitimate
governmental interest.

(B)    The  student  must  demonstrate  that  the  admission
requirement  is  not  as  narrowly  drawn  as  possible  to
achieve a substantial governmental interest.

(C)  The school must demonstrate that the admission policy is
the  least  restrictive  means  by  which  to  achieve  a
compelling governmental interest.

(D)  The school must demonstrate that the admission policy is
important  governmental

to  an 

substantially  related 
interest.

Answer  46:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  issue  here  is  the
validity  of  the  school’s  gender-based  classification,  under
which students who are mothers of an infant can use the day-
care  center  but  students  who  are  fathers  of  an  infant  cannot.
For  such  a  gender-based  classification,  the  court  uses
intermediate-level  scrutiny,  under  which,  as  Choice  (D)
recites,  the  defendant  (the  government)  bears  the  burden  of
showing that its classification is “substantially related” to the
fulfillment  of  an  “important  governmental  interest.”  Craig  v.
Boren (1976). Notice that the standard is the same for a male

127

plaintiff  who  is  disadvantaged  by  the  classification  as  it
would be for a female plaintiff who was disadvantaged.

(A)  would  be  correct  if  the  classification  were  one  that  did
not  involve  a  suspect  or  semi-  suspect  class  or  fundamental
interest  (e.g.,  a  garden-variety  economic  or  social-welfare
regulation);  but  since  gender  is  a  semi-suspect  category,  the
standard in Choice (A) is insufficiently demanding.

(B)  is  incorrect  mainly  because,  when  the  classification  is
based on gender, the use of semi-strict scrutiny means that the
government  bears  the  burden  of  persuasion.  (Also,  the  key
phrases  “narrowly  drawn  as  possible”  and  “substantial
governmental interest” are not quite right.)

(C) is wrong because, while it correctly places the burden of
persuasion  on  the  government  defendant,  this  choice  recites
the standard for strict rather than semi-strict scrutiny.

IV.  FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS

A.  Voting rights

1.  Fifteenth Amendment

Question 47:  Twenty  percent  of  the  residents  of  Green  City
are  members  of  minority  racial  groups.  These  residents  are
evenly distributed among the many different residential areas
of the city. The five city council members of Green City are
elected  from  five  single-member  electoral  districts  that  are
nearly equally populated. No candidate has ever been elected
to  the  city  council  who  was  a  member  of  a  minority  racial
group.

A  group  of  citizens  who  are  members  of  minority  racial
groups file suit in federal district court seeking a declaratory
judgment  that  the  single-member  districts  in  Green  City  are
unconstitutional. They claim that the single-member districting
system  in  that  city  diminishes  the  ability  of  voters  who  are
members  of  minority  racial  groups  to  affect  the  outcome  of
city  elections.  They  seek  an  order  from  the  court  forcing  the
city  to  adopt  an  at-large  election  system  in  which  the  five
candidates  with  the  greatest  vote  totals  would  be  elected  to
the city council. No state or federal statutes are applicable to

128

the resolution of this suit.

Which of the following constitutional provisions provides the
most obvious basis for plaintiffs’ claim in this suit?

(A)  The Thirteenth Amendment.
(B)  The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C)    The  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth

Amendment.

(D)  The Fifteenth Amendment.
Answer  47:  The  correct  answer  is  Choice  (D).  Direct
impairments of the right to vote, based on a person’s race or
color,  may  violate  the  Fifteenth  Amendment,  even  where
Congress has not passed a statute banning the impairment.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  Thirteenth  Amendment  bars  only
slavery.  Congress  has  the  power  to  ban  the  “badges  and
incidents” of slavery under this Amendment, and voting rules
that have a racially discriminatory impact might qualify as a
badge-or-incident,  but  Congress  has  not  used  its  power  here
(since we’re told that there is no applicable federal statute).

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  Due  Process  Clause  does  not
directly  address  voting  rights,  so  any  due  process  violation
would  be  far  more  tenuous  than  the  Thirteenth  Amendment
claim. (There might be a valid Fourteenth Amendment equal
protection claim, but that’s not one of the choices.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  Fourteenth  Amendment’s  P&I
Clause  is  interpreted  to  protect  only  the  rights  of  “national”
(not state) citizenship, and the right to vote in a local election
is not a right of national citizenship, at least where the local
government  is  not  discriminating  against  those  who  recently
moved there.

B.  Ballot access

1.  Two invalid restrictions

a.  Unfair to new parties

Question  48:  A  state  has  a  statute  providing  that  an
unsuccessful  candidate  in  a  primary  election  for  a  party’s
nomination  for  elected  public  office  may  not  become  a
candidate for the same office at the following general election

129

by nominating petition or by write-in votes.

A  woman  sought  her  party’s  nomination  for  governor  in  the
May primary election. After losing in the primary, the woman
filed  nominating  petitions  containing  the  requisite  number  of
signatures to become a candidate for the office of governor in
the following general election. The chief elections officer of
the  state  refused  to  certify  the  woman’s  petitions  solely
because  of  the  above  statute.  The  woman  then  filed  suit  in
federal  district  court  challenging  the  constitutionality  of  this
state statute.

As  a  matter  of  constitutional  law,  which  of  the  following  is
the proper burden of persuasion in this suit?

(A)    The  woman  must  demonstrate  that  the  statute  is  not

necessary to achieve a compelling state interest.

(B)    The  woman  must  demonstrate  that  the  statute  is  not

rationally related to a legitimate state interest.

(C)    The  state  must  demonstrate  that  the  statute  is  the  least
restrictive  means  of  achieving  a  compelling  state
interest.

(D)    The  state  must  demonstrate  that  the  statute  is  rationally

related to a legitimate state interest.

Answer 48: Choice (C) is correct. Ballot restrictions that are
so  severe  that  minor-party  and  independent  candidates  have
no  realistic  opportunity  to  get  on  the  ballot  are  given  strict
scrutiny, under both the Equal Protection Clause and the First
Amendment’s  Freedom  of  Association  Clause.  Williams  v.
Rhodes (1968). The statute here is such a restriction, because
it makes it completely impossible (not just somewhat harder)
for someone who fails to get a major-party nomination to then
run as an independent or minor-party candidate in the general
election, no matter how much public support that person can
demonstrate.  Consequently,  the  choice  here,  by  articulating
strict scrutiny as the standard, is correct.
(A) is incorrect because, although it correctly articulates the
strict-scrutiny  standard,  it  incorrectly  says  that  the  plaintiff
who  is  challenging  the  government  bears  the  burden  of
persuasion;  in  those  scenarios  triggering  strict  scrutiny,  the
burden of persuasion is on the government.

130

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  uses  the  easy-to-satisfy
mere-rationality standard, when what is at issue is a serious
impairment of the fundamental right to be a candidate (and the
right of voters to choose the best candidate).

(D) is wrong because, for the reasons stated above, the court
would apply the strict scrutiny standard on these facts.

Question  49:  A  state  statute  permits  a  person’s  name  to
appear  on  the  general  election  ballot  as  a  candidate  for
statewide  public  office  if  the  person  pays  a  $100  filing  fee
and provides proof from the State Elections Board that he or
she  was  nominated  in  the  immediately  preceding  primary
election  by  one  of  the  state’s  two  major  political  parties.  It
also  permits  the  name  of  an  independent  candidate  or  a
candidate of a smaller party to appear on the general election
ballot if that person pays a filing fee of $1,000, and submits
petitions  signed  by  at  least  3  percent  of  the  voters  who
actually cast ballots for the office of governor in the last state
election. The state maintains that these filing requirements are
necessary to limit the size of the election ballot, to eliminate
frivolous  candidacies,  and  to  help  finance  the  high  cost  of
elections.

Historically, very few of the state’s voters who are members
of racial minority groups have been members of either of the
two  major  political  parties.  Recently,  a  new  political  party
has  been  formed  by  some  of  these  voters.  Which  of  the
following constitutional provisions would be most helpful to
the  new  political  party  as  a  basis  for  attacking  the
constitutionality of this statute?

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(A)  The First Amendment.
(B)  The Thirteenth Amendment.
(C)  The Fourteenth Amendment.
(D)  The Fifteenth Amendment.
Answer  49:  Choice  (C)  is  correct,  because  access  to  the
ballot  is  protected  by  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment.  In  particular,  the  Court  has  strictly
scrutinized state burdens that seem to protect major parties at
the  expense  of  new  parties,  minor  parties  and  independent
candidates, especially where the disadvantaged voters and/or

131

candidates are racial minorities. See, e.g., Williams v. Rhodes
(1968).  While  the  equal  protection  argument  might  not  win
(the  restrictions  here  on  candidates  from  new  parties  are
much less severe than the ones struck down in Williams, and
might not even trigger strict scrutiny), it is the only argument
of  the  four  presented  that  has  even  a  reasonable  chance  of
success.

(A) is wrong because while speech is protected by the First
Amendment,  access  to  the  ballot  is  protected  by  the
Fourteenth Amendment. A political party’s argument that it is
being  denied  ballot  access  might  theoretically  be  based  on
freedom-of-association concepts. But the Court has tended to
decide such ballot-access cases on equal protection grounds,
not on First Amendment grounds. On the facts here, the state is
not  saying  that  people  may  not  get  together  to  join  the  new
political  party  that  is  the  plaintiff  here;  the  state  is  merely
making  it  tough  for  that  party  to  get  on  the  ballot.  Since  the
essence  of  the  party’s  claim  is  that  the  state  is  prefering  the
two  established  parties  over  newcomer  parties,  that’s  really
an “unequal treatment” claim, i.e., an equal protection claim.

(B) is wrong because, while the members of the new political
party are racial minorities, the issue in this question is access
to  the  ballot,  not  the  badges  and  incidents  of  slavery.  The
Thirteenth Amendment, § 1, provides that “neither slavery nor
involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for a crime . . .
shall exist in the United States.” Section 2 allows Congress to
pass “all laws necessary and proper for abolishing all badges
and incidents of slavery.” While the members of the new party
that  is  the  plaintiff  here  are  racial  minorities,  the  connection
between a state’s making it hard for a minority-based party to
get  on  the  ballot  and  the  institution  of  slavery  would  almost
certainly be held to be too attenuated to constitute a Thirteenth
Amendment violation.
(D) is wrong because the Fifteenth Amendment prohibits the
federal  and  state  governments  from  denying  any  citizen  the
right to vote for reasons of race or color, and the state statute
here  isn’t  inhibiting  anyone’s  right  to  vote;  it’s  directed  at
who may be on the ballot. Traditionally, the Court has viewed
ballot-access  restrictions  as  implicating  only  the  Equal

132

Protection Clause, not the Fifteenth Amendment right to vote.

C.  Necessities

1.  Education

Question 50: Public schools in a state are financed, in large
part,  by  revenue  derived  from  real  estate  taxes  imposed  by
each  school  district  on  the  taxable  real  property  located  in
that  district.  Public  schools  also  receive  other  revenue  from
private  gifts,  federal  grants,  student  fees,  and  local  sales
taxes.  For  many  years,  the  state  has  distributed  additional
funds,  which  come  from  the  state  treasury,  to  local  school
districts  in  order  to  equalize  the  funds  available  on  a  per-
student basis for each public school district. These additional
funds are distributed on the basis of a state statutory formula
that  considers  only  the  number  of  students  in  each  public
school  district  and  the  real  estate  tax  revenue  raised  by  that
district.  The  formula  does  not  consider  other  revenue
received by a school district from different sources.

The  school  boards  of  two  school  districts,  together  with
parents  and  schoolchildren  in  those  districts,  bring  suit  in
federal court to enjoin the state from allocating the additional
funds from the state treasury to individual districts pursuant to
this  formula.  They  allege  that  the  failure  of  the  state,  in
allocating this additional money, to take into account a school
district’s sources of revenue other than revenue derived from
taxes  levied  on  real  estate  located  there  violates  the  Equal
Protection  Clause  of 
the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  The
complaint does not allege that the allocation of the additional
state funds based on the current statutory formula has resulted
in  a  failure  to  provide  minimally  adequate  education  to  any
child.
Which  of  the  following  best  describes  the  appropriate
standard  by  which 
the
the 
constitutionality of the state statutory funding formula?

review 

should 

court 

(A)    Because  classifications  based  on  wealth  are  inherently
suspect,  the  state  must  demonstrate  that  the  statutory
formula  is  necessary  to  vindicate  a  compelling  slate
interest.

(B)    Because  the  statutory  funding  formula  burdens  the

133

right 

state  must
to  education, 
fundamental 
demonstrate that the formula is necessary to vindicate a
compelling state interest.

the 

(C)  Because no fundamental right or suspect classification is
implicated  in  this  case,  the  plaintiffs  must  demonstrate
that  the  funding  allocation  formula  bears  no  rational
relationship to any legitimate state interest.
  Because  the  funding  formula  inevitably  leads  to
disparities  among  the  school  districts  in  their  levels  of
total funding, the plaintiffs must only demonstrate that the
funding  formula  is  not  substantially  related  to  the
furtherance of an important state interest.

(D) 

v.  Rodriguez 

Answer 50:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  First,  education  is  not  a
fundamental right for equal protection purposes. San Antonio
(1973).  Second,  wealth
Sch.  Dist. 
classifications  are  not  a  suspect  category.  This  choice
therefore  correctly  asserts  that  (1)  no  fundamental  right  or
suspect classification is involved in this case; and (2) where
this is true, the plaintiff must bear the very difficult burden of
proving  that  there  is  no  rational  relationship  between  the
classification being used and any legitimate state interest. (By
the way, it is very unlikely that the plaintiffs would win under
this test; a school-funding scheme relying principally on local
property  taxes  was  upheld  against  rational-basis  equal
protection  attack  in  San  Antonio  Sch.  Dist.  v.  Rodriguez,
supra.)

(A) is wrong because classifications based on wealth are not
“inherently  suspect”  for  equal  protection  purposes,  so  such
classifications  do  not  have  to  satisfy  the  strict  scrutiny
standard that this choice articulates.
(B) is wrong because the Court has held that education (or at
least  the  right  to  have  a  public  education  that  goes  beyond
minimally-adequate  standards)  is  not  a  fundamental  right  for
equal  protection  purposes;  therefore,  the  strict  scrutiny
standard articulated by this choice would not apply.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  articulates  an  intermediate  level  of
scrutiny, and that level is only used in cases involving semi-
suspect classifications (e.g., ones based on gender).

134

CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS CLAUSES

I.    THE “TAKING” CLAUSE

A.  The “Taking” Clause generally

1.  Taking vs. regulation

a.  Guidelines

Question 51: A company that operated a supermarket wanted
to  expand  the  size  of  the  building  it  owned  that  housed  the
supermarket,  by  adding  space  for  a  coffeehouse.  The
company’s building was located in the center of five acres of
land  owned  by  the  company  and  devoted  wholly  to  parking
for its supermarket customers.
City  officials  refused  to  grant  a  required  building  permit  for
the coffeehouse addition unless the company established in its
store  a  child  care  center  that  would  take  up  space  at  least
equal to the size of the proposed coffeehouse addition, which
was to be 20 percent of the existing building. This action of
the  city  officials  was  authorized  by  provisions  of  the
applicable  zoning  ordinance.  In  a  suit  filed  in  state  court
against  appropriate  officials  of  the  city,  the  company
challenged  the  child  care  center  requirement  solely  on
constitutional  grounds.  The 
the
requirement even though city officials presented no evidence
and  made  no  findings  to  justify  it  other  than  a  general
assertion that there was a shortage of child care facilities in
the city. The company appealed. The court hearing the appeal
should  hold  that  the  requirement  imposed  by  the  city  on  the
issuance of this building permit is
(A)  constitutional, because the burden was on the company to
demonstrate  that  there  was  no  rational  relationship
between this requirement and a legitimate governmental
interest,  and  the  company  could  not  do  so  because  the
requirement is reasonably related to improving the lives
of families and children residing in the city.

lower  court  upheld 

(B)  constitutional, because the burden was on the company to

135

demonstrate  that  this  requirement  was  not  necessary  to
vindicate  a  compelling  governmental  interest,  and  the
company could not do so on these facts.

(C)    unconstitutional,  because  the  burden  was  on  the  city  to
demonstrate  that  this  requirement  was  necessary  to
vindicate  a  compelling  governmental  interest,  and  the
city failed to meet its burden under that standard.

(D)    unconstitutional,  because  the  burden  was  on  the  city  to
this
demonstrate  a  rough  proportionality  between 
requirement  and  the  impact  of  the  company’s  proposed
action on the community, and the city failed to do so.
Answer  51:  Choice  (D)  is  correct,  because  without  the
showing  of  “rough  proportionality”  specified  in  this  choice,
the  ordinance  violates  the  Takings  Clause.  Dolan  v.  City  of
Tigard  (1994)  holds  that  when  a  city  conditions  a  building
permit  on  some  “give  back”  by  the  owner,  there  must  be  a
“rough  proportionality”  between  the  burdens  on  the  public
that the building permit would bring about, and the benefits to
the public from the give-back. There’s nothing in the facts to
suggest  that  the  city  ever  made  the  required  showing  here.
(Indeed,  the  facts  tell  us  that  city  officials  presented  no
evidence  of  any  sort,  so  they  certainly  didn’t  produce
evidence  either  about  the  size  of  the  public  burden  from
allowing  the  coffeehouse  or  the  size  of  the  corresponding
benefit  from  the  new  child  care  facility  they  were  requiring
here.)

(A),  (B),  and  (C)  are  all  wrong  because  they  misstate  the
burden  of  proof  and  the  standard.  When  a  city  demands  a
“give back” in return for approving construction, the city, not
the  owner,  bears 
to  rough
proportionality  (and  this  burden  is  probably  somewhere
between the easy-to-satisfy “rational relation” test of Choice
(A) and the strict scrutiny of Choice (D)).

the  burden  of  proof  as 

II.   EX POST FACTO LAWS

A.  Constitutional prohibition

1.  Criminal only

136

a.  Significance

Question 52: A doctor, a resident of the city of Greenville in
the state of Green, is a physician licensed to practice in both
Green and the neighboring state of Red. The doctor finds that
the  most  convenient  place  to  treat  her  patients  who  need
hospital care is in the publicly owned and operated municipal
hospital  of  the  city  of  Redville  in  the  state  of  Red,  which  is
located  just  across  the  state  line  from  Greenville.  For  many
years  the  doctor  had  successfully  treated  her  patients  in  that
hospital.  Early  this  year  she  was  notified  that  she  could  no
longer treat patients in the Redville hospital because she was
not  a  resident  of  Red,  and  a  newly  adopted  rule  of  the
Redville  hospital,  which  was  adopted  in  conformance  with
all  required  procedures,  stated  that  every  physician  who
practices in that hospital must be a resident of Red.

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  would  be
most  helpful  to  the  doctor  in  an  action  to  challenge  her
exclusion  from  the  Redville  hospital  solely  on  the  basis  of
this hospital rule?

(A)  The Bill of Attainder Clause.
(B)  The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.
(C)  The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(D)  The Ex Post Facto Clause.
Answer  52:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  When  a  state  (or
subdivision  of  a  state,  like  a  city  and  its  municipally-owned
operations)  regulates  a  right  that  is  “fundamental  to  national
unity,” and does so in a way that disadvantages out-of-staters,
that  regulation  will  essentially  be  subject  to  strict  scrutiny
under the Art. IV Privileges and Immunities Clause. (Among
other  things,  the  state  must  show  that  the  discrimination
against non-residents bears a “substantial relationship” to the
problem  the  state  is  attempting  to  solve.)  Practice  of  one’s
business  or  profession  is  a  right  “fundamental  to  national
unity” for P&I purposes.
The  case  here  is  on  all  fours  with  New  Hampshire  v.  Piper
(1985),  where  the  Court  held  that  New  Hampshire’s  attempt
to restrict the right to practice law to state residents violated
the  Art.  IV  P&I  Clause.  Applying  Piper,  since  there’s  no

137

showing  that  out-of-state  doctors  are  the  peculiar  source  of
any  special  problem  that  the  hospital  is  trying  to  solve,  the
restriction violates the P&I Clause.

(By  the  way,  there’s  no  exception  under  the  P&I  Clause  for
activities in which the city or state is a “market participant,”
as there is under the dormant commerce clause. United Bldg.
and Constr. Trades Counc. v. Camden (1984). So the fact that
the city owns the hospital that’s making the rule doesn’t help
it, as it would against a Commerce Clause attack.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  legislature  of  state  Red  was  not
trying to punish the doctor. A bill of attainder is a legislative
act that attempts to inflict punishment without a judicial trial
upon individuals who are designated by name or in terms of
past  conduct.  The  constitutional  prohibition  against  a  bill  of
attainder  would  not  be  helpful  to  the  doctor  because  the
hospital  here  merely  took  the  purely  regulatory  action  of
changing the residency requirement for practicing medicine at
the  hospital — no  public  entity  named  the  doctor  as  a
criminal,  or  attempted  to  punish  or  stigmatize  her,  which  is
what a bill of attainder would have done.
(C) is wrong because the doctor would have to show that the
licensing  requirement  was  not  rationally  related 
to  a
legitimate government interest, a showing the doctor probably
couldn’t  make.  The  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment provides that no state shall make or enforce any
law  which  shall  deprive  any  person  of  life,  liberty,  or
property,  without  due  process  of  law.  When  a  fundamental
right  is  not  involved,  substantive  due  process  requires  only
that  a  law  be  “rationally  related”  to  the  achievement  of  a
“legitimate  government  interest.”  So  to  win  on  due  process,
the  doctor  would  have  to  prove  that  Red’s  new  residency
requirement  was  not  rationally  related  to  some  legitimate
government  purpose.  This  standard  is  very  lenient  and  easy-
to-satisfy.  Here,  for  instance,  the  hospital  could  plausibly
claim that it wants to have on staff only doctors who live very
nearby,  and  that  it’s  entitled  to  use  state  of  residence  as  a
proxy  for  nearby-ness.  Although  the  fit  between  means  and
end  isn’t  very  tight  under  this  rationale,  it’s  almost  certainly
tight  enough  to  meet  the  extremely  lenient  rational-relation

138

standard.

the 

federal  government  and 

(D)  is  wrong  because  state  Red  was  not  legislating  against
past acts. The Ex Post Facto Clauses, Article I, § 9 and § 10,
prohibit  both 
the  state,
respectively, from passing legislation that retroactively alters
the  criminal  law  as  to  offenses  or  punishments,  in  a
substantially prejudicial manner. A retroactive change in civil
regulations, such as licensing requirements, cannot violate the
prohibition, since the prohibition applies only to “penal,” i.e.,
punitive,  measures.  Here,  the  facts  make  it  clear  that  the
hospital was not making a rule penalizing past acts, but was
instead making residency a requirement to practice medicine
in state Red going forward.

III.  BILLS OF ATTAINDER

that 

included 

to  penalties 

Question  53:  Two  tenured  professors  at  a  state  university
drafted  a  new  university  regulation  prohibiting  certain  kinds
of speech on campus. Students, staff, and faculty convicted by
campus  tribunals  of  violating  the  regulation  were  made
fines,  suspensions,
subject 
expulsions,  and  termination  of  employment.  The  regulation
was  widely  unpopular  and  there  was  a  great  deal  of  public
anger  directed  toward  the  professors  who  drafted  it.  The
following  year,  the  state  legislature  approved  a  severable
provision  in  the  appropriations  bill  for  the  university
declaring that none of the university’s funding could be used
to pay the two professors, who were specifically named in the
provision.  In  the  past,  the  professors’  salaries  had  always
been  paid  from  funds  appropriated  to  the  university  by  the
legislature, and the university had no other funds that could be
used to pay them.
If  the  professors  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  the
appropriations  provision,  is  the  court  likely  to  uphold  the
provision?
(A)  No, because it amounts to the imposition of a punishment

by the legislature without trial.

(B)    No,  because  it  was  based  on  conduct  the  professors

engaged in before it was enacted.

139

(C)    Yes,  because  the  Eleventh  Amendment  gives  the  state
legislature  plenary  power  to  appropriate  state  funds  in
the  manner  that  it  deems  most  conducive  to  the  welfare
of its people.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit  Clause  requires
the court to enforce the provision strictly according to its
terms.

Answer 53: Choice (A) is correct. The provision is a bill of
attainder.  A  bill  of  attainder  is  a  law  that  provides  for  the
punishment  of  a  particular  person  without 
trial.  The
challenged  provision  satisfies  this  definition  because  it
deprives  two  named  professors  of  their  salaries,  and  thus,
their employment — a court would almost certainly hold that
the  purpose  of  the  provision  was  punitive  rather  than  purely
regulatory.  (Notice  that  this  correct  choice  never  uses  the
phrase  “bill  of  attainder,”  even  though  that’s  the  key  to  the
analysis.  This  is  typical  of  the  MBE:  When  a  particular
doctrine  with  an  unusual  name  is  the  key  to  solving  the
problem,  the  examiners  will  often  go  out  of  their  way  to
phrase  the  correct  choice  in  terms  of  how  the  doctrine
functions,  rather  than  giving  the  doctrine’s  name — they  fear
that giving the doctrine’s name will spot the issue for you, and
make the problem too easy. So it’s up to you to notice that this
is a bill of attainder, and that as such, the law has the problem
specified in Choice (A)).

that 

(B) is wrong because, while it is true that the court is likely to
strike down the provision, this answer misstates the basis for
this  conclusion.  The  fact 
the  professors’  conduct
preexisted the state law would be significant if the state law
provided  for  a  criminal  penalty — it  would 
then  be
unconstitutional as an ex post facto law in violation of Article
I, Section 10, Clause 1 of the Constitution. The ex post facto
clause,  however,  does  not  apply  to  laws  attaching  civil
consequences to past conduct, which is what the present law
does.
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  Eleventh  Amendment  provides  for
state sovereign immunity from certain kinds of adjudications.
It  does  not  extend  legislative  authority  of  any  kind  to  the
states.

140

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  Full  Faith  and  Credit  Clause
(Article  IV,  Section  1  of  the  Constitution)  does  not  insulate
state  laws  from  constitutional  challenge.  It  merely  requires
state courts to accord due authority to the laws of other states,
something that is not at issue here.

141

CHAPTER 8
THE “STATE ACTION” REQUIREMENT;
CONGRESS’S ENFORCEMENT OF THE
CIVIL WAR AMENDMENTS

I.    STATE ACTION

A.  “State involvement” doctrine

1.  Entanglement or entwinement

a.  Licensing

the  state 

Question 54: Insurance is provided in a particular state only
insurance
by  private  companies.  Although 
commissioner inspects insurance companies for solvency, the
state  does  not  regulate  their  rates  or  policies.  A  particular
insurance  company  charges  higher  rates  for  burglary
insurance to residents of one part of a county in the state than
to residents of another section of the same county because of
the different crime rates in those areas.
A  resident  of  that  county  was  charged  the  higher  rate  by  the
insurance  company  because  of  the  location  of  her  residence.
The  resident  sues  the  insurance  company,  alleging  that  the
differential in insurance rates unconstitutionally denies her the
equal protection of the laws.

Will the resident’s suit succeed?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  higher  crime  rate  in  the  resident’s
neighborhood demonstrates that the county police are not
giving persons who reside there the equal protection of
the laws.

(B)  Yes, because the insurance rate differential is inherently

discriminatory.

(C)    No,  because  the  constitutional  guarantee  of  equal
protection of the laws is not applicable to the actions of
these insurance companies.

(D)  No, because there is a rational basis for the differential in

insurance rates.

142

Answer  54:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Although  the  state  does
some  regulation  of  the  insurance  industry  (for  solvency),  the
state  is  not  sufficiently  involved  with  the  operations  of  the
the  requirement — 
insurance  company  here 
applicable  to  any  equal  protection  claim — that  there  be
“state  action.”  Notice  that  the  choice  never  uses  the  phrase
“state  action” — it’s  up  to  you  to  spot  the  state  action  issue
and  to  notice  that  this  choice’s  use  of  the  phrase  “not
applicable to the actions of these . . . companies” captures the
state-action concept.

to  satisfy 

(A) is wrong for several reasons, including most basically the
fact that it ignores the state-action requirement for any equal
protection claim. (The fact that the state police are arguably
failing to give equal protection is irrelevant, since the police
aren’t a party and aren’t tightly associated with a party.)

(B) and (D) are wrong, similarly, because they too ignore the
state-action  requirement  for  equal  protection  claims.  (If  the
state-action requirement were satisfied — if, for instance, the
state  expressly  required  burglary-insurance  rates  to  be
adjusted based on local crime rates — then (D) would be the
best  answer  because  it  correctly  expresses  the  idea  that  a
governmental  classification  that  does  not  involve  a  suspect
class  or  fundamental  right  needs  to  be  supported  only  by  a
rational basis.)

II.   CONGRESSIONAL ENFORCEMENT OF

CIVIL RIGHTS

A.  Congress’s power to reach private conduct

1.  Thirteenth Amendment

a.  “Badges of slavery”

Question 55:  A  proposed  federal  statute  would  prohibit  all
types of discrimination against black persons on the basis of
their race in every business transaction executed anywhere in
the  United  States  by  any  person  or  entity,  governmental  or
private.
Is this proposed federal statute likely to be constitutional?

143

(A)    Yes,  because  it  could  reasonably  be  viewed  as  an
exercise  of  Congress’s  authority  to  enact  laws  for  the
general welfare.

(B)  Yes, because it could reasonably be viewed as a means of

enforcing the provisions of the Thirteenth Amendment.

(C)    No,  because  it  would  regulate  purely  local  transactions

that are not in interstate commerce.

(D)  No, because it would invade the powers reserved to the

states by the Tenth Amendment.

(B) 

Answer  55:  Choice 
is  correct.  The  Thirteenth
Amendment  permits  Congress  to  forbid  the  “badges  and
incidents” of slavery. This power has been interpreted by the
Court  to  include  the  power  to  forbid  even  private  acts  of
racial discrimination against black people, on the theory that
such discrimination is the relic of slavery.

(A) is wrong because Congress does not have any “authority
to enact laws for the general welfare” (only the power to “tax
and spend” for the general welfare).

(C) is wrong because this might be an explanation of why the
statute couldn’t be supported by Congress’s commerce power,
but  the  Thirteenth  Amendment  power  allows  Congress  to
forbid  even  purely 
(i.e.,
discrimination that does not involve interstate commerce).

racial  discrimination 

local 

(D)  is  wrong  because  if  Congress’s  action  falls  within  a
specific  grant  of  power  (here,  the  Thirteenth  Amendment
grant),  the  Tenth  Amendment  acts  as  a  limitation  only  in  the
highly  specialized  case  of  Congress’s  attempt  to  take  over
state lawmaking mechanisms.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

144

CHAPTER 9
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION

I.    GENERAL THEMES

A.  Analysis of content-based government action

1.  Protected category

a.  “Viewpoint neutrality” not enough

Question  56:  The  Federal  Family  Film  Enhancement  Act
assesses  an  excise  tax  of  10%  on  the  price  of  admission  to
public  movie  theaters  when  they  show  films  that  contain
actual or simulated scenes of human sexual intercourse.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  strongest  argument  against  the
constitutionality of this federal act?

(A)    The  act  imposes  a  prior  restraint  on  the  freedom  of

speech protected by the First Amendment.

(B)  The act is not rationally related to any legitimate national

interest.

(C)  The act violates the equal protection concepts embodied
in  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment
because  it  imposes  a  tax  on  the  price  of  admission  to
view certain films and not on the price of admission to
view comparable live performances.

(D)  The act imposes a tax solely on the basis of the content of
speech without adequate justification and, therefore, it is
prohibited by the Freedom of Speech Clause of the First
Amendment.

Answer  56:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  tax  applies  only  to
films that show some form of sexual intercourse. This means
that the regulation is content-based (it treats different forms of
expression differently depending solely on the message being
conveyed). Therefore, the court will apply strict scrutiny to it.
(Notice,  by  the  way,  that  the  tax  is  not  limited  to  films  that
would  be  “obscene” — not  all  portrayals  of  sexual
intercourse  would  be  obscene;  if  only  obscene  films  were
taxed, probably strict scrutiny would not be used.)

145

Choice (A) is wrong because a tax is not a “prior restraint”; a
legislative  act 
imposes  a  prior  restraint  only  where
government  forbids  the  doing  of  the  act  in  advance  (e.g.,  a
statute  forbidding  showing  of  a  film  without  first  paying  a
license fee). Since the tax here kicks in only after the showing
of the film, it is not a prior restraint.

Choice (B) is wrong because the regulation here is a content-
based  regulation  on  expression,  and  such  a  restraint  is
evaluated  based  on  strict  scrutiny,  not  the  easy-to-satisfy
rational- relation test.

Choice (C) is wrong because an equal protection attack on a
legislative  classification  that  does  not  involve  a  suspect  or
semi-suspect class or fundamental right is evaluated based on
the easy-to-satisfy rational-relation standard, and the tax here
would likely pass that standard.

II.   DEFAMATION AND INVASION OF PRIVACY

A.  Other state-law tort claims

Question  57:  Roberts,  a  professional  motorcycle  rider,  put
on a performance in a privately owned stadium during which
he  leaped  his  motorcycle  over  21  automobiles.  Spectators
were charged $55 each to view the jump and were prohibited
from  using  cameras.  However,  the  local  television  station
filmed  the  whole  event  from  within  the  stadium  without  the
knowledge  or  consent  of  Roberts  and  showed  the  film  in  its
entirety  on  the  evening  newscast  that  day.  Roberts  thereafter
brought  suit  to  recover  damages  from  the  station  for  the
admittedly  unauthorized  filming  and  broadcasting  of  the  act.
The television station raised only constitutional defenses.
The court should
(A)    hold  against  Roberts,  because  the  First  and  Fourteenth
Amendments  authorize  press  coverage  of  newsworthy
entertainment events.

(B)    hold  against  Roberts,  because  under  the  First  and
Fourteenth Amendments news broadcasts are absolutely
privileged.

(C)    find  the  station  liable,  because  its  action  deprives

146

Roberts of his property without due process.

(D)    find  the  station  liable,  because  the  First  and  Fourteenth
Amendments  do  not  deprive  an  entertainer  of  the
commercial value of his or her performances.
is  correct.  While 

Answer  57:  Choice  (D) 
the  First
Amendment does indeed give the media a privilege to cover
newsworthy  events,  that  privilege  does  not  extend  to  the
broadcasting of a performance where this would deprive the
performer  of  the  commercial  value  of  that  performance.  The
fact  pattern  here  is  on  all  fours  with  Zacchini  v.  Scripps-
Howard Broadcasting (1997).

(A) is wrong, because while the First Amendment does give a
privilege  for  press  coverage  of  newsworthy  events,  that
privilege does not extend to a broadcast that takes so much of
an  act  that  it  deprives  the  performer  of  much  of  the
commercial value of the act.

(B)  is  wrong  because  news  broadcasts  are  not  “absolutely
privileged”; rather, they receive a qualified privilege, subject
to  a  number  of  limits  (including,  here,  the  limit  that  the
broadcast not appropriate so much of a performance that the
commercial  value  of  the  performance  is  taken  from  the
performer).

(C)  is  wrong,  because  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  protects  only  against  a  taking  by  a
government,  and  any  taking  here  was  by  a  private  party  (the
TV station), not by the government.

III.  OBSCENITY

A.  Regulating secondary effects of adult speech

1.  Regulation of red-light districts

Question  58:  A  city  has  an  ordinance  that  prohibits  the
location  of  “adult  theaters  and  bookstores”  (theaters  and
bookstores  presenting  sexually  explicit  performances  or
materials) in residential or commercial zones within the city.
The  ordinance  was  intended  to  protect  surrounding  property
from 
likely  adverse  secondary  effects  of  such
establishments.  “Adult  theaters  and  bookstores”  are  freely

the 

147

permitted in the areas of the city zoned industrial, where those
adverse secondary effects are not as likely. A storekeeper is
denied a zoning permit to open an adult theater and bookstore
in a building owned by him in an area zoned commercial. As
a  result,  the  storekeeper  brings  suit  in  an  appropriate  court
challenging the constitutionality of the zoning ordinance.

Which  of 
constitutionality of this city ordinance is most accurate?

statements 

following 

regarding 

the 

the

(A)  The ordinance is valid, because a city may enforce zoning
restrictions  on  speech-related  businesses  to  ensure  that
the  messages  they  disseminate  are  acceptable  to  the
residents of adjacent property.

(B)    The  ordinance  is  valid,  because  a  city  may  enforce  this
type  of  time,  place,  and  manner  regulation  on  speech-
related  businesses,  so  long  as  this  type  of  regulation  is
designed to serve a substantial governmental interest and
does  not  unreasonably  limit  alternative  avenues  of
communication.

(C)  The ordinance is invalid, because a city may not enforce
zoning  regulations  that  deprive  potential  operators  of
adult theaters and bookstores of their freedom to choose
the location of their businesses.

(D)    The  ordinance  is  invalid,  because  a  city  may  not  zone
property in a manner calculated to protect property from
the likely adverse secondary effects of adult theaters and
bookstores.

Answer  58:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  Supreme  Court  has
repeatedly held that even if a city is using its zoning powers
to limit or prohibit a speech-related activity, the regulation is
acceptable  if  the  city  is  reasonably  targeting  the  secondary
effects  of  that  speech  (e.g.,  crime  or  lower  property  values)
rather  than  targeting  the  expressive  content  of  that  speech.
See, e.g., Erie v. Pap’s A.M. (2004) (city may completely ban
“nude dancing” to combat the bad secondary effects of such).
Since the government is targeting the secondary effects rather
than  the  message,  the  regulation  is  to  be  evaluated  based  on
the test for content-neutral time, place and manner regulations,
which as this choice suggests makes such regulations valid as
long as they are designed to serve a substantial governmental

148

interest and do not unreasonably limit alternative avenues of
expression.  Since 
is
interest 
“substantial,” and since adult uses are permitted in alternative
venues  (areas  zoned  commercial),  these  requirements  are
easily satisfied.

in  preventing  blight 

the 

(A) is wrong because it falsely asserts that the city may use its
zoning  powers  to  forbid  particular  messages  based  on  their
content.  Such  a  content-based  regulation  would  have  to  be
strictly  scrutinized,  and  would  almost  certainly  be  struck
down.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  badly  misstates  the  law:  Cities  may
indeed  use  their  zoning  regulations  to  prevent  operators  of
adult  theaters  and  the  like  from  choosing  their  location,  as
long as the city is acting reasonably to combat the perceived
negative secondary effects of the business, rather than out of
distaste  for  the  content  of  the  messages  transmitted  by  the
business.

(D) is wrong because it exactly misstates present law; cities
may (not “may not”) “zone property in a manner calculated to
protect property from the likely adverse secondary effects of
adult theaters and bookstores.” Erie v. Pap’s, supra.

Question  59:  A  city  zoning  ordinance  contains  provisions
restricting  places  of  “adult  entertainment”  to  two  specified
city  blocks  within  the  commercial  center  of  the  city.  These
provisions  of  the  ordinance  define  “adult  entertainment”  as
“live or filmed nudity or sexual activity, real or simulated, of
an indecent nature.”

A  promoter  proposes  to  operate  an  adult  entertainment
establishment  outside  the  two-block  area  zoned  for  such
establishments  but  within  the  commercial  center  of  the  city.
When  his  application  for  permission  to  do  so  is  rejected
solely because it is inconsistent with provisions of the zoning
ordinance,  he  sues  the  appropriate  city  officials,  seeking  to
enjoin them from enforcing the adult entertainment provisions
of the ordinance against him. He asserts that these provisions
of  the  ordinance  violate  the  First  Amendment  as  made
applicable  to  the  city  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  In  this
case,  the  court  hearing  the  promoter’s  request  for  an

149

injunction  would  probably  hold  that  the  adult  entertainment
provisions of the city zoning ordinance are

(A)    constitutional,  because  they  do  not  prohibit  adult
entertainment  everywhere  in  the  city,  and  the  city  has  a
substantial  interest  in  keeping  the  major  part  of  its
commercial  center  free  of  uses  it  considers  harmful  to
that area.

(B)    constitutional,  because  adult  entertainment  of  the  kind
described in these provisions of the city ordinance is not
protected  by  the  free  speech  guarantee  of  the  First  and
Fourteenth Amendments.

(C)  unconstitutional, because they prohibit in the commercial
area of the city adult entertainment that is not “obscene”
within 
the  First  and  Fourteenth
Amendments.

the  meaning  of 

(D)    unconstitutional,  because  zoning  ordinances  that  restrict
freedom of speech may be justified only by a substantial
interest  in  preserving  the  quality  of  a  community’s
residential neighborhoods.

is  a  content-neutral  one 

Answer  59:  Choice  (A)  is  correct,  because  the  ordinance
here 
that  allows  reasonable
alternatives for the type of expression at issue. The Court has
held that a city may confine sexually explicit land uses (like
“adult theaters”) to a single part of town, as part of a content-
neutral  attempt  to  regulate  the  bad  “secondary  effects”  (e.g.,
increased  crime,  declining  property  values)  of  such  uses.
Renton  v.  Playtime  Theatres  (1986).  The  ordinance  here  is
exactly on point with Renton. (By the way, a 2000 case, Erie
v.  Pap’s  A.M.,  seems  to  go  even  further,  apparently  holding
that a city may combat the secondary effects of adult activity
like nude dancing by completely banning the activity, not just
limiting  it  to  a  defined  zone.)  The  key  to  the  analysis  is  that
the  city  is  (supposedly)  not  engaging  in  “content  based”
discrimination, because it’s attacking not the “message” of the
adult activity, but merely its “secondary effects” (bad effects
not  associated  with  the  precise  message,  like  extra  crime).
Therefore, this is to be analyzed as a time-place-and-manner
restriction (valid if it is substantially related to an important
leaves  open  reasonable
government  objective,  and 

it 

150

alternatives for the same type of expression) rather than as a
content-based restriction (subject to strict scrutiny and almost
certainly struck down).

(B) is wrong because adult entertainment is protected by the
First  and  Fourteenth  Amendments.  Certain 
types  of
expression, while not directly suppressible on the grounds of
their  content,  have  been  treated  by  the  Court  as  being
inherently  less  valuable,  so  that  they  may  be  regulated  more
extensively  than  speech  close  to  the  “core”  of  the  First
Amendment  values,  such  as  political  speech.  This  less-
favored category of speech includes speech that is “indecent,”
such as the adult entertainment here. So the zoning ordinance
here is constitutional, but not for the reason stated. While not
afforded the full protection of speech at the core of the First
Amendment,  such  as  political  speech,  public  adult  sexual
expression is protected to some extent.

(C)  is  wrong  because  non-obscene  adult  entertainment  may
its  First  Amendment
nonetheless  be  regulated  despite 
protection.  It’s  true  that,  as  choice  C  suggests,  some  adult
entertainment  as  defined  in  the  zoning  ordinance  is  non-
obscene,  and  may  therefore  not  be  banned  on  obscenity
grounds. But as described in choice A above, because of the
“secondary effects” associated with adult entertainment (e.g.,
extra crime and declining property values), the city may make
a 
adult
entertainment, by limiting it to a particular area of the city (or
even banning it completely from the city limits).

time-place-and-manner 

regulation 

such 

of 

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  are  allowable  reasons  for
speech  beyond  protecting  “a  community’s
regulating 
residential  neighborhoods.”  As  choice  A  above  describes,  a
city  may  confine  sexually  explicit  land  uses  like  “adult
theaters” to a single part of town, as part of a content-neutral
attempt to regulate the bad “secondary effects” of such uses.
The secondary effects that may be combatted are not limited
to  (though  they  may  include)  declining  quality  of  the
community’s  residential  neighborhoods.  (For  instance,  a  city
might ban adult entertainment from  the  core  business  district
because  such  entertainment  increases  street  crime,  reduces
commercial  property  values,  etc.)  So  choice  D  is  wrong

151

because it dramatically understates the bad secondary effects
that  a  city  is  permitted  to  combat  by  zoning  of  otherwise-
protected expression.

IV.  FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION, AND DENIAL

OF PUBLIC BENEFITS OR JOBS

A.  Denial of public benefit or job

1.  Non-illegal activities

a.  Licenses

Question 60:  A  city  ordinance  requires  every  operator  of  a
taxicab in the city to have a license and permits revocation of
that  license  only  for  “good  cause.”  The  taxicab  operator’s
licensing ordinance conditions the issuance of such a license
on an agreement by the licensee that the licensee “not display
in or on his or her vehicle any bumper sticker or other placard
or  sign  favoring  a  particular  candidate  for  any  elected
municipal  office.”  The  ordinance  also  states  that  it  imposes
this  condition  in  order  to  prevent  the  possible  imputation  to
the city council the views of its taxicab licensees and that any
licensee  who  violates  this  condition  shall  have  his  or  her
license revoked.
A  driver,  who  is  a  holder  of  a  taxicab  operator’s  license,
decorates  his  cab  with  bumper  stickers  and  other  signs
favoring  specified  candidates  in  a  forthcoming  election  for
municipal  offices.  A  proceeding  is  initiated  against  him  to
revoke his taxicab operator’s license on the sole basis of that
admitted  conduct.  In  this  proceeding,  does  the  driver  have  a
meritorious defense based on the U.S. Constitution?
(A)  No, because he accepted the license with knowledge of
the condition and, therefore, has no standing to contest it.
(B)    No,  because  a  taxicab  operator’s  license  is  a  privilege
and not a right and, therefore, is not protected by the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C)  Yes, because such a proceeding threatens the driver with
just

taking  of  property,  his 

license,  without 

a 
compensation.

152

(D)  Yes, because the condition imposed on taxicab operators’
licenses  restricts  political  speech  based  wholly  on  its
content, without any adequate governmental justification.
Answer  60:  Choice  (D)  is  the  best  response,  because  the
operator’s  ordinance  is  a  content-based  restriction  on  core
political  speech,  and  cannot  survive  strict  scrutiny.  The  city
would  not  be  permitted  to  simply  ban  all  citizens  from
displaying political bumper sticks on their cars (that would be
a  content-based  restriction  on  core  political  speech,  which
would  be  strictly  scrutinized,  and  struck  down  because  no
compelling governmental interest has been shown). What the
government  cannot  do  directly,  it  cannot  do  indirectly  by
conditioning  a  government  benefit  (a  cab  license)  on  the
licensee’s  agreement  not  to  exercise  the  speech  right  in
question.  And  nothing  about  the  taxicab-licensing  process
changes  the  fact  that  the  restriction  cannot  survive  strict
scrutiny:  There  is  no  indication  of  any  meaningful  risk  that
members of the public might incorrectly think that the slogans
were attributable to council members, and even if there were
such  risk,  avoiding  it  would  hardly  rise  to  the  level  of  a
“compelling” interest.
(A) is wrong because the ordinance is unconstitutional and the
driver  has  not  waived  his  rights  to  challenge  it.  It  is
presumptively  unconstitutional  for  the  government  to  place
burdens  on  speech  because  of  its  content.  To  justify  such
content-based regulation of speech, the government must show
that the regulation is necessary to achieve a compelling state
interest and is narrowly defined to achieve that end. The fact
that the city has not made display of all political messages a
crime, and has instead used its power to deny a hack license
as  a  “club”  to  induce  some  people  (cab  drivers)  to
“voluntarily” surrender their right to transmit those messages,
is  no  defense.  And  the  fact  that  the  driver  knew  of  the
condition  when  he  applied  for  his  license  would  not  cause
him to lose standing to contest this clear unconstitutionality.
(B) is wrong because calling a government-bestowed benefit
a “privilege” does not entitle the government to condition that
benefit  on  the  beneficiary’s  renunciation  of  the  right  to
constitutionally-protected  speech.  As  a  general  matter

153

(subject  to  some  exceptions  not  relevant  here),  government
may  not  condition  the  receipt  of  a  government-conferred
benefit  upon  the  beneficiary’s  willingness  to  forego  the
exercise  of  some  constitutional  right.  So,  for  instance,
government  can’t  say,  “We  hereby  fire  any  public  employee
who  is  a  member  of  the  Communist  Party,”  if  government
wouldn’t  have  the  power  under  the  First  Amendment  to  ban
Communist  Party  membership.  Elfbrandt  v.  Russell  (1966).
Here,  since  the  display  of  political  messages  on  bumper
stickers is protected by the First Amendment, the city cannot
condition a government-bestowed “privilege” (a cab license)
on the driver’s willingness to forego the right to make such a
display.

(C) is wrong because the ordinance is merely a regulation, not
a  “taking.”  The  Fifth  Amendment  provides  that  private
property shall not be taken for public use without paying just
compensation  to  the  owner.  If  the  city  confiscated  cab
licenses so that, say, it could operate all cabs itself for profit 
— and  then  refused  to  pay  the  former  license-holders
anything — the licensees might have a “taking” argument. But
here,  what  is  occurring  is  merely  regulation,  and  it’s
regulation of a sort that falls far short of denying the licensee
all economically viable use of his property (the standard for
when a “taking” is deemed to have occurred). Therefore, the
Takings Clause has not been violated.

2.  Speech critical of superiors or otherwise inappropriate

a.  Non-policy-making role

Question 61:  A  clerical  worker  has  been  employed  for  the
past two years in a permanent position in the Public Records
Office of a county. The clerk has been responsible for copying
and filing records of real estate transactions in that office. The
clerk  works  in  a  nonpublic  part  of  the  office  and  has  no
contact  with  members  of  the  public.  However,  state  law
provides  that  all  real  estate  records  in  that  office  are  to  be
made available for public inspection.

On the day an attempted assassination of the governor of the
state  was  reported  on  the  radio,  the  clerk  remarked  to  a
coworker, “Our governor is such an evil man, I am sorry they

154

did  not  get  him.”  The  clerk’s  coworker  reported  this  remark
to  the  clerk’s  employer,  the  county  recorder.  After  the  clerk
admitted  making  the  remark,  the  county  recorder  dismissed
him  stating  that  “there  is  no  room  in  this  office  for  a  person
who hates the governor so much.”

The clerk sued for reinstatement and back pay. His only claim
is that the dismissal violated his constitutional rights.

In  this  case,  the  court  should  hold  that  the  county  recorder’s
dismissal of the clerk was

(A)    unconstitutional,  because  it  constitutes  a  taking  without
just  compensation  of  the  clerk’s  property  interest  in  his
permanent position with the county.

(B)  unconstitutional, because in light of the clerk’s particular
employment  duties  his  right  to  express  himself  on  a
matter  of  public  concern  outweighed  any  legitimate
interest the state might have had in discharging him.
(C)  constitutional, because the compelling interest of the state
in having loyal and supportive employees outweighs the
interest of any state employee in his or her job or in free
speech on a matter of public concern.

(D)  nonjusticiable, because public employment is a privilege
rather  than  a  right  and,  therefore,  the  clerk  lacked
standing to bring this suit.

Answer  61:  The  correct  choice  is  (B).  The  facts  here  are
very  similar  to  those  of  Rankin  v.  McPherson,  where  the
Court  held  that:  (1)  the  clerk’s  statement  supporting  a  recent
assassination attempt (of President Reagan) was indeed on a
matter of “public concern”; and (2) the fact that the clerk had
no  policy-making  role  and  that  his  statement  had  little
negative impact on his job effectiveness made it unreasonable
to dismiss him for that statement.
Choice  (A)  is  wrong  because  even  a  “permanent”  public
employee (i.e., one with a property right in his post) may have
long  as
his 
procedures  constituting  due  process  are  followed.  In  other
words, what the Due Process Clause guarantees on these facts
is  that  the  clerk’s  job  won’t  be  taken  arbitrarily  or
capriciously,  not  that  the  job  won’t  be  taken  “without  just

just  compensation,  as 

taken  without 

job 

155

compensation”  (a  standard  that  would  more  properly  be
applied  to  the  taking  of  tangible  real  or  personal  property
rather than a job).

Choice (C) is wrong because the Court has held (in Rankin,
supra) that although the government has an interest in having
loyal  and  supportive  employees,  this  interest  does  not
outweigh the employee’s interest in commenting on matters of
public  concern,  where  the  comment  does  not  undermine  the
employee’s  effectiveness  in  light  of  the  non-policy-making
and limited scope of the employee’s job (which, like the job
here, was clerical).

Choice (D) is wrong because: (1) the Court does not use the
right/privilege  distinction 
in  First  Amendment  public
employment cases; and (2) even if the Court did believe that
public employment was a “privilege” rather than a “right,” the
Court would almost certainly view the case as justiciable.

b.  Interferes with job

Question  62:  A  city  ordinance  makes  the  city  building
inspector  responsible  for  ensuring  that  all  buildings  in  that
city are kept up to building code standards, and requires the
inspector  to  refer  for  prosecution  all  known  building  code
violations.  Another  ordinance  provides  that  the  city  building
inspector may be discharged for “good cause.” The building
inspector  took  a  newspaper  reporter  through  a  number  of
rundown  buildings  in  a  slum  neighborhood.  After  using
various  epithets  and  slurs  to  describe  the  occupants  of  these
buildings, the building inspector stated to the reporter: “I do
not even try to get these buildings up to code or to have their
owners  prosecuted  for  code  violations  because  if  these
buildings are repaired, the people who live in them will just
wreck them again.” The reporter published these statements in
a  story  in  the  local  newspaper.  The  building  inspector
admitted he made the statements.
On  the  basis  of  these  statements,  the  city  council  discharged
the building inspector.
Is the action of the city council constitutional?
(A)  Yes, because the statements demonstrate that the building
inspector  has  an  attitude  toward  a  certain  class  of

156

persons  that  interferes  with  the  proper  performance  of
the obligations of his job.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  building  inspector  is  a  government
employee and a person holding such a position may not
make  public  comments 
inconsistent  with  current
governmental policy.

(C)    No,  because  the  statements  were  lawful  comments  on  a

matter of public concern.

(D)    No,  because  the  statements  were  published  in  a
newspaper  that  is  protected  by  the  First  and  Fourteenth
Amendments.

Answer 62: Choice (A) is correct. When a public employee
speaks on a matter that is arguably one of public concern, the
limited  protection  against  dismissal  or
employee  gets 
discipline.  However,  where  the  content  of  the  speech
interferes  with  the  speaker’s  proper  performance  of  his  job
(or  indicates  that  the  speaker  has  underlying  attitudes  that
would interfere with job performance), the balance is tipped
heavily toward the employer’s right to discharge or discipline
the  employee.  Here,  given  that  the  inspector  is  required  to
enforce  the  building  codes,  and  given  that  he  has  publicly
stated that he does not even try to do this core job function on
account  of  his  attitudes  towards  slum  dwellers,  the  city
council was clearly justified in firing him.

Choice  (B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  overbroad;  even  a
comments
employee  may  make  public 
government 
inconsistent  with  current  governmental  policy,  if  the  speaker
is  not  in  a  public  role  and/or  the  comments  do  not  interfere
with the speaker’s ability to perform his job adequately.
Choice  (C)  is  wrong  because,  although  the  comments  may
have been “lawful” and on a “matter of public concern,” these
two  facts  do  not  give  the  speaker  immunity  from  being
punished for the comments, for the reasons given above in the
discussion of the correct choice.
Choice (D) is wrong because the fact that the comments were
published  in  a  newspaper  that  was  in  turn  protected  by  the
First and Fourteenth Amendments, is irrelevant to the question
of whether the speaker may be punished; as described above,

157

government may discharge a government employee for making
statements  (even  ones  published  in  a  First-Amendment-
protected  newspaper) 
the
employee’s proper performance of his job.

interfere  with 

that  seriously 

V.   SPECIAL PROBLEMS OF THE MEDIA

A.  The media (and its special problems)

1.  Right of access

a.  No right to compel disclosure of government information

Question  63:  A  state  enacted  a  statute  providing  for  the
closure of the official state records of arrest and prosecution
of all persons acquitted of a crime by a court or against whom
criminal  charges  were  filed  and  subsequently  dropped  or
dismissed.  The  purpose  of  this  statute  is  to  protect  these
persons  from  further  publicity  or  embarrassment  relating  to
those  state  proceedings.  However,  this  statute  does  not
prohibit  the  publication  of  such  information  that  is  in  the
possession of private persons.
A  prominent  businessman  in  the  state  was  arrested  and
charged  with  rape.  Prior  to  trial,  the  prosecutor  announced
that  new  information  indicated  that  the  charges  should  be
dropped.  He  then  dropped  the  charges  without  further
explanation,  and  the  records  relating  thereto  were  closed  to
the  public  pursuant  to  the  statute.  A  newspaper  in  the  state
conducted an investigation to determine why the businessman
was  not  prosecuted,  but  was  refused  access  to  the  closed
official  state  records.  In  an  effort  to  determine  whether  the
law enforcement agencies involved were properly doing their
duty,  the  newspaper  filed  suit  against  appropriate  state
officials to force opening of the records and to invalidate the
statute  on  constitutional  grounds.  Which  of  the  following
would  be  most  helpful  to  the  state  in  defending  the
constitutionality of this statute?
(A)  The fact that the statute treats in an identical manner the
arrest and prosecution records of all persons who have
been  acquitted  of  a  crime  by  a  court  or  against  whom
criminal charges were filed and subsequently dropped or
dismissed.

158

(B)    The  argument  that  the  rights  of  the  press  are  no  greater

than those of citizens generally.

(C)    The  fact  that  the  statute  only  prohibits  public  access  to
these  official  state  records  and  does  not  prohibit  the
publication  of  information  they  contain  that  is  in  the
possession of private persons.

(D)    The  argument  that  the  state  may  seal  official  records

owned by the state on any basis its legislature chooses.

Answer  63:  Choice  (C)  is  correct,  because  there  is  no
constitutional  principle  requiring  the  government  to  divulge
information it possesses. The suit here is claiming that some
constitutional principle (presumably the First Amendment) is
violated  by  the  statute.  This  amounts  to  a  claim  that
government is sometimes required by the First Amendment to
divulge information that it possesses. However, the Supreme
Court has never squarely found that the First Amendment ever
requires the release of government information.
The  First  Amendment  does,  however,  prevent  government
from  imposing  a  “prior  restraint,”  that  is,  from  prohibiting
private  individuals  (including  the  media)  from  publishing
information that they possess, except in the most extraordinary
instances  (e.g.,  troop  movements  in  time  of  war).  So  if  the
statute did prohibit a newspaper from publishing information
it  already  possessed  about  the  businessman  (or  about  the
prosecution’s  decision  not  to  prosecute  him),  the  statute
would  almost  certainly  violate  this  prohibition  on  prior
restraints.  Since  (C)  is  the  only  choice  that  distinguishes
between  compelling  the  disclosure  by  the  government  of
information  it  holds,  and  publication  of  privately-held
information that originally comes from government records, it
is the correct choice.
(A) is wrong because the answer doesn’t address the issue the
court  would  address.  This  choice  sounds  as  though  it  would
be relevant in defending against an equal protection claim, but
it is irrelevant to defending against a First Amendment claim.
For  instance,  if  the  statute  prohibited  newspapers  from
publishing  the  name  of  any  person  prosecuted  and  not
convicted, the fact that it treated those who are acquitted the
same as those against whom filed charges are dropped would

159

be completely irrelevant — the statute would still be a prior
restraint that violated the First Amendment.

(B)  is  wrong  because  even  if  the  press  doesn’t  have  greater
rights  than  citizens  generally,  this  would  not  be  a  defense
against the claim here. First, it’s not clear whether the press
has greater rights than those of citizens generally — the Court
has never definitively decided this. Second, even if the press
didn’t  have  greater  rights,  that  wouldn’t  necessarily  help  the
state  defend  the  statute;  for  instance,  a  court  might  hold  that
anyone — newspaper  or  private  citizen — had  the  right  to
compel  disclosure  of  this  information.  So  the  argument  is
irrelevant to the attack that’s been made here.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  represents  a  more  extreme  position
than the Court has ever endorsed. There are a few Court cases
(e.g., Richmond Newspapers v. Virginia (1989)) that seem to
suggest that the press may have some limited right of access to
certain  types  of  government-controlled  information  (e.g.,
contents  of  certain  trials),  if  the  state  interest  in  non-
disclosure  is  weak.  So  Choice  (D),  by  indicating  that  no
legislative  objective  is  ever  too  weak  to  justify  a  sealing  of
governmental records, probably goes too far.

160

CHAPTER 10
FREEDOM OF RELIGION

I.    THE ESTABLISHMENT CLAUSE

A.  Three-part test

1.  Incidental benefit not fatal

Question 64:  A  city  operates  a  cemetery  pursuant  to  a  city
ordinance.  The  ordinance  requires  the  operation  of  the  city
cemetery to be supported primarily by revenues derived from
the sale of cemetery lots to individuals. The ordinance further
provides that the purchase of a cemetery lot entitles the owner
to perpetual care of the lot, and entitles the owner to erect on
the  lot,  at  the  owner’s  expense,  a  memorial  monument  or
marker  of  the  owner’s  choice,  subject  to  certain  size
restrictions.  The  ordinance  requires  the  city  to  maintain  the
cemetery, including mowing the grass, watering flowers, and
plowing  snow,  and  provides  for  the  expenditure  of  city  tax
funds  for  such  maintenance  if  revenues  from  the  sale  of
cemetery lots are insufficient. Although cemetery lots are sold
at full fair market value, which includes the current value of
perpetual care, the revenue from the sale of such lots has been
insufficient  in  recent  years  to  maintain  the  cemetery.  As  a
result, a small amount of city tax funds has also been used for
that purpose.

A  group  of  city  taxpayers  brings  suit  against  the  city
challenging  the  constitutionality  of  the  city  ordinance  insofar
as it permits the owner of a cemetery lot to erect a religious
memorial monument or marker on his or her lot.
Is this suit likely to be successful?
(A)    No,  because  only  a  small  amount  of  city  tax  funds  has

been used to maintain the cemetery.

(B)    No,  because  the  purpose  of  the  ordinance  is  entirely
secular,  its  primary  effect  neither  advances  nor  inhibits
religion, and it does not foster an excessive government
entanglement with religion.

(C)  Yes, because city maintenance of any religious object is a

161

violation  of  the  Establishment  Clause  of  the  First
Amendment  as 
the  Fourteenth
Amendment.

incorporated 

into 

(D)    Yes,  because  no  compelling  governmental  interest
justifies  authorizing  private  persons  to  erect  religious
monuments or markers in a city-operated cemetery.
Answer  64:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  This  choice  correctly
states  the  three-part  Lemon  v.  Kurtzman  (1970)  test  for
government  action  that  is  alleged  to  benefit  some  religious
interest.  On  the  facts  here,  the  statute  passes  all  three  parts:
There  is  no  evidence  that  the  city’s  decision  to  operate  the
cemetery  under  these  rules  was  intended  to  benefit  religious
groups; the primary effect of the cemetery operation is not to
benefit those who put religious monuments on their plot; and
the  city’s  work  in  maintaining  the  religious  monuments  is  so
incidental to the overall operation of the cemetery — and so
comparable  to  the  work  needed  to  maintain  non-religious
is  no  excessive  entanglement
monuments — that 
between government and religion.

there 

(A) is wrong because the amount of government funds spent is
not  dispositive;  if  the  city  was  intending  to  benefit  only
religion  (e.g.,  by  providing  a  $20  reimbursement  to  the  first
100 people who bought a piece of religious jewelry), the fact
that only a “small amount” of city funds was spent would not
save 
the
the  expenditure  from  being  a  violation  of 
Establishment Clause.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  test  for  Establishment
Clause violations; a city may maintain a “religious object” if
the maintenance is part of a religiously-neutral program that is
not  intended  to,  and  does  not  have  the  primary  effect  of,
benefiting religion.
(D)  is  wrong  because,  if  the  government  acts  neutrally  as  to
religion  (as  it  has  done  here),  there  is  no  Establishment
Clause  violation  whether  the  government  has  pursued  a
compelling interest or not.

II.   THE FREE EXERCISE CLAUSE

A.  Generally-applicable laws

162

1.  State need not tolerate serious impairment of important state

interest

Question  65:  Members  of  a  religious  group  believe  in
Lucifer  as  their  Supreme  Being.  The  members  of  this  group
meet  once  a  year  on  top  of  Mt.  Snow,  located  in  a  U.S.
National  Park,  to  hold  an  overnight  encampment  and  a
midnight  dance  around  a  large  campfire.  They  believe  this
overnight  encampment  and  all  of  its  rituals  are  required  by
Lucifer to be held on the top of Mt. Snow. U.S. National Park
Service rules that have been consistently enforced prohibit all
overnight camping and all campfires on Mt. Snow because of
the  very  great  dangers  overnight  camping  and  campfires
would  pose  in  that  particular  location.  As  a  result,  the  park
superintendent  denied  a  request  by  the  group  for  a  permit  to
conduct  these  activities  on  top  of  Mt.  Snow.  The  park
superintendent,  who  was  known  to  be  violently  opposed  to
cults and other unconventional groups had, in the past, issued
permits  to  conventional  religious  groups  to  conduct  sunrise
services in other areas of that U.S. National Park.

The  group  brought  suit  in  federal  court  against  the  U.S.
National  Park  Service  and  the  superintendent  of  the  park  to
compel issuance of the requested permit.

As a matter of constitutional law, the most appropriate result
in this suit would be a decision that denial of the permit was

(A)    invalid,  because  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  of  the  First
Amendment  prohibits  the  Park  Service  from  knowingly
interfering with religious conduct.

(B)  invalid, because these facts demonstrate that the action of
invidiously

the  Park  Service  purposefully 
discriminated against the group.

and 

(C)    valid,  because  the  Establishment  Clause  of  the  First
religious

the  holding  of 

Amendment  prohibits 
ceremonies on federal land.

(D)    valid,  because  religiously  motivated  conduct  may  be
subjected  to  nondiscriminatory  time,  place,  and  manner
restrictions that advance important public interests.
Answer  65:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Government  may  take
generally-applicable  actions  that  advance  important  public

163

interests,  without  giving  an  exemption  to  those  whose
religious  beliefs  are  thereby  burdened.  The  facts  tell  us  that
the  rules  against  overnight  camping  and  campfires  are
“consistently  enforced”  because  of  “very  great  dangers,”  so
the  “generally  applicable”  and  “advancement  of  important
public  interests”  standards  are  met  here.  The  fact  that  the
superintendent doesn’t like cults doesn’t matter, because there
is no indication that his decision to deny the permit here was
motivated  by  anything  other  than  a  desire  to  enforce  these
generally-applicable rules.

(A)  is  wrong,  for  the  same  reason  that  (D)  is  right:
Government  may  impose  a  generally-applicable  rule  to
promote an important interest, even if government knows that
its  enforcement  of  that  rule  will  interfere  with  religious
conduct.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  Park  Service’s  action  did  not
“purposely  and  invidiously  discriminate”  against  the  group 
— what was being enforced was a generally-applicable rule
that was not enacted for anti-religious purposes.
(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law  governing  the
Establishment Clause as well as the facts — if non-religious
groups were permitted to take the same general type of action
in  question  (here,  overnight  camping  and  campfires),  which
they  are  not,  then  it  would  not  be  a  violation  of  the
Establishment Clause for the government to allow a religious
group to do the same thing (and, indeed, it would probably be
a  violation  of  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  for  the  government
not to allow the religious group to do the same thing that the
non-religious groups are permitted to do).

164

CHAPTER 11
JUSTICIABILITY

I.    STANDING

A.  Cases not based on taxpayer or citizen status

1.  “Injury in fact”

a.  Imminent harm

Question 66:  An  ordinance  of  a  city  requires  that  its  mayor
must have been continuously a resident of the city for at least
five years at the time he or she takes office. The plaintiff, who
is  thinking  about  running  for  mayor  in  an  election  that  will
take place next year, will have been a resident of the city for
only four and one-half years at the time the mayor elected then
takes office. Before he decides whether to run for the position
of  mayor,  the  plaintiff  wants  to  know  whether  he  could
lawfully assume that position if he were elected. As a result,
the  plaintiff  files  suit  in  the  local  federal  district  court  for  a
declaratory judgment that the five-year-residence requirement
is  unconstitutional  and  that  he  is  entitled  to  a  place  on  his
political party’s primary election ballot for mayor. He names
the  chairman  of  his  political  party  as  the  sole  defendant  but
does not join any election official. The chairman responds by
joining  the  plaintiff  in  requesting  the  court  to  declare  the
residence requirement invalid.

In this case, the court should

(A)  refuse to determine the merits of this suit, because there is

no case or controversy.

(B)    refuse  to  issue  such  a  declaratory  judgment,  because  an
issue of this kind involving only a local election does not
present a substantial federal constitutional question.
(C)    issue  the  declaratory  judgment,  because  a  residency
requirement  of  this  type  is  a  denial  of  the  equal
protection of the laws.

(D)  issue the declaratory judgment, because the plaintiff will
residency

substantially  complied  with 

the 

have 
requirement.

165

Answer  66:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  plaintiff  does  not
meet  the  requirement  of  “injury  in  fact.”  He  clearly  has  not
been  injured  yet;  the  real  question  is  whether  he  faces
sufficiently imminent injury from the residency requirement. A
court would likely hold that because the plaintiff has not yet
even made the decision to run, and could not be injured unless
he decided to run, any threatened injury to him is too uncertain
and  speculative  to  meet  the  requirement  that  prospective
injury be reasonably concrete and imminent. The fact that the
chairman  has  joined  the  suit  does  not  change  this,  since  the
chairman  (and  the  chairman’s  party)  would  not  be  injured
unless  some  actual  candidate  was  blocked  by  the  residency
requirement, and there is no such candidate now.

(B)  is  wrong  because:  (1)  the  absence  of  a  case  or
controversy would prevent the court even from getting to the
issue of whether there was a substantial federal constitutional
question in the case; and (2) the fact that something is a local
election  does  not  prevent  it  from  presenting  a  substantial
federal  constitutional  question  (for  instance,  an  unduly  long
residency  requirement  probably  would  constitute  a  violation
of an actual candidate’s equal protection rights).

(C)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  residency  restriction  might
well constitute an equal protection violation of the rights of an
actual candidate, the plaintiff’s lack of actual-candidate status
prevents him from raising a case or controversy.

(D) is wrong because there is no basis (certainly not a federal
constitutional  basis) 
that
“substantially  complying,”  rather  than  fully  complying,  with
the residency requirement here would be sufficient.

to  conclude 

the  court 

for 

B.  Third-party standing

Question  67:  City  police  officers  shot  and  killed  the
plaintiff’s friend as he attempted to escape arrest for an armed
robbery  he  had  committed.  The  plaintiff  brought  suit  in
federal  district  court  against  the  city  police  department  and
the  city  police  officers  involved,  seeking  only  a  judgment
declaring  unconstitutional  the  state  statute  under  which  the
police acted. That newly enacted statute authorized the police
to  use  deadly  force  when  necessary  to  apprehend  a  person

166

who  has  committed  a  felony.  In  his  suit,  the  plaintiff  alleged
that  the  police  would  not  have  killed  his  friend  if  the  use  of
deadly force had not been authorized by the statute.

The federal district court should

(A)    decide  the  case  on  its  merits,  because  it  raises  a

substantial federal question.

(B)    dismiss  the  action,  because  it  involves  a  nonjusticiable

political question.

(C)  dismiss the action, because it does not present a case or

controversy.

(D)    dismiss  the  action,  because  the  Eleventh  Amendment
prohibits federal courts from deciding cases of this type.
Answer 67: Choice (C)  is  correct.  Because  the  only  person
whose rights have been arguably affected by the new statute is
the  friend,  who  is  not  a  claimant,  there  is  no  live  case  or
controversy  between  the  litigants,  so  standing  rules  prevent
the court from hearing it.

(A) is wrong because the lack of standing prevents the court
from deciding the case on its merits even though the plaintiff
is  claiming  that  the  Constitution  has  been  violated  (which
would of course raise a federal question if there were a case
or controversy before the court).
(B) is wrong because, if there were not any standing problem,
the question of the constitutionality of the statute would not be
a  nonjusticiable  political  question  (a  category  limited  to  a
few special situations, none of which applies here).

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  Eleventh  Amendment  bars  only
suits seeking money damages against states, and the suit here
is seeking a declaratory judgment rather than money damages.

II.   RIPENESS

A.  Reasonable probability of harm required

1.  Specificity required

Question  68:  The  legislature  of  the  state  of  Gray  recently
enacted  a  statute  forbidding  public  utilities  regulated  by  the
Gray Public Service Commission to increase their rates more

167

than  once  every  two  years.  Economy  Electric  Power
Company,  a  public  utility  regulated  by  that  commission,  has
just  obtained  approval  of  the  commission  for  a  general  rate
increase.  Economy  Electric  has  routinely  filed  for  a  rate
increase  every  10  to  14  months  during  the  last  20  years.
Because  of  uncertainties  about  future  fuel  prices,  the  power
company cannot ascertain with any certainty the date when it
will need a further rate increase; but it thinks it may need such
an increase sometime within the next 18 months.

Economy Electric files an action in the federal district court
in Gray requesting a declaratory judgment that this new statute
of  Gray  forbidding  public  utility  rate  increases  more  often
than  once  every  two  years  is  unconstitutional.  Assume  no
federal statute is relevant.

In this case, the court should

(A) 

  hold  the  statute  unconstitutional,  because  such  a
moratorium  on  rate  increases  deprives  utilities  of  their
property without due process of law.

(B)  hold the statute constitutional, because the judgment of a
legislature on a matter involving economic regulation is
entitled to great deference.

(C)  dismiss the complaint, because this action is not ripe for

decision.

(D)  dismiss the complaint, because controversies over state-
regulated  utility  rates  are  outside  of  the  jurisdiction
conferred  on  federal  courts  by  Article  III  of  the
Constitution.

Answer  68:  The  correct  choice  is  (C).  This  is  a  classic
ripeness issue: Economy does not know that it will certainly
(or  even  more-probably-than-not)  need  another  rate  increase
in  less  than  the  now-required  two-year  minimum.  All  we
know  is  that  Economy  “may”  need  the  increase  sometime  in
the next 18 months. Therefore, it is highly uncertain for now
whether Economy will ever be harmed by the statute, making
it likely that the court would dismiss the action as unripe.
(A) is wrong because the case is not ripe for decision (see the
discussion  of  Choice  (C)),  so  the  court  will  never  reach  the
constitutional  merits.  (Also,  it’s  highly  doubtful  that  a

168

relatively  brief  moratorium  on  rate  increases  would  violate
the due process rights of a utility.)

(B) is wrong for the same reason as (A): The case is not ripe
for decision (see the discussion of Choice (C)), so the court
will never reach the constitutional merits.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  federal  judicial  power  extends  to
any  case  raising  an  issue  under  the  federal  Constitution  or  a
federal  statute,  and  the  fact  that  the  controversy  involves
state- regulated utility rates does not prevent that controversy
from  raising  a  federal  issue.  For  example,  if  a  state  utility
commission  were  to  prevent  a  utility  from  ever  raising  its
rates  again,  this  would  raise  a  serious  taking-without-just-
compensation constitutional issue.

III.  THE ELEVENTH AMENDMENT AND SUITS

AGAINST THE STATES

A.  The Eleventh Amendment generally

1.  Congress can’t override

a.  Exception for remedial powers

Question 69: A federal statute enacted pursuant to the power
of  Congress  to  enforce  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  prohibits
any  state  from  requiring  any  of  its  employees  to  retire  from
state  employment  solely  because  of  their  age.  The  statute
expressly  authorizes  employees  required  by  a  state  to  retire
from state employment solely because of their age to sue the
state  government  in  federal  district  court  for  any  damages
resulting  from  that  state  action.  On  the  basis  of  this  federal
statute, a retiree who had worked for State X sues the state in
federal district court. State X moves to dismiss the suit on the
ground  that  Congress  lacks  authority  to  authorize  such  suits
against a state.
Which  of  the  following  is  the  strongest  argument  that  the
retiree can offer in opposition to the state’s motion to dismiss
this suit?
(A)    When  Congress  exercises  power  vested  in  it  by  the
Fourteenth Amendment, Congress may enact appropriate

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

169

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

remedial  legislation  expressly  subjecting  the  states  to
private suits for damages in federal court.

(B)    When  Congress  exercises  power  vested  in  it  by  any
provision  of  the  Constitution,  Congress  has  unlimited
authority to authorize private actions for damages against
a state.

(C)    While  the  Eleventh  Amendment  restrains  the  federal
judiciary,  that  Amendment  does  not  limit  the  power  of
Congress to modify the sovereign immunity of the states.
(D)  While the Eleventh Amendment applies to suits in federal
court  by  citizens  of  one  state  against  another  state,  it
does not apply to such suits by citizens against their own
states.

Answer 69: Choice (A) is correct. The Eleventh Amendment
generally forbids the federal courts from entertaining damage
suits  against  states,  and  Congress  cannot  override  this  ban
even  when  it  is  acting  pursuant  to  some  enumerated  power
(e.g.,  the  Commerce  Clause).  But  there  is  one  exception:
When  Congress  is  using  its  special  powers  to  enforce  the
post-Civil  War  amendments  (the  Thirteenth,  Fourteenth  and
Fifteenth), it may authorize damage suits against the states that
would otherwise be barred by the Eleventh Amendment. That
is what’s happening here.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  overbroad.  As  a  general  rule
Congress,  even  where  it  is  acting  pursuant  to  some  power
given to it by a specific provision in the Constitution, may not
override  the  state  immunity  from  federal-court  damage  suits
conferred  by  the  Eleventh  Amendment;  enforcement  of  the
post-Civil  War  amendments  represents  the  only  exception  to
this rule.
(C)  is  wrong  for  essentially  the  same  reason:  The  Eleventh
Amendment does generally limit the power of Congress (not
just  the  power  of  the  federal  judiciary)  to  modify  the
sovereign- immunity of the states, but the Supreme Court has
held  that  in  the  special  case  in  which  Congress  is  enforcing
the  post-Civil  War  amendments  this  general  limitation  on
Congress’s  power  does  not  apply.  Fitzpatrick  v.  Bitzer
(1976).

170

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  is  a  flat  misstatement  of  law:  The
Supreme Court has held that the Eleventh Amendment protects
a state from federal-court damage suits even where the suit is
brought  by  a  citizen  of  a  different  state.  Hans  v.  Louisiana
(1890).
