QUESTIONS

EVIDENCE

 Question 1

A defendant is being tried for the murder of a woman who disappeared 10
years  ago  and  has  not  been  heard  from  since.  Her  body  has  never  been
found. The prosecutor has presented strong circumstantial evidence that she
was murdered by the defendant. To help establish the fact of her death, the
prosecutor has requested that the judge give the following instruction, based
on a recognized presumption in the jurisdiction: “A person missing and not
heard from in the last seven years shall be presumed to be deceased.”

Is the instruction proper?

 (A) No, because the fact that someone has not been heard from in seven

years does not necessarily lead to a conclusion that the person is dead.

(B) No, because mandatory presumptions are not allowed against a criminal

defendant on an element of the charged crime.

(C) Yes, because it expresses a rational conclusion that the jury should be

required to accept.

(D) Yes, because the defendant has a chance to rebut the presumption by

offering evidence that the woman is alive or has been heard from in the
last seven years.

 Question 2

Several defendants, senior executives of a corporation, were charged with
securities  fraud.  The  government  called  as  a  witness  another  executive  of
the  corporation,  who  had  not  been  charged  and  who  had  been  given
immunity  from  prosecution,  to  authenticate  handwritten  notes  that  she  had
made  after  meetings  of  the  corporation's  management  team  at  which  the
alleged fraud was discussed. The witness testified that she had prepared the
notes on her own initiative to help her remember what had happened at the
meetings.  After  this  testimony,  the  government  offered  the  notes  into
evidence to establish what had happened at the meetings.

Should the witness's notes be admitted?

766

 
 (A) No, because the notes are hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because the witness's immunity agreement with the government

makes her notes untrustworthy and thus substantially more prejudicial
than probative.

(C) Yes, because they are business records.
(D) Yes, because they are past recollections recorded.

 Question 3

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant,  alleging  that  she  was  seriously  injured  when
the  defendant  ran  a  red  light  and  struck  her  while  she  was  walking  in  a
crosswalk. During the defendant's case, a witness testified that the plaintiff
had told him that she was “barely touched” by the defendant's car.

On cross-examination, should the court allow the plaintiff to elicit from
the  witness  the  fact  that  he  is  an  adjuster  for  the  defendant's  insurance
company?

 (A) No, because testimony about liability insurance is barred by the rules of

evidence.

(B) No, because the reference to insurance raises a collateral issue.
(C) Yes, for both substantive and impeachment purposes.
(D) Yes, for impeachment purposes only.

 Question 4

A  defendant  was  charged  with  the  crime  of  defrauding  the  federal  agency
where he worked as an accountant. At trial, the court allowed the defendant
to  call  his  supervisor  at  the  large  corporation  where  he  had  previously
worked,  who  testified  about  the  defendant's  good  reputation  in  the
community  for  honesty.  Over  objection,  the  defendant  then  sought  to  elicit
testimony  from  his  former  supervisor  that  on  several  occasions  the
corporation had, without incident, entrusted him with large sums of money.

Should the testimony be admitted?

 (A) No, because the testimony is extrinsic evidence on a collateral matter.
(B) No, because good character cannot be proved by specific instances of
conduct unless character is an essential element of the charge or
defense.

(C) Yes, because it is evidence of a pertinent character trait offered by an

accused.

767

(D) Yes, because it is relevant to whether the defendant was likely to have

taken money as charged in this case.

 Question 5

A  plaintiff  sued  his  insurance  company  for  the  proceeds  of  a  casualty
insurance  policy  covering  his  60-foot  yacht,  claiming  that  the  yacht  was
destroyed by an accidental fire. The company denied liability, claiming that
the plaintiff hired his friend to set the fire. In the hospital the day after the
fire, the friend, who had been badly burned in the fire, said to his wife, in
the presence of an attending nurse, “I was paid to set the fire.” Two weeks
later,  the  friend  died  of  an  infection  resulting  from  the  burns.  At  trial,  the
insurance company called the wife to testify to the friend's statement.

Is the wife's testimony admissible over the plaintiff's objection?

 (A) No, because the marital privilege survives the communicating spouse's

death.

(B) No, because the statement was made after the conspiracy ended.
(C) Yes, because it is a statement against interest.
(D) Yes, because it is a statement by a co-conspirator.

 Question 6

A  defendant  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  with  intent  to
distribute.  On  direct  examination,  the  defendant  testified  that  he  worked
with disadvantaged children as a drug counselor, that he hated drugs, that he
would “never possess or distribute drugs,” and that he had never used drugs
and would not touch them. The government offered as a rebuttal witness a
police  officer  who  would  testify  that,  three  years  earlier,  he  saw  the
defendant buy cocaine from a street dealer. The defendant objected.

Is  the  testimony  of  the  police  officer  about  the  prior  drug  transaction

admissible to impeach the defendant?

 (A) No, because the bad act of buying drugs is not sufficiently probative of

a witness's character for truthfulness.

(B) No, because it is contradiction on a collateral matter.
(C) Yes, because it is proper contradiction.
(D) Yes, because the bad act shows a disregard for the law and makes it
less likely that the defendant would respect the oath of truthfulness.

768

 Question 7

A  woman  sued  her  friend  for  injuries  she  received  as  a  passenger  in  the
friend's car. On direct examination, the woman testified that the friend had
been  speeding  and  ran  a  red  light.  On  cross-examination,  the  woman  was
asked  whether  she  was  under  the  influence  of  drugs  at  the  time  of  the
accident. The woman invoked the privilege against self-incrimination.

How should the court treat the woman's claim of privilege?

 (A) Deny it, because the woman waived the privilege by voluntarily

testifying.

(B) Deny it, because evidence of the woman's drug intoxication is essential

to assessing the accuracy of her observations.

(C) Uphold it, because the privilege applies in both civil and criminal

cases.

(D) Uphold it, because the woman's credibility cannot be impeached by a

crime for which she has not been convicted.

 Question 8

A  consumer  has  sued  the  manufacturer  of  a  microwave  oven  for  burn
injuries  allegedly  caused  by  the  manufacturer's  negligent  failure  to  warn
purchasers  of  the  dangers  of  heating  foods  in  certain  types  of  containers.
The  consumer  has  offered  into  evidence  three  letters,  all  received  by  the
manufacturer  before  the  oven  was  shipped  to  the  consumer,  in  which
customers had complained of serious burns under circumstances similar to
those in the consumer's case. The manufacturer has objected to the letters on
the  grounds  of  hearsay  and,  in  the  alternative,  has  asked  for  a  limiting
instruction  directing  that  the  letters  be  considered  not  for  the  truth  of  the
assertions contained in them but only regarding the issue of notice.

How should the court respond?

 (A) The court should sustain the objection and treat the request for a limiting

instruction as moot.

(B) The court should overrule the objection and deny the request for a

limiting instruction.

(C) The court should overrule the objection and give the limiting instruction.
(D) The court should overrule the objection but allow only that the letters be

read to the jury, not received as exhibits.

769

 Question 9

A  plaintiff  sued  for  injuries  arising  from  a  car  accident,  claiming  a  back
injury. At trial, she wishes to testify that prior to the accident she had never
had any problems with her back.

Is the plaintiff's proposed testimony admissible?

 (A) No, because the plaintiff has not been qualified as an expert.
(B) No, because the plaintiff's pain could have been caused by factors

arising after the accident, such as an injury at work.

(C) Yes, because it is probative evidence of the plaintiff's injury.
(D) Yes, because the testimony of parties is not subject to the lay opinion

rule.

 Question 10

A  plaintiff,  who  had  been  injured  in  an  automobile  collision  with  the
defendant, sued the defendant for damages. The defendant denied negligence
and denied that the plaintiff's injuries were severe. At trial, the plaintiff has
offered  in  evidence  a  color  photograph  of  himself  made  from  a  videotape
taken by a television news crew at the scene of the collision. The plaintiff
has demonstrated that the videotape has since been routinely reused by the
television  station  and  that  the  footage  of  the  plaintiff  was  erased.  The
photograph  shows  the  plaintiff  moments  after  the  collision,  with  his
bloodied  head  protruding  at  a  grotesque  angle  through  the  broken
windshield of his car.

Should the photograph be admitted over the defendant's objection?

 (A) No, because the plaintiff has failed to establish that a duplicate could

not be found.

(B) No, because the plaintiff has failed to produce the original videotape or

a duplicate.

(C) Yes, because it tends to prove a controverted fact.
(D) Yes, because a photograph that establishes a disputed fact cannot be

excluded as prejudicial.

 Question 11

A cyclist sued a defendant corporation for injuries sustained when she was
hit by a truck owned by the defendant and driven by its employee, who was
making  deliveries  for  the  defendant.  The  day  after  the  accident,  the

770

employee visited the cyclist in the hospital and said, “I'm sorry for what I
did.” At trial, the employee testified that he had exercised due care.

Why  is  the  cyclist's  testimony  relating  what  the  defendant's  employee

said at the hospital admissible to prove negligence?

 (A) It is a prior inconsistent statement.
(B) It is a statement against interest.
(C) It is a statement by a party-opponent's agent.
(D) It is a statement of then-existing state of mind.

 Question 12

A defendant is on trial for bank robbery. Evidence at the trial has included
testimony  by  a  bank  teller  who  was  present  during  the  robbery.  The  teller
testified for the prosecution after having refreshed her memory by looking at
an FBI agent's investigative report that was created shortly after the robbery.
The defendant has asked to examine the report.

How should the court respond?

 (A) The court may allow the examination if the report was used by the teller
to refresh her memory before testifying, and must allow it if she used it
during her testimony.

(B) The court must allow the examination, but only to the extent that the

report contains the teller's own statement to the FBI agent.

(C) The court should not allow the examination, unless the report was used

by the teller to refresh her memory while on the witness stand.

(D) The court should not allow the examination, because the report was not
shown to have been read and approved by the teller while the matter
was fresh in her mind.

 Question 13

A  patient  sued  a  hospital  for  medical  negligence,  claiming  that  a  nurse
employed by the hospital failed to administer critical medication prescribed
by  the  patient's  treating  physician  during  the  plaintiff's  hospitalization.  To
prove the nurse's failure to administer the prescribed medication, the patient
called the medical records librarian, who authenticated the hospital's record
of  the  patient's  treatment,  which  contained  no  entry  showing  that  the
medication in question had been administered.

Is the hospital record admissible?

771

 (A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because the nurse's testimony would be the best evidence of her

actions in treating the plaintiff.

(C) Yes, although hearsay, because it is a statement against interest by agents

of the hospital.

(D) Yes, because it is within the hearsay exception covering the absence of

entries in business records.

 Question 14

A  college  student  sued  an  amusement  company  for  injuries  he  sustained
when  the  amusement  company's  roller  coaster  allegedly  malfunctioned  so
that  the  student  fell  out.  At  trial,  after  the  student  presented  his  case,  the
amusement  company  called  a  witness  who  testified  that  just  before  the
accident he heard a bystander say to the bystander's companion, “That crazy
fool is standing up in the car.”

The  student  then  offered  the  testimony  of  another  witness  who  would
testify that the day after the accident she was with the same bystander, and
that  in  describing  the  accident,  the  bystander  told  her  that  the  car  jerked
suddenly and “just threw the guy out of his seat.”

How should the court rule with respect to this offered testimony?

 (A) Rule it admissible only to impeach the bystander's credibility.
(B) Rule it admissible to impeach the bystander's credibility and to prove

the amusement company's negligence.

(C) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander was given no opportunity to

deny or explain her apparently inconsistent statement.

(D) Rule it inadmissible, because the bystander herself was not called as a

witness.

 Question 15

A  defendant  was  charged  with  robbery  of  a  savings  and  loan  branch  after
being arrested near the scene and found with marked bills. An hour after the
robbery, the officer investigating the crime videotaped an interview with an
eyewitness,  in  which  the  eyewitness  described  the  crime  and  the  robber.
The officer then arranged for a lineup, at which the teller who was robbed
identified  the  defendant  as  the  robber.  The  officer  later  obtained
computerized records of that day's deposits and withdrawals at the savings
and loan, which allowed the calculation of how much cash was taken in the

772

robbery.  A  month  later,  the  teller  testified  before  a  grand  jury,  which
indicted the defendant. The teller and the eyewitness both died of unrelated
causes shortly afterward.

At trial, which of the following evidence, if properly authenticated, may
properly be admitted against the defendant over his attorney's objection that
its receipt would violate the confrontation clause?

 (A) A transcript of the teller's sworn grand jury testimony.
(B) The computerized records from the savings and loan.
(C) The officer's testimony that the teller picked the defendant out of the

lineup as the robber.

(D) The videotape of the eyewitness's statement.

 Question 16

A  defendant  is  being  prosecuted  for  conspiracy  to  possess  with  intent  to
distribute cocaine. At trial, the government seeks to have its agent testify to
a  conversation  that  he  overheard  between  the  defendant  and  a  co-
conspirator regarding the incoming shipment of a large quantity of cocaine.
That  conversation  was  also  audiotaped,  though  critical  portions  of  it  are
inaudible. The defendant objects to the testimony of the agent on the ground
that it is not the best evidence of the conversation.

Is the testimony admissible?

 (A) No, because the testimony of the agent is not the best evidence of the

conversation.

(B) No, because the testimony of the agent reports hearsay not within any

exception.

(C) Yes, because the best evidence rule does not require proof of the

conversation through the audiotape.

(D) Yes, because the audiotape is partly inaudible.

 Question 17

A  plaintiff  sued  his  employer  for  illegal  discrimination,  claiming  that  the
employer  fired  him  because  of  his  race.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  called  a
witness,  expecting  him  to  testify  that  the  employer  had  admitted  the  racial
motivation. Instead, the witness testified that the employer said that he had
fired the plaintiff because of his frequent absenteeism. While the witness is
still  on  the  stand,  the  plaintiff  offers  a  properly  authenticated  secret  tape

773

recording he had made at a meeting with the witness in which the witness
related the employer's admissions of racial motivation.

The tape recording is

 (A) admissible as evidence of the employer's racial motivation and to

impeach the witness's testimony.

(B) admissible only to impeach the witness's testimony.
(C) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) inadmissible, because a secret recording is an invasion of the witness's

right of privacy under the U.S. Constitution.

 Question 18

At a defendant's trial for burglary, a witness supported the defendant's alibi
that  they  were  fishing  together  at  the  time  of  the  crime.  On  cross-
examination, the witness was asked whether his statement on a credit card
application  that  he  had  worked  for  his  present  employer  for  the  last  five
years was false. The witness denied that the statement was false.

The  prosecutor  then  calls  the  manager  of  the  company  for  which  the
witness works, to testify that although the witness had been first employed
five  years  earlier  and  is  now  employed  by  the  company,  there  had  been  a
three-year period during which he had not been so employed. The testimony
of the manager is

 (A) admissible, in the judge's discretion, because the witness's credibility is

a fact of major consequence to the case.

(B) admissible, as a matter of right, because the witness ‘‘opened the door''

by his denial on cross-examination.

(C) inadmissible, because whether the witness lied in his application is a

matter that cannot be proved by extrinsic evidence.

(D) inadmissible, because the misstatement by the witness could have been

caused by misunderstanding of the application form.

 Question 19

A  defendant  was  charged  with  attempted  murder  of  a  victim  in  a  sniping
incident in which the defendant allegedly shot at the victim from ambush as
the  victim  drove  his  car  along  an  expressway.  The  prosecutor  offers
evidence  that  seven  years  earlier  the  defendant  had  fired  a  shotgun  into  a
woman's home and that the defendant had once pointed a handgun at another

774

driver while driving on the street.

This evidence should be

 (A) excluded, because such evidence can be elicited only during cross-

examination.

(B) excluded, because it is improper character evidence.
(C) admitted as evidence of the defendant's propensity toward violence.
(D) admitted as relevant evidence of the defendant's identity, plan, or

motive.

 Question 20

In a federal investigation of a defendant for tax fraud, the grand jury seeks to
obtain a letter written January 15 by the defendant to her attorney in which
she stated: ‘‘Please prepare a deed giving my ranch to the local university
but,  in  order  to  get  around  the  tax  law,  I  want  it  back-dated  to  December
15.'' The attorney refuses to produce the letter on the ground of privilege.

Production of the letter should be

 (A) prohibited, because the statement is protected by the attorney-client

privilege.

(B) prohibited, because the statement is protected by the client's privilege

against self-incrimination.

(C) required, because the statement was in furtherance of crime or fraud.
(D) required, because the attorney-client privilege belongs to the client and

can be claimed only by her.

 Question 21

A plaintiff sued a defendant auto manufacturer for his wife's death, claiming
that a defective steering mechanism on the family car caused it to veer off
the  road  and  hit  a  tree  when  his  wife  was  driving.  The  defendant  auto
manufacturer  claims  that  the  steering  mechanism  was  damaged  in  the
collision and offers testimony that the deceased wife was intoxicated at the
time of the accident.

Testimony concerning the wife's intoxication is

 (A) admissible to provide an alternate explanation of the accident's cause.
(B) admissible as proper evidence of the wife's character.
(C) inadmissible, because it is improper to prove character evidence by

775

specific conduct.

(D) inadmissible, because it is substantially more prejudicial than

probative.

 Question 22

A defendant and a co-defendant were arrested for holding up a gas station.
They  were  taken  to  police  headquarters  and  placed  in  a  room  for
interrogation.  As  a  police  officer  addressing  both  started  to  give  them  the
Miranda warnings prior to the questioning, the defendant said, ‘‘Look, [the
co-defendant] planned the damned thing and I was dumb enough to go along
with it. We robbed the place—what else is there to say?'' The co-defendant
said  nothing.  The  co-defendant  was  escorted  into  another  room  and  a  full
written confession was then obtained from the defendant. If the co-defendant
is brought to trial on an indictment charging him with robbery, the fact that
the co-defendant failed to object to the defendant's statement and remained
silent after the defendant had implicated him in the crime should be ruled

 (A) admissible, because his silence was an implied admission by the co-

defendant that he had participated in the crime.

(B) admissible, because a statement of a participant in a crime is admissible

against another participant.

(C) inadmissible, because, under the circumstances, there was no duty or

responsibility on the co-defendant's part to respond.

(D) inadmissible, because whatever the defendant may have said has no

probative value in a trial against the co-defendant.

 Question 23

A  plaintiff's  estate  sued  a  defendant  store  claiming  that  one  of  the
defendant's security guards wrongfully shot and killed the plaintiff when the
plaintiff fled after being accused of shoplifting. The guard was convicted of
manslaughter  for  killing  the  plaintiff.  At  his  criminal  trial,  the  guard,  who
was  no  longer  working  for  the  defendant,  testified  that  the  defendant's
security  director  had  instructed  him  to  stop  shoplifters  ‘‘at  all  costs.''
Because the guard's criminal conviction is on appeal, he refuses to testify at
the civil trial. The plaintiff's estate then offers an authenticated transcript of
the  guard's  criminal  trial  testimony  concerning  the  instructions  of  the
defendant's security director.

This evidence is

776

 (A) admissible as a statement of an agent of a party opponent.
(B) admissible, because the instruction from the security director is not

hearsay.

(C) admissible, although hearsay, as former testimony.
(D) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

 Question 24

A defendant is on trial for participating in a drug sale. The prosecution calls
an undercover officer as a witness to testify that when the drug dealer sold
the drugs to the witness, the dealer introduced the defendant to the witness
as ‘‘my partner in this,'' and that the defendant shook hands with the witness
but said nothing.

The witness's testimony is

 (A) inadmissible, because there is no evidence that the dealer was

authorized to speak for the defendant.

(B) inadmissible, because the statement of the dealer is hearsay not within

any exception.

(C) admissible as a statement against the defendant's penal interest.
(D) admissible as the defendant's adoption of the dealer's statement.

 Question 25

In a federal civil trial, a plaintiff wishes to establish that, in a state court,
the defendant had been convicted of fraud, a fact that the defendant denies.

Which mode of proof of the conviction is LEAST likely to be permitted?

 (A) A certified copy of the judgment of conviction, offered as a self-

authenticating document.

(B) Testimony of the plaintiff, who was present at the time of the sentence.
(C) Testimony by a witness to whom the defendant made an oral admission

that he had been convicted.

(D) Judicial notice of the conviction, based on the court's telephone call to

the clerk of the state court, whom the judge knows personally.

 Question 26

A  widow  sued  a  defendant  for  shooting  her  husband  from  ambush.  The
widow  offers  to  testify  that,  the  day  before  her  husband  was  killed,  he
described to her a chance meeting with the defendant on the street in which

777

the defendant said, ‘‘I'm going to blow your head off one of these days.''

The widow's testimony concerning her husband's statement is

 (A) admissible, to show the defendant's state of mind.
(B) admissible, because the defendant's statement is that of a party-

opponent.

(C) inadmissible, because it is improper evidence of a prior bad act.
(D) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

 Question 27

A defendant entered a guilty plea to a charge of embezzlement. Her attorney
hired a retired probation officer as a consultant to gather information for the
preparation of a sentencing plan for the defendant that would avoid jail. For
that purpose, the consultant interviewed the defendant for three hours.

Thereafter, the prosecution undertook an investigation of the defendant's
possible  involvement  in  other  acts  of  embezzlement.  The  consultant  was
subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury. The consultant refused to answer
any  questions  concerning  her  conversation  with  the  defendant.  The
prosecution has moved for an order requiring her to answer those questions.
The motion should be

 (A) denied, on the basis of the attorney-client privilege.
(B) denied, in the absence of probable cause to believe the interview

developed evidence relevant to the grand jury's inquiry.

(C) granted, because the consultant is not an attorney.
(D) granted, because exclusionary evidentiary rules do not apply in grand

jury proceedings.

 Question 28

A defendant is on trial for the murder of his father. The defendant's defense
is that he shot his father accidentally. The prosecutor calls a police officer
as a witness to testify that on two occasions in the year prior to this incident,
he  had  been  called  to  the  defendant's  home  because  of  complaints  of  loud
arguments between the defendant and his father, and had found it necessary
to stop the defendant from beating his father.

The evidence is

 (A) inadmissible, because it is improper character evidence.

778

(B) inadmissible, because the officer lacks firsthand knowledge of who

started the quarrels.

(C) admissible to show that the defendant killed his father intentionally.
(D) admissible to show that the defendant is a violent person.

 Question 29

A plaintiff sued a defendant under an age discrimination statute, alleging that
the defendant refused to hire the plaintiff because she was over age 65.

The  defendant's  defense  was  that  he  refused  to  employ  the  plaintiff
because  he  reasonably  believed  that  she  would  be  unable  to  perform  the
job.  The  defendant  seeks  to  testify  that  the  plaintiff's  former  employer
advised  him  not  to  hire  the  plaintiff  because  she  was  unable  to  perform
productively for more than four hours a day. The testimony of the defendant
is

 (A) inadmissible, because the defendant's opinion of the plaintiff's abilities

is not based on personal knowledge.

(B) inadmissible, because plaintiff's former employer's statement is hearsay

not within any exception.

(C) admissible as evidence that the plaintiff would be unable to work longer

than four hours per day.

(D) admissible as evidence of the defendant's reason for refusing to hire the

plaintiff.

 Question 30

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  personal  injuries  arising  out  of  an
automobile accident.

Which of the following would be an error?

 (A) The judge allows the defendant's attorney to ask the defendant questions

on cross-examination that go well beyond the scope of direct
examination by the plaintiff, who has called the defendant as an adverse
witness.

(B) The judge refuses to allow the defendant's attorney to cross-examine the

defendant by leading questions.

(C) The judge allows cross-examination about the credibility of a witness
even though no question relating to credibility has been asked on direct
examination.

779

(D) The judge, despite the defendant's request for exclusion of witnesses,
allows the plaintiff's eyewitness to remain in the courtroom after
testifying, even though the eyewitness is expected to be recalled for
further cross-examination.

 Question 31

In a contract suit between a plaintiff and a defendant, the defendant testifies
that he recalls having his first conversation with the plaintiff on January 3.
When asked how he remembers the date, he answers, ‘‘In the conversation,
the  plaintiff  referred  to  a  story  in  that  day's  newspaper  announcing  my
daughter's engagement.'' The plaintiff's counsel moves to strike the reference
to the newspaper story. The judge should

 (A) grant the motion on the ground that the best evidence rule requires

production of the newspaper itself.

(B) grant the motion, because the reference to the newspaper story does not

fit within any established exception to the hearsay rule.

(C) deny the motion on the ground that the court may take judicial notice of

local newspapers and their contents.

(D) deny the motion on the ground that a witness may refer to collateral

documents without providing the documents themselves.

 Question 32

A defendant is on trial for extorting $10,000 from a victim. An issue is the
identification  of  the  person  who  made  a  telephone  call  to  the  victim.  The
victim is prepared to testify that the caller had a distinctive accent like the
defendant's,  but  that  he  cannot  positively  identify  the  voice  as  the
defendant's.  The  victim  recorded  the  call  but  has  not  brought  the  tape  to
court, although its existence is known to the defendant.

The victim's testimony is

 (A) inadmissible, because the victim cannot sufficiently identify the caller.
(B) inadmissible, because the tape recording of the conversation is the best

evidence.

(C) admissible, because the defendant waived the ‘‘best evidence'' rule by

failing to subpoena the tape.

(D) admissible, because the victim's lack of certainty goes to the weight to

be given the victim's testimony, not to its admissibility.

780

 Question 33

A plaintiff construction company sued a defendant development company for
money  owed  on  a  cost-plus  contract  that  required  notice  of  proposed
expenditures beyond original estimates. The defendant asserted that it never
received the required notice. At trial the plaintiff calls its general manager
as  a  witness  to  testify  that  it  is  the  plaintiff's  routine  practice  to  send  cost
overrun notices as required by the contract. The general manager also offers
a photocopy of the cost overrun notice letter to the defendant on which the
plaintiff  is  relying,  and  which  he  has  taken  from  the  plaintiff's  regular
business files.

On the issue of giving notice, the letter copy is

 (A) admissible, though hearsay, under the business record exception.
(B) admissible, because of the routine practices of the company.
(C) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) inadmissible, because it is not the best evidence of the notice.

 Question 34

A defendant has pleaded not guilty to a federal charge of bank robbery. The
principal issue at trial is the identity of the robber. The prosecutor calls the
defendant's wife to testify to the clothing that the defendant wore as he left
their  house  on  the  day  the  bank  was  robbed,  expecting  her  description  to
match that of eyewitnesses to the robbery. Both the defendant and his wife
object to her testifying against the defendant.

Should the wife be required to testify?

 (A) No, because the defendant has a privilege to prevent his wife from

testifying against him in a criminal case.

(B) No, because the wife has a privilege not to testify against her husband in

a criminal case.

(C) Yes, because the interspousal privilege does not apply in criminal

cases.

(D) Yes, because the wife's viewing of the defendant's clothing was not a

confidential communication.

 Question 35

In a murder trial in which the defendant relied on a theory of self-defense,
the  defendant  called  a  witness  to  testify  that  the  victim  had  a  reputation

781

among  the  people  with  whom  he  lived  and  worked  for  lawbreaking  and
frequently engaging in brawls.

The trial judge should rule the testimony

 (A) admissible to support the defendant's theory of self-defense, touching on

whether the defendant or the victim was the aggressor.

(B) admissible, if the witness testifies further as to specific acts of

misconduct on the victim's part of which the witness has personal
knowledge.

(C) inadmissible on the question of defendant's guilt, because the defendant,

not the victim, is on trial.

(D) inadmissible, because the witness failed to lay a proper foundation.

 Question 36

The defendant, a young doctor, is charged with falsely claiming deductions
on  her  federal  income  tax  return.  At  trial,  a  witness  testified  for  the
defendant that she has a reputation in the community for complete honesty.
After a sidebar conference at which the prosecutor gave the judge a record
showing that the defendant's medical school had disciplined her for altering
her  transcript,  the  prosecutor  proposes  to  ask  the  witness  on  cross-
examination: ‘‘Have you ever heard that the defendant falsified her medical
school transcript?''

Is the prosecutor's question proper?

 (A) No, because it calls for hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because its minimal relevance on the issue of income tax fraud is

substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

(C) Yes, because an affirmative answer will be probative of the defendant's

bad character for honesty and, therefore, her guilt.

(D) Yes, because an affirmative answer will impeach the witness's

credibility.

 Question 37

A police officer responded to the scene of a one-car accident and arrested
the  defendant  for  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol.  The  prosecutor
wants  to  have  the  police  officer  testify  to  the  following  statement  made  to
him by the defendant's passenger, out of the presence of the defendant: ‘‘We
were  returning  from  a  party  at  which  we  had  all  been  drinking.''  The

782

passenger is available to testify at trial.

The trial judge should rule this testimony

 (A) admissible as an admission of a party.
(B) admissible as a declaration against interest.
(C) inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(D) inadmissible, because it would lead the court into nonessential side

issues.

 Question 38

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  personal  injuries  suffered  in  a  train-
automobile collision. The plaintiff called an eyewitness, who testified that
the  train  was  going  20  miles  per  hour.  The  defendant  then  offers  the
testimony of an experienced police accident investigator that, based on his
training and experience and on his examination of the physical evidence, it
is his opinion that the train was going between five and ten miles per hour.

Testimony by the investigator is

 (A) improper, because there cannot be both lay and expert opinion on the

same issue.

(B) improper, because the investigator is unable to establish the speed with

a sufficient degree of scientific certainty.

(C) proper, because a police accident investigator has sufficient expertise to

express an opinion on speed.

(D) proper, because the plaintiff first introduced opinion evidence as to

speed.

 Question 39

A defendant is charged with murder in connection with a carjacking incident
during which the defendant allegedly shot a victim while attempting to steal
the victim's car. The prosecutor calls the victim's four-year-old son, whose
face was horribly disfigured by the same bullet, to testify that the defendant
shot his father and him.

The son's testimony should be

 (A) admitted, provided the prosecutor first provides evidence that

persuades the judge that the son is competent to testify despite his tender
age.

783

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(B) admitted, provided there is sufficient basis for believing that the son has

personal knowledge and understands his obligation to testify truthfully.

(C) excluded, because it is insufficiently probative in view of the son's

tender age.

(D) excluded, because it is more unfairly prejudicial than probative.

 Question 40

Cars  driven  by  a  victim  and  a  defendant  collided,  and  the  defendant  was
charged with driving while intoxicated in connection with the accident. She
pleaded  guilty  and  was  merely  fined,  although  under  the  statute  the  court
could have sentenced her to two years in prison.

Thereafter,  the  victim,  alleging  that  the  defendant's  intoxication  had
caused  the  collision,  sued  the  defendant  for  damages.  At  trial,  the  victim
offers  the  properly  authenticated  record  of  the  defendant's  conviction.  The
record should be

 (A) admitted as proof of the defendant's character.
(B) admitted as proof of the defendant's intoxication.
(C) excluded, because the conviction was not the result of a trial.
(D) excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

 Question 41

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  damages  for  injuries  that  the  plaintiff
incurred when a badly rotted limb fell from a curbside tree in front of the
defendant's  home  and  hit  the  plaintiff.  The  defendant  claimed  that  the  tree
was on city property and thus was the responsibility of the city. At trial, the
plaintiff offered testimony that a week after the accident, the defendant had
cut the tree down with a chainsaw. The offered evidence is

 (A) inadmissible, because there is a policy to encourage safety precautions.
(B) inadmissible, because it is irrelevant to the condition of the tree at the

time of the accident.

(C) admissible to show the tree was on the defendant's property.
(D) admissible to show the tree was in a rotted condition.

 Question 42

At a defendant's trial for theft, a witness, called by the prosecutor, testified
to the following: (1) that from his apartment window, he saw thieves across

784

the street break the window of a jewelry store, take jewelry, and leave in a
car; (2) that the witness's wife telephoned the police and relayed to them the
license  number  of  the  thieves'  car  as  the  witness  looked  out  the  window
with binoculars and read it to her; (3) that he has no present memory of the
number,  but  that  immediately  afterward  he  listened  to  a  playback  of  the
police  tape  recording  giving  the  license  number  (which  belongs  to  the
defendant's car) and verified that she had relayed the number accurately.

Playing the tape recording for the jury would be

 (A) proper, because it is recorded recollection.
(B) proper, because it is a public record or report.
(C) improper, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) improper, because the witness's wife lacked firsthand knowledge of the

license number.

 Question 43

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  battery.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff's  witness
testified that the defendant had made an unprovoked attack on the plaintiff.

On cross-examination, the defendant asks the witness about a false claim

that the witness had once filed on an insurance policy. The question is

 (A) proper, because the conduct involved untruthfulness.
(B) proper, provided that the conduct resulted in conviction of the witness.
(C) improper, because the impeachment involved a specific instance of

misconduct.

(D) improper, because the claim form would be the best evidence.

 Question 44

While crossing a street, a plaintiff was hit by a car that she did not see. The
plaintiff sued the defendant for her injuries.

At  trial,  the  plaintiff  calls  a  police  officer  to  testify  that,  ten  minutes
after  the  accident,  a  driver  stopped  him  and  said,  ‘‘Officer,  a  few  minutes
ago  I  saw  a  hit-and-run  accident  involving  a  blue  convertible,  which  I
followed  to  the  drive-in  restaurant  at  the  nearest  intersection,''  and  that  a
few  seconds  later  the  officer  saw  the  defendant  sitting  alone  in  a  blue
convertible  in  the  drive-in  restaurant's  parking  lot.  The  officer's  testimony
about the driver's statement should be

785

 (A) admitted as a statement of recent perception.
(B) admitted as a present sense impression.
(C) excluded, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) excluded, because it is more prejudicial than probative.

 Question 45

A plaintiff sued a defendant for personal injury alleged to have been caused
by  the  defendant's  negligence.  A  major  issue  at  trial  was  whether  the
plaintiff's  disability  was  caused  solely  by  trauma  or  by  a  preexisting
condition of osteoarthritis.

The  plaintiff  called  his  doctor,  who  testified  that  the  disability  was
caused by trauma. On cross-examination, the plaintiff's doctor testified that
a medical textbook entitled Diseases of the Joints was authoritative and that
she  agreed  with  the  substance  of  passages  from  the  textbook  that  she  was
directed to look at, but that the passages were inapplicable to the plaintiff's
condition  because  they  dealt  with  rheumatoid  arthritis  rather  than  with  the
osteoarthritis  that  the  plaintiff  was  alleged  to  have.  The  defendant  then
called his expert doctor who testified that, with reference to the issue being
litigated,  there  is  no  difference  between  the  two  kinds  of  arthritis.  The
defendant's  counsel  then  asks  permission  to  read  to  the  jury  the  textbook
passages  earlier  shown  to  the  plaintiff's  doctor.  The  judge  should  rule  the
textbook passages

 (A) admissible only for the purpose of impeaching the plaintiff's doctor.
(B) admissible as substantive evidence if the judge determines that the

passages are relevant.

(C) inadmissible, because they are hearsay not within any exception.
(D) inadmissible, because the plaintiff's doctor contended that they are not

relevant to the plaintiff's condition.

 Question 46

A  plaintiff  is  suing  a  doctor  for  medical  malpractice  occasioned  by
allegedly  prescribing  an  incorrect  medication,  causing  the  plaintiff  to
undergo  substantial  hospitalization.  When  the  doctor  learned  of  the
medication problem, she immediately offered to pay the plaintiff's hospital
expenses. At trial, the plaintiff offers evidence of the doctor's offer to pay
the costs of his hospitalization.

The evidence of the doctor's offer is

786

 (A) admissible as a nonhearsay statement of a party.
(B) admissible, although hearsay, as a statement against interest.
(C) inadmissible, because it is an offer to pay medical expenses.
(D) inadmissible, because it is an offer to compromise.

 Question 47

A  defendant  was  prosecuted  for  armed  robbery.  At  trial,  the  defendant
testified in his own behalf, denying that he had committed the robbery. On
cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  intends  to  ask  the  defendant  whether  he
had been convicted of burglary six years earlier.

The question concerning the burglary conviction is

 (A) proper, if the court finds that the probative value for impeachment

outweighs the prejudice to the defendant.

(B) proper, because the prosecutor is entitled to make this inquiry as a

matter of right.

(C) improper, because burglary does not involve dishonesty or false

statement.

(D) improper, because the conviction must be proved by court record, not

by question on cross-examination.

 Question 48

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  breach  of  a  commercial  contract  in  which
the  defendant  had  agreed  to  sell  the  plaintiff  all  of  the  plaintiff's
requirements for widgets. The plaintiff called an expert witness to testify as
to  damages.  The  defendant  seeks  to  show  that  the  expert  witness  had
provided false testimony as a witness in his own divorce proceedings.

This evidence should be

 (A) admitted only if elicited from the expert witness on cross-examination.
(B) admitted only if the false testimony is established by clear and

convincing extrinsic evidence.

(C) excluded, because it is impeachment on a collateral issue.
(D) excluded, because it is improper character evidence.

 Question 49

A  defendant  and  co-defendant  are  being  tried  in  federal  court  for  criminal
conspiracy to violate federal narcotics law. At trial, the prosecutor calls the

787

defendant's  new  wife  and  asks  her  to  testify  about  a  meeting  between  the
defendant  and  co-defendant  that  she  observed  before  she  married  the
defendant.

Which of the following is the most accurate statement of the applicable

rule concerning whether the defendant's wife may testify?

 (A) The choice is for the defendant's wife to make.
(B) The choice is for the defendant to make.
(C) The defendant's wife is permitted to testify only if both the defendant

and his wife agree.

(D) The defendant's wife is compelled to testify even if both the defendant

and his wife object.

 Question 50

A  plaintiff  is  suing  a  defendant  for  injuries  suffered  in  an  automobile
collision. At trial, the plaintiff's first witness testified that, although she did
not see the accident, she heard her friend say just before the crash, ‘‘Look at
the crazy way [the defendant] is driving!'' The defendant offers evidence to
impeach  the  witness's  friend  by  asking  the  witness,  ‘‘Isn't  it  true  that  your
friend beat up the defendant just the day before the collision?''

The question is

 (A) proper, because it tends to show the possible bias of the witness's

friend against the defendant.

(B) proper, because it tends to show the character of the witness's friend.
(C) improper, because the witness's friend has no opportunity to explain or

deny.

(D) improper, because impeachment cannot properly be by specific

instances.

 Question 51

A defendant is on trial for nighttime breaking and entering of a warehouse.
The warehouse owner had set up a camera to take infrared pictures of any
intruders. After an expert establishes the reliability of infrared photography,
the  prosecutor  offers  the  authenticated  infrared  picture  of  the  intruder  to
show the similarities to the defendant.

The photograph is

788

 (A) admissible, provided an expert witness points out to the jury the

similarities between the person in the photograph and the defendant.
(B) admissible, allowing the jury to compare the person in the photograph

and the defendant.

(C) inadmissible, because there was no eyewitness to the scene available to

authenticate the photograph.

(D) inadmissible, because infrared photography deprives a defendant of the

right to confront witnesses.

 Question 52

A lender sued a debtor for nonpayment of a personal loan to the debtor, as
evidenced by the debtor's promissory note to the lender. The lender called a
witness  to  testify  that  he  knows  the  debtor's  handwriting  and  that  the
signature  on  the  note  is  the  debtor's.  On  direct  examination,  to  identify
himself,  the  witness  gave  his  name  and  address  and  testified  that  he  had
been employed by a roofing company for seven years.

During  presentation  of  the  debtor's  case,  the  debtor  called  the  roofing
company's  manager  to  testify  as  to  her  occupation  and  that  she  had
determined,  by  examining  the  company's  employment  records,  that  the
witness had worked there only three years. The trial judge should rule that
the manager's testimony is

 (A) inadmissible, because it is not the best evidence.
(B) inadmissible, because it is impeachment on a collateral question.
(C) admissible as evidence of a regularly conducted activity.
(D) admissible as tending to impeach the witness's credibility.

 Question 53

A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  injuries  sustained  in  an  automobile
collision. During the plaintiff's hospital stay, a staff physician examined the
plaintiff's  X  rays  and  said  to  the  plaintiff,  ‘‘You  have  a  fracture  of  two
vertebrae, C4 and C5.'' An intern, who was accompanying the physician on
her  rounds,  immediately  wrote  the  diagnosis  on  the  plaintiff's  hospital
record.  At  trial,  the  hospital  records  custodian  testifies  that  the  plaintiff's
hospital record was made and kept in the ordinary course of the hospital's
business.

The entry reporting the physician's diagnosis is

789

 (A) inadmissible, because no foundation has been laid for the physician's

competence as an expert.

(B) inadmissible, because the physician's opinion is based upon data that

are not in evidence.

(C) admissible as a statement of then-existing physical condition.
(D) admissible as a record of regularly conducted business activity.

 Question 54

At a defendant's trial for sale of drugs, the government called a witness to
testify, but the witness refused to answer any questions about the defendant
and was held in contempt of court. The government then calls an officer to
testify  that,  when  the  witness  was  arrested  for  possession  of  drugs  and
offered leniency if he would identify his source, the witness had named the
defendant as his source.

The  testimony  offered  concerning  the  witness's  identification  of  the

defendant is

 (A) admissible as a prior inconsistent statement by the witness.
(B) admissible as an identification of the defendant by the witness after

having perceived him.

(C) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D) inadmissible, because the witness was not confronted with the statement

while on the stand.

 Question 55

A  company  sued  its  former  vice  president  for  return  of  $230,000  that  had
been embezzled during the previous two years. Called by the company as an
adverse  witness,  the  former  vice-president  testified  that  his  annual  salary
had  been  $75,000,  and  he  denied  the  embezzlement.  The  company  calls  a
banker to show that, during the two-year period, the former vice-president
had deposited $250,000 in his bank account.

The witness's testimony is

 (A) admissible as circumstantial evidence of the former vice-president's

guilt.

(B) admissible to impeach the former vice-president.
(C) inadmissible, because its prejudicial effect substantially outweighs its

probative value.

790

(D) inadmissible, because the deposits could have come from legitimate

sources.

 Question 56

A  pedestrian  died  from  injuries  caused  when  a  car  struck  him.  The
pedestrian's executor sued the driver of the car for wrongful death. At trial,
the  executor  calls  a  nurse  to  testify  that  two  days  after  the  accident,  the
pedestrian said to the nurse, ‘‘The car that hit me ran the red light.'' Fifteen
minutes thereafter, the pedestrian died.

As  a  foundation  for  introducing  evidence  of  the  pedestrian's  statement,
the executor offers to the court the doctor's affidavit that the doctor was the
intern  on  duty  the  day  of  the  pedestrian's  death  and  that  several  times  that
day the pedestrian had said that he knew he was about to die. Is the affidavit
properly  considered  by  the  court  in  ruling  on  the  admissibility  of  the
pedestrian's statement?

 (A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because it is irrelevant since dying declarations cannot be used

except in prosecutions for homicide.

(C) Yes, because, though hearsay, it is a statement of then-existing mental

condition.

(D) Yes, because the judge may consider hearsay in ruling on preliminary

questions.

 Question 57

A defendant is on trial for robbing a bank in State A. She testified that she
was in State B at the time of the robbery. The defendant calls her friend, as a
witness,  to  testify  that  two  days  before  the  robbery  the  defendant  told  him
that she was going to spend the next three days in State B.

The witness's testimony is

 (A) admissible, because the statement falls within the present sense

impression exception to the hearsay rule.

(B) admissible, because a statement of plans falls within the hearsay

exception for then-existing state of mind.

(C) inadmissible, because it is offered to establish an alibi by the

defendant's own statement.

(D) inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

791

 Question 58

At  a  defendant's  murder  trial,  the  defendant  calls  first  a  witness  to  testify
that  the  defendant  has  a  reputation  in  their  community  as  a  peaceable  and
truthful  person.  The  prosecutor  objects  on  the  ground  that  the  witness's
testimony would constitute improper character evidence.

The court should

 (A) admit the testimony as to peaceableness, but exclude the testimony as to

truthfulness.

(B) admit the testimony as to truthfulness, but exclude the testimony as to

peaceableness.

(C) admit the testimony as to both character traits.
(D) exclude the testimony as to both character traits.

792

ANSWERS

EVIDENCE

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

793

 
ANSWERS

EVIDENCE

 Answer 1

 (B) is the best response,

because a mandatory presumption would conflict with the presumption
of innocence.

The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the  use  of  a  mandatory
presumption  with  respect  to  an  element  of  a  crime  violates  the
accused's due process right to have the prosecution prove each element
beyond a reasonable doubt. See, e.g., Patterson v. New York, 432 U.S.
197  (1977):  “[A]  State  must  prove  every  ingredient  of  an  offense
beyond a reasonable doubt, and . . . it may not shift the burden of proof
to  the  defendant  by  presuming  that  ingredient  upon  proof  of  the  other
elements of the offense.” In a murder case, one element of the crime is
that the victim has died. Instructing the jury that when a person has been
missing  for  seven  years,  that  person  “shall  be  presumed”  to  be  dead
would likely cause a reasonable juror to believe that she must find the
missing person to be dead, i.e., that the presumption is mandatory. And
use  of  a  mandatory  presumption  here  would  unconstitutionally  relieve
the prosecution of its burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that
the person is dead.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it reaches the right outcome, but on incorrect legal reasoning.

It's certainly true that the conclusion (that the person in question is
dead) does not necessarily follow from the starting fact (that the person
has not been heard from in seven years). But as long as a presumption
is rational (which the one here is), it would not have been improper for
the  judge  to  instruct  the  jury  that  the  presumption  exists,  and  that
because of the presumption the jury “may infer” that a person not heard
from  in  seven  years  is  dead.  The  problem  comes  from  the  judge's
instruction that the missing person “shall be presumed” to be dead — a
reasonable  juror  could  conclude  from  the  word  “shall”  that  the

794

 
presumption  was  mandatory,  i.e.,  that  the  juror  was  required  (not
merely permitted) to find that because the victim had been missing for
seven  years,  the  person  is  dead.  As  is  discussed  more  extensively  in
choice B, use of a mandatory presumption as to an element of a crime
violates the accused's due process right to have the prosecution prove
every element beyond a reasonable doubt.

 (C) is not the best response,

because even a rational presumption cannot be mandatorily imposed as
to an element in a criminal case.

In civil cases, juries may be required (not just permitted) to apply
an applicable presumption, if the conclusion rationally follows from the
presumed fact. But in a criminal case, the accused has a constitutional
due process right to have the jury find each element of the crime beyond
a reasonable doubt. When the judge said that the jury “shall presume”
that a person missing for seven years is dead, the judge was making the
presumption  mandatory  as  to  an  element  of  the  crime  (the  victim's
death). Even if a person's death is a “rational conclusion” from the fact
that she has been missing for seven years (which it probably is), telling
the jury that it must find the woman dead because she has been missing
for  seven  years  unfairly  eases  the  prosecution's  burden  of  proving  the
fact of death beyond a reasonable doubt.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the availability of rebuttal evidence is not enough to cure the
constitutional  problem  posed  by  a  mandatory  presumption  on  an
element of a criminal charge.

It's true that even under the judge's instructions, the defendant was
free  to  rebut  either  the  basic  fact  (that  the  woman  had  not  been  heard
from  in  seven  years)  or  the  presumed  fact  (that  the  woman  was  alive
even  though  she  had  not  been  heard  from  in  seven  years).  But  the
defendant  in  a  criminal  case  has  a  constitutional  due  process  right  to
have  the  prosecution  affirmatively  prove,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,
every element of the charged offense. The mandatory presumption here
relieved the prosecution of that burden, with respect to the element of
death  —  as  long  as  the  prosecution  showed  that  the  woman  had  not
been heard from in seven years, it was unfairly freed of its obligation to
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the woman was dead. And giving
the defense the right to rebut the presumption did not solve this — the

795

burden  of  proof  as  to  death  was  still  effectively  being  shifted  to  the
defendant.

 Answer 2

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  notes  are  hearsay,  and  the  business-records  and  past-
recollections-recorded exceptions do not apply.

In  a  multiple-choice  format  question,  where  one  of  the  choices  is
“hearsay  not  within  any  exception,”  you  have  to  perform  a  two-step
analysis: (1) first, ask whether the proposed use is a hearsay use; and
(2) if the answer to (1) is yes, analyze each specific hearsay objection
that is referred to in the other choices.

So for the first step, let's figure out whether the notes are hearsay.
Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  a
matter asserted in the statement. The notes were kept by the witness to
“help  her  remember  what  had  happened  at  the  meetings.”  So  we  can
infer  that  the  notes  purport  to  reflect  what  happened  at  the  meetings.
We're told that the government offered the notes “to establish what had
happened at the meetings.” So the notes are being offered to prove the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted  therein,  namely,  what  happened  at  the
meetings.  That  makes  them  hearsay.  Unless  some  exception  to  the
hearsay rule applies, they are inadmissible.

Now, for step (2), let's look at the possible hearsay exceptions. We
only  have  to  worry  about  ones  that  are  set  out  in  the  actual  choices
(because  the  question  couldn't  be  structured  in  such  a  way  that  the
answer turned on the availability of an exception that isn't mentioned or
referred  to  in  any  choice).  The  only  hearsay  exceptions  that  are
specifically referred to are the business-records and past-recollections-
recorded exceptions, so let's consider each.

This  use  does  not  qualify  for  the  business  records  exception,
because  the  witness  prepared  the  notes  “on  her  own  initiative,”  and
FRE 803(6)'s implementation of the business record exception requires
that  it  be  a  “regular  practice  of  that  [business]  activity”  to  keep  the
record. For more about this, see the discussion of choice C below.

Nor  does  the  use  qualify  for  the  past-recollections-recorded
exception  of  FRE  803(5),  for  a  number  of  reasons,  including  most
obviously the fact that that exception allows the writing to be “read into
evidence”  but  does  not  allow  the  writing  itself  to  be  offered  as  an

796

exhibit by the proponent, which is what the government is trying to do
here. For more about this, see the discussion of choice C below.

Since the notes are hearsay and do not fall within either of the two
specifically-mentioned exceptions (nor within any other exception, as it
happens), “hearsay not within any exception” is the correct analysis.

 (B) is not the best choice,

because it cites a “fact” that is irrelevant to the notes' reliability.

It's true that, under FRE 403, the court may exclude evidence “if its
probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed  by  a  danger  of  .  .  .  unfair
prejudice[.]” And it's also true that the tendency of a piece of evidence
to  be  unreliable  is  one  form  of  possible  “unfair  prejudice,”  to  be
considered by the court in analyzing whether 403 applies.

But  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  grant  of  immunity  here
caused any meaningful danger of unreliability. The grant of immunity to
the  witness  was  made  long  after  the  notes  were  made.  There  is  no
reason  to  believe  that  the  witness,  at  the  time  she  made  the  notes,
somehow  foresaw  that  questions  of  securities  fraud  might  possibly
emerge someday, and skewed the notes' content in order to improve her
chances of getting immunity should that happen. So there is no reason to
question  the  notes'  reliability  at  all  on  immunity-related  grounds,  let
alone  to  say  that  the  reliability  issue  is  so  great  that  it  “substantially
outweighs”  the  notes'  probative  value,  which  is  what  FRE  403
requires.

 (C) is not the best choice,

because these are not “records of regularly conducted activity.”

There is no specific “business records” hearsay exception under the
FRE.  Instead,  FRE  803(6)  supplies  a  broader  hearsay  exception  for
“records  of  a  regularly  conducted  activity.”  However,  that  exception
requires  that  the  record  have  been  “kept  in  the  course  of  a  regularly
conducted activity of a business” or other enterprise, and that “making
the record was a regular practice of that activity.”

Here,  we're  told  that  the  witness  “prepared  the  notes  on  her  own
initiative.”  The  fact  that  the  witness  acted  on  her  own  means  that  the
above-quoted 803(6) requirements fail in two respects to be satisfied.
First,  the  “kept  in  the  course  of  a  regularly  conducted  activity  of  a
business”  language  means  that  the  business  itself  (not  merely  some
individual employee) must have made the decision to keep the record

797

on behalf of the business, which didn't happen here. Second, the record
must have been kept as a matter of “regular practice” — here, the “one-
shot”  ad  hoc  nature  of  these  notes  (there's  no  evidence  that  the
executive made handwritten notes about all meetings, just the meetings
at  which  this  particular  transaction  was  discussed)  prevents  a  finding
that the notes were kept as part of a “regular practice.”

 (D) is not the best choice,

the  foundation  requirements  for 

the  past-recollections-
because 
recorded  exception  have  not  been  met,  and  because  the  exception
would in any event not allow for admission of the writing itself.

The FRE's exception for past recollection recorded is given in FRE

803(5). The exception covers a record that:

“(A)  is  on  a  matter  the  witness  once  knew  about  but  now  cannot  recall
well enough to testify fully and accurately;
(B) was made or adopted by the witness when the matter was fresh in the
witness's memory; and
(C) accurately reflects the witness's knowledge.”

803(5)  concludes  by  saying  that  “If  admitted,  the  record  may  be  read
into  evidence  but  may  be  received  as  an  exhibit  only  if  offered  by  an
adverse party.”

So there are multiple ways in which the notes here fail to fall within
the  exception.  First,  the  requisite  foundation  has  not  been  laid  —  the
witness has not testified that she cannot now recall the underlying facts
well enough to testify fully and accurately about them, nor that the notes
were  made  or  adopted  by  her  when  the  matter  was  “fresh  in  [her]
memory,”  nor  that  the  notes  accurately  reflect  her  knowledge.
Furthermore,  even  if  the  witness  had  given  all  this  foundational
testimony, the prosecution would merely have been entitled to read the
notes aloud to the jury, not to have the written documents “offered . . .
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
into  evidence”  (as  an  exhibit),  which  is  what  the  prosecution  is
attempting to do.

By the way, it will be quite rare on the MBE for a document to fall
within  the  exception  for  past  recollection  recorded.  The  exception
imposes so many requirements, and it would take so much language in
the fact pattern to specify that all requirements have been met, that the
examiners are much more likely to use PRR as a wrong choice than as
the right one.

798

 
 
 Answer 3

 (D) is the best response,

because the evidence may be offered to show bias but not to show that
the defendant was insured.

Let's look first at whether the witness's status as the adjuster for the
defendant's  insurance  company  is  “substantively”  admissible.  In  this
situation,  it  is  not  completely  clear  what  it  means  to  say  that  the
evidence is or is not “substantively” admissible. Presumably, what the
examiners are asking is, “May this evidence be offered for the purpose
of  proving  that  the  defendant  has  liability  insurance,  as  a  means  of
supporting  the  further  inference  that  one  who  knows  he  has  liability
insurance is more likely to have driven negligently?” And the answer to
that  question  is  clearly  “no.”  Under  the  first  sentence  of  FRE  411,
“Evidence that a person was or was not insured against liability is not
admissible  to  prove  whether  the  person  acted  negligently  or
otherwise wrongfully.”

Now,  let's  look  at  whether  the  evidence  may  be  offered  for
impeachment.  Here,  the  relevant  provision  is  the  second  sentence  of
FRE  411:  “But  the  court  may  admit  this  evidence  [of  liability
insurance]  for  another  purpose,  such  as  proving  a  witness's  bias  or
prejudice or proving agency, ownership, or control.” Since the witness
is  appearing  for  the  defense,  and  the  witness's  employer  has  an
incentive  to  minimize  the  amount  of  damage  the  defendant  may  have
caused, calling the jury's attention to the witness's adjuster status would
tend to show that the witness is biased. And showing that the witness is
biased is a classic form of impeaching the witness. So FRE 411 allows
this showing of bias for impeachment.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it ignores the use of the question for impeachment purposes.

This  choice  falsely  asserts  the  general  proposition  that  “testimony
about liability insurance is barred by the rules of evidence.” In reality,
such  testimony  about  liability  insurance  is  barred  (by  FRE  411)  only
when offered to prove that the insured “acted negligently or otherwise
wrongfully.”  Here,  the  evidence  is  being  offered  for  another  purpose,
namely  an  impeachment  purpose  (to  show  bias),  and  that's  a
permissible use.

799

 (B) is not the best response,

because bias is not a “collateral issue.”

Certain issues are deemed “collateral,” and there are limits on the
types of evidence that can be used to prove facts that are relevant only
in  connection  with  such  a  collateral  issue.  But  the  issue  of  whether  a
witness  is  biased  is  deemed  so  important  that  proof  of  the  witness's
bias  (or  lack  of  bias)  is  never  deemed  collateral,  so  the  types  of
evidence  that  may  be  used  on  the  issue  are  not  specifically  limited.
Therefore, the question about whether the witness is an adjuster for the
defendant's  insurer  does  not  concern  a  collateral  issue,  and  is  proper
for impeachment purposes.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the evidence is not admissible for substantive purposes.

As is discussed more fully in connection with choice D above, FRE
411 forbids the use of this evidence for “substantive” purposes, i.e., to
prove that the defendant had liability insurance and thus had a greater
incentive to drive carelessly than if he had not had such coverage.

 Answer 4

 (B) is the best response,

because  only  reputation  or  opinion  evidence  may  be  used  by  the
defendant  to  prove  his  good  character,  assuming  character  is  not  an
element of the offense.

Under FRE 404(a)(2)(A), a criminal defendant is always entitled to
present  evidence  of  his  “pertinent  trait”  of  character.  (This  is  the  so-
called “mercy rule.”) Since the crime charged is fraud, the defendant's
honesty is a “pertinent trait” of character, so the court properly allowed
him  to  introduce  the  supervisor's  testimony  that  the  defendant  had  a
good reputation in the community for honesty. But FRE 405(a) says that
when evidence of a person's character is admissible, that evidence may
take  the  form  of  “testimony  about  the  person's  reputation  or  .  .  .
testimony  in  the  form  of  an  opinion.”  So  by  negative  implication,  the
defendant's  character  evidence  may  not  take  the  form  of  evidence  of
specific instances of his conduct. Then, FRE 405(b) goes on to give a
special, narrow  exception  to  this  no-specific-instances  rule:  “When  a
person's character or character trait is an essential element of a charge,

800

claim, or defense, the character or trait may also be proved by relevant
specific  instances  of  the  person's  conduct.”  Here,  the  defendant's
honesty or dishonesty is not an essential element of any charge, claim or
defense,  so  choice  B  correctly  and  precisely  summarizes  the  relevant
principle.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant's honesty is not deemed to be a collateral matter.
Depending on the factual setting of the case, certain issues may be
deemed to be “collateral,” i.e., of marginal importance. When an issue
is  collateral,  various  rules  (often  called  collectively  the  “collateral
issue  rule”)  may  limit  “extrinsic  evidence”  as  to  that  issue.  But  in  a
criminal  trial,  FRE  404(a)(1)  gives  the  defendant  a  specific  right  to
present evidence of any character trait that he possesses, assuming the
trait  is  “pertinent”  to  the  case  (as  the  trait  of  honesty  is  here).
Therefore, the defendant's trait of honesty is not in fact “collateral” in
this  case.  The  problem  here  is  that  the  proposed  character  evidence
takes  the  form  of  specific  instances  of  conduct,  and  FRE  405(a)  says
that only reputation and opinion evidence may be used.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  even  though  the  accused  may  offer  evidence  of  this  pertinent
character trait, the evidence may not take the form of specific instances
of conduct.

This  choice  is  correct  in  stating  that  “evidence  of  a  pertinent
character trait offered by an accused” is admissible. (See FRE 404(a)
(2)(A).)  But  FRE  405(a)  then  says  that  when  evidence  of  a  person's
character is admissible, that evidence may take the form of “testimony
about  the  person's  reputation  or  .  .  .  testimony  in  the  form  of  an
opinion.”  So  by  negative  implication,  the  defendant's  character
evidence may not take the form of evidence of specific instances of his
conduct (except in the rare case where the character trait is an essential
element of a charge, claim or defense).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the evidence, though relevant, takes an impermissible form.

It's true that the evidence here is relevant, in the sense that a person
who has been entrusted with money in the past and has proved worthy
of that trust is less likely to have been a thief on the present occasion

801

than  one  who  has  not  shown  such  trustworthiness.  Therefore,  the
proposed evidence qualifies as being directed to a “pertinent trait” of
character of an accused, as allowed by FRE 404(a)(1). The problem is
that  under  FRE  405(a),  even  evidence  that  is  relevant  to  an  accused's
pertinent character trait may not take the form of specific instances, and
must instead consist of reputation or opinion testimony.

 Answer 5

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  statement  could  subject  the  friend  to  civil  or  criminal
liability, and he is now unavailable.

FRE  804  lists  the  “declarant  unavailable”  hearsay  exceptions.
Since  the  declarant  (the  friend)  is  now  dead,  he  is  of  course
“unavailable,” so any of the Rule 804 exceptions might apply. One of
those  exceptions  is  given  in  804(b)(3),  for  a  “statement  against
interest,” defined as “A statement that: (A) a reasonable person in the
declarant's position would have made only if the person believed it to
be  true  because,  when  made,  it  was  so  contrary  to  the  declarant's
proprietary  or  pecuniary  interest  or  had  so  great  a  tendency  .  .  .  to
expose the declarant to civil or criminal liability[.]”

By  saying  that  he  “was  paid  to  set  the  fire,”  the  declarant  (the
friend) was implicitly saying that he set the fire, and did so for pay. So
he was confessing to arson, a confession that would surely “expose the
declarant to civil or criminal liability.” Neither the fact that he made the
statement  to  his  wife,  nor  the  fact  that  a  third  party  (the  nurse)  was
present, nullifies the availability of this exception.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the marital privilege never arose in the first place.

There  are  actually  two  different  marital  privileges,  but  neither
applies  here.  First  is  the  “adverse  testimony”  (a/k/a  “spousal
immunity”)  privilege.  This  privilege  fails  to  apply  here  for  several
reasons:  (1)  it  applies  only  in  criminal  proceedings;  (2)  the  declarant
and the testifying witness must be married at the time of the testimony
(here, the friend is dead, and thus no longer married to the witness); and
(3) a third party (i.e., one who is neither the testifying spouse nor the
declarant) cannot assert the privilege.

The  second  possible  marital  privilege  is  the  privilege  for

802

“confidential  communications”  between  spouses.  It's  true  that  unlike
the  adverse  testimony  privilege,  the  confidential  communications
privilege requires only that the declarant and the testifying spouse have
been  married  at  the  time  of  the  communication,  not  that  they  still  be
married at the time of the testimony. So the fact that the declarant (the
friend)  is  now  dead  doesn't  matter.  But  as  the  name  “confidential
the  communication  must  have  been
communications” 
confidential at the time it was uttered. The presence of a third person
will  generally  show  that  the  communication  was  not  intended  to  be
confidential. Here, the examiners have carefully said that the statement
was  made  “in  the  presence  of  an  attending  nurse,”  a  fact  which  made
the communication non-confidential.

implies, 

 (B) is not the best response,

because, although this choice correctly explains why the co-conspirator
exception does not apply, it ignores the fact that the statement-against-
interest exception applies.

801(d)(2)  gives  non-hearsay  status  to  a  statement  where  “The
statement is offered against an opposing party and: . . . (E) was made
by  the  party's  co-conspirator  during  and  in  furtherance  of  the
conspiracy.” So this choice is correct in saying that the co-conspirator
exception does not apply on these facts, since the conspiracy had ended
before the statement was made. But this choice incorrectly implies that
there is no other applicable hearsay exception — in fact, the statement-
against-interest exception applies.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the co-conspirator exception does not apply to statements that
are either made after the conspiracy has ended or are not in furtherance
of the conspiracy.

FRE 801(d)(2) groups together several types of “admission[s] by a
party-opponent,”  and  defines  all  of  them  as  non-hearsay.  Statements
offered  against  a  party,  and  made  by  that  party's  co-conspirator,  fall
within  801(d)(2)  in  some  circumstances.  More  precisely,  801(d)(2)
gives non-hearsay status to a statement where “The statement is offered
against  an  opposing  party  and:  .  .  .  (E)  was  made  by  the  party's  co-
conspirator  during  and  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy.”  The
statement  itself  is  to  be  considered  (but  is  not  dispositive)  in
the
determining  whether 

the  conspiracy  actually  existed;  here, 

803

statement, coupled with the fact that the friend had been badly burned in
the fire, would be enough to establish that the conspiracy really existed.
The problem for admissibility is the requirement that the statement have
been  made  by  the  co-conspirator  “during  and  in  furtherance  of  the
conspiracy.” First, the conspiracy was over by the time the friend was
in the hospital making the statement. Second, there is no indication that,
by  making  the  statement  to  his  wife,  the  friend  was  attempting  to
“further” the conspiracy.

 Answer 6

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  officer's  testimony  directly  contradicts  the  defendant's
testimony  on  a  material  issue,  and  is  therefore  a  proper  form  of
impeachment.

When  a  witness  (whether  a  party  or  not)  testifies,  the  non-calling
party  is  always  entitled  to  try  to  impeach  that  witness'  credibility.
(We'll call the party who is trying to impeach the witness the “attacking
party.”) There are various methods that the attacking party may use, one
of which is impeachment by contradiction.

The  Federal  Rules  do  not  expressly  deal  with  impeachment  by
contradiction. So that form of impeachment is generally left to common-
law  principles.  There  are  various  forms  that  evidence  designed  to
impeach  by  contradiction  (what  we'll  call  “counterproof”)  may  take.
The type of counterproof at issue here is testimony by another witness
(the police officer) that rebuts the factual accuracy of the testimony of
the  witness  who  is  being  impeached  (the  defendant).  As  a  general
matter, testimony by the second witness, to contradict the first witness,
is permissible. M&K, § 6.43, pp. 542-543. It's true that there are some
limitations on the use of a second witness to contradict the first witness
(most importantly, the ban on using the second witness to contradict as
to  a  collateral  matter,  a  ban  covered  in  choice  B  below),  but  none  of
those exceptions applies here. The defendant's testimony that he had not
ever, and would not ever, possess or distribute drugs, was testimony on
a  material  issue,  since  the  defendant  is  charged  with  doing  just  that.
Since  the  officer's  testimony  directly  contradicts  the  defendant's
testimony  on  a  material  issue,  the  officer's  testimony  is  properly
admissible for impeachment.

804

 
(A) is not the best response,

because  the  testimony  is  not  being  offered  to  impeach  the  witness's
character for truthfulness.

It's  true  that  if  the  principal  witness's  credibility  is  being  attacked
by  showing  his  poor  character  for  truthfulness,  the  attacking  evidence
must  be  probative  of  his  truthfulness.  And  it's  also  true  that  evidence
that the witness once purchased cocaine would not be probative as to
his  character  for  truthfulness.  But  this  choice  mischaracterizes  the
nature  of  the  government  attack  on  the  defendant's  testimony.  The
government is not trying to impeach the defendant by showing that, as a
general  matter,  he  has  a  poor  character  for  truthfulness.  Rather,  the
government is trying to impeach him by showing that a particular aspect
of his testimony on direct was factually false; that is, the government is
attempting  impeachment  by  direct  contradiction.  That  method  of
impeachment  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  defendant's  general  character
for  truthfulness,  and  is  a  proper  method  for  the  reasons  discussed  in
choice C.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  matter  to  which  the  contradiction  is  addressed  is  not  a
collateral one.

It's  true  that  if  the  matter  as  to  which  the  police  officer  was
contradicting  the  defendant's  testimony  was  a  “collateral”  matter,  the
officer's  testimony  would  be  excludable  under  the  common-law  rule
prohibiting  use  of  extrinsic  evidence  to  contradict  a  witness  on  a
collateral  matter.  (This  rule  is  one  member  of  the  collection  of  rules
loosely  referred  to  as  “the  collateral  issue  rule.”)  But  the  defendant's
testimony at issue is that he had never possessed or distributed drugs,
and would never do so. Since the defendant is charged with precisely
that  —  the  possession  and  distribution  of  drugs  —  his  testimony  is
highly  material,  and  thus  not  “collateral.”  Therefore,  it  may  be
contradicted by extrinsic evidence (a second witness's testimony).

 (D) is not the best response,

because it reaches the correct result, but does so on a “prior bad acts”
rationale that would be barred by FRE 608(b).

This choice, by asserting that the police officer's testimony “makes
it less likely that the defendant would respect the oath of truthfulness,”
seems  to  be  saying  that  the  testimony  may  be  admitted  to  impeach  the

805

principal witness by showing a prior “bad act” that is inconsistent with
a  character  for  truthfulness.  But  there  are  two  problems  with  this
choice:  (1)  it  states  a  rationale  that  is  expressly  forbidden  by  the
Federal  Rules;  and  (2)  the  rationale  stated  is  not  the  one  that  the
government is (or should be) using to support the evidence. Let's take
these two problems in sequence.

The  Federal  Rules  allow  the  credibility  of  a  witness  (here,  the
defendant)  to  be  “attacked  .  .  .  by  testimony  about  the  witness's
reputation for having a character for . . . untruthfulness, or by testimony
in  the  form  of  an  opinion  about  that  character.”  FRE  608(a).  So  the
government would be entitled to impeach the defendant by putting on a
rebuttal witness to testify, for instance, that in that witness's opinion, the
defendant is a habitual liar. But notice that the above-quoted portion of
FRE  608(a)  lists  as  permissible  methods  of  attack  only  impeachment
evidence taking the form of opinion or reputation.

On this same point, FRE 608(b) expressly disallows the admission
of so-called “prior bad acts” for impeachment, which is what choice D
seems  to  be  asserting  as  a  rationale.  608(b)  says  that  “Except  for  a
criminal  conviction  under  Rule  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not
admissible to prove specific instances of a witness's conduct in order
to attack or support the witness's character for truthfulness.” (There's an
exception  allowing  inquiry  into  specific  acts  during  the  cross-
examination  of  the  witness  being  impeached,  but  that's  not  what's
happening  here.)  So  if  the  prosecution's  rationale  for  the  officer's
testimony  was  the  one  stated  in  this  choice  (that  the  defendant  bought
illegal  drugs,  thus  showing  a  disregard  for  the  law,  in  turn  showing  a
character for untruthfulness), the testimony would violate 608(b)'s ban
on  specific-acts  evidence  used  for  showing  the  principal  witness'
character for untruthfulness.

But the prosecution need not rely on the FRE 608 right to impeach
by  proof  of  a  character  for  untruthfulness.  Rather,  the  prosecution  is
using  (or  at  least,  is  entitled  to  use)  a  completely  different  method  of
impeachment,  namely  impeachment  by  contradiction.  And  where  the
witness  being  impeached  has  testified  on  direct  as  to  a  material  fact,
there  is  no  ban  on  the  attacking  party's  use  of  extrinsic  evidence  to
prove prior bad acts by that witness, as long as the existence of those
prior  bad  acts  directly  contradicts  the  witness's  testimony.  (For  more
about this, see the discussion of choice C.)

 Answer 7

806

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  woman  had  a  reasonable  fear  that  answering  might  cause
her to incriminate herself.

This  choice  is  correct  in  stating  that  the  privilege  against  self-
incrimination  applies  in  civil  cases  as  well  as  criminal  cases.  A
witness may refuse to testify if the witness has a reasonable fear that the
testimony  may  lead  to  her  being  criminally  prosecuted.  It  is  not
necessary that the testimony will certainly lead to prosecution; a mere
possibility  of  prosecution  (as  long  as  it  is  more  than  remote)  will
suffice.  Since  the  judge  cannot  say  on  these  facts  that  an  affirmative
answer could not plausibly lead to a prosecution, the court must sustain
the privilege.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  woman  did  not  voluntarily  testify  about  the  possibly-
incriminating matter.

It's  true  that  if  the  witness  voluntarily  testifies  about  a  possibly-
incriminating matter, she will be deemed to have “opened the door” to
further questions about that matter, and to have implicitly waived her
privilege  against  self-incrimination  as  to  that  matter.  But  here,  the
woman only voluntarily testified about the accident itself, not about her
own mental state or possible drug use at the time of the accident. The
last  sentence  of  FRE  608  makes  it  clear  that  the  woman  has  not,  by
testifying, waived her privilege regarding matters brought up solely to
attack her credibility: “By testifying on another matter, a witness does
not  waive  any  privilege  against  self-incrimination  for  testimony  that
relates only to the witness's character for truthfulness.”

Therefore,  the  woman  would  not  be  found  to  have  waived  her
privilege to refuse to answer questions about any illegal drug she may
have taken.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  woman's  privilege  against  self-incrimination  would  take
precedence over the evidentiary value of her testimony on this point.

Where  a  witness  is  testifying  as  to  events  she  witnessed,  her
testimony  may  be  impeached  by  showing  a  defect  in  her  sensory
capacity or her memory. Therefore, at least if the questioner had a good
faith  basis  for  believing  that  the  woman  may  have  been  under  the

807

influence  of  drugs  during  the  trip,  the  questioner  was  entitled  as  a
matter of general evidence principles to raise this issue on cross. But
even though  the  question  was  proper,  and  even  though  an  affirmative
answer  would  have  been  impeaching  evidence,  these  principles  of
evidence law must yield to the woman's federal constitutional right not
to be required to give testimony that might tend to incriminate her.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  reaches  the  correct  result  on  incorrect  reasoning,  and
misapplies the legal principle to which it refers.

This  choice  semi-accurately  refers  to  a  real  legal  principle
regarding  impeachment  by  bad  acts  not  leading  to  a  conviction,  but
overstates and misapplies that principle. FRE 608(b) says that “Except
for  a  criminal  conviction  under  Rule  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not
admissible to prove specific instances of a witness's conduct in order
to  attack  or  support  the  witness's  character  for  truthfulness.”  So  if  the
defendant's counsel was attempting to attack the witness's character for
truthfulness, and was doing so by “extrinsic evidence,” counsel would
not be permitted to show specific criminal acts by the witness that did
not lead to a criminal conviction.

But  for  several  reasons,  this  choice  does  not  correctly  answer  the

question posed.

First,  FRE  608(b)  does  not  even  apply  to  the  issue  here.  The
defense is not making a general attack on “the witness's character for
truthfulness,”  which  is  the  only  situation  with  which  FRE  608(b)
deals.  Rather,  the  defense  is  attempting  to  impeach  the  witness  by
proving  her  lack  of  sensory  capacity  due  to  drug  use,  and  nothing  in
FRE  608(b)  or  anywhere  else  in  the  Rules  prevents  questioning  a
witness about her past unconvicted bad acts that, if proven, would tend
to show that the witness had a relevant sensory defect.

Second,  even  if  FRE  608(b)  applied  on  these  facts,  it  would  not
necessarily  bar  the  question  here.  That's  because,  after  the  sentence
from  608(b)  quoted  above  (the  one  beginning  “Except  for  a  criminal
conviction . . . ”), 608(b) goes on to say, “But the court may, on cross-
examination, allow [specific instances of the witness's conduct] to be
inquired  into  if  they  are  probative  of  the  character  for  truthfulness  or
untruthfulness of . . . the witness[.]” So although the defense would not
be  permitted  to  put  on  extrinsic  evidence  (e.g.,  another  witness)  to
impeach the woman's general character for truthfulness by showing her
past  possibly-criminal  unconvicted  bad  acts,  the  judge  would  have

808

discretion  to  allow  the  question  about  prior  bad  acts  to  be  asked  on
cross-examination  of  the  woman  herself,  which  is  what  the  defense
was trying to do here.

Finally,  the  question  asks  you  how  the  court  should  “treat  the
woman's  claim  of  privilege.”  So  a  correct  choice  would  have  to  be
responsive to the privilege claim. And choice D does not address that
claim.

 Answer 8

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  letters  are  not  hearsay  if  used  for  the  limited  purpose  of
showing  that  the  manufacturer  knew  of  the  possible  dangers  prior  to
manufacturing the plaintiff's unit.

Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  in  evidence  to  prove
the truth of the matter asserted in the statement. FRE 801(c). The letters
all contain essentially the statement, “I was burned when I heated food
in a certain type of container in your microwave.” So the letters would
be  hearsay  if  used  by  the  plaintiff  for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  the
letter-writers were in fact burned in the manner they describe.

But the letters are also relevant to another issue in the case, that of
notice:  The  claim  is  based  on  the  manufacturer's  negligent  failure  to
warn of a danger of burning, and such a claim requires the plaintiff to
prove that the manufacturer knew or should have known of the danger
prior to making and selling the unit in question. Using the letters solely
for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating  that  the  manufacturer  knew  of  the
danger prior to selling the plaintiff's unit, and should have investigated
whether  a  warning  was  justified,  is  therefore  a  non-hearsay  use:  The
letters are being offered not to show that the letter writers were in fact
burned, but that the writers put the manufacturer on notice that they may
have been burned. So plaintiff is entitled to have the hearsay objection
overruled, but defendant is entitled to the requested limiting instruction
that  the  letters  be  considered  only  for  the  non-hearsay  purpose  of
notice.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the use of the letters to prove only notice is not a hearsay use.

As is described more fully in choice C, the letters are being offered
for  a  non-hearsay  purpose,  i.e.,  to  show  that  the  manufacturer  was  on

809

notice  that  the  units  posed  a  serious  problem  of  burns  in  certain
situations.  Therefore,  if  the  court  were  to  sustain  a  hearsay  objection,
as this choice advocates, the court would be improperly depriving the
plaintiff of the right to have the letters considered for this non-hearsay
purpose of proving notice.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  is  entitled  not  to  have  the  letters  used  for  the
hearsay purpose of establishing that the writers were in fact burned in
the way they described.

Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  in  evidence  to  prove
the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  the  statement.  FRE  801(c).  These
letters  all  contain  essentially  the  statement,  “I  was  burned  when  I
heated food in a certain type of container in your microwave.” So the
letters  would  be  hearsay  if  allowed  into  evidence  without  restriction,
since  the  jury  would  then  be  invited  to  infer  the  truth  of  the  matters
asserted in the letters, i.e., that each letter writer was in fact burned in
the  manner  she  describes.  Since  there  is  no  applicable  hearsay
exception  triggered  by  that  scenario,  admission  of  the  letters  without
restriction would violate the manufacturer's right to be free of hearsay
not within any exception.

 (D) is not the best response,

because permitting the letters to be read but not received as an exhibit
does not solve the potential hearsay problem.

There  are  situations  in  which  the  correct  judicial  response  to  an
offer of hearsay evidence is to have the item read aloud to the jury, but
not received as an exhibit. This is true, for instance, of past recollection
recorded under FRE 803(5). But here, the letters would be hearsay if
offered to prove that the letter-writers really were burned in the manner
that  they  describe.  And  reading  the  letters  aloud,  as  opposed  to
admitting them as exhibits, does not solve this problem, since the letters
would still be being used as the source of hearsay not falling within any
exception.  Therefore,  only  the  proposed  limiting  instruction  can  solve
the hearsay problem.

 Answer 9

 (C) is the best response,

810

because the testimony makes it more likely than it would otherwise be
that the back injury was caused by the accident, and the testimony does
not run afoul of the lay opinion rule.

FRE  402  sets  out  the  general  principle  that  “relevant  evidence  is
admissible,”  unless  some  specific  rule  or  principle  (e.g.,  a  particular
Federal  Rule  of  Evidence)  makes  it  inadmissible.  Evidence  is
“relevant,” according to FRE 401, “if: (a) it has any tendency to make a
fact more or less probable than it would be without the evidence; and
(b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in  determining  the  action.”  Here,  the
factual  proposition  “the  accident  caused  the  plaintiff's  back  injury”  is
more likely to be true if the plaintiff had not had back problems prior to
the accident than if she had had such prior problems. Furthermore, the
cause of the plaintiff's back injury is obviously a fact “of consequence”
in the action. So the fact that the plaintiff had no back problems prior to
the  accident  is  “relevant”  evidence  (“relevant”  is  synonymous  with
“probative”), and is thus admissible unless some other specific rule of
evidence makes it inadmissible.

The only other rule of evidence that might conceivably apply here is
FRE 701, limiting opinion testimony by lay witnesses. But as is further
discussed in the treatment of choice A, the testimony here is not opinion
testimony.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff does not need to be qualified as an expert.

It's  true  that  witnesses  who  are  not  qualified  as  experts  are
subjected  to  a  special  rule  limiting  their  rights  to  give  opinion
testimony. But not all lay opinions are excluded by that rule, and in any
event the testimony here is probably not an opinion at all.

FRE 701, entitled “Opinion Testimony by Lay Witnesses,” says that
where a witness is not testifying as an expert, “testimony in the form of
an opinion is limited to one that is: (a) rationally based on the witness's
perception; (b) helpful to clearly understanding the witness's testimony
or  to  determining  a  fact  in  issue;  and  (c)  not  based  on  scientific,
technical,  or  other  specialized  knowledge  within  the  scope  of  Rule
702.” So even if the testimony “I never had any back problems prior to
the accident” was considered an opinion as opposed to a statement of
fact,  that  opinion  would  meet  the  requirements  of  Rule  701:  (a)  it's
“rationally  based  on  the  witness's  perception,”  since  the  witness  is
saying  that  prior  to  the  accident,  she  never  perceived  any  meaningful
back  pain;  (b)  it's  helpful  to  the  jury  in  determining  whether  the  back

811

pain was caused by the accident; and (c) the witness isn't relying on any
scientific,  technical  or  other  specialized  knowledge  in  reaching  the
“opinion” that she didn't have back pain pre-accident. In any event, it's
likely that the court would conclude that this testimony was not opinion
at all (rather than being permissible non-expert opinion testimony).

 (B) is not the best response,

because it cites a fact that does not have bearing on the admissibility of
the testimony.

It's certainly true that the plaintiff's pain could have been caused by
post-accident factors. But that doesn't mean that the testimony regarding
the absence of pre-accident factors is not relevant, and thus admissible.
“There  is  no  requirement  that  the  evidence  make  the  existence  of  the
fact to be proved more probable than not or that it provide a sufficient
basis  for  sending  the  issue  to  the  jury.”  M&K,  §  4.2,  p.  154.  So  even
though  the  proposed  testimony  does  not  eliminate  the  possibility  that
some post-accident factor caused the injury, the testimony at least tends
to  lessen  that  possibility,  and  that's  enough  to  make  the  testimony
admissible  as  having  “any  tendency  to  make  a  fact  more  or  less
probable than it would be without the evidence” (FRE 401).

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is flatly incorrect as a statement of law.

FRE  701's  limits  on  opinion  testimony  by  lay  witnesses  apply
whether  the  witness  is  a  party  or  not.  But  it's  quite  doubtful  that  the
plaintiff's  proposed  testimony  here  constitutes  “opinion”  testimony  at
all.  And  even  if  it  does  constitute  opinion  testimony,  it  falls  easily
within 701's requirements (e.g., it's “rationally based on the perception
of the witness,” etc.)

 Answer 10

 (C) is the best response,

because the photograph is relevant, and its admission would not violate
the Best Evidence Rule or any other prohibition.

All relevant evidence is admissible, unless some particular rule or
doctrine makes it inadmissible. FRE 402. Evidence is “relevant” if “(a)
it has any tendency to make a fact more or less probable than it would
be  without  the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in

812

determining  the  action.”  FRE  401.  One  disputed  fact  in  the  litigation
(and thus a “fact . . . of consequence” under FRE 401) is whether the
plaintiff's injuries were severe. The photograph makes it more probable
that  the  plaintiff's  injuries  were  severe  than  would  be  the  case  if  the
photograph were not present. Therefore, the photograph is relevant, and
it's admissible unless something specific makes it inadmissible.

The  only  plausible  ground  for  inadmissibility  relates  to  the  Best
Evidence Rule (BER). But as the discussion of choices A and B below
makes clear, admission of the photograph would not violate the BER.

 (A) is not the best answer,

because the photograph is either a duplicate or the original, so there is
no reason to require use of some other duplicate.

This  choice  does  not  mention  the  BER,  but  you  should  recognize
from  the  reference  to  “duplicate”  (and  from  the  fact  that  the  item  is  a
photograph) that the choice is referring to an issue concerning the BER.
(That's typical on the MBE: When the very name of a doctrine tends to
draw  your  attention  to  a  key  issue,  the  examiners  will  go  out  of  their
way to avoid using the name in the fact pattern or in any of the choices.
“Best Evidence Rule” is one of those doctrines, so questions turning on
it will rarely mention the doctrine by name.)

First,  let's  look  at  the  text  of  the  BER  itself,  to  see  whether  the
doctrine might possibly apply. That text is given in FRE 1002, entitled
“Requirement  of  the  Original”:  “An  original  writing,  recording,  or
photograph is required in order to prove its content unless these rules
or a federal statute provides otherwise.” Since we are dealing with the
admissibility  of  a  photograph,  the  BER.  applies,  so  the  “original”  of
that photo must be offered unless some provision (typically, something
in the Federal Rules) specifically says otherwise. So, in the case of a
photograph, what is the “original”? The last sentence of FRE 1001(d)
says that “An ‘original' of a photograph includes the negative or a print
from  it.”  Although  neither  this  definition  nor  anything  else  in  the
Federal  Rules  deals  specifically  with  the  problem  of  whether  a
photograph that is a print from the negative of a videotape qualifies as
an  “original”  of  the  photograph,  there  is  at  least  a  respectable  chance
that the answer would be found to be “yes.” In that event, if the court
found  that  the  photograph  was  made  directly  from  the  negative  of  the
videotape,  the  photo  would  be  an  original,  and  would  automatically
qualify as admissible, without the court's ever getting to the question of
the admissibility of duplicates.

813

Now, let's assume that the photo is deemed not to have been made
from the negative of the videotape (either because the court concludes
that there is no negative of a videotape, or because the court concludes
that  there  was  a  negative  of  the  videotape,  but  that  the  photo  was  not
made  from  that  negative).  In  that  scenario,  the  photo  would  still  be  a
“duplicate”  of  the  original  image  from  the  video  tape.  That's  because
FRE  1001(e)  says  that  a  “duplicate”  is  “a  counterpart  produced  by  a
mechanical,  photographic,  chemical,  electronic,  or  other  equivalent
process  or  technique  that  accurately  reproduces  the  original.”  We
don't know exactly how the photograph was made, but the facts tells us
that  it  was  “made  from  [the]  videotape[.]”  The  phrase  “made  from”
indicates that some automatic method (rather than, say, a human sketch
artist) was used to go from the videotape to the photo. Therefore, if the
photo  isn't  an  “original,”  it's  a  “duplicate”  from  the  videotape.  FRE
1003, entitled “Admissibility of Duplicates,” says that “A duplicate is
admissible  to  the  same  extent  as  the  original  unless  a  genuine
question is raised about the original's authenticity or the circumstances
make  it  unfair  to  admit  the  duplicate.”  So  if  what's  being  offered  is
deemed  to  be  a  duplicate,  FRE  1003  requires  admission,  because
there's no indication that any “genuine question” has been raised by the
defense about the photograph's authenticity, nor is there any indication
that the circumstances would make it unfair to admit the duplicate.

So regardless of whether the photo is deemed to be an original or a
duplicate (and it's clearly one or the other), nothing requires that some
other  duplicate  be  found  and  used.  In  other  words,  even  if  there  was
some  other  duplicate  available  to  the  defense,  the  present  photograph
would still be admissible.

 (B) is not the best choice,

because  the  original  videotape  has  been  destroyed,  and  there  is  no
principle  requiring  use  of  a  duplicate  videotape  in  lieu  of  the
photograph.

FRE 1004 says that “An original is not required and other evidence
of the content of a . . . photograph is admissible if: (a) all the originals
are  lost  or  destroyed,  and  not  by  the  proponent  acting  in  bad  faith[.]”
We're  told  that  the  original  of  the  videotape  has  been  destroyed,  and
that  this  occurred  due  to  the  station's  routine  reuse.  Therefore,  the
original videotape has been destroyed, and not due to the bad faith of
the  proponent  (the  plaintiff).  Consequently,  FRE  1004  says  that  the
original  of  the  videotape  is  not  required  and  that  “other  evidence”  of

814

the videotape (or, in this case, the single-photo frame of the videotape)
may be used. In other words, even if something that was not a duplicate
was the best that was available (e.g., a hand-drawn reconstruction of a
frame  from  the  videotape),  this  “other  evidence”  of  the  content  of  the
photograph would be sufficient.

But the plaintiff's lawyer won't even have to carry the analysis out
that far. As described in choice A, the photograph would itself be found
to be either an original or a duplicate. If the photo was made from the
negative of the videotape, the photo would be an “original,” and would
be automatically admissible. If the photo is a duplicate, then under the
present  circumstances,  FRE  1003  would  make  the  photo-as-duplicate
automatically  admissible.  (There  is  no  requirement  that  before  one
duplicate  is  admitted,  other  duplicates  must  be  shown  to  be
unavailable.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because, although it correctly states the outcome, it bases that outcome
on an incorrect statement of law.

This  choice  asserts  that  a  photograph  can  never  be  excluded  as
prejudicial  so  long  as  the  photograph  “establishes  a  disputed  fact.”
There  is  no  such  legal  principle.  Indeed,  FRE  403  indicates  the
contrary, by saying that “The court may exclude relevant evidence if its
probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed  by  a  danger  of  one  or
more  of  the  following:  unfair  prejudice[.]”  There  is  no  exception  in
FRE  403  for  photos,  so  a  photo  that  posed  a  risk  of  unfair  prejudice
substantially greater than the photo's probative value could be excluded
under  FRE  403.  (For  instance,  a  photo  could  be  excluded  if  it  was
unusually  gruesome,  and  was  being  offered  in  addition  to  other  less-
gruesome photos showing the same basic scene.) But the photo here is
probative on the issue of the severity of the plaintiff's injuries, and there
is  no  reason  to  believe  that  it  is  unfairly  prejudicial,  so  it  would  be
admissible.

 Answer 11

 (C) is the best response,

because the employee was speaking about a matter that fell within the
scope of his employment.

If  the  employee's  statement  is  to  be  used  to  prove  that  he  (and  by

815

extension  the  corporation  he  worked  for)  was  negligent,  the  proposed
use  is  a  hearsay  use.  That  is,  the  statement  “I'm  sorry  for  what  I  did”
only shows negligence by a chain of inference: “I am sorry for what I
did,  so  what  I  did  must  be  the  kind  of  thing  that  is  in  some  way
blameworthy.” Thus the statement is being offered to prove the truth of
the  matter  asserted  in  it  —  the  speaker  says  that  he  did  something
wrong,  and  that  statement  is  offered  to  prove  that  he  indeed  did
something wrong. Since this is a hearsay use, it must fall within some
hearsay exception or exclusion, or else be inadmissible.

This  choice  presents  the  best  rationale  for  excluding  the  statement
from  the  hearsay  rule.  FRE  801(d)(2)  excludes  as  non-hearsay  any
statement that is offered against an “opposing party,” and that “(D) was
made by the party's agent or employee on a matter within the scope of
that relationship and while it existed[.]” This is one of the “adoptive
admission”  exclusions.  Here,  we're  told  that  the  driver  was  an
employee of the defendant corporation, and that he was working for the
defendant  (“making  deliveries  for  the  defendant”)  at  the  time  the
accident occurred. So the statement about what happened concerned a
matter within the speaker's employment relationship with the defendant,
and  was  made  while  the  employment  relationship  still  existed.  That's
enough to exclude the statement from the hearsay rule under 801(d)(2)
(D),  if  offered  against  the  employer.  (Notice,  by  the  way,  that  this
exception,  as  opposed  to  801(d)(2)(C)'s  exception  for  “authorized”
statements,  applies  even  if  the  statement  was  unauthorized  by  the
defendant employer, as long as it concerned a matter within the scope
of the employment and was made while the employment continued. So
we  don't  have  to  worry  about  whether  the  employer  had  a  policy
prohibiting drivers from commenting on accidents in which they were
involved.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  supports  a  rationale  that,  even  if  applicable,  would  not  get
the statement admitted for a substantive use.

It's true that the statement could be admitted as a prior inconsistent
statement,  that  is,  a  statement  that  is  inconsistent  with  the  employee's
trial  testimony  that  he  exercised  due  care.  The  common  law  allows
proof of prior inconsistent statements by a testifying witness, and FRE
613 in fact relaxes the common-law rule by not requiring that the prior
inconsistent  statement  be  shown  to  the  witness  in  advance  of  the
questioning. But when a prior inconsistent statement is used, that is an

816

impeaching use, not a substantive use. And the question tells you that
the plaintiff is offering the prior statement “to prove negligence.” That's
a substantive use (the plaintiff is trying to demonstrate the truth of the
matter asserted therein — that the employee is sorry for “what I did,”
thus  tending  to  show  that  what  he  did  was  somehow  wrongful,  i.e.,
negligent.)  Since  the  statement's  status  as  a  “prior  inconsistent
statement” could only relate to this impeaching use, this choice cannot
be  the  best  method  of  achieving  the  substantive  goal  of  proving
negligence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the declarant is available to testify.

FRE  804(b)(3)  gives  a  hearsay  exception  for  a  “statement  against
interest,”  defined  as  a  statement  that  “(A)  a  reasonable  person  in  the
declarant's position would have made only if the person believed it to
be true because, when made, it . . . had [a] great . . . tendency to . . .
expose the declarant to civil or criminal liability.” Since the statement
would  tend  to  expose  the  employee  (not  just  the  corporation)  to  civil
liability  for  the  accident,  it  seems  to  meet  this  definition.  But  the
statement  against  interest  exception,  like  all  the  804(b)  exceptions,
requires that the declarant be unavailable as a witness. We're told that
the employee has testified at trial, so we know he is not unavailable.

Notice  that  to  eliminate  this  choice,  you  have  to  know  that  the
statement against interest exception is one of the declarant-unavailable
exceptions.  The  three  major  declarant-unavailable  exceptions  are  for
(1) former testimony; (2) dying declarations; and (3) statements against
interest. You simply have to memorize this short list.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  then-existing  state  of  mind  exception  is  not  backward
looking.

It's  true  that  FRE  803  gives  a  hearsay  exception  for  what  is
popularly  called  “state  of  mind.”  803(3),  entitled  “Then-Existing
Mental, Emotional, or Physical Condition,” gives an exception for “A
statement of the declarant's then-existing state of mind (such as motive,
intent,  or  plan)  or  emotional,  sensory,  or  physical  condition  (such  as
mental  feeling,  pain,  or  bodily  health)[.]”  The  problem  is  that  the
language giving this exception ends by excluding from the exception “a
statement  of  memory  or  belief  to  prove  the  fact  remembered  or

817

believed  unless  it  relates  to  the  validity  or  terms  of  the  declarant's
will.”

Here, the driver is saying that he is sorry for how he acted on the
prior day, so his statement is a “statement of memory or belief to prove
the  fact  remembered  or  believed.”  (We're  not  really  interested  in  the
employee's  present  emotional  state;  we're  interested  in  the  underlying
fact  that  he  behaved  previously  in  such  a  way  as  to  cause  him  to  be
regretful  now  —  that's  the  only  sense  in  which  the  statement  tends  to
prove that his conduct was negligent.)

 Answer 12

 (A) is the best response,

because  this  choice  precisely  summarizes  FRE  612's  treatment  of
writings used to refresh a witness's memory.

FRE  612  gives  the  adverse  party  certain  options  when  a  witness
uses a writing to refresh her memory. Those options vary depending on
whether  the  writing  was  used  while  the  witness  was  testifying,  or
merely before the witness took the stand. If the witness used the writing
for  memory-refreshment  “while  testifying,”  then  612(b)  gives  the
adverse  party  an  absolute  right  of  inspection:  That  adverse  party  “is
entitled  to  have  the  writing  produced  at  the  hearing,  to  inspect  it,  to
cross-examine  the  witness  about  it,  and  to  introduce  in  evidence  any
portion that relates to the witness's testimony.”

If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  witness  merely  consulted  the  writing
before taking the stand, 612(a) says that the rights of inspection, cross-
examination,  etc.  quoted  above  from  612(b),  apply  only  “if  the  court
decides  that  justice  requires  the  party  to  have  those  options.”  Since
choice  A  distinguishes  between  the  witness's  use  while  testifying
(where  the  opponent  has  a  mandatory  right  of  inspection)  and  her  use
before testifying (where the court has discretion about whether to allow
the right of inspection), it's the correct choice.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  states  that  the  right  of  inspection  depends  on
whether the document contains the witness's statement.

When  a  witness  consults  a  document  to  refresh  her  memory,  FRE
612 gives the adversary certain rights of inspection. Those rights do not
vary  according  to  whether  the  document  contains  the  witness's  own

818

statement. So here, the adversary has a right to inspect the FBI report (a
mandatory right if the witness consulted the report during her testimony,
and  a  right  that's  in  the  court's  discretion  if  the  consultation  was  only
pre-testimony),  and  that's  true  whether  or  not  the  report  mentions  or
quotes the teller's own statement to the agent who prepared the report.
The  idea  behind  FRE  612  is  that  whatever  the  contents  are  of  the
document that the witness consulted, the adversary should have at least
a limited right to inspect that document.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states that there is no possible right of inspection
if the teller used the document to refresh her recollection before taking
the stand.

FRE 612 guarantees the adversary the right to inspect any document
that  the  witness  consulted  while  on  the  stand.  But  that  rule  also  gives
the  adversary  a  shot  at  persuading  the  court  to  allow  inspection  of  a
document  that  the  witness  consulted  during  trial  preparation,  before
taking the stand. FRE 612(a) refers to certain options (inspection, etc.)
that  612(b)  gives  the  adversary,  and  says  that  if  the  witness  used  the
document to refresh her memory “before testifying,” those options exist
only  “if  the  court  decides  that  justice  requires  the  party  to  have  those
options.”  Choice  C,  by  saying  that  the  court  should  not  allow  the
examination if the witness merely consulted the report before taking the
stand, is flatly inconsistent with the discretion given to the court in the
just-quoted portion of 612(a).

 (D) is not the best response,

because it imposes a reading-and-approval condition that is not present
in the relevant rule.

The examiners, in offering this choice, seem to be trying to confuse
you  into  relying  on  an  entirely  inapplicable  rule,  FRE  803(5).  That
Rule  contains  a  hearsay  exception  for  past  recollection  recorded,  an
exception that covers a document created shortly after an event, made
by  (or  approved  by)  a  person  with  fresh  knowledge  of  the  matter,
whose memory has since become impaired. Here, the defendant is not
trying  to  get  the  report  admitted  for  its  substantive  value  (he  merely
wants  to  examine  it),  so  no  hearsay  exception  is  even  relevant.  FRE
612,  the  rule  that  applies  here  because  it  gives  an  adversary  the
possible  right  to  inspect  a  document  that  the  witness  has  consulted

819

during  trial  preparation,  does  not  impose  any  requirement  that  the
witness have read or approved the document while the matter covered
by it was fresh in her mind.

 Answer 13

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  treatment  record  is  a  business  record,  and  there  is  a
hearsay exception allowing proof of the absence of an entry in such a
record.

First,  you  have  to  decide  whether  the  plaintiff,  by  trying  to  show
absence of an entry, is proposing to make a hearsay use. Hearsay is an
out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of a matter asserted in
the  statement.  The  plaintiff  is  trying  to  prove  that  the  prescribed
medication was not administered by the nurse. The absence of any entry
showing  administration  tends  to  prove  that  no  such  administration
occurred, since the administration would probably have been recorded
if  it  had  occurred.  So  the  record  is  in  effect  asserting,  “The  medicine
wasn't  given.”  This  is  therefore  a  hearsay  use  —  the  record  is  being
offered  to  prove  that  something  asserted  in  the  record  (failure  to  give
the medicine) is a truthful assertion.

FRE  803(6)  embodies  the  FRE's  version  of  the  business  records
hearsay  exception,  allowing  admission  of  records  of  a  “regularly
conducted  activity  of  a  business  [or]  organization,”  if  the  record  was
made at or near the time of the event being recorded by someone with
knowledge, and it was the “regular practice” of the organization to keep
such  records.  The  patient  record  here  qualifies.  (The  fact  pattern
doesn't  go  through  each  individual  element  that  a  record  must  satisfy,
but  the  pattern  tells  us  that  the  librarian  “authenticated  the  hospital's
record,” from which we can infer that the requirements of 803(6) have
been satisfied.)

What's  being  offered,  of  course,  is  not  an  affirmative  statement
found in the patient record, it's the fact that there is no statement in the
record showing that the medication was administered. This is precisely
the situation covered by FRE 803(7), entitled “Absence of a Record of
Regularly  Conducted  Activity.”  803(7)  says  that  once  a  record  is
shown to qualify as a business record under 803(6), there is a hearsay
exception for:

“Evidence that a matter is not included in [a business] record . . . if:

820

 
(A) the evidence is admitted to prove that the matter did not occur or

exist;

(B) a record was regularly kept for a matter of that kind; and
(C) the opponent does not show that the possible source of the
information or other cir-cumstances indicate a lack of
trustworthiness.”

Here,  the  absence  of  an  entry  showing  the  giving  of  a  medication
meets  all  these  requirements:  (1)  plaintiff  is  trying  to  show  that  the
giving of the medication is a “matter [that] did not occur or exist”; (2)
the  librarian's  authentication  shows  that  a  record  was  “regularly  kept
for  a  matter  of  that  kind”  (i.e.,  that  the  patient  records  captured  any
treatment  given  to  a  patient);  and  (3)  there's  no  indication  that  the
hospital  (the  “opponent”  of  the  evidence)  has  shown,  or  could  show,
that the source of the record, or any other circumstance, indicates a lack
of trustworthiness. (As to (3), the hospital would have had, if anything,
an incentive to falsely record that a prescribed treatment was given, not
an  incentive  to  falsely  record  that  a  prescribed  treatment  was  not
given).  So  the  absence  of  an  entry  showing  that  the  medication  was
given  falls  within  the  absence-of-entry  provision  of  803(7),  making  it
admissible even though hearsay.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although  the  record  is  hearsay,  it  falls  within  the  absence-of-
entry exception.

As  is  discussed  more  fully  in  the  treatment  of  choice  D,  this  is
indeed  a  hearsay  use  (an  event  implicitly  stated  in  the  record  as  not
having occurred is being offered to prove that the event didn't occur).
But because the patient record is a business record, the absence of an
entry  in  it  showing  that  the  medication  was  given  is  admissible  under
FRE 803(7) to prove that the medication was not given, since if it had
been, that fact would have been recorded.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  nurse's  testimony  is  the  “best  evidence”  of  her
actions, no principle requires the use of the best evidence here.

First, it's not at all clear as a factual matter that the “best evidence”
of the nurse's actions is indeed her testimony about those actions. The
contrary is probably true — the nurse has an incentive to testify that she
gave the medication, so the record is probably a more accurate source

821

 
of what really happened.

But  in  any  event,  even  if  we  were  to  stipulate  that  the  nurse's
testimony is  the  “best  evidence”  of  whether  the  treatment  was  given,
there is no principle that requires that the “best evidence” be used here.
There  is  something  called  the  “Best  Evidence  Rule,”  and  that  Rule,
when  it  applies,  requires  that  an  original  writing  or  photograph  be
admitted,  instead  of,  say,  evidence  about  what  the  contents  of  the
writing  or  photograph  were.  But  there  is  no  principle  running  in  the
opposite direction — live testimony is never required merely because
it  is  arguably  a  “better”  source  of  evidence  than  some  document.  So
here,  the  patient  has  the  option  to  call  the  nurse,  but  the  patient  is
entitled instead (or in addition) to present the treatment record.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the nurse has not been shown to be unavailable to testify.

The  record  is  being  offered  for  a  hearsay  purpose.  (See  the
discussion  of  choice  D).  So  some  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  is
required. And it's true that one of the standard hearsay exceptions is for
statements against interest, given by FRE 804(b)(3). But the statement-
against-interest exception is a “declarant unavailable” exception, and
there is nothing to indicate in our facts that the declarant (the nurse) is
not  available  to  testify.  (Even  if  the  nurse  were  unavailable  to  testify,
it's  not  certain  that  an  “absence  of  statement”  can  qualify  as  a
“statement against interest.”)

 Answer 14

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  statement  is  inadmissible  hearsay  if  offered  to  prove  that
the  car  jerked  suddenly,  but  admissible  for  impeachment  as  a  prior
inconsistent statement of a non-testifying declarant.

Let's look first at the statement's use for substantive (as opposed to
impeachment) purposes. If the statement is being offered to prove that
the  car  suddenly  jerked  and  threw  the  student  out  (so  as  to  suggest
negligence  by  the  amusement  company),  that's  a  hearsay  use  —  the
statement  is  being  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted
therein. And there is no applicable hearsay exception. (For instance, the
declarant — the bystander — is making a statement about something the
bystander  witnessed  the  day  before,  so  it's  not  a  present  sense

822

impression or an excited utterance.)

Now, let's think about the statement's use to impeach the credibility
of the declarant (the bystander). This is a situation in which an initial
statement  by  the  bystander/declarant  has  already  been  admitted  into
evidence under a hearsay exception. (That statement, “That crazy fool
is  standing  up  .  .  .  ,”  was  properly  admitted  as  an  excited  utterance
under FRE 803(2).) Once a hearsay statement has been admitted, then
even  if  the  declarant  never  appears  as  a  witness,  FRE  806  says  that
“the  declarant's  credibility  may  be  attacked  .  .  .  by  any  evidence  that
would be admissible for those purposes if the declarant had testified as
a witness.” In other words, under FRE 806 the party who is opposing
the statement may impeach the declarant's credibility by any means that
would  be  proper  if  the  declarant  had  testified  as  a  witness.  Since  a
testifying witness may be impeached by showing that he made a prior
inconsistent  statement,  Rule  806  means  that  the  bystander  here  may
similarly  be  impeached  by  showing  that  he  made  a  prior  inconsistent
statement.

For  purposes  of  FRE  806,  the  reference  to  a  “prior”  inconsistent
statement means merely, in effect, “prior to the in-court repetition of the
declarant's  out-of-court  statement.”  (See  Rule  806,  second  sentence:
“The court may admit evidence of the declarant's inconsistent statement
or conduct, regardless of when it occurred[.]”) In other words, the fact
that the bystander's statement that the “car jerked suddenly” was made
after the bystander made the “crazy fool standing up” statement doesn't
matter  —  all  that  counts  is  that  the  “car  jerked”  statement  was  made
before the “crazy fool” statement was repeated in court.

One last matter: The two statements are directly inconsistent, since
the first statement implies that the student stood up voluntarily, whereas
the second suggests that he was thrown out of his seat while still sitting.
So the second statement is properly viewed as a prior inconsistent one.

 (B) is not the correct response,

because when offered to prove negligence, the statement is hearsay not
within any exception.

The  statement  is  admissible  for  impeachment  since  it  is  a  prior
inconsistent statement offered against a declarant; see the discussion of
choice  A  for  more  about  this.  But  the  statement  is  not  admissible  to
prove the amusement company's negligence. If the statement were used
to prove negligence, it would be being offered to prove the truth of the
matter asserted in it. That is, the student would be offering the statement

823

that the car jerked suddenly and threw the student out, as a way to prove
that  the  amusement  company  operated  the  roller  coaster  negligently
(since a properly-operated coaster doesn't jerk so suddenly that people
are thrown out of their seats). Use of an out-of-court statement to prove
the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  therein  is  hearsay,  and  is  inadmissible
unless an exception applies. No hearsay exception or exclusion applies
here. The exceptions that come closest to working are the present sense
impression and excited utterance exceptions, but each of these requires
that the statement be essentially contemporaneous with the event being
described  or  felt,  and  the  statement  here  was  made  the  day  after  the
event in question.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  impeachment  of  a  declarant  by  prior  inconsistent  statement
does not require that the declarant be given the opportunity to explain
or deny the inconsistency.

Even  in  the  case  of  a  testifying  witness,  FRE  613(b)  would  not
require the questioner to give the witness an opportunity to explain or
deny  a  prior  inconsistent  statement  except  after-the-fact:  “When
examining  a  witness  about  the  witness's  prior  statement,  a  party  need
not show it or disclose its contents to the witness. But the party must, on
request, show it or disclose its contents to an adverse party's attorney.”
(Then, the party who called the witness who's being impeached can re-
call the witness to explain or deny the statement.)

testified,  and 

When  the  declarant  has  not 

the  out-of-court
declaration  is  merely  introduced  by  some  other  means,  the  party
seeking to use the declarant's prior inconsistent statement does not even
have  to  make  this  after-the-fact  disclosure.  FRE  806,  after  stating  the
general principle that the declarant's credibility may be attacked by any
evidence that would be admissible for those purposes if the declarant
had  testified  as  a  witness,  goes  on  to  say  that  “The  court  may  admit
inconsistent  statement  or  conduct,
evidence  of 
regardless of . . . whether the declarant had an opportunity to explain
or deny it.”

the  declarant's 

 (D) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  requirement  that  the  bystander  be  called  as  a
witness  before  being  impeached  by  means  of  the  prior  inconsistent
statement.

824

It's  true  that  the  bystander  has  not  been  called  as  a  witness,  yet  is
having  her  credibility  attacked  by  means  of  a  prior  inconsistent
statement.  But  this  is  not  a  problem  —  FRE  806  says  that  when  a
hearsay statement has been admitted, “the declarant's credibility may be
attacked  .  .  .  by  any  evidence  that  would  be  admissible  for  those
purposes  if  the  declarant  had  testified  as  a  witness.”  Here,  the
declarant's initial statement (“That crazy fool is standing up . . . “) was
properly admitted, even though hearsay, under the exceptions for either
present sense impression or excited utterance. Once that happened, the
opponent  (the  student)  was  entitled  to  impeach  the  bystander's
credibility  by  any  of  the  techniques  that  could  have  been  used  to
impeach a live witness; one of those techniques was the right to prove a
prior  inconsistent  statement  by  the  witness.  The  student  was  not
required to call the bystander as a witness before making this effort at
impeachment.

 Answer 15

 (B) is the best response,

because it represents a type of statement that is not “testimonial.”

Under  the  Supreme  Court's  decision  in  Crawford  v.  Washington,
541  U.S.  36  (2004),  the  Confrontation  Clause  bars  the  introduction
against the defendant at a criminal trial of an out of court “testimonial”
statement,  unless  either  the  declarant  is  made  available  for  cross-
examination at trial, or the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-
examine  the  declarant  about  the  statement.  Under  Crawford  and  later
cases decided under it, statements by witnesses made during the course
of  police  interrogations,  or  made  to  a  grand  jury,  will  typically  be
found  to  be  testimonial  and  thus  inadmissible  if  the  witness  is  not
produced for cross-examination at trial.

So  the  issue  in  this  question  is  whether  the  type  of  evidence  is
“testimonial.” In this choice, we're dealing with documents that would
qualify  for  the  business  records  hearsay  exception.  As  the  Supreme
Court  said  in  Melendez-Diaz  v.  Mass.,  557  U.S.  305,  324  (2009),
“business and public records” are generally admissible without giving
the  accused  the  right  to  confront  the  maker  of  the  record  “because  —
having been created for the administration of an entity's affairs and not
for  the  purpose  of  establishing  or  proving  some  fact  at  trial  —  [these
records] are not testimonial.” (See also U.S. v. Mashek, 606 F.3d 922

825

(8th Cir. 2010), a methamphetamine prosecution, where the court relied
on  this  language  to  hold  that  local  pharmacies'  consumer-purchase
records  showing  that  D  purchased  ingredients  commonly  used  to
manufacture  meth  could  be  admitted  against  him  without  raising  a
Confrontation Clause issue, because these purchase records were non-
testimonial business records.)

So  the  computerized  deposit  records  here,  being  business  records
that  were  not  created  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  or  proving  some
fact at trial, were non-testimonial and can therefore be admitted without
a Confrontation Clause issue.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the transcript contains the teller's testimony, which was never
subject to cross examination by the defendant.

Crawford says that an out-of-court “testimonial” statement may not
be used against an accused unless the declarant (the person who made
the statement) is either made available for cross-examination at trial, or
was  subject  to  cross-examination  by  the  defendant  at  the  time  the
statement  was  made.  Grand  jury  testimony  is  the  classic  form  of
testimonial  statement,  since  its  purpose  is  to  establish  or  prove  past
events  for  use  in  a  later  prosecution.  Because  the  defendant  is  never
permitted to be present during grand jury proceedings, we know that in
this  case  the  defendant  had  no  opportunity  to  cross-examine  the  teller
during that testimony. Since the teller is now dead, he is unavailable at
trial.  So  the  Confrontation  Clause  blocks  the  use  of  the  testimony  no
matter how reliable it might seem to be.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  teller's  identification  of  the  defendant  is  a  testimonial
statement that was never subject to cross-examination.

This  choice  is  incorrect  for  the  same  reason  that  choice  A  is
incorrect: The teller's identification of the defendant at the lineup was a
testimonial  statement,  and  was  never  subject  to  cross-examination  by
the defendant. It's true that the officer is available to be cross-examined
at the trial regarding his testimony that he witnessed the teller make the
identification at the lineup. But that cross-examination is not a substitute
for cross examination of the teller — the defendant has been deprived
of  the  opportunity  to  ask  the  teller  questions  about  the  basis  for  the
latter's  statement  of  identification  (e.g.,  “Was  the  robber  wearing  a

826

mask?” or “How good is your eyesight?”)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the videotaped statement was testimonial, and is not subject to
cross-examination.

Although only an hour had passed after the robbery, that was enough
time for the eyewitness's videotaped statement to be of a past-looking
“What  happened?”  nature  (and  thus  testimonial)  rather  than  of  an
emergency  non-testimonial  nature  (as,  say,  a  9-1-1  call  for  assistance
might  be).  Therefore,  the  videotaped  eyewitness  statement,  like  the
grand jury testimony and the lineup identification, was “testimonial” —
it  was  made  for  the  purpose  of  proving  past  events  for  use  in  a  later
prosecution. Since the eyewitness was not subject to cross-examination
at the time of the statement, and since he or she is now dead and thus
unavailable  for  cross-examination  at  trial,  use  of  the  statement  would
violate the defendant's Confrontation Clause rights.

 Answer 16

 (C) is the best response,

because what is being proven is not the contents of a recording.

The  Best  Evidence  Rule  (BER)  is  specified  in  FRE  1002:  “An
original writing, recording, or photograph is required in order to prove
its content[.]” So if the agent was attempting to “prove the content” of a
recording,  FRE  1002  would  require  the  government  to  put  the
audiotape into evidence. But the BER does not apply to events that have
by happenstance been recorded — it applies only where the terms of
the recording, per se, are what are being sought to be proved.

Here,  what's  being  proved  is  the  contents  of  the  conspiratorial
conversation,  as  overheard  by  the  agent.  The  fact  that  the  government
happened to have made a tape of the conversation, therefore, does not
mean that the prosecution is attempting to “prove the contents” of this
incidentally-created  tape.  So  as  long  as  the  agent  is  testifying  only  to
the conversation that he overheard “live” (not what he later learned by
listening to the audiotape), the BER doesn't apply.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the BER does not apply.

There is no general principle in the law of evidence that the “best

827

evidence”  on  some  point  must  be  used  to  prove  that  point.  There  is
something informally called the “Best Evidence Rule”. But the BER is
narrow in scope — it applies only where what is being proved are the
“contents”  of  a  writing,  recording  or  photograph.  Here,  the  agent
actually  heard  the  conversation  “live,”  and  he  is  testifying  based  on
what he heard (not on the contents of the audiotape that happens to have
been  made).  Since  the  agent  is  not  relying  on  the  audiotape  for  his
testimony, the BER does not apply. (The government would also be free
to prove the contents of the conversation by playing the audiotape, but
it's not required to use that evidence in lieu of the agent's testimony.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the statements fall within the hearsay exclusion for admissions.
FRE  801(d)(2)  makes  several  types  of  statements  non-hearsay
because they are “party admissions.” Here, any statement made by the
defendant  himself  is  non-hearsay  by  virtue  of  801(d)(2)(A),  which
excludes from the hearsay rule a statement offered against an opposing
party,  if  the  statement  “was  made  by  the  party  in  an  individual  or
representative  capacity.”  What  about  the  statements  made  by  the  co-
conspirator; are these admissible against the defendant? The answer is
yes:  801(d)(2)(E)  excludes  from  hearsay,  if  offered  against  a  party,  a
statement  that  was  “made  by  the  party's  coconspirator  during  and  in
furtherance  of  the  conspiracy.”  Since  the  conspiracy  was  still  alive
when the co-conspirator made the statements in question, and since he
was  attempting  to  further  the  conspiracy  by  planning  for  the  incoming
shipment,  the  requirements  of  the  co-conspirator  exclusion  are
satisfied.  So  all  statements  that  the  agent  is  testifying  to  having  heard
fall within one or the other of these Rule 801(d)(2) exclusions.

 (D) is not the correct response,

because it relies on an irrelevant fact.

The  testimony  of  the  agent  about  what  he  heard  is  admissible
because,  as  explained  in  the  discussion  of  choice  B,  all  of  the
statements being repeated fall within one or another hearsay exclusion
relating  to  admissions.  Even  if  the  audiotape  were  fully  audible,  the
agent would still be permitted to testify to everything he heard, because
there  is  no  principle  of  evidence  that  would  bar  this  testimony.  In
particular,  the  BER  does  not  require  production  of  the  audiotape,
because the agent is not proving “the contents” of the audiotape, since

828

he is not relying on the audiotape for his testimony. See the discussion
of choice (C) for more about this.

 Answer 17

 (B) is the best response,

because the tape is admissible as a prior inconsistent statement offered
to  impeach  the  witness,  but  inadmissible  substantively  because  of
hearsay.

First, let's consider the recording's admissibility for impeachment.
FRE 613(b) implicitly allows use of extrinsic evidence to show that a
witness  has  made  a  prior  inconsistent  statement.  (“Extrinsic  evidence
of  a  witness's  prior  inconsistent  statement  is  admissible  only  if  the
witness is given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement and an
adverse party is given an opportunity to examine the witness about it, or
if justice so requires.”)

So  here,  once  the  witness  said  on  the  stand  that  the  employer  had
given  a  non-racial  explanation  for  the  firing,  the  witness's  tape
recorded  statement  that  the  employer  had  given  a  racial  explanation
was  extrinsic  evidence  tending  to  show  a  prior  inconsistent  statement
by  the  witness.  Consequently,  the  statement  was  admissible  for
impeachment  under  FRE  613(b),  since  the  witness  was  still  on  the
stand (and thus had a chance to explain or deny the statement).

Now,  let's  consider  substantive  admissibility.  Here,  the  tape
recording  is  “hearsay  within  hearsay.”  The  outer  level  is  that  the
witness  is  making  a  recorded,  and  thus  out-of-court,  statement.  The
inner  level  is  that  the  witness  is  repeating  an  admission  made  by  the
employer.

Here,  the  inner  level  is  not  inadmissible  hearsay,  because  it  falls
within the exception for admissions introduced against the maker. See
FRE 801(d)(2) (a statement is not hearsay if “[t]he statement is offered
against  an  opposing  party  and:  (A)  was  made  by  the  party  in  an
individual or representative capacity[.]”) But the outer level is hearsay
that is not within any exception — the witness is making an out-of-court
statement (the witness's words on the recording) offered to demonstrate
the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  (that  the  employer  made  a  certain
admission to the witness). There is nothing in this statement (e.g., “The
employer  told  me  he  fired  the  plaintiff  for  racial  reasons”)  that  falls
within any hearsay exception. Thus, the statement can't come in for the

829

substantive  purpose  of  demonstrating  that  the  employer  was  racially
motivated.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  as  is  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  B,  the  recording  is
not  admissible  as  “evidence  of  the  employer's  racial  motivation,”
which is a substantive (non-impeachment-of-the-witness) purpose.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  as  is  described  in  choice  B,  the  statement  is  admissible  for
impeachment as a prior inconsistent statement of the witness.

 (D) is not the best response,

because no violation of the Constitution occurs when a person secretly
records  a  conversation  to  which  he  is  a  party  (and  in  any  event,  the
witness  was  not  a  governmental  actor,  again  preventing  the  recording
from possibly being a constitutional violation).

 Answer 18

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  witness  cannot  be  impeached  on  a  collateral  issue  by
extrinsic evidence.

The manager's testimony is not relevant to any substantive issue in
the  case  —  it  bears  solely  on  the  witness's  credibility.  Therefore,  the
matter is governed by FRE 608(b), which says in part that “[e]xcept for
a  criminal  conviction  under  Rule  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not
admissible to prove specific instances of a witness's conduct in order
to  attack  or  support  the  witness's  character  for  truthfulness.”  In  other
words, once a lawyer has completed cross-examination of a witness, he
must  be  satisfied  with  whatever  he  could  bring  out  on  cross-
examination  that  tends  to  show  that  the  witness  lied  on  a  collateral
matter (i.e., a matter not pertaining to the substantive issues in the case)
— the lawyer may not introduce another witness, or document, to prove
that the first witness lied.

Here, the testimony of the manager is extrinsic evidence of specific
conduct  by  the  witness,  offered  for  the  purpose  of  attacking  the
witness's credibility. Therefore, it is barred by the just-quoted portion

830

of 608(b).

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  judge  has  no  discretion  to  admit  extrinsic  evidence  to
impeach on a collateral issue.

If the prosecutor had presented the witness with a document tending
to  show  he  had  lied  on  his  credit  card  application,  that  would  be
admissible  in  the  judge's  discretion,  because  the  second  sentence  of
Rule  608(b)  says  that  “[t]he  court  may,  on  cross-examination,  allow
[specific instances of a witness's conduct] to be inquired into if they are
probative  of  the  character  for  truthfulness  or  untruthfulness  of:  (1)  the
witness[.]” But since the testimony here is from the manager about the
witness's  credibility,  it's  extrinsic  evidence  governed  by  the  first
sentence of 608(b) (quoted in the discussion of choice C above), not the
sentence  just  quoted;  therefore,  the  judge  can't  use  her  discretion  to
admit it.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the witness may have “opened the door” to being asked further
questions  about  his  application  on  cross-examination,  but  he  did  not
(and could not) open the door to the use of extrinsic evidence to show
he was lying.

As  the  discussion  of  choice  C  indicates,  once  a  lawyer  has
completed  cross-examination  of  a  witness,  he  must  be  satisfied  with
whatever he could bring out on cross tending to show that the witness
lied  on  a  collateral  matter  (i.e.,  a  matter  not  pertaining  to  the
substantive  issues  in  the  case).  The  lawyer  may  not  introduce  another
witness, or document, to show that the first witness lied. So nothing the
witness  said  could  have  “opened  the  door”  to  this  type  of  extrinsic
evidence.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  witness  could  have  honestly  misunderstood  the
form is irrelevant — the evidence is extrinsic evidence and is barred
because it pertains to a collateral matter.

The  first  sentence  of  Rule  608(b),  quoted  in  the  discussion  of
choice  C  above,  bars  extrinsic  evidence  to  prove  a  collateral  matter.
The  matter  here  (whether  the  witness  lied  on  his  credit  card
application) is a collateral matter, since it pertains only to the witness's

831

credibility, not to any substantive issue in the case. Therefore, even if
the  witness  could  not  reasonably  have  misunderstood  the  meaning  of
the question on the application, the prosecutor was still not entitled to
present a second witness (a form of extrinsic evidence) to prove either
that the witness was generally untruthful or that his testimony on cross
about the application was untruthful.

 Answer 19

 (B) is the best response,

because  evidence  of  prior  bad  acts  to  prove  that  on  the  present
occasion the defendant acted in conformity with the character indicated
by those prior bad acts is inadmissible.

FRE  404(a)(1)  states  the  familiar  principle  that  “[e]vidence  of  a
person's character or character trait is not admissible to prove that on a
particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in  accordance  with  the  character
or trait” (subject to exceptions not relevant here). The prosecution here
is  trying  to  get  the  evidence  in  to  suggest,  in  effect,  that  “[s]ince  the
defendant is the sort of person who has twice before shot at victims or
menaced  them  with  a  gun,  he  is  likely  to  have  fired  the  sniper  shot
charged here.”

If the prior bad acts had been extremely similar to the one charged
here (e.g., they both involved the firing of sniper shots at a person, in
similar circumstances, and with a similar motive), the prior acts might
be  admissible  under  FRE  404(b)'s  statement  that  “[e]vidence  of  a
crime,  wrong,  or  other  act  is  not  admissible  to  prove  a  person's
character . . . (2) [but] may be admissible for another purpose, such as
proving  motive,  .  .  .  preparation  [or]  plan[.]”  But  the  two  prior  acts
here  are  so  different  from  the  crime  charged  —  neither  is  a  hidden
sniper-style shot fired directly at a human being, as is charged here —
that  none  of  the  exceptions  in  404(b)  can  even  plausibly  apply.  (The
requisite  similarity  is  clearly  not  established  by  the  mere  fact  that  all
the acts, including the one charged, involve a firearm.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  evidence  of  prior  bad  acts  to  prove  action  in  conformity
therewith is not admissible either on direct or cross.

For  the  reasons  described  in  choice  B  above,  this  is  “prior  bad
acts”  evidence  offered  to  show  a  propensity  to  act  in  conformity

832

therewith. Therefore, it's forbidden by 404(A). And that's true whether
the evidence is presented on direct or is elicited on cross.

If you were tempted by this answer, you may have thought that these
prior  bad  acts  could  be  used  on  cross  for  impeachment  purposes.  To
understand why this is not so, first notice that there's no indication that
the  defendant  was  convicted  of  a  crime  for  these  prior  actions.
Therefore,  their  use  for  impeachment  is  governed  by  FRE  608(b)
(specific  instances  of  conduct),  not  609  (impeachment  by  evidence  of
conviction of crime).

Now, 608(b), after banning the use of extrinsic evidence to “prove
specific  instances  of  a  witness's  conduct  in  order  to  attack  or  support
the witness's character for truthfulness,” goes on to say that “the court
may,  on  cross-examination,  allow  [such  specific  instances]  to  be
inquired into if they are probative of the character for truthfulness or
untruthfulness of: (1) the witness[.]” As you can see by the italicized
phrase, this exception applies only to prior bad acts that are probative
of  the  witness's  truthfulness.  Since  shootings  and  menacings  aren't
probative  of  truthfulness,  they  cannot  be  inquired  about  even  on  the
cross of the defendant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because evidence of a propensity to violence is inadmissible character
evidence.

The  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  embody  the  principle  that  prior
crimes may not be introduced to show the defendant's character, thereby
justifying  the  inference  that  he  acted  in  conformity  with  that  character
on  the  present  occasion.  This  rule  is  discussed  in  the  discussion  of
choice B above.

The  present  choice  is  literally  inconsistent  with  the  no-prior-acts-

to-show-conforming-character rule, so it's clearly wrong.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the prior acts offered are not sufficiently similar to bear on the
defendant's identity, plan, or motive.

It's true that FRE 404(b) says that “[e]vidence of a crime, wrong, or
other act . . . may be admissible for another purpose, such as proving
motive, . . . plan [or] identity[.]” But there's no indication that motive,
plan, or identity was at issue in the case, or was the purpose for which
this other-bad-acts evidence was offered.

833

In  any  event,  to  bear  on  motive,  plan,  or  identity,  the  prior  acts
would have to be much more similar to the present attack than they in
fact are: Neither of the prior acts was a hidden sniper-style shot fired
directly  at  a  human  being.  (It's  clearly  not  enough  that  all  the  acts,
including the one charged, involve a firearm, or violence.)

 Answer 20

 (C) is the best response,

because the defendant was attempting to evade taxes.

The essence of the attorney-client privilege is that a client has the
right  not  to  disclose,  and  the  right  to  prevent  her  lawyer  from
disclosing,  any  confidential  communication  between  the  two  of  them
relating to the professional relationship. An exception to this rule — the
“crime or fraud” exception — states there is no privilege if the services
of  the  lawyer  were  sought  or  obtained  to  enable  or  aid  anyone  to
commit  or  plan  to  commit  what  the  client  knew  or  reasonably  should
have known to be a crime or fraud.

Here,  the  letter  constitutes  the  defendant's  attempt  to  have  the
attorney conspire with the defendant to commit tax fraud. Therefore, the
communication  covered  by  the  letter  falls  within  the  crime-or-fraud
exception, and is therefore not privileged.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  acts  in  furtherance  of  a  crime  are  not  covered  by  attorney-
client privilege.

For  the  reasons  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  B  above,  the
letter  fell  within  the  crime-or-fraud  exception,  and  thus  was  not
privileged. Therefore, choice A is wrong.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Fifth  Amendment  does  not  normally  protect  against  the
compelled disclosure of voluntarily created testimonial documents.
The  Fifth  Amendment  protects  against  compulsory 

self-
incrimination.  The  document  here  was  voluntarily  created  by  the
defendant.  Therefore,  it  would  not  be  a  violation  of  the  Fifth
Amendment  for  either  the  defendant  or  the  attorney  to  be  forced  to
produce the document.

834

 (D) is not the best response,

because the attorney-client privilege can be claimed by the attorney on
behalf of the client.

Where  the  privilege  exists,  both  the  client  and  the  attorney  can
claim it, but the attorney can claim the privilege only on behalf of the
client. However, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, courts will
presume that the attorney who claims the privilege is acting on behalf of
the  client.  A  court  would  certainly  make  this  presumption  here.
Therefore,  this  choice  reaches  the  right  result  (privilege  does  not
apply), but for the wrong reason.

 Answer 21

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  defendant  auto  manufacturer  is  not  attempting  to  prove  a
character trait, but is trying to provide an alternate explanation.

An issue in the case (indeed, the core issue) is whether the accident
was  caused  by  a  defective  steering  wheel  or,  instead,  by  some  other
cause  not  associated  with  the  defendant  auto  manufacturer.  If  the  wife
was  intoxicated  at  the  time  she  was  driving  the  car,  this  fact  would
obviously  make  it  more  likely  than  it  would  otherwise  be  that  the
intoxication, not a steering-wheel defect, was the cause of the accident.
Therefore,  the  wife's  intoxication  was  directly  relevant  evidence  that
does not fall within any exclusion. (As to the argument that the evidence
is inadmissible character evidence, see the discussion of choice C).

 (B) is not the best response,

because the defendant auto manufacturer is not trying to prove a trait of
the plaintiff's deceased wife's character.

If  the  evidence  being  offered  by  the  defendant  auto  manufacturer
was evidence that the wife was often drunk, then the evidence would in
effect  be  character  evidence.  In  that  event,  this  choice  would  still  be
wrong,  because  character  evidence,  offered  to  prove  that  the  person
acted  in  conformity  therewith  on  a  particular  occasion,  is  generally
inadmissible. FRE 404(a)(1).

But, here, what's being offered is not character evidence (evidence
that the wife was often or generally drunk) but rather direct evidence of
behavior on the particular occasion in question (i.e., evidence that she

835

was drunk while driving into the fatal accident). This is not character
evidence at all.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, although it more or less correctly states a rule, that rule does
not apply on these facts.

It's true that under FRE 404(a)(1), generally evidence of a person's
character  or  a  trait  of  character  “is  not  admissible  to  prove  that  on  a
particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in  accordance  with  the  character
or trait.” It's also true that under FRE 404(b), “[e]vidence of a crime,
wrong, or other act is not admissible to prove a person's character in
order  to  show  that  on  a  particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in
accordance  with  the  character.”  Therefore,  if  the  defendant  auto
manufacturer were trying to show that the wife was drunk on particular
occasions  other  than  the  one  now  in  question,  that  evidence  would
indeed  be  excludible  under  404(b)'s  ban  on  specific-acts  evidence  to
prove conduct in conformity with character.

But  that's  not  what's  being  offered  here:  What's  being  offered  is
direct  evidence  that  the  wife  was  drunk  on  the  particular  occasion  in
issue, and that's not “character” evidence of any sort.

 (D) is not the best response,

because proof of the plaintiff's wife's intoxication would be probative
of the defendant auto manufacturer's defense.

It's true that under FRE 403, relevant evidence may be excluded “if
its probative value is substantially outweighed by a danger of . . . unfair
prejudice[.]” But given that the key issue in the case is “What caused
the accident?” and given that the wife's intoxication, if it existed, would
have  tremendous  probative  value  on  the  issue  of  the  accident's  cause,
no court would conclude that there was a danger of “unfair” prejudice,
or that that prejudice substantially outweighed the evidence's probative
value.

 Answer 22

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly characterizes the facts as ones that would not give
rise to a duty on the co-defendant to respond.

Under  these  facts,  the  prosecutor  is  attempting  to  admit  the

836

defendant's statement against the co-defendant. If it's admissible at all,
it will be admissible as an admission by silent adoption — FRE 801(d)
(2)(B) excludes, when used against a party, a statement that “is one the
party  manifested  that  it  adopted  or  believed  to  be  true.”  However,  as
courts have interpreted the adoption-by-silence aspect of 801(d)(2)(B),
an  admission  by  silence  is  only  admissible  if  the  person  heard  the
accusatory statement, he was capable of denying  the  statement,  and  a
reasonable person would have denied the statement were it not true,
under the same circumstances. Here, the fact that the co-defendant was
in police custody makes it unlikely that a reasonable person under the
same  circumstances  would  have  denied  the  statement,  since  he  could
reasonably feel that he didn't want to say anything at all in the presence
of police. Since C correctly states this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not correctly apply the rule on “tacit admissions.”

An  admission  by  silence  is  only  admissible,  under  judicial
interpretations of FRE 801(d)(2)(B), if the person heard the accusatory
statement,  he  was  capable  of  denying  the  statement,  and  a  reasonable
person would have denied the statement were it not true, under the same
circumstances.  Here,  the  fact  that  the  co-defendant  was  in  police
custody  makes  it  unlikely  that  a  reasonable  person  under  the  same
circumstances  would  have  denied  the  statement,  since  he  could
reasonably feel that he didn't want to say anything at all in the presence
of  police.  Since  this  element  is  missing,  the  statement  will  not  be
admissible  against  the  co-defendant  as  a  tacit  admission,  and  so  A  is
not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts: The admission here was not made during
the course and in furtherance of the common plan.

An  admission  by  a  co-participant  is  admissible  against  the
defendant  if  it  was  made  during  the  course  and  in  furtherance  of  the
common plan. FRE 801(d)(2)(E).

Here,  the  defendant  and  co-defendant  are  in  police  custody,  and,
unless they're mighty unusual robbers, they wouldn't have planned to be
caught  and  arrested  by  the  police.  Since  the  common  plan  had  ended
before  the  time  in  question  here,  the  defendant's  statement,  as  co-
participant, is not admissible against the co-defendant. Since B doesn't

837

recognize this, it is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant's  comment  is  of  probative  value  in  the  co-
defendant's trial.

“Probative value” is another way of wording “logical relevance.”
That is, a piece of evidence is logically relevant if it tends to prove or
disprove  a  material  fact.  The  comment  of  the  defendant,  a  co-
conspirator of the co-defendant, that the co-defendant planned the hold
up,  would  clearly  make  it  more  likely  that  the  co-defendant,  in  fact,
took part in the crime. Thus, the statement may be inadmissible, but it
won't  be  because  it's  irrelevant.  Since  D  wrongly  states  that  the
comment is of no probative value, it is not the best response.

 Answer 23

 (D) is the best response,

because the trial testimony was a statement within a statement, and the
outer level was hearsay not within any exception.

Anytime  the  evidence  in  question  consists  of  an  out-of-court
statement by A repeating another out-of-court statement by B, you have
to analyze both A's statement and B's statement — if either statement is
hearsay not falling within any exception, the combined statement cannot
come in.

Here,  it's  true  that  the  “inner  level,”  i.e.,  the  security  director's
statement  (“Stop  shoplifters  at  all  costs”),  is  admissible,  because  it's
not hearsay — it doesn't assert the truth of any matter, so it can't now be
offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted therein.

But the “outer level” — i.e., the guard's trial testimony about what
the  security  director  had  previously  said  —  is  hearsay  not  within  any
exception. First, this testimony is hearsay, because it's being offered to
show  that  the  security  director  really  uttered  the  words,  “Stop
shoplifters  at  all  costs”  (meaning  that  the  shooting  falls  within  the
defendant's  respondeat  superior  liability),  and  is  thus  offered  to  show
the truth of the matter asserted therein.

Second, this testimony by the guard does not fall within any hearsay
exception. For example, the testimony is not an admission by an agent
of  a  party,  admissible  against  the  party,  because  by  the  time  of  the
criminal trial, the guard was no longer working for the defendant.

838

Nor  is  the  guard's  trial  testimony  admissible  under  the  “former
testimony”  exception  of  FRE  804(b)(1),  because  that  exception  only
applies if the testimony “is now offered against a party who had — or,
in  a  civil  case,  whose  predecessor  in  interest  had  —  an  opportunity
and  similar  motive  to  develop  it  by  direct,  cross-,  or  redirect
examination.” The defendant obviously had no opportunity or motive to
cross-examine  the  guard  at  the  guard's  criminal  trial.  And  of  the  two
parties at the criminal trial (the defendant and the prosecution), neither
can be said to have been in any way a “predecessor in interest” to the
defendant.  So  the  “opportunity  and  similar  motive  to  cross-examine”
requirement for admission of prior testimony is not satisfied here.

Since  there  are  no  other  exceptions  that  might  cover  the  guard's
testimony,  it's  inadmissible  hearsay,  making  the  whole  “package”
inadmissible.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the piece representing the guard's own testimony is not a party-
admission,  since  the  guard  no  longer  worked  for  the  defendant  at  the
time of the statement.

This  is  hearsay  within  hearsay,  so  it's  inadmissible  unless  both
pieces (the guard's trial statement and the security director's statement
quoted  by  the  guard)  fall  within  a  hearsay  exception.  As  described  in
the  analysis  of  choice  D,  the  guard's  trial  statement  is  not  admissible
against  the  defendant  as  an  admission  by  a  party  opponent's  agent,
because  at  the  time  of  the  statement  (the  guard's  criminal  trial),  the
guard was no longer employed by the defendant, and his statement was
therefore no longer within the agency relationship.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, although the instruction by the security director is not hearsay,
it's  contained  within 
inadmissible,  hearsay  “outer”
statement.

the  guard's 

This  choice  is  probably  correct  in  concluding  that  the  director's
own statement is not hearsay — it's an instruction or command, and it's
not  being  offered  to  prove  the  “truth”  of  any  matter  asserted  therein,
because  there  is  no  “matter”  whose  “truth”  is  being  asserted.  On  the
other  hand,  the  director's  statement  is  contained  in  the  guard's  trial
testimony, which is (inadmissible) hearsay. Therefore, although choice
B is literally correct, it does not correctly explain the outcome.

839

 (C) is not the best response,

because the former-testimony exception does not apply.

Former  testimony,  i.e.  testimony  given  at  an  earlier  proceeding,  is
an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  Under  FRE  804(b)(1),  one  of  the
requirements for the prior testimony exception is that the testimony must
now be “offered against a party who had — or, in a civil case, whose
predecessor  in  interest  had  —  an  opportunity  and  similar  motive  to
develop  it  by  direct,  cross-,  or  redirect  examination.”  The  defendant
had no opportunity or motive to cross-examine the guard at the guard's
criminal  trial,  and  the  prosecution  cannot  be  said  to  have  been  a
“predecessor  in  interest”  to  the  defendant.  So  the  former-testimony
exception does not apply.

 Answer 24

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  defendant's  silence  in  these  circumstances  constituted  his
adoption of the dealer's statement.

FRE  801(2)(B)  codifies  the  common-law  notion  of  an  adoptive
admission:  A  statement  is  not  hearsay  if  it  is  “offered  against  an
opposing party and . . . (B) is one the party manifested that it adopted or
believed  to  be  true[.]”  The  applicable  test  for  adoption  is  whether,
taking  into  account  all  circumstances,  A's  conduct  or  silence  justifies
the  conclusion  that  he  knowingly  agreed  to  the  accuracy  of  B's
statement.

Here,  it's  clear  that  the  defendant  adopted  the  dealer's  statement.
The dealer introduced the defendant to the witness as “my partner.” The
defendant  clearly  heard  and  understood  the  statement,  and  it  was  the
sort of statement that would, if untrue, have called for a denial by the
defendant rather than a shaking of hands.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant adopted the dealer's statement.

The defendant did not need to authorize the dealer to speak for him.
It's true that one way A's statement can be used as an admission against
B is if B authorized A to speak for him. (See FRE 801(d)(2)(C).) But
another way for A's statement to be used as an admission against B is if
B  has  “manifested  that  [B]  adopted  or  believed  [the  statement]  to  be

840

true[.]” (FRE 801(d)(2)(B)). That's what happened here, as described
more fully in the discussion of Choice (D) above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because adoptive admissions are not hearsay.

The  statement  here  was  admissible  as  an  admission  against  the
defendant,  because  the  defendant  adopted  it.  (See  the  discussion  in
choice  D.)  Consequently,  the  statement  was  rendered  non-hearsay  by
FRE 801(d)(2)(B).

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant is not the declarant.

A statement against interest is one made by a person (the declarant),
now  unavailable  as  a  witness,  against  that  person's  pecuniary,
proprietary,  or  penal  interest  when  made.  FRE  804(b)(3)  treats
statements against interest as an exception to the hearsay rule.

However,  there  is  no  doctrine  by  which  a  statement  made  by  A
against B's interest can be admitted against B based on B's adoption of
the statement. Since the declarant was A, the statement would have to be
against A's (not B's) interest for it to fall within the statement-against-
interest  exception.  And  that's  not  what  this  choice  specifies.  (Also,
even  if  the  statement  were  somehow  treated  as  if  it  were  made  or
authorized  by  the  defendant,  the  exception  wouldn't  apply  because  the
defendant is present at trial and thus not unavailable.)

 Answer 25

 (D) is the best response,

because the clerk is not a source “whose accuracy cannot reasonably be
questioned,” as required for judicial notice under the FRE.
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

 (A) is not the best response,

because a certified copy would be permitted under FRE 902(4).

FRE  902  lists  a  number  of  categories  of  documents  that  are  self-
authenticating. One of these is 902(4)'s category of “certified copies of
public records,” defined to include “A copy of an official record . . . if
the copy is certified as correct by: (A) the custodian or another person
authorized  to  make  the  certification.”  A  certified  copy  of  a  record  of

841

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

conviction would clearly fall within this definition.

 (B) is not the best response,

because testimony of someone who heard the sentence be issued would
be a good means of authentication.

FRE 901(b) gives a number of illustrations of acceptable methods
of  authentication  —  i.e.,  in  FRE  901(a)'s  language,  of  “evidence
sufficient to support a finding that the item is what the proponent claims
it is.” Since the claim is that there has been a conviction, authentication
consists  of  evidence  sufficient  to  find  that  the  conviction  really
occurred.

The  first  illustration  given  in  FRE  901(b)  is  (1),  entitled
“Testimony of a Witness with Knowledge” — the text of (1) recognizes
authentication by means of “testimony that an item is what it is claimed
to  be.”  So  here,  the  plaintiff's  testimony,  from  his  own  personal
knowledge, that a sentence of conviction was pronounced, will qualify.

 (C) is not the best response,

because 
admission.

the  defendant's  statement  would  be  admissible  as  an

The  testimony  here  is  a  classic  admission  by  a  party-opponent.
Under  FRE  801(d)(2),  an  out-of-court  statement  is  admissible  (as  an
exclusion  from  the  hearsay  rule)  if  it  is  “offered  against  an  opposing
party and (A) was made by the party in an individual or representative
capacity[.]”  Since  the  “oral  admission”  by  the  defendant  that  he  had
been  convicted  is  a  statement  by  the  defendant  being  offered  against
him, the testimony by the witness is admissible.

 Answer 26

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  widow's  testimony  would  be  hearsay  within  hearsay,  and
the “outer level” is not within any exception.

The FRE define hearsay as “a statement that: (1) the declarant does
not make while testifying at the current trial or hearing; and (2) a party
offers  in  evidence  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  the
statement.”  FRE  801(c).  Anytime  the  evidence  in  question  consists  of
an out-of-court statement by A repeating another out-of-court statement
by B,  you  have  to  analyze  both  A's  statement  and  B's  statement  —  if

842

either  statement  is  hearsay  not  falling  within  any  exception,  the
combined statement cannot come in.

Here,  the  “inner”  level  (the  defendant's  statement  to  the  widow's
husband)  is  an  admission  being  used  against  a  party-opponent,  so  it
falls within the admissions exception to the hearsay rule.

But the “outer” level (the husband's statement to the widow, “Here's
what the defendant told me . . . “) is hearsay not within any exception.
First, notice that the statement (“[The defendant] told me he'd blow my
head  off  one  day”)  is  being  offered  to  prove  the  matter  asserted:  It's
being  offered  to  prove  that  the  defendant  indeed  made  the  threat.  (It's
also being offered for the additional not-really-hearsay inference that if
the  defendant  made  a  threat  to  kill  the  husband  by  shooting,  it's  more
likely than it would otherwise be that the fatal shooting of the husband
by someone unknown was done by the defendant. But this “secondary”
purpose  doesn't  detract  from  the  fact  that  the  primary  purpose  —  to
prove that the defendant made the threat — is a hearsay purpose.)

Second,  let's  look  at  whether  the  husband's  statement  falls  within
any exception. It doesn't. For instance, it doesn't fall within the state-of-
mind exception, because the husband wasn't saying, “I'm scared of [the
defendant]  because  he  threatened  to  kill  me.  .  .  .  ”  It's  offered  for  the
pure  purpose  of  showing  that  the  defendant  made  the  threat,  and  that
purpose  doesn't  qualify  for  state-of-mind,  excited-utterance,  or  any
other exception.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the state-of-mind exception doesn't solve the problem that the
husband's statement to the widow is, separately, hearsay.

It's  true  that  the  defendant's  statement  alone  might  well  be
admissible  as  evidence  of  the  defendant's  state  of  mind  vis-à-vis  the
husband, under FRE 803(3) (covering declarant's “then-existing state of
mind . . . or emotional, sensory, or physical condition[.]”

But  the  problem  (as  further  discussed  in  choice  D  above)  is  that
what's offered is what the husband said out of court that the defendant
told  him  out  of  court.  So  if  the  husband's  statement  (the  “outer”
statement)  is  hearsay  not  within  an  exception,  the  fact  that  the
defendant's  statement  (the  “inner”  statement)  falls  within  a  hearsay
exception doesn't help.

Here,  the  statement  by  the  husband  is  hearsay  not  within  any
exception,  as  shown  by  the  analysis  in  choice  D.  Therefore,  the
combined statements of the husband and the defendant can't come in.

843

 (B) is not the best response,

because the admissibility of statements made by, and offered against, a
party-opponent  doesn't  solve  the  combined  hearsay-within-hearsay
problem presented here.

It's  true  that  the  defendant's  statement,  if  made  directly  to  the
testifying  witness  (the  widow)  could  be  repeated  by  her  on  the  stand,
since then it would be a statement made by a party-opponent admitted
against that opponent, a non-hearsay use under FRE 801(2)(A).

But  the  problem  (as  further  discussed  in  choice  D  above)  is  that
what's offered is what the husband said out of court that the defendant
told  him  out  of  court.  So  if  the  husband's  statement  (the  “outer”
statement)  is  hearsay  not  within  an  exception,  the  fact  that  the
defendant's  statement  (the  “inner”  statement) 
is  a  non-hearsay
admission doesn't help.

Here,  the  statement  by  the  husband  is  hearsay  not  within  any
exception,  as  shown  by  the  analysis  of  choice  D.  Therefore,  the
combined statements of the husband and the defendant can't come in.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it mischaracterizes the evidence, and it also doesn't address the
hearsay-within-hearsay issue.

First,  the  answer  choice  characterizes  the  evidence  incorrectly,  as
proof  of  a  prior  bad  act,  when  it  is  being  offered  as  a  statement.
Second,  it  does  not  address  the  pivotal  issue:  the  admissibility  of  the
husband's  statement  (the  “outer”  statement).  Since  that  statement  is
hearsay not within any exception, as shown by the analysis of choice D,
the  combined  statements  of  the  husband  and  the  defendant  would  be
inadmissible as hearsay within hearsay.

 Answer 27

 (A) is the best response,

because one who obtains a confidential communication while assisting
a lawyer is covered by the attorney-client privilege.

If  the  interview  for  sentencing  preparation  had  been  between  the
attorney  and  the  defendant,  it's  perfectly  clear  that  the  attorney-client
privilege would apply. The fact that it's a non-attorney third person, not
the attorney, who had the conversation with the defendant is what makes

844

the problem interesting.

However, it's well established that the attorney-client privilege also
applies  to  communications  between  the  client  and  a  third-party  non-
lawyer  who  has  been  engaged  by  the  lawyer  to  aid  in  the
representation.  Since  the  probation  officer  was  engaged  by  the
defendant's  lawyer  to  aid  in  an  aspect  of  the  defense,  anything  the
defendant told the probation officer is treated as if it had been told to
the lawyer, and is therefore privileged.

 (B) is not the best response,

because 
probable-cause issue irrelevant.

the  attorney-client  privilege's  applicability  makes 

the

As described in the analysis of choice A above, the communication
is  covered  by  the  attorney-client  privilege.  Therefore,  even  if  the
interview did more probably than not develop evidence relevant to the
grand jury's inquiry, the interview would still be privileged.

In  any  event,  this  choice  misstates  the  criterion  for  grand  jury
questioning:  As  long  as  the  matter  under  question  has  a  reasonable
chance of being either directly relevant or leading to relevant evidence,
the  proponent  of  the  questioning  need  not  show  by  “probable  cause”
that the questions are directly relevant to the grand jury's inquiry.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  a  non-attorney  engaged  by  an  attorney  is  covered  by  the
attorney-client privilege.

See the further analysis of this legal rule in the discussion of choice

A above.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  rules  of  privilege  very  much  apply  in  grand  jury
proceedings.

It's  true  that  not  all  rules  of  evidence  apply  in  grand  jury
proceedings (the hearsay rule, for instance), but privileges, such as the
attorney-client privilege, do apply.

 Answer 28

 (C) is the best response,

845

because  the  beatings  would  tend  to  prove  that  the  killing  was  not
accidental.

Under FRE 404(b), “Evidence of a crime, wrong, or other act is not
admissible  to  prove  a  person's  character  in  order  to  show  that  on  a
particular occasion the person acted in accordance with the character.”
So if the prosecution were offering the prior beatings on the theory that
“[t]hese  beatings  showed  that  the  defendant  had  a  violent  character,
making  it  more  likely  that  he  acted  violently  on  this  occasion,”  the
evidence would be barred by the above-quoted portion of 404(b).

However,  FRE  404(b)  goes  on  to  say  that  such  other  crimes-or-
wrongs  evidence  “may  be  admissible  for  another  purpose,  such  as
proving  motive,  opportunity,  intent,  preparation,  plan,  knowledge,
identity, absence of mistake, or lack of accident.” Here, that's exactly
what's  happening:  The  defendant  has  claimed  that  the  shooting  was
accidental,  and  the  prosecution  is  offering  the  prior  beatings  to  show
“absence  of  mistake  or  lack  of  accident.”  So  the  evidence  is
admissible.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  acts  of  violence  here  are  not  being  offered  as  character
evidence.

It's  true  that  if  the  evidence  were  offered  as  pure  character
evidence,  to  show  that  the  defendant  acted  in  conformity  with  his
character  (character  for  violence,  say)  on  the  present  occasion,  the
evidence  would  be  barred  by  FRE  404(b).  But  as  described  in  the
analysis  of  choice  C,  the  evidence  here  is  being  offered  to  show
“absence  of  mistake  or  lack  of  accident,”  not  to  show  “character,”  so
it's admissible.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  beatings  show  lack  of  accident  regardless  of  who  started
the fights.

The  fact  that  the  officer  doesn't  know  firsthand  who  started  the
fights  is  irrelevant,  if  the  mere  existence  of  the  fights  would  tend  to
show  that  the  shooting  on  the  present  occasion  was  no  mistake.  For
instance, even if the father started the two prior fights, the fact that the
defendant  responded  by  beating  his  father  would  make  it  at  least
somewhat less likely than it would otherwise be that the shooting now
was  an  accident.  So  the  evidence  is  relevant,  and  it's  admissible  (as

846

described in choice C) as tending to prove absence of accident.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  evidence  of  a  character  for  violence  is  not  admissible  under
these circumstances.

Under FRE 404(b), “Evidence of a crime, wrong, or other act is not
admissible  to  prove  a  person's  character  in  order  to  show  that  on  a
particular occasion the person acted in accordance with the character.”
So  if  the  evidence  of  the  prior  beatings  were  really  being  offered  to
show that “the defendant has a character for violence, and is thus likely
to  have  acted  violently  on  the  present  occasion,”  the  quoted  sentence
would apply to make the evidence inadmissible (not admissible, as this
choice posits).

However,  “character  for  violence”  is  not  what  the  prior-acts
evidence  is  being  offered  for.  Instead  (as  shown  in  the  analysis  of
choice  C),  it's  being  offered  to  show  absence  of  accident,  and  that
purpose is admissible under 404(b).

 Answer 29

 (D) is the best response,

because the testimony is not hearsay, in that it is not offered for the truth
of the matter asserted, but rather to show the listener's response to the
assertion.

Hearsay  is  a  statement  offered  to  prove  “the  truth  of  the  matter
asserted in the statement.” FRE 801(c)(2). The matter being “asserted”
in  the  out-of-court  declaration  is  that  “the  plaintiff  can't  work
productively  more  than  four  hours  per  day.”  So  if  the  statement  were
being offered to prove that the plaintiff couldn't in fact work more than
four hours per day, it would be hearsay (and not within any exception).
However,  the  defendant  can  properly  claim  that  this  is  not  the
purpose of introducing the former employer's statement. The defendant
can  say,  “I'm  offering  this  statement  not  to  show  that  the  former
employer  was  speaking  truthfully  or  accurately  —  I  have  no  idea
whether the plaintiff could or couldn't work productively — but rather
to explain that at the moment I declined to hire her, my having heard this
statement,  not  my  desire  to  avoid  hiring  someone  over  65,  was  my
motivation.” A court would agree — where the out-of-court statement
is offered to show its effect on the listener rather than its truth, that's a

847

non-hearsay purpose.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant's  opinion  of  the  plaintiff's  abilities  is  not
rendered  inadmissible  by  the  fact  that  it  is  not  based  on  personal
knowledge.

It's  true  that  there  are  some  types  of  testimony  that  are  not
admissible  because  they  are  not  based  on  personal  knowledge.  But
here,  the  defendant's  opinion  is  not  being  offered  to  show  that  the
opinion was “true.” Rather, it's being offered to show that the opinion
—  whether  “true”  or  not  —  was  not  based  on  forbidden  age
discrimination. Therefore, the fact that the opinion was not based on the
defendant's personal experience does not make it inadmissible.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  employer's  statement  is  not  offered  for  the  truth  of  the
matter asserted in it, and therefore cannot be hearsay.

Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  in  evidence  to  prove

the truth of the matter asserted in the statement.

The  matter  asserted  in  the  statement  is  that  the  plaintiff  was
incapable of working productively for more than four hours in a day. If
the  statement  was  offered  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff  in  fact  was
incapable  of  working  more  than  this  amount,  the  statement  would
indeed be inadmissible hearsay. But that's not why it's being offered —
it's  being  offered  merely  to  prove  that  the  defendant's  reason  for  not
hiring  the  plaintiff  was  this  advice  from  the  employer  (whether  that
advice was based on real facts or not) rather than an age-discrimination
motive.  And,  as  outlined  in  the  discussion  of  choice  D,  that's  not
hearsay.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  if  the  statement  was  offered  for  this  purpose,  it  would  be
inadmissible hearsay.

Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the

matter asserted.

The out of court statement includes the sub-statement “the plaintiff
can't  work  more  than  four  hours  productively.”  (The  statement  also
includes  a  recommendation,  “I  advise  you  not  to  hire  her.”)  If  the
statement were offered to prove that the plaintiff indeed couldn't work

848

more than four hours productively, the statement would be being offered
to prove the truth of the (or a) matter asserted in it. This would make
the  statement  hearsay.  Since  there  is  no  exception  that  applies,  the
statement would be inadmissible, not admissible as this choice asserts.

 Answer 30

 (D) is the best response,

because the court shall exclude witnesses at the request of a party.

FRE  615  says  that  “At  a  party's  request,  the  court  must  order
witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony.”
Although  the  eyewitness  has  already  testified,  the  fact  that  he  is
expected  to  be  recalled  for  further  cross-examination  means  that  he's
still to be treated as a witness who has not yet testified. (The purpose
of  the  sequestration  rule  is  to  prevent  the  witness  from  tailoring  his
testimony to that of other witnesses. This purpose would be thwarted by
letting the eyewitness here be in the courtroom before his re-cross.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  court  has  the  discretion  to  permit  inquiry  into  additional
matters.

FRE  611(b)  says  that  as  a  general  rule  cross-examination  “should
not go beyond the subject matter of the direct examination and matters
affecting the witness's credibility.” But that section goes on to say, “The
court  may  allow  inquiry  into  additional  matters  as  if  on  direct
examination.” The court's discretion would be especially proper in this
case, since the defendant is effectively the direct examiner (because the
plaintiff called the defendant as an adverse, or “hostile,” witness).

 (B) is not the best response,

because leading questions are not proper when the “cross-examination”
is really a direct examination since the party was originally called as
an adverse witness.

Here,  if  the  defendant's  lawyer  is  conducting  “cross-examination”
of the defendant, it must be because the plaintiff called the defendant as
an  adverse  witness  (which  is,  indeed,  what  choice  A  specifies
happened). In that scenario, this “cross” is to be treated by the court as
if  it  were  a  direct  examination,  since  the  questioner  is  sympathetic  to
the  witness.  In  that  instance,  the  cross  should  not  be  allowed  to  make

849

use  of  leading  questions,  any  more  than  a  standard  direct  examination
may  use  leading  questions.  (See  FRE  611(c),  stating  the  general  rule
that leading questions “should not be used on direct examination except
as necessary to develop the witness's testimony.”

 (C) is not the best response,

because  matters  of  credibility  are  within  the  scope  of  cross-
examination.

in  defining 

FRE  611(b), 

the  permissible  scope  of  cross-
examination, says that the cross may include, in addition to “the subject
matter  of  the  direct  examination,”  “matters  affecting  the  witness's
credibility.” So the fact that credibility was not placed in issue in the
direct does not bar it from being covered on cross.

 Answer 31

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  that  a  witness  may  refer  to  collateral
documents without having to produce the documents themselves.

The  central  issue  in  these  facts  is  that  the  defendant  is  testifying
relying  on  a  writing  —  namely,  the  newspaper  story.  Thus,  there's  a
potential  Best  Evidence  Rule  (BER)  problem.  Under  the  BER,  when
the  terms  of  a  writing  are  being  proven,  or  the  witness  is  testifying
relying  on  a  writing,  the  writing  must  be  produced,  if  available.  FRE
1002. However, under these facts, the only relevance the writing has is
that  it  reinforces  the  defendant's  memory.  The  BER  doesn't  cover
collateral matters; see FRE 1004(d) (BER doesn't apply where the item
is “not closely related to a controlling issue.”) The defendant's memory
is  not  closely  related  to  a  material  issue  in  the  case,  and  as  such  is
considered “collateral.” As a result, the defendant's testimony will be
admissible without producing the newspaper.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the BER is not applicable to these facts.

The  BER,  requiring  that  the  document  itself  be  produced  if
available, only applies if the terms of a writing are being proven or if
the  witness  is  testifying  relying  on  a  writing.  FRE  1002.  However,
under these facts, the only relevance the writing has is that it reinforces
the defendant's memory. The defendant's memory is not closely related

850

to a material issue in the case and, as such, is considered “collateral.”
The  BER  doesn't  cover  collateral  matters  (FRE  1004(d)),  and,  as  a
result, the defendant's testimony will be admissible without producing
the newspaper. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because there's no hearsay problem under these facts.

Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of its
assertion.  Here,  the  out-of-court  statement  is  that  of  the  newspaper.
However,  it's  not  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  defendant's  daughter
actually  became  engaged  on  that  day;  thus,  it's  not  being  offered  to
prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion,  but  rather  only  to  prove  something
unrelated to the writing: that the defendant talked with the plaintiff that
day. As a result, it's not hearsay.

Instead, what B ignores is the central issue under these facts, which
involves  the  BER.  The  BER,  requiring  that  the  document  itself  be
produced if available, only applies if the terms of a writing are being
proven  or  if  the  witness  is  testifying  relying  on  a  writing.  FRE  1002.
However, under these facts, the only relevance the writing has is that it
reinforces  the  defendant's  memory.  The  defendant's  memory  is  not
closely related to a material issue in the case, and as such is considered
“collateral.” The BER doesn't cover collateral matters (FRE 1004(d)),
and,  as  a  result,  the  defendant's  testimony  will  be  admissible  without
producing the newspaper. Since B ignores this issue altogether, it's not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it states an incorrect rule of law.

Judicial  notice  is  appropriate  for  both  notorious  facts  (subject  to
common  knowledge  in  the  community)  and  manifest  facts  (capable  of
positive  verification  through  readily  accessible,  undoubtedly  accurate
sources). FRE 201(b). The contents of local newspapers would not fit
either  one  of  these  categories,  since,  apart  from  anything  else,  the
papers  could  quite  easily  have  misdated  the  defendant's  daughter's
engagement  announcement.  (Appropriate  topics  for  judicial  notice
include  federal  and  state  laws,  the  normal  human  gestation  period,
information available from almanacs, the validity of ballistics tests, the
validity of paternity blood tests, and the like — you get the idea.)

Instead,  what  C  fails  to  address  is  the  central  issue  under  these

851

facts:  the  applicability  of  the  BER.  In  fact,  since  the  article  only
addresses a collateral issue — the defendant's memory for the date his
conversation with the plaintiff took place — the BER does not apply,
and the defendant's testimony will be admissible without producing the
newspaper report. Since C ignores this issue, and misstates the rule on
judicial notice, it's not the best response.

 Answer 32

 (D) is the best response,

because the victim will testify that the voice on the phone is similar to
the defendant's, and because the Best Evidence Rule does not apply.

Authentication, the Federal Rules of Evidence say, is the condition
precedent  to  admissibility  that  is  satisfied  by  evidence  sufficient  to
support  a  finding  that  the  matter  in  question  is  what  its  proponent
claims. Since the prosecution is trying to establish that the voice on the
phone  was  the  defendant's,  the  victim's  testimony  that  he  believes  the
voice was the victim's will have to be authenticated.

FRE  901(b)(5)  gives,  as  an  illustration  of  proper  authentication,
“An opinion identifying a person's voice — whether heard firsthand or
through mechanical or electronic transmission or recording — based on
hearing the voice at any time under circumstances that connect it with
the alleged speaker.” Since the victim has heard the defendant's voice
and knows that that voice has a distinctive accent, his proposed opinion
testimony (which states that the voice had a similar distinctive accent)
meets  this  requirement.  There  is  no  requirement  that  the  giver  of  the
opinion  must  be  positive  in  the  identification  —  the  witness  is
permitted to say merely that the voice was similar, for instance having a
similar,  distinctive  accent.  At  that  point,  the  jury  is  free  to  give  very
little  weight  to  the  evidence  —  the  point  is  that  the  lack  of  certainty
doesn't make the tentative identification inadmissible.

Nor does the BER apply here — see the explanation of this fact in

the discussion of choice B.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the victim's testimony is admissible.

For the reasons stated in the discussion of choice D above, the fact
that  the  victim  cannot  conclusively  identify  the  voice  as  being  the
defendant's  does  not  prevent  the  tentative  identification  from  being

852

admissible.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the testimony is admissible and the BER does not apply.

The BER states that if the terms of a writing or a recording are to be
proved,  the  original  must  be  produced.  The  BER  does  not  apply  to
events  that  have  by  happenstance  been  recorded  —  it  applies  only
where the terms of the recording, per se, are what are being sought to
be proved.

Here, the extortion happened in a live phone call. The prosecution
is proving the contents of that live phone call. The fact that the victim
happened to have made a tape of the call, therefore, does not mean that
the prosecution is attempting to “prove the contents” of this incidentally
created  tape.  So  the  BER  doesn't  apply.  (It  would  be  different  if  the
extortion  occurred  when  someone  sent  a  threatening  tape  to  victim  —
then  the  recording  would  be  subject  to  the  BER,  because  the
prosecution's  case  would  require  it  to  show  what  the  contents  of  the
tape were.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because the BER wouldn't be waived by a failure to subpoena, and in
any case, the BER is not applicable to these facts.

The  BER,  like  any  evidentiary  requirement,  can  be  waived  by  the
non-proponent party. But that waiver would have to take the form of a
failure to object at trial.

The opponent's mere failure to subpoena the tape would not serve
as a waiver. (For example, the opponent — the defendant here — might
not have known that the tape even existed.)

In  any  event,  the  BER  doesn't  apply  to  these  facts,  because  the
contents  of  the  recording  are  not  what's  being  proved.  See  the
discussion of choice B above.

 Answer 33

 (B) is the best response,

because the general manager's testimony was sufficient to prove that it
was  the  plaintiff's  habit  to  have  created  and  mailed  a  cost  overrun
notice in circumstances like the one here.

The issue is whether the copy found in the plaintiff's files is indeed

853

a  copy  of  a  letter  that  was  actually  sent  to  the  defendant.  Therefore,
FRE 406 is relevant. That rule says that “Evidence of a person's habit
or an organization's routine practice may be admitted to prove that on a
particular occasion the person or organization acted in accordance with
the  habit  or  routine  practice.  The  court  may  admit  this  evidence
regardless  of  whether  it  is  corroborated  or  whether  there  was  an
eyewitness.”  So  here,  the  general  manager's  testimony  that  it  was  the
organization's  habit  to  send  such  a  notice  as  required  by  its  contracts
tends to establish that the photocopy was indeed a photocopy of a letter
that was sent, as contemplated by FRE 406.

Nor is the letter here hearsay (whether within an exception or not)

— see the discussion below of choice A for an explanation.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the letter is not hearsay at all, since it's not offered to prove the
truth of any matter asserted therein.

It's true that the letter is an “out of court declaration.” But the letter
is  not  being  offered  to  prove  the  “truth  of  the  matter  asserted.”  The
matter  asserted  is  that  there  was  a  cost  overrun.  But  the  purpose  for
offering  the  letter  in  evidence  is  merely  to  show  that  the  contractual
requirement  of  a  notice  was  satisfied.  (The  letter  would  be  equally
relevant  on  the  issue  of  notice  even  if  the  letter  was  incorrect  in  its
assertion that there was a cost overrun. So it's not offered to prove the
truth of the matter asserted therein.)

So even though the letter would probably be admissible under the
business records exception if it were being offered to prove the truth of
the matter asserted, there's no hearsay here to require an exception. To
put  it  another  way,  the  phrase  “though  hearsay”  in  this  choice  is  an
incorrect conclusion of law.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  letter  is  not  hearsay  at  all.  See  the  discussion  above  of
choice A for why this is so.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  even  though  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  (BER)  applies,  the
duplicate copy is admissible.

FRE 1002's version of the BER (called “Requirement of Original”)
says  that  in  proving  the  terms  of  a  writing,  the  original  writing  must

854

ordinarily be produced. So on the face of this rule, since the contents of
the  letter  are  being  proved,  FRE  1002  seems  to  require  use  of  the
original.

But  FRE  1003  says  that  “A  duplicate  is  admissible  to  the  same
extent  as  the  original  unless  a  genuine  question  is  raised  about  the
original's  authenticity  or  the  circumstances  make  it  unfair  to  admit  the
duplicate.” Since the defendant has not raised a genuine question about
the  authenticity  of  the  original,  and  since  it  would  be  not  be  unfair  to
admit the duplicate (the plaintiff obviously couldn't possess the original
any  more  if  its  story  of  having  sent  it  to  the  defendant  is  true),  FRE
1003 allows use of the copy here.

 Answer 34

 (B) is the best response,

because under the federal common law, as established by the Supreme
Court in Trammel v. U.S., 445  U.S.  40  (1980),  if  the  witness  and  the
criminal  defendant  are  married  at  the  time  of  trial,  the  witness  cannot
be placed in contempt for refusing to testify against the defendant.

The  testifying  spouse  holds  the  privilege,  and,  here,  the  question
explicitly states that the wife objects to testifying against her husband,
the  defendant.  The  rationale  underlying  the  rule  is  to  preserve  marital
harmony  that  would  otherwise  be  damaged  by  one  spouse  testifying
against the other. That rationale is implicated here, as the wife does not
want to testify against her husband and aid in his prosecution.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule.

Under federal common law, as established by the Supreme Court in
Trammel v. U.S., if the witness and the criminal defendant are married
at  the  time  of  trial,  the  witness  cannot  be  placed  in  contempt  for
refusing  to  testify  against  the  defendant.  It  is  the  testifying  spouse,
however,  who  holds  the  privilege,  not  the  criminal  defendant.  The
rationale  for  affording  the  testifying  spouse  the  privilege  is  that  the
privilege is meant to preserve marital harmony, and if a witness wants
to testify against his or her spouse, then there is no marital harmony left
to preserve. Thus, the criminal defendant does not have a privilege to
prevent  his  wife  from  testifying  against  him  in  a  criminal  case.  A
criminal  defendant  does  possess  a  privilege  to  prevent  confidential

855

martial  communications  from  being  disclosed  by  his  wife,  but  the
clothing  worn  by  the  husband  would  not  qualify  as  a  confidential
communication.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule.

Under federal common law, as established by the Supreme Court in
Trammel v. U.S., if the witness and the criminal defendant are married
at  the  time  of  trial,  the  witness  cannot  be  placed  in  contempt  for
refusing  to  testify  against  the  defendant.  The  interspousal  testimonial
privilege  applies  only  in  criminal  cases  and  not  in  civil  cases.  Here,
the  testifying  spouse  in  a  criminal  case  specifically  objected  to
testifying, so she is immune.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  confuses  the  interspousal  communications  privilege,  which
does not apply here, and the interspousal testimonial privilege, which
does apply here.

The  interspousal  communications  privilege  protects  confidential
communications  made  between  the  spouses  during  the  marriage.  The
clothing the defendant wore as he left the house would not qualify as a
confidential  communication  —  it  is  unlikely  that  his  clothing  choice
was a communication and the fact that he wore it out of the house means
it  is  not  confidential.  Instead,  the  interspousal  testimonial  privilege
governs this fact pattern. Under federal common law, as established by
the Supreme Court in Trammel v. U.S., if the witness and the criminal
defendant are married at the time of trial, the witness cannot be placed
in  contempt  for  refusing  to  testify  against  the  defendant.  Here,  the
testifying  witness  did  object  to  testifying  against  her  spouse  in  a
criminal  matter  in  which  he  was  the  defendant,  so  she  will  not  be
forced to testify.

 Answer 35

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the reputation evidence on the victim
will be admissible to exonerate the defendant.

The problem here is that the evidence about the victim is character
evidence,  and  character  evidence  is,  as  a  very  general  rule,

856

inadmissible.  However,  choice  A  correctly  recognizes  the  reason  the
testimony  here  will  be  admissible.  The  defendant  can  offer  reputation
and  opinion  evidence  of  the  victim's  character  where,  if  the  victim
acted in conformity with his character, the conduct would tend to prove
the defendant's innocence (except in rape cases, where such evidence is
generally inadmissible). Here, the testimony will tend to prove that the
victim  was  the  aggressor,  and  it's  in  the  form  of  reputation  evidence.
Since A states the correct rule and it applies to these facts, it's the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  admissibility  of  other  evidence  is  irrelevant  to  the
admissibility of this evidence.

The problem here is that the evidence about the victim is character
evidence,  and  character  evidence  is,  as  a  very  general  rule,
inadmissible.  In  fact,  the  evidence  here  is  admissible  on  its  own,
because the defendant can offer reputation and opinion evidence of the
victim's  character  where,  if  the  victim  acted  in  conformity  with  his
character,  the  conduct  would  tend  to  prove  the  defendant's  innocence
(except in rape cases, where such evidence is generally inadmissible).
Choice B incorrectly states that the evidence is only admissible if it
is  accompanied  by  testimony  of  specific  acts  of  misconduct  about
which the witness knows. In fact, specific instances are not admissible
to prove victim's character — only reputation and opinion. If you chose
this response, you may have been thinking of evidence of habit, which
is admissible to show that a person acted in conformity with his habit
on a specific occasion. Such evidence must be in the form of specific
instances  of  misconduct.  However,  here,  the  evidence  would  not  be
admissible as habit evidence, because the act here — lawbreaking and
frequently  engaging  in  brawls  —  would  be  volitional  on  every
occasion,  and  habit  evidence  must  be  “semi-automatic”  (e.g.,  always
running  a  certain  stop  sign).  FRE  406.  In  any  case,  since  B  fails  to
recognize  that  the  evidence  is  admissible  by  itself,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the evidence will tend to exonerate the defendant even though
it concerns the victim.

What  choice  C  suggests  is  that  the  evidence  will  be  inadmissible

857

because  it's  irrelevant.  There  are  two  kinds  of  relevance:  legal
relevance and logical relevance. Logical relevance, to which choice C
alludes,  requires  that  a  piece  of  evidence  must  prove  or  disprove  a
material fact in order to be admissible. FRE 401. Here, the defendant is
claiming  that  he  only  assaulted  the  victim  in  self-defense.  Thus,
evidence  that  the  victim  had  a  reputation  for  brawling  would  tend  to
suggest that the victim did, in fact, assault the defendant on the occasion
in  question,  making  it  more  likely  that  the  defendant  did  act  in  self-
defense. Thus, the evidence is relevant.

What choice C ignores is the character evidence problem with this
testimony.  As  a  general  rule,  character  evidence  is  inadmissible.
However, the facts here fit an exception to this rule. The defendant can
offer reputation and opinion evidence of the victim's character where, if
the  victim  acted  in  conformity  with  his  character,  the  conduct  would
tend  to  prove  the  defendant's  innocence  (except  in  rape  cases,  where
such  evidence  is  generally  inadmissible).  Since  C  fails  to  recognize
this, it is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because a foundation is not necessary for admission of this testimony.

The problem here is that the evidence about the victim is character
evidence,  and  character  evidence  is,  as  a  very  general  rule,
inadmissible. However, the facts here fit an exception to the rule. The
defendant  can  offer  reputation  and  opinion  evidence  of  the  victim's
character  where,  if  the  victim  acted  in  conformity  with  his  character,
the  conduct  would  tend  to  prove  the  defendant's  innocence  (except  in
rape  cases,  where  such  evidence  is  generally  inadmissible).  Such
evidence does not require a foundation; instead, the testimony will be
admissible  if  the  witness  is  competent  to  testify  about  the  victim's
reputation. Under FRE 602, a witness is competent to testify if he has
personal knowledge of the matter on which he will testify; under FRE
603, the witness must declare, by oath or affirmation, that he will testify
truthfully.  Reputation  testimony  only  requires  that  the  witness  be
familiar  with  the  subject's  reputation,  and  as  long  as  the  witness  is
familiar with the victim's reputation, he'll be competent to testify.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  thinking  of  the  common-law
rule  relating  to  impeachment  with  extrinsic  evidence  of  prior
inconsistent statements. This clearly doesn't apply here. Since D states,
incorrectly, that a foundation will be required for admissibility of this
testimony, it is not the best response.

858

 Answer 36

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  notes  that  the  sole  use  of  this  evidence  is  to

impeach credibility of the testifying witness.

To understand this question you have to recognize that the witness is
serving  as  a  character  witness.  Once  this  witness  has  testified  to  the
defendant's  character  for  truthfulness,  the  credibility  of  that  character
witness may be challenged by showing that the witness's assessment is
not credible. Thus, if the witness has not heard about the falsification,
he might not be attuned to the community and therefore would be a poor
character  witness.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  witness  did  hear  of  the
falsification but nonetheless believes that the defendant's reputation in
the community is one of “complete honesty,” then either the witness or
the  community  (or  both)  set  a  very  low  threshold  for  “complete
honesty.” Either way, the witness's knowledge (or lack of knowledge)
of  the  falsification  —  assuming  the  falsification  occurred  and  was
generally  known  —  would  be  probative  on  the  issue  of  whether  the
witness's testimony about the defendant's reputation is credible.

One additional point: remember that an impeachment attempt of the
“Have  you  heard  .  .  .?”  type  requires  that  the  cross-examiner  have  a
“good-faith basis” for the question (here, a good-faith reason to believe
that  the  falsification  really  occurred).  That  good-faith  requirement  is
met here by the record-of-discipline evidence produced at the sidebar.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  question  does  not  call  for  a  statement  that  would  be  used
for the truth of the matter asserted.

The intent of this question is to test the witness's knowledge of the
defendant's reputation on the one hand, and the quality of the community
on the other. Thus, if the witness has not heard about the falsification,
he might not be attuned to the community and therefore would be a poor
character  witness.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  witness  did  hear  of  the
falsification but nonetheless believes that the defendant's reputation in
the community is one of “complete honesty,” then either the witness or
the  community  (or  both)  set  a  very  low  threshold  for  “complete
honesty.” Either way, the witness's knowledge (or lack of knowledge)
of  the  falsification  —  assuming  the  falsification  occurred  and  was

859

generally  known  —  would  be  probative  on  the  issue  of  whether  the
witness's  testimony  about  the  defendant's  reputation  is  credible.
Therefore, the state of the witness's knowledge is not being offered for
the truth of the matter asserted.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the question is not being offered to prove the income tax fraud.
Rather,  the  question  is  being  offered  to  impeach  the  character
witness.  Thus,  if  the  witness  has  not  heard  about  the  falsification,  he
might  not  be  attuned  to  the  community  and  therefore  would  be  a  poor
character  witness.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  witness  did  hear  of  the
falsification but nonetheless believes that the defendant's reputation in
the community is one of “complete honesty,” then either the witness or
the  community  (or  both)  set  a  very  low  threshold  for  “complete
honesty.” Either way, the witness's knowledge (or lack of knowledge)
of  the  falsification  —  assuming  the  falsification  occurred  and  was
generally  known  —  would  be  probative  on  the  issue  of  whether  the
witness's  testimony  about  the  defendant's  reputation  is  credible.  Since
the examiner's question is being offered to prove the character witness's
knowledge,  rather  than  the  acts  of  the  defendant,  the  question  is  not
unfairly prejudicial to the defendant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  prosecutor  may  not  use  this  evidence  to  explore  the
defendant's character for honesty.

FRE  405  prohibits  evidence  of  specific  acts  indicative  of  a
person's character when that character evidence is offered to prove that
a person acted in accordance with the character trait on the occasion in
question at trial. But that's not what the prosecutor is trying to do here;
rather,  the  prosecutor  is  attempting  to  impeach  the  character  witness
who offered an opinion on the defendant's honesty. Thus, if the witness
has  not  heard  about  the  falsification,  he  might  not  be  attuned  to  the
community  and  therefore  would  be  a  poor  character  witness.  On  the
other  hand,  if  the  witness  did  hear  of  the  falsification  but  nonetheless
believes  that  the  defendant's  reputation  in  the  community  is  one  of
“complete honesty,” then either the witness or the community (or both)
set  a  very  low  threshold  for  “complete  honesty.”  Either  way,  the
witness's  knowledge  (or  lack  of  knowledge)  of  the  falsification  —
assuming the falsification occurred and was generally known — would

860

be probative on the issue of whether the witness's testimony about the
defendant's reputation is credible. So the alleged falsification is being
offered  to  impeach  the  character  witness,  not  to  prove  the  defendant's
character for honesty.

 Answer 37

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  testimony  will  be  inadmissible
because it doesn't fit within any hearsay exception.

Note  that  what  this  really  means  is  that  the  testimony  will  not  be
admissible under any of the other alternatives here. Choice C correctly
characterizes  the  testimony  as  hearsay.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court
statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.  The  out-of-court
declarant is the passenger: “We were returning. . . .” It's being offered
to prove that the defendant was driving drunk, so it's being offered to
prove the truth of its assertion. As a result, it's hearsay, and in order to
be  admissible,  it  would  have  to  fit  a  hearsay  exception  or  exclusion.
Since the testimony is not admissible as an admission (choice A) or a
declaration against interest (choice B), and choice D does not address
the hearsay issue, then C must be the correct answer.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  here  would  not  qualify  as  an  admission  by  a
party-opponent,  since  the  party-opponent  is  the  defendant,  not  the
passenger.

Choice  A  correctly  implies  that  there  is  a  hearsay  problem  under
these  facts.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the
truth of its assertion. The out-of-court declarant is the passenger: “We
were returning. . . . ” It's being offered to prove that the defendant was
driving drunk, so it's being offered to prove the truth of its assertion. As
a result, it's hearsay, and in order to be admissible, it would have to fit
a hearsay exception or exclusion. Choice A suggests that the statement
should  be  admissible  under  the  “admission”  hearsay  exclusion.
However,  the  problem  is  that  admissions  must  be  from  a  party-
opponent; here, the party-opponent is the defendant, not the passenger.
Furthermore, there's no basis on which the defendant could be bound by
the passenger's statement. He didn't indicate his agreement, and, beyond
that,  there's  no  principal-agent  relationship  under  which  the  defendant

861

could  be  bound  by  the  passenger's  statement  without  specifically
adopting it. Note that if the facts were different, and the defendant was
the declarant, not the passenger, the statement would be admissible as
an admission, because it's being offered against the party who made the
statement.  FRE  801(d)(2).  However,  since 
the  passenger's
statement,  not  the  defendant's,  the  statement  won't  be  an  admission,
making A not the best response.

it's 

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  here  would  not  qualify  as  a  declaration  against
interest.

Choice  B  correctly  implies  that  there  is  a  hearsay  problem  under
these  facts.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the
truth of its assertion. The out-of-court declarant is the passenger: “We
were returning. . . . ” It's being offered to prove that the defendant was
driving drunk, so it's being offered to prove the truth of its assertion. As
a result, it's hearsay, and in order to be admissible, it would have to fit
a hearsay exception or exclusion.

Choice B suggests that the statement should be admissible under the
“declaration against interest” hearsay exception. The statement here is
not  a  declaration  against  interest,  because  it  does  not  meet  several  of
the requirements of a declaration against interest. Apart from anything
else,  it  wasn't  against  the  passenger's  financial,  property,  or  penal
interest  to  make  the  statement.  The  exception  also  requires  that  the
declarant be unavailable to testify. FRE 804(b)(3). Here, the passenger
is available to testify. Since B incorrectly characterizes the statement as
a “declaration against interest,” it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  suggests  that  the  evidence  is  not  relevant,  or  will  lead  to
irrelevant issues.

Evidence  is  logically  relevant  if  it  tends  to  prove  or  disprove  a
material  fact.  FRE  401.  The  testimony  here  will  be  relevant,  since  it
suggests that the defendant was drunk, which is one of the issues in the
case.  If  evidence  is  relevant,  the  possibility  that  it  will  lead  to
nonessential  side  issues  is  not  determinative  of  its  admissibility.
Rather,  the  evidence  here  is  inadmissible  because  it's  hearsay  that
doesn't fit within an exception mentioned here. (It's hearsay because it's
an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of a matter asserted

862

it in, namely, that the defendant was driving drunk.)

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been  thinking  of  the
“collateral  matter”  rule.  That  is,  a  witness  cannot  be  extrinsically
impeached with evidence that is only relevant to discredit the witness;
it  must  also  prove  or  disprove  a  substantive  issue  (unless  it  proves
something  considered 
like  witness  bias).  FRE  403.
However,  there's  no  impeachment  involved  in  these  facts,  so  the
“collateral matter” rule wouldn't come into play.

important, 

Since  D  does  not  identify  the  correct  reason  for  the  testimony's

inadmissibility, it's not the best response.

 Answer 38

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  police  accident  investigator's  testimony  is  admissible  as
that of an expert witness.

FRE 702 imposes five requirements that expert testimony must meet
in  order  to  be  admissible:  (1)  it  must  be  the  case  that  scientific,
technical, or other specialized knowledge will help the trier of fact to
understand  the  evidence  or  to  determine  a  fact  in  issue;  (2)  the
witness must be qualified as an expert by knowledge, skill, experience,
training, or education; (3) the testimony must be based upon sufficient
facts  or  data;  (4)  the  testimony  must  be  the  product  of  reliable
principles and methods; and (5) the witness must have reliably applied
these principles and methods to the facts of the case.

The  proposed  testimony  by  the  investigator  is  proper.  The
investigator  would  be  considered  an  expert  witness  and  his  testimony
would be admissible because it satisfies the five requirements: (1) the
investigator's testimony about the speed of the train will help the trier
of fact to understand the evidence in the case; (2) the facts state that the
police  accident  investigator  is  experienced  and  has  received  training;
(3)  the  investigator's  testimony  is  based  on  his  examination  of  the
physical  evidence;  (4)  the  techniques  used  by  the  investigator  were
presumably  those  he  received  in  his  training  to  become  a  police
accident investigator, so the testimony would be the product of reliable
principles  and  methods;  and  (5)  the  investigator  made  his  conclusion
about the train's speed after applying his training and experience to the
physical  evidence  of  the  case.  Having  satisfied  all  five  requirements,
the accident investigator's testimony is proper and admissible.

863

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states a non-existent rule of law.

There is simply no principle that says that “there cannot be both lay
and  expert  opinion  on  the  same  issue.”  (For  instance,  it  is  perfectly
proper  for  one  side  to  put  on  lay  eyewitness  opinion  testimony  about
the  approximate  speed  of  the  train,  and  for  the  other  to  put  on  expert
scientific opinion on the same subject.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  any  uncertainty  in  the  investigator's  findings  would  go  to  the
weight of the testimony not its admissibility.

There is no principle that scientific or other expert testimony must
reach its conclusion with any particular degree of “scientific certainty.”
All that is required is that the conclusion be sufficiently “reliable.” For
the reasons discussed in choice C, this reliability standard is satisfied
here.

To  the  extent  that  this  choice  is  referring  to  the  fact  that  the
investigator  is  testifying  merely  that  the  speed  falls  within  a  range,
instead of giving a single number, the existence of a range does not pose
a problem. (Indeed, use of a range is probably more, not less, reliable,
since it's less likely to give a false impression of precision.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the testimony would be admissible even if the plaintiff had not
first introduced opinion evidence on the issue.

The  only  requirements  for  expert  testimony  are  those  discussed  in
the analysis of choice C above. There is no requirement that the other
side have first introduced some sort of opinion evidence on the issue.

 Answer 39

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly states the two competency requirements.

The  Federal  Rules  of  Evidence  rules  on  competency  of  witnesses
state that every person is competent to be a witness except as otherwise
provided. The only two limitations given require that: (1) the witness
have personal knowledge of the matter about which he is to testify, and
(2)  the  witness  indicates  his  willingness  (by  oath  or  affirmation)  to

864

testify  truthfully.  See  FRE  602  and  603.  Since  choice  B  correctly
recites these requirements, it's the correct answer.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the prosecutor does not have to persuade the judge of the son's
competency to testify.

The FRE rules on competency requirements of witnesses state that
every  person  is  competent  to  be  a  witness  except  as  otherwise
provided. The only two limitations given require that: (1) the witness
have personal knowledge of the matter about which he is to testify, and
(2) the witness must declare, by oath or affirmation, that he will testify
truthfully. FRE 602 and 603. There is no requirement that the proponent
of  evidence  first  provide  evidence  of  the  witness's  competence,  even
where the witness is underage.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the victim's son's age would not affect his ability to identify the
defendant.

As  noted  in  the  discussion  of  choice  B,  there  are  only  two
requirements regarding the witness's competence. Tender age does not
constitute a failure to meet either of those requirements.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  probative  value  of  the  testimony  outweighs  its  emotional
elements.

It's  true  that  FRE  403  says  that  “[t]he  court  may  exclude  relevant
evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by a danger
of . . . unfair prejudice[.]” But the son is an eyewitness who can testify
on the core issue in the case, so it's wildly unlikely that a court would
conclude  that  any  “prejudice”  from  having  him  testify  with  his
disfiguring  injuries  would  either  be  “unfair”  or  would  “substantially
outweigh” the value of his eyewitness testimony about the crime.

 Answer 40

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly characterizes the prior conviction as admissible to
prove the defendant's intoxication.

865

Choice  B  implicitly  identifies  that  the  conviction  is  hearsay.
Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its
assertion.  Here,  the  out-of-court  declarant  is  the  original  court  that
convicted the defendant. The conviction is being offered to prove that
the defendant was intoxicated, so it's hearsay, and it must fit a hearsay
exception or exclusion to be admissible.

Choice B correctly identifies that the conviction will be admissible
under  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  Under  the  FRE,  a  felony
conviction is admissible to prove “any fact essential to the judgment.”
FRE 803(22). 803(22) expressly states that the conviction must be for a
crime punishable by death, or imprisonment in excess of one year. The
facts here indicate that the defendant could have been sentenced to two
years in prison, so the crime is one that qualifies for this exception. The
defendant's intoxication was a fact essential to the finding of guilt, since
she  could  not  have  been  convicted  of  drunk  driving  without  such  a
finding.  As  a  result,  the  facts  here  fit  the  “prior  conviction”  hearsay
exception. (Note, incidentally, that the defendant's guilty plea could be
admissible  as  an  admission,  since  it's  an  acknowledgement  of  her
guilt.)  In  any  case,  since  B  recognizes  that  the  conviction  will  be
admissible to prove the defendant's intoxication, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states an impermissible goal of prior convictions.

A  prior  conviction  cannot  be  admitted  to  prove  the  defendant's
character, since the defendant's character is not in issue here. Character
evidence  is  only  admissible  when  the  issue  involves  testamentary
capacity, sanity, child custody (to prove parents' character), defamation,
entrapment, notice, or to impeach a reputation witness.

In  fact,  the  problem  with  offering  evidence  to  prove  character  is
that the jury is likely to find against the defendant because she's a “bad
person,” not because she committed the act in question.

This  doesn't,  however,  mean  that  the  prior  conviction  won't  be
admissible  at  all.  In  fact,  it  will  be  admissible  to  prove  any  fact
essential  to  sustain  the  judgment.  FRE  803(22).  The  exception
expressly states that the conviction must be for a crime punishable by
death,  or  imprisonment  in  excess  of  one  year.  The  facts  here  indicate
that the defendant could have been sentenced to two years in prison, so
the  crime  is  one  that  qualifies  for  this  exception.  The  defendant's
intoxication was a fact essential to the finding of guilt, since she could
not have been convicted of drunk driving without such a finding. As a

866

result,  the  facts  here  fit  the  “prior  conviction”  hearsay  exception,  and
will  be  admissible  to  prove  intoxication.  This  is  an  example  of  the
doctrine  of  limited  admissibility,  in  that  the  prior  conviction  will  be
admissible to prove the defendant's intoxication, but not her character.
Since proving character is an impermissible goal under these facts, A is
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  condition  it  raises  is  irrelevant;  the  admissibility  of  the
conviction does not turn on whether or not it followed a trial.

Under FRE 803(22), a felony conviction is admissible to prove any
fact  essential  to  sustain  the  judgment.  The  exception  expressly  states
that  the  conviction  must  be  for  a  crime  punishable  by  death,  or
imprisonment  in  excess  of  one  year.  The  facts  here  indicate  that  the
defendant  could  have  been  sentenced  to  two  years  in  prison,  so  the
crime  is  one  that  qualifies  for  this  exception.  The  defendant's
intoxication was a fact essential to the finding of guilt, since she could
not have been convicted of drunk driving without such a finding. As a
result,  the  evidence  of  her  intoxication  will  be  admissible  into
evidence,  regardless  of  whether  she  underwent  a  trial.  Since  C
incorrectly suggests a trial is necessary for use of the conviction, it is
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because while the conviction is hearsay, it is admissible under the prior
convictions exception to the FRE, which is embodied in choice A.

Choice  D  is  correct  in  identifying  that  the  conviction  is  hearsay.
Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its
assertion.  Here,  the  out-of-court  declarant  is  the  original  court  that
convicted the defendant. The conviction is being offered to prove that
the defendant was intoxicated, so it's hearsay, and it must fit a hearsay
exception  or  exclusion  to  be  admissible.  In  fact,  it  fits  FRE  803(22),
under  which  a  felony  conviction  is  admissible  to  prove  any  fact
essential to sustain the judgment. The exception expressly states that the
conviction must be for a crime punishable by death, or imprisonment in
excess of one year. The facts here indicate that the defendant could have
been sentenced to two years in prison, so the crime is one that qualifies
for this exception. The defendant's intoxication was a fact essential to
the  finding  of  guilt,  since  she  could  not  have  been  convicted  of  drunk

867

driving  without  such  a  finding.  As  a  result,  the  evidence  of  her
intoxication  will  be  admissible  into  evidence.  Since  choice  D  doesn't
recognize that this exception will make the evidence admissible, it's not
the best response.

 Answer 41

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the purpose for which the evidence will
be admissible.

The problem here is that cutting down the tree, after a limb fell on
the plaintiff, would be considered a subsequent remedial measure. The
general rule is that subsequent remedial measures are not admissible to
show  negligence  or  “culpable  conduct.”  FRE  407.  However,  such
evidence is admissible for other purposes, e.g., to show ownership or
control,  or  to  prove  the  opponent  destroyed  evidence.  Choice  C
correctly identifies why the evidence of subsequent remedial measures
will  be  admissible  here:  to  prove  ownership.  The  evidence  here  will
tend  to  prove  that  the  defendant  did,  in  fact,  own  the  tree,  which  he
denies  at  trial.  As  a  result,  the  evidence  will  be  admissible.  This
question  is  an  example  of  the  doctrine  of  limited  admissibility,  under
which  a  piece  of  evidence  can  be  admissible  for  one  purpose,  but
inadmissible for another. Since C correctly identifies this, it's the best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misidentifies the purpose for which the evidence is offered.

The problem here is that cutting down the tree, after a limb fell on
the plaintiff, would be considered a subsequent remedial measure. The
general rule is that subsequent remedial measures are not admissible to
show negligence or “culpable conduct.” FRE 407. As choice A points
out,  the  rationale  of  this  rule  is  a  policy  of  encouraging  safety
precautions. However, what choice A doesn't recognize is that there is
a permissible purpose for this evidence: proving ownership of the tree.
Here, the defendant disputes that the tree was his, so ownership is an
issue. His subsequently cutting down the tree would suggest that it was
his, after all.

If you chose this response, you did so because you overlooked the
fact  that  subsequent  remedial  measures  are  admissible  to  prove  non-

868

wrongdoing-related items, of which ownership is one. Thus, A is not
the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  mischaracterizes  the  evidence  as  irrelevant,  and  it  fails  to
recognize a purpose for which the evidence could be admitted.

The problem here is that cutting down the tree, after a limb fell on
the plaintiff, would be considered a subsequent remedial measure. The
general rule is that subsequent remedial measures are not admissible to
show  negligence  or  “culpable  conduct.”  FRE  407.  However,  under
these facts, the defendant is denying he owns the tree; his subsequently
cutting  it  down  would  prove  that  he  does,  and  ownership  is  a
permissible purpose of evidence of subsequent remedial measures.

Choice B is incorrect in stating that the evidence is irrelevant to the
condition of the tree when the accident occurred. A piece of evidence is
logically relevant to an issue if it tends to prove or disprove the issue.
Here,  it's  unlikely  that  the  defendant  would  cut  down  his  tree  if  it
weren't  somehow  damaged.  His  cutting  it  down  within  a  week  of  the
accident would tend to suggest that it was rotted, and that would tend to
indicate that he was negligent in failing to care for it or cutting it down
earlier. Thus, the defendant's cutting down the tree would be relevant to
the  condition  of  the  tree  at  the  time  of  the  accident.  However,  the
evidence  would  not  be  admissible  for  the  purpose,  due  to  the  general
rule  about  inadmissibility  of  subsequent  remedial  measures.  Since  B
doesn't recognize a purpose for which the evidence could be admitted,
and  it  mischaracterizes  the  evidence  as  irrelevant,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it states an impermissible motive for the evidence.

Under  these  facts,  the  defendant  cut  down  the  tree  within  a  week
after one of its branches fell on the plaintiff. If he allowed the tree to
stand  once  it  was  rotting,  he'd  likely  be  liable  in  negligence  for  the
plaintiff's  damages.  However,  the  problem  with  the  evidence  is  that
cutting  down  the  tree  would  be  considered  a  subsequent  remedial
measure.

The  general  rule  is  that  subsequent  remedial  measures  are
inadmissible  to  prove  negligence  or  wrongdoing.  FRE  407.  Thus,  the
evidence  could  not  be  admitted  to  prove  the  tree  was  in  a  rotted

869

condition.  What  choice  D  ignores  is  that  the  evidence  will  be
admissible  to  prove  ownership  of  the  tree,  since  the  defendant  denies
that  the  tree  is  his,  and  ownership  is  a  permissible  purpose  for
evidence  of  subsequent  remedial  measures.  Since  D  states  an
impermissible motive for the evidence, it's not the best response.

 Answer 42

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  events  satisfy  all  the  requirements  of  the  recorded
recollection exception.

to 

FRE 803(5) recognizes a hearsay exception for a past recollection
recorded.  There  are  four  elements 
the
memorandum  must  relate  to  something  of  which  the  witness  once  had
first-hand  knowledge;  (2)  the  record  must  have  been  made  by,  or
adopted  by,  the  witness  when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  the  witness's
memory; (3) there must currently be some impairment of the witness's
memory  of  the  events;  and  (4)  the  record  must  correctly  reflect  the
witness's original knowledge.

the  exception:  (1) 

Playing  the  tape  for  the  jury  would  be  proper  under  the  past
recollection  recorded  hearsay  exception  because  it  satisfies  all  four
elements of the exception: (1) the tape relates to something of which the
witness  once  had  first-hand  knowledge,  since  the  witness  personally
saw  the  events,  including  the  license  number;  (2)  the  tape  was  made
when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  the  witness's  memory;  (3)  there  is  an
impairment  of  the  witness's  memory,  since  he  has  said  that  he  has  no
present memory of the license plate number; and (4) at trial, the witness
is  testifying  that  immediately  after  the  event  he  listened  to  a  playback
and  verified  that  the  witness's  wife  had  relayed  the  license  number
correctly.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the witness is not a public official who had a duty to make the
report.

There  is  a  common-law  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  for  public
records and reports. This exception is codified in FRE 803(8), which
allows  the  admission  of  “A  record  or  statement  of  a  public  office  if:
(A)  it  sets  out  .  .  .  (ii)  a  matter  observed  while  under  a  legal  duty  to
report, but not including, in a criminal case, a matter observed by law-

870

enforcement personnel[.]”

The public records exception to the hearsay rule does not apply in
this  case  because  the  witness  (the  one  who  “observed”  the  matter  in
question)  was  not  a  public  official,  and  was  thus  not  acting  “while
under  a  legal  duty  to  report.”  (Even  if  the  witness  was, say,  a  police
officer,  the  last  clause  quoted  above  would  prevent  the  report  from
coming in against the defendant in the defendant's criminal trial.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because the tape recording of the call to the police falls within the past
recollection  recorded  exception.  (See  the  discussion  of  choice  A  to
understand why this is so.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the defendant's wife does not have to have firsthand knowledge
of the license number in order for the recorded recollection exception
to apply.

Playing  the  tape  for  the  jury  would  be  proper  under  the  past
recollection  recorded  hearsay  exception.  The  requirements  of  FRE
803(5)'s  past  recollection  recorded  exception  do  not  require  that  the
witness  be  the  one  who  physically  made  the  record.  All  that  803(5)
requires  in  this  respect  is  that  the  record  be  one  that  is  “made  or
adopted  by  the  witness  when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  the  witness's
memory.” Here, when the witness immediately listened to the playback
and  pronounced  the  relayed  number  correct,  the  witness  adopted  the
record.

 Answer 43

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  indicates  that  the  witness  can  be  impeached  with
this evidence.

Here, discrediting testimony is being sought from the witness's own
mouth. This is “intrinsic” impeachment. There are five general types of
questions  that  may  be  used  to  elicit  intrinsic  impeachment  from  a
witness.  They  are  questions  seeking  to  show  (1)  bias  or  interest;  (2)
prior  inconsistent  statements;  (3)  certain  prior  convictions;  (4)  bad
character for honesty (including unconvicted bad acts); and (5) sensory
deficiencies (e.g., eyesight, memory, mental disability).

871

As  this  list  indicates,  the  witness  can  be  intrinsically  impeached
with  evidence  of  his  bad  character  for  honesty.  A  false  claim  on  an
insurance policy would be just such an act.

Incidentally,  say  the  facts  were  different,  and  the  method  of
impeachment  here  were  extrinsic,  not  intrinsic.  The  methods  of
extrinsic  impeachment  include  bias;  contradicting  facts;  inconsistent
statements  (require  a  foundation);  sensory  deficiencies;  certain
convictions; and bad character for truthfulness. While bad character for
truthfulness  can  be  addressed  with  extrinsic  impeachment,  when  the
evidence  is  extrinsic,  only  reputation  or  opinion  testimony  may  be
used,  under  FRE  608(a).  This  means  that  the  specific  instance  here
could not be used!

In any case, since A correctly states that the evidence will be usable

as intrinsic impeachment, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the conduct didn't have to result in a conviction in order to be
usable for impeachment.

Here, discrediting testimony is being sought from the witness's own
mouth. This is “intrinsic” impeachment. There are five general types of
questions  that  may  be  used  to  elicit  intrinsic  impeachment  from  a
witness.  They  are  questions  seeking  to  show  (1)  bias  or  interest;  (2)
prior  inconsistent  statements;  (3)  certain  prior  convictions;  (4)  bad
character for honesty (including unconvicted bad acts); and (5) sensory
deficiencies (e.g., eyesight, memory, mental disability).

Thus,  while  one  method  of  intrinsic  impeachment  is  to  ask  the
witness  about  a  prior  conviction  that  bears  on  his  honesty,  intrinsic
impeachment  can  also  take  the  form  of  a  question  about  the  witness's
prior  “bad  act”  that  did  not  lead  to  a  conviction,  as  long  as  the
commission of such a bad act would tend to show dishonesty. A false
claim on an insurance policy would be just such an act — and its use to
intrinsically impeach the witness would be proper whether there was a
conviction or not. Since B incorrectly states that the conduct must have
resulted in a conviction to be usable as impeachment, it's not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the impeachment can  be  in  the  form  of  a  specific  instance  of
misconduct.

872

Here, discrediting testimony is being sought from the witness's own
mouth. This is “intrinsic” impeachment. There are five general types of
questions  that  may  be  used  to  elicit  intrinsic  impeachment  from  a
witness.  They  are  questions  seeking  to  show  (1)  bias  or  interest;  (2)
prior  inconsistent  statements;  (3)  certain  prior  convictions;  (4)  bad
character for honesty (including unconvicted bad acts); and (5) sensory
deficiencies (e.g., eyesight, memory, mental disability).

As  this  list  indicates,  the  witness  can  be  intrinsically  impeached
with  evidence  of  his  bad  character  for  honesty.  A  false  claim  on  an
insurance policy would be just such an act.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  thinking  of  the  rule  for
extrinsic  impeachment  with  evidence  of  bad  conduct.  The  methods  of
extrinsic  impeachment  include  bias;  contradicting  facts;  inconsistent
statements  (require  a  foundation);  sensory  deficiencies;  certain
convictions; and bad character for truthfulness.

While  bad  character  for  truthfulness  can  be  addressed  with
extrinsic  impeachment,  when  the  evidence  is  extrinsic,  this  must  be
done  only  by  reputation  or  opinion  testimony  (as  allowed  by  FRE
608(a)),  not  by  “specific  instances”  testimony  (which  is  barred  by
FRE  608(b)).  Therefore,  the  specific  instance  here  could  not  be
introduced  by  extrinsic  evidence  (proof  by  some  means  other  than  an
inquiry to the witness, such as by introducing into evidence a letter in
which the insurer rejected the witness's claim as false). Since the false-
claim  evidence  here  is  intrinsic  rather  than  extrinsic,  choice  C's
reliance  on  the  rule  for  extrinsic  impeachment  makes  it  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it erroneously applies the Best Evidence Rule (BER) to these
facts.

The  BER  only  applies  when  the  terms  of  a  writing  are  being
proven,  or  the  witness  is  testifying  relying  on  a  writing.  Under  those
circumstances, the document itself must be introduced, if it's available.
The BER does not apply to these facts, because, although the best
evidence  of  a  writing  is  the  writing  itself,  whereas  here  the  issue  to
which  the  writing  relates  is  “collateral”  (i.e.,  the  claim  will  only
address  the  witness's  character  for  truthfulness),  the  BER  does  not
apply. See FRE 1004(d) (BER does not apply where the writing “is not
closely related to a controlling issue.”) So the witness's testimony will
be admissible without producing the document.

873

In  fact,  the  claim  form  itself  would  be  inadmissible,  under  the
common-law  “collateral  matter  rule,”  which  though  not  expressly
mentioned  in  the  FRE  is  deemed  to  be  part  of  the  common-law
principles  incorporated  in  the  FRE.  Under  the  common-law  rule,
“extrinsic” evidence (not from the witness's own mouth) is “collateral”
and cannot be admitted if it is relevant only to discredit a witness; but if
the evidence also proves or disproves a substantive issue (or it proves
something  deemed  material,  like  witness  bias),  the  evidence  is
admissible. Here, the claim form would only show that the witness isn't
honest;  it  wouldn't  impact  any  substantive  issue  in  the  case.  Thus,  not
only  is  D  incorrect  in  stating  that  the  claim  form  is  the  only  way  to
admit the evidence of the false claim, but the choice fails to recognize
that  the  claim  form  wouldn't  be  admissible  at  all  under  the  collateral
matter rule. As a result, D is not the best response.

 Answer 44

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  statement  here  as  inadmissible
hearsay.

Note  that  what  this  really  means  is  that  the  evidence  is  not
admissible under any of the other choices in this question. Of course,
the evidence could  be  admissible  under  the  catch-all  exception  to  the
hearsay rule; but it's clearly not admissible under the other choices, A
and B, so C must be the correct response.

Note that the statement here is hearsay, because it's an out-of-court
statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.  The  out-of-court
declarant is the driver: “Officer, a few minutes ago. . . . ” The statement
is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  defendant  was  the  culprit,  so  it's
hearsay.  However,  the  statement  will  not  be  admissible  as  either  a
present  sense  impression  or  under  the  fictitious  hearsay  exception
indicated  in  choice  A,  the  statement  of  “recent  perception.”  Since  C
correctly  identifies  the  evidence  as  hearsay,  and  it's  not  admissible
under any choice here, C is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states a hearsay exception that doesn't exist.

Note  that  choice  A  is  correct  in  characterizing  the  evidence  as
hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth

874

of its assertion. The out-of-court declarant is the driver: “Officer, a few
minutes  ago.  .  .  .”  The  statement  is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the
defendant was the culprit, so it's hearsay, and in order to be admissible,
it would have to fit a hearsay exception or exclusion.

The problem with choice A is that it doesn't offer a viable means of
admitting  the  hearsay  statement.  There  is  no  hearsay  exception  for
“statements of recent perception.” The closest real exception would be
present  sense  impressions.  The  rationale  of  allowing  present  sense
impressions  is  that  the  declarant  has  not  had  time  to  fabricate  —  he's
responding  to  something  that's  taking  place  currently.  If  the  declarant
has time to reflect, he has time to fabricate, making his statement less
trustworthy. Here, it's been at least a few minutes since the driver saw
the  hit-and-run  accident,  so  even  if  you  read  choice  A  to  refer  to  the
“present  sense  impression”  hearsay  exception,  the  statement  here
wouldn't  qualify.  In  any  case,  since  A  states  a  hearsay  exception  that
doesn't exist, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  facts  here  would  not  fit  the  present  sense  impression
exception to the hearsay rule.

Note  that  choice  B  is  correct  in  characterizing  the  evidence  as
hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth
of its assertion. The out-of-court declarant is the driver: “Officer, a few
minutes  ago.  .  .  .”  The  statement  is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the
defendant was the culprit, so it's hearsay, and in order to be admissible,
it would have to fit a hearsay exception or exclusion.

The problem here is that the statement wouldn't fit the present sense
impression  hearsay  exception.  Under  FRE  803(1),  a  present  sense
impression  is  admissible  under  a  hearsay  exception  if  it  was  made
while the declarant was perceiving an event/condition (or immediately
thereafter),  and  it  describes  or  explains  the  event/condition.  Under
these  facts,  the  driver  has  had,  according  to  his  statement,  “a  few
minutes”  in  order  to  think.  The  rationale  behind  the  present  sense
impression hearsay exception is that, because the statement was made
contemporaneously with the event it concerns, it will suffer no defects
in memory; and, since it usually would have been made to someone else
who was also present, there was an opportunity for at least one other
person to correct it. Another rationale for the exception is that since the
utterance  was  made  at  the  time  of  the  event,  there's  no  time  for  the
declarant  to  fabricate.  Under  these  facts,  these  parameters  are  not

875

satisfied, making B not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  legal  relevance  of  the  evidence  here  is  not  a  particular
problem.

In order to be admissible, every piece of evidence must be “legally
relevant”;  that  is,  its  probative  value  must  not  be  substantially
outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice. This typically applies to
inflammatory evidence (e.g., body parts, gruesome photos).

Here,  instead,  the  problem  is  hearsay.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court
statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.  The  out-of-court
declarant is the driver: “Officer, a few minutes ago. . . .” The statement
is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  defendant  was  the  culprit,  so  it's
hearsay,  and  in  order  to  be  admissible,  it  would  have  to  fit  a  hearsay
exception or exclusion.

Say the facts were different, and it was the driver himself testifying
as  to  what  he  saw  (not  what  he  said  to  the  officer,  because  it  would
still  be  hearsay).  The  evidence  still  wouldn't  have  legal  relevance
problems,  because  there's  nothing  particularly  prejudicial  about  it.
Furthermore, its tremendous probative value — it's direct evidence of
the defendant's guilt — would make it admissible. Since D suggests a
legal relevance problem where one does not in fact exist, and it ignores
the central issue under these facts, it's not the best response.

 Answer 45

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  treatise  can  be  read  into
evidence, and gives one possible source for establishing the treatise as
a reliable authority: the judge.

Choice B correctly recognizes that there's a hearsay problem with
this evidence. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth of its assertion. Here, the out-of-court declarant is the author of the
treatise. It's being offered to prove that the plaintiff's injuries may not
have  been  caused  by  the  defendant's  negligence.  Thus,  the  treatise  is
hearsay, and it will have to fit some hearsay exception or exclusion to
be admissible.

Choice  B  correctly  recognizes  that  the  learned  treatise  hearsay
exception  will  make  the  passages  admissible.  Under  the  FRE,  a

876

statement in a learned treatise can be “read into evidence” (but cannot
be admitted as an exhibit) if (1) an expert witness relies on it on direct
examination or it's called to his attention on cross-examination; and (2)
the  publication  is  established  as  reliable  authority  by  the  present
witness's  testimony  or  admission  by  another  expert's  testimony  or  by
judicial  notice.  FRE  803(18).  Since  B  recognizes  a  correct  basis  for
reading  the  treatise's  statements  into  evidence,  and  states  that  the
evidence is admissible, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is too restrictive.

While  the  evidence  will  be  admissible  to  impeach  the  plaintiff's
doctor,  under  FRE  803(18)  it  will  also  be  admissible  as  substantive
evidence.

Choice A correctly recognizes that there's a hearsay problem with
this evidence. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth of its assertion.

Here,  the  out-of-court  declarant  is  the  author  of  the  treatise.  It's
being  offered  to  prove  that  the  plaintiff's  injuries  may  not  have  been
caused by the defendant's negligence. Thus, the treatise is hearsay, and
it  will  have  to  fit  some  hearsay  exception  or  exclusion  to  be
admissible.

However, choice A fails to recognize that the treatise can be read
into  evidence  under  the  “learned  treatise”  hearsay  exception.  If  you
chose A, it's probably because you confused the common-law rule with
the  rule  under  the  FRE  on  the  admissibility  of  learned  treatises.  At
common law, learned treatises are only admissible as relied upon and
referred to by an expert witness on direct examination, and to impeach
an  expert  witness's  testimony  on  cross-examination  (by  pointing  out
how  his  opinion  differs  from  the  source  upon  which  he  states  he  has
relied  —  no  other  source  can  be  used).  However,  under  the  FRE,  a
statement in a learned treatise can be “read into evidence” (but cannot
be admitted as an exhibit) if (1) an expert witness relies on it on direct
examination or it's called to his attention on cross-examination; and (2)
the  publication  is  established  as  reliable  authority  by  the  present
witness's  testimony  or  admission  by  another  expert's  testimony  or  by
judicial notice. FRE 803(18). Thus, the textbook's statements here will
be admissible substantively. Since A is too restrictive, stating that the
textbook will only be admissible to impeach, it's not the best response.

877

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  evidence  here,  although  hearsay,  is  admissible  under  the
learned treatises exception to the hearsay rule, FRE 803(18).

Choice C correctly recognizes that there's a hearsay problem with
this evidence. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the
truth of its assertion. Here, the out-of-court declarant is the author of the
treatise. It's being offered to prove that the plaintiff's injuries may not
have  been  caused  by  the  defendant's  negligence.  Thus,  the  treatise  is
hearsay, and it will have to fit some hearsay exception or exclusion to
be admissible.

What choice C fails to realize is that the testimony fits the “learned
treatise”  hearsay  exception.  Under  the  FRE,  a  statement  in  a  learned
treatise  can  be  “read  into  evidence”  (but  cannot  be  admitted  as  an
exhibit) if (1) an expert witness relies on it on direct examination or it's
called to his attention on cross-examination; and (2) the publication is
established  as  reliable  authority  by  the  present  witness's  testimony  or
admission  by  another  expert's  testimony  or  by  judicial  notice.  FRE
803(18).  Thus,  the  textbook's  statements  here  will  be  admissible
substantively. Since C states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the plaintiff's doctor's acknowledgement of relevance is not a
requirement for admissibility.

Under the FRE, a statement in a learned treatise can be “read into
evidence”  (but  cannot  be  admitted  as  an  exhibit)  if  (1)  an  expert
witness relies on it on direct examination or it's called to his attention
on cross-examination; and (2) the publication is established as reliable
authority  by  the  present  witness's  testimony  or  admission  by  another
expert's  testimony  or  by  judicial  notice.  FRE  803(18).  Thus,  under
these  facts,  as  long  as  the  treatise  is  established  as  reliable  authority,
statements  from  it  can  be  read  into  evidence  even  if  the  plaintiff's
doctor thinks these are pure drivel. Since D erroneously states that the
expert  himself  must  acknowledge  the  applicability  of  the  treatise's
statements, it's not the best response.

 Answer 46

 (C) is the best response,

878

because  an  offer  to  pay  medical  expenses  is  inadmissible  to  prove
liability.

Although the facts don't state the purpose for which the plaintiff is
offering the fact of the doctor's offer to pay expenses, let's assume that
the  purpose  is  the  obvious  one  of  trying  to  show  liability  or
responsibility (on the theory that “[t]he doctor wouldn't have offered to
pay my hospital expenses unless she believed that she was or might be
the cause of my problem.”)

In that event, the case is clearly governed by FRE 409, which says
that  “Evidence  of  furnishing,  promising  to  pay,  or  offering  to  pay
medical,  hospital,  or  similar  expenses  resulting  from  an  injury  is  not
admissible to prove liability for the injury.”

 (A) is not the best response,

because offers to pay medical expenses fall under a separate rule.

It's  true  that  the  offer  to  pay  expenses  would  not  be  hearsay.  But
there are many reasons other than hearsay for exclusion of statements,
and  the  no-evidence-of-offers-to-pay-for-medical-expenses  rule  (see
choice C above) is one of them.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  offer  is  not  hearsay,  and  in  any  event  is  inadmissible  for
other reasons.

First,  the  out-of-court  statement  here  is  “I'll  pay  your  medical
expenses.”  That  statement  is  being  offered  to  supply  an  inference  of
liability  (“You  wouldn't  have  made  the  offer  unless  you  thought  you
might  be  responsible  or  liable  for  my  condition.”)  A  statement  is
hearsay  only  if  it's  offered  to  prove  “the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted
therein.” Here, there is no matter whose “truth” is asserted in the out-
of-court  statement;  the  statement  is  merely  an  offer  to  do  something.
Therefore,  repeating  the  statement  in  court  couldn't  be  hearsay.  (If  the
doctor had said, “I'm sorry my negligence caused your hospitalization,”
then  this  would  be  a  statement  containing  an  assertion  of  fact,  which
could make it hearsay.)

A  second  problem  with  this  choice  is  that  the  declaration-against-
interest exception to the hearsay rule applies only where the declarant
is not available to testify at trial. The doctor is available to testify here,
so  far  as  we're  aware.  (The  appropriate  hearsay  exception  would  be
the one for admissions by, and offered against, a party-opponent.)

879

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  doctor's  offer  was  unilateral  and  not  the  product  of
negotiation.

It's true that the fact that a party has offered to settle a claim may not
be admitted on the issue of the claim's validity. See FRE 408. But the
Rule 408 exclusion only applies to offers, or other statements, made “in
compromising  or  attempting  to  compromise”  a  “disputed  claim.”  In
other words, the exclusion only applies to statements made during the
course  of  settlement  negotiations,  and  settlement  negotiations  can't
occur  before  there  has  even  been  a  claim.  The  offer  here  was  made
before there was a “claim” (since it was made “immediately” after the
doctor “learned of the medication problem,” with no indication that the
patient had by then threatened to sue or had otherwise made “a claim”
against  the  doctor).  Therefore,  the  offer  doesn't  fall  within  the
exclusion.

 Answer 47

 (A) is the best response,

because 
admissibility on these facts.

it  most  closely  reflects 

the  central 

issue  concerning

Under  these  facts,  the  criminal  defendant  is  testifying  on  his  own
behalf. The prosecutor is attempting to impeach him, intrinsically, with
evidence of a six-year-old felony (burglary is always a felony).

Under FRE 609(a)(1), a witness can be impeached (intrinsically or
extrinsically)  with  conviction  of  any  felony,  regardless  of  whether  it
involved  dishonesty  or  false  statement  (a  “crimen  falsi  ”).  However,
when the witness is a criminal defendant, and the felony did not involve
a crimen falsi,  the  witness  gets  a  slight  protection  from  impeachment
that's  not  present  where  the  conviction  is  for  a  crimen  falsi:
impeachment is allowed only if the court determines that the probative
value of the evidence outweighs its prejudicial effect on the defendant
(in  which  case  the  court  not  only  may  but  must  admit  it).  Here,  since
burglary  is  not  a  crimen falsi,  the  court  may/must  admit  the  burglary
conviction  for  its  impeachment  value  if  the  court  finds  that  the
conviction's probative impeachment value outweighs (even by a small
amount) its prejudicial effect on the defendant. Choice A exactly states
this rule.

880

 (B) is not the best response,

because the prosecutor would not necessarily have a right to ask such a
question.

Under  these  facts,  the  criminal  defendant  is  testifying  on  his  own
behalf. The prosecutor is attempting to impeach him, intrinsically, with
evidence of a six-year-old felony.

Under  FRE  609(a)(1),  a  witness  can  be  intrinsically  impeached
with  conviction  of  any  felony,  regardless  of  whether  it  involved
dishonesty  or  false  statement  (a  “crimen falsi ”).  However,  when  the
witness is a criminal defendant, and the felony did not involve a crimen
falsi,  the  witness  gets  a  slight  protection  from  impeachment  that's  not
present  where  the  conviction  is  for  a  crimen  falsi:  impeachment  is
allowed  only  if  the  court  determines  that  the  probative  value  of  the
evidence  outweighs  its  prejudicial  effect  on  the  defendant  (in  which
case the court not only may but must admit it). Here, since burglary is
not a crimen falsi, the court may/must admit the burglary conviction for
its  impeachment  value  if  —  and  only  if  —  the  court  finds  that  the
conviction's probative impeachment value outweighs (even by a small
amount)  its  prejudicial  effect  on  the  defendant.  Choice  B,  since  it
implies that the prosecutor would have the right to ask the question in
all  circumstances  (i.e.,  regardless  of  whether  the  court  finds  that  the
conviction's probative impeachment value would be outweighed by its
prejudicial effect), is not correct.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  standard  on  which  prior  convictions  are
admissible to impeach.

Under  these  facts,  the  criminal  defendant  is  testifying  on  his  own
behalf. The prosecutor is attempting to impeach him, intrinsically, with
evidence of a six-year-old felony.

Under  FRE  609(a)(1),  a  witness  can  be  intrinsically  impeached
with  conviction  of  any  felony,  regardless  of  whether  it  involved
dishonesty  or  false  statement  (a  “crimen falsi ”).  However,  when  the
witness is a criminal defendant, and the felony did not involve a crimen
falsi,  the  witness  gets  a  slight  protection  from  impeachment  that's  not
present  where  the  conviction  is  for  a  crimen  falsi:  impeachment  is
allowed  only  if  the  court  determines  that  the  probative  value  of  the
evidence  outweighs  its  prejudicial  effect  on  the  defendant  (in  which
case the court not only may but must admit it). Here, since burglary is

881

not a crimen falsi, the court may/must admit the burglary conviction for
its  impeachment  value  if  —  and  only  if  —  the  court  finds  that  the
conviction's probative impeachment value outweighs (even by a small
amount) its prejudicial effect on the defendant.

Here,  burglary  indeed  does  not  involve  dishonesty  or  false
statement, so this choice is correct on that point. However, even though
burglary is not a crimen falsi, as described in the prior paragraph, the
court  must  nonetheless  admit 
its
impeachment value unless the court finds that the conviction's probative
impeachment  value  would  be  outweighed  by  its  prejudicial  effect  on
the  defendant.  Since 
is
this  choice  asserts 
automatically  improper  solely  because  the  conviction  is  not  for  a
crimen falsi, it is legally incorrect.

the  burglary  conviction  for 

the  question 

that 

 (D) is not the best response,

because the conviction can be proven through intrinsic impeachment.

Under  these  facts,  the  criminal  defendant  is  testifying  on  his  own
behalf. The prosecutor is attempting to impeach him, intrinsically, with
evidence  of  a  six-year-old  felony.  Choice  D  suggests  that  such
impeachment  requires  that  the  original  court  record  of  the  conviction
must be introduced. In fact, that's not the case.

As  is  discussed  in  the  treatments  of  Choices  A,  B  and  C,  the
impeachment here is proper under FRE 609 unless the court finds that
the conviction's probative impeachment value would be outweighed by
its prejudicial effect on the defendant.

When impeachment by means of a prior conviction is proper under
FRE  609,  that  conviction  may  be  proved  either  “from  the  witness's
own  mouth,”  i.e.,  by  a  question  to  the  witness  (which  is  called
“intrinsic”  impeachment),  or  by  “extrinsic”  evidence  (documents  or
testimony from a witness other than the witness being impeached). So
this choice, by asserting that conviction can only be proved by use of
the court record (an “extrinsic” method), is wrong.

 Answer 48

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly states the rule on extrinsic evidence.

FRE 608(b) says that “Except for a criminal conviction under Rule
609, extrinsic evidence is not admissible to prove specific instances of

882

a witness's conduct in order to attack or support the witness's character
for truthfulness. But the court may, on cross-examination, allow them to
be inquired into if they are probative of the character for truthfulness or
untruthfulness of . . . the witness[.]”

The present use fits the second sentence of FRE 608(b): The giving
of  false  testimony  in  a  prior  trial  is  obviously  “probative  of  the
character for . . . untruthfulness.” And choice A's limitation to matters
“elicited  from  the  expert  witness  on  cross-examination”  brings  the
situation  into  the  second  sentence  (cross-examination)  rather  than  the
first sentence (extrinsic evidence).

 (B) is not the best response,

because  prior  bad  acts  can  be  introduced  only  on  cross-examination,
but  in  that  event  need  not  be  supported  by  “clear  and  convincing”
extrinsic evidence.

As  described  in  choice  A  above,  the  prior-bad-act  evidence  here
can only be brought out on cross. Therefore, choice B is wrong since it
does not include this limitation.

On the other hand, if the evidence is brought out on cross, it need
not be supported by “clear and convincing” evidence. It's true that as a
judge-made rule, the cross-examiner must have a “good-faith basis” for
believing that the false-testimony episode actually occurred. But such a
good-faith basis, not the possession of clear-and-convincing-evidence,
is all that is required for introducing the topic on cross.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant's  testimony  would  be  admissible  if  elicited  on
cross-examination.

If  the  evidence  were  being  offered  “extrinsically”  (e.g.,  by
testimony from a different witness who witnessed the false testimony),
this choice would be correct — see the first sentence of FRE 608(b),
quoted in the discussion of choice A above. But the evidence would be
allowed  to  be  brought  up  (“elicited”)  on  cross  of  the  expert  witness
himself,  even  though  it  relates  solely  to  credibility  rather  than  to  a
substantive issue in the case (and thus concerns a “collateral matter”).
Since  choice  C  overstates  the  situations  in  which  the  evidence  would
be excluded, it's not the best answer.

 (D) is not the best response,

883

because  the  evidence  would  be  admissible  if  elicited  on  cross-
examination.

Evidence  of  a  prior  bad  act  by  the  witness  demonstrating  the
witness's poor character for truthfulness does not fall within the general
ban on proof of character traits to show action-in-conformity-therewith-
on-the-present-occasion.  Instead,  FRE  608(b)  imposes  specific  rules
governing when such evidence is admissible — as described in choice
A, such prior-acts-of-lying evidence may be brought out only on cross
of the witness whose veracity is in question, not by means of “extrinsic
evidence.”  Therefore,  choice  D  is  an  incorrect  statement  of  both  the
rule and the outcome.

 Answer 49

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  applies  the  rule  on  spousal  privilege  in  federal
courts.

In  federal  courts,  in  criminal  cases,  the  witness-spouse  holds  the
privilege  exclusively,  and  can  choose  to  testify  if  he  or  she  wants,
without  the  consent  of  the  accused-spouse,  except  as  to  confidential
communications  (on  which  the  accused-spouse  can  forbid  testimony).
Trammel  v.  U.S.,  445  U.S.  40  (1980).  Here,  the  defendant's  wife's
potential testimony involves a conversation between the defendant and
co-defendant before the defendant's wife even married the defendant, so
it  can't  involve  a  confidential  marital  communication.  As  a  result,  the
choice  to  testify  is  entirely  for  the  defendant's  wife  to  make.  Since  A
correctly states this rule, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misapplies the rule on spousal privilege in federal courts.

In  federal  courts,  in  criminal  cases,  the  witness-spouse  holds  the
privilege  exclusively,  and  can  choose  to  testify  if  he  or  she  wants,
without  the  consent  of  the  accused-spouse,  except  as  to  confidential
communications  (on  which  the  accused-spouse  can  forbid  testimony).
Trammel  v.  U.S.,  445  U.S.  40  (1980).  Since  a  confidential  marital
communication  was  not  involved  here,  the  choice  is  entirely  for  the
defendant's wife to make, not for the defendant to make, making B not
the best response.

884

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misapplies the rule on spousal privilege in federal courts.

In  federal  courts,  in  criminal  cases,  the  witness-spouse  holds  the
privilege  exclusively,  and  can  choose  to  testify  if  he  or  she  wants,
without  the  consent  of  the  accused-spouse,  except  as  to  confidential
communications  (on  which  the  accused-spouse  can  forbid  testimony).
Trammel  v.  U.S.,  445  U.S.  40  (1980).  Since  a  confidential  marital
communication  was  not  involved  here,  the  choice  is  entirely  for  the
defendant's wife to make, and C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misapplies  the  rule  on  spousal  privilege  in  the  federal
courts.

In  federal  courts,  in  criminal  cases,  the  witness-spouse  holds  the
privilege  exclusively,  and  can  choose  to  testify  if  he  or  she  wants,
without  the  consent  of  the  accused-spouse,  except  as  to  confidential
communications  (on  which  the  accused-spouse  can  forbid  testimony).
Trammel  v.  U.S.,  445  U.S.  40  (1980).  Since  a  confidential  marital
communication  was  not  involved  here,  the  choice  is  entirely  for  the
defendant's  wife  to  make.  If  you  chose  choice  D,  it  could  be  because
you confused the federal court rule with the common law rule in civil
cases, in which the witness-spouse can be forced to testify against the
party-spouse. This is not the rule in federal courts in criminal trials, so
D is not the best response.

 Answer 50

 (A) is the best response,

because evidence of witness bias is allowed.

All  courts,  including  the  federal  courts  under  the  FRE,  allow
impeachment  on  the  basis  of  bias.  Although  nothing  in  the  FRE
specifically  deals  with  when  and  how  a  party  can  show  a  witness's
bias, it's quite clear that the evidence here — which presents a strong
indication  that  the  witness's  friend  dislikes  the  defendant  and  might
well  therefore  try  to  injure  him  by  false  testimony  —  would  be
admitted.

 (B) is not the best response,

885

because  the  witness's  friend's  character  isn't  in  question,  whereas  his
possible bias is.

As  described  in  choice  A  above,  a  party  may  always  show  that  a
witness (including an out-of-court declarant whose statement is serving
as testimony) was biased.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  isn't  necessary  that  the  witness's  friend  be  “given  an
opportunity to explain or deny.”

There are very few instances under the FRE under which a person
must  be  given  an  opportunity  to  “explain  or  deny”  (or  otherwise
respond to) particular evidence. Perhaps the examiners were trying to
trick  you  into  thinking  that  the  following  FRE  provision  applies:
“Extrinsic  evidence  of  a  witness's  prior  inconsistent  statement  is
admissible  only  if  the  witness  is  given  an  opportunity  to  explain  or
deny  the  statement  and  an  adverse  party  is  given  an  opportunity  to
examine the witness about it, or if justice so requires.” FRE 613(b).

However, this provision clearly doesn't apply here because (1) the
witness's  friend  is  not  “a  witness”  for  purposes  of  the  provision  (he
hasn't taken the stand); and (2) showing that the witness's friend had a
bias is not the same as showing that he's made a prior statement that's
inconsistent with the statement being discussed.

There  is  no  other  provision  concerning  an  opportunity  to  “explain

or deny” that might apply here.

 (D) is not the best response,

because bias can be shown by specific instances.

It's clear that when A quotes an out-of-court statement by B, A may
be cross-examined about material — including prior acts by B — that
tends to show that B was biased when he made the statement. See FRE
608(b)  (specific  credibility-related  instances  of  the  conduct  of  a
witness may be brought up on cross of either that witness or some other
witness  about  whom  the  present  witness  has  testified).  So  in  this
scenario,  among  others,  witness  bias  can  be  shown  by  specific
instances.

 Answer 51

 (B) is the best response,

886

because  no  expert  witness  is  required  to  point  out  the  similarities
between the photo and the defendant — the jury is entitled to make the
comparison itself.

When  an  automatic  device  takes  a  picture,  only  a  limited  type  of
authentication is needed. A witness must testify about how the machine
works, and that testimony must somehow tie the photo to the issue under
question  (e.g.,  “The  photo  was  taken  at  2:45  a.m.  on  Aug.  23rd,  the
same  time  a  burglar  alarm  went  off  indicating  that  the  premises  had
been broken into.”) Since the facts tell us the expert has testified to the
“reliability of infrared photography,” we can presume that this type of
testimony was given.

Once  this  has  happened,  no  further  authentication  or  other  expert
testimony is needed. The jury is deemed to be capable of comparing the
image  with  the  defendant,  so  as  to  make  its  own  determination  of
whether there are interesting resemblances. (Expert testimony would be
admissible  —  if  the  judge  thought  that  it  would  help  the  jury  and  be
“reliable” — but it's not required.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  for  the  reason  explained  in  choice  B  above,  no  expert
testimony is required (though such testimony might be admissible).

 (C) is not the best response,

because  no  eyewitness  identification  is  needed  for  photos  taken  by
automatic devices.

Where  a  photo  is  taken  by  an  automatic  device,  only  limited
authentication (showing that the machine is reliable, and tying the photo
to  the  episode  in  question)  is  required.  What's  NOT  required  is  any
testimony by a human who says, “I saw the photo taken, and I can say it
was taken at a certain time [or in a certain circumstance.]” So once the
expert here testified about how the machine works (see the example, in
the  discussion  of  choice  B  above,  of  testimony  that  would  have
sufficed), no “eyewitness” testimony about the taking of the photo was
needed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the camera and the photos taken by it are not “witnesses” for
purpose of the Confrontation Clause.

The Confrontation Clause applies only where a human being gives

887

testimony. Where evidence is produced by an inanimate object — such
as the camera here — the Clause is never triggered.

 Answer 52

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly recognizes the evidence as inadmissible because it
is impeachment on a collateral matter.

Under  these  facts,  the  witness  is  being  impeached  with  extrinsic
evidence  that  contradicts  his  direct  testimony.  The  evidence  is  that  he
worked  for  his  employer  for  only  seven  years  instead  of  three,  which
has no bearing on any issue in the case.

The  problem  with  this  is  that  the  impeachment  violates  the
“collateral matters” rule. Under the “collateral matters” rule, extrinsic
evidence can only be introduced to impeach a witness if it also bears
on  a  substantive  issue  in  the  case  (or  if  it  proves  something  deemed
important,  like  bias).  Here,  if  the  employment  records  are  true,  they
only  prove  the  witness  is  lying  —  they  do  not  make  any  issue  in  the
case either more or less probable.

the 

impeachment 

Note that what this choice doesn't mention, but implies, is that what
it's  extrinsic
makes 
impermissible 
impeachment — the witness could be impeached by asking him about
his employment record (which would be “intrinsic” impeachment, since
it's from his own mouth). Since B correctly applies this rule to the facts
here, it's the best response.

that 

is 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly applies the Best Evidence Rule (BER).

The  BER  only  applies  when  the  material  terms  of  a  writing  are
being proven, or the witness is testifying relying on a writing. Neither
of  these  applies  to  the  facts  here.  The  terms  of  the  writing  (the
employment  records)  are  not  relevant  to  any  of  the  issues  in  the  trial.
Instead, the witness is being impeached with extrinsic impeachment that
contradicts his direct testimony. The evidence is that he worked for his
employer for only seven years instead of three, which has no bearing on
any  issue  in  the  case.  Under  the  “collateral  matters”  rule,  extrinsic
evidence can only be introduced to impeach a witness if it also bears
on  a  substantive  issue  in  the  case  (or  if  it  proves  something  deemed
important, like bias). Here, if the records are true, they only prove the

888

witness is lying — they do not make any issue in the case either more
or less probable. As a result, the records need not be introduced, and A
is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  wrongly  invokes  the  business  records  exception  to  the
hearsay rule.

While  the  employment  records  here  could  qualify  under  that
exception (if the entries were made in the regular course of business, in
conjunction with a business activity, entered under a duty to record, by
one  with  personal  knowledge  of  matters  recorded  or  transmitted  from
such  a  person,  entered  at  or  near  the  time  of  transaction,  and
authenticated  at  trial;  FRE  803(6)),  choice  C  is  incorrect  because  the
records haven't been offered into evidence.

Instead,  what  choice  C  fails  to  take  into  account  is  the  “collateral
matters”  rule.  Under  that  rule,  extrinsic  evidence  (i.e.,  not  from  the
witness's own mouth) can only be introduced to impeach a witness if it
also bears on a substantive issue in the case (or if it proves something
deemed  important,  like  bias).  Here,  if  the  records  are  true,  they  only
prove  the  witness  is  lying  —  they  do  not  make  any  issue  in  the  case
either more or less probable. Since C does not recognize the “collateral
matter” involved here, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it fails to take into account the “collateral matters” rule.

Choice D correctly recognizes that the evidence here will impeach
the witness, by bringing into question his credibility. However, the fact
that  the  evidence  here  will  impeach  the  witness's  credibility  is  not
enough  to  make  it  admissible,  because  extrinsic  evidence  (i.e.,
evidence  not  from  the  witness's  own  mouth)  is  only  admissible  to
impeach a witness if it also bears on a substantive issue in the case (or
if it proves something deemed important, like bias). Here, if the records
are true, they only prove the witness is lying — they do not make any
issue  in  the  case  either  more  or  less  probable.  Since  D  does  not
recognize the “collateral matter” hitch here, it's not the best response.

 Answer 53

 (D) is the best response,

889

the  record  here  satisfies 

the  records-of-regularly-kept-
because 
activities  exception,  and  the  statement  recorded  falls  within  the
statements-for-purposes-of-medical-diagnosis exception.

We have here a statement-within-a-statement problem. That is, we
have (1) a written statement by the intern (the hospital record), which is
the “outer” level; and (2) an oral statement (the statement spoken by the
physician), which is the “inner” level. For the written record to come
in,  both  levels  must  either  be  non-hearsay  or  hearsay  within  an
exception.

Let's  take  the  inner  level  first:  This  one  falls  neatly  within  FRE
803(4)'s  hearsay  exception  for  “A  statement  that:  (A)  is  made  for  —
and  is  reasonably  pertinent  to  —  medical  diagnosis  or  treatment;  and
(B) describes medical history; past or present symptoms or sensations;
their inception; or their general cause.”

Now, the outer level: FRE 803(6) gives the FRE's version of what
is  commonly  called  the  business  records  exception.  It  provides  a
hearsay exception for “A record of an act, event, condition, opinion, or
diagnosis if: (A) the record was made at or near the time by — or from
information transmitted by — someone with knowledge; (B) the record
was kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity of a business,
organization,  occupation,  or  calling,  whether  or  not  for  profit;  (C)
making the record was a regular practice of that activity; (D) all these
conditions  are  shown  by  the  testimony  of  the  custodian  or  another
qualified witness, or by a certification . . . and (E) the opponent does
not show that the source of information or the method or circumstances
of preparation indicate a lack of trustworthiness.”

The record here qualifies. Note that the fact that the record wasn't
physically  made  by  the  person  “with  knowledge”  (the  physician)
doesn't  matter,  as  long  as  the  record  was  made  “from  information
transmitted  by”  a  person  with  knowledge.  Since  the  physician
transmitted the information to the intern, the fact that the intern was the
one who made the physical record is okay.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  establishment  of  the  physician's  expertise  is  neither  sufficient
nor necessary for admissibility of the record.

The  physician  is  not  giving  testimony  here,  so  he's  not  an  “expert
witness,” and the foundation required for expert testimony is therefore
not required. Furthermore, even if such a foundation had been laid, the
record  couldn't  come  in  unless  the  two  levels  of  exceptions  to  the

890

hearsay  rule  were  established  (as  they  were  —  see  the  discussion  of
choice D above).

 (B) is not the best response,

because at issue is the admissibility of the record, not data that is not in
evidence.

When a record containing an opinion is admissible as an exception
to  the  hearsay  rule,  the  fact  that  the  data  on  which  the  maker  of  the
record relied is not in evidence is irrelevant.

In fact, this choice is a complete red herring. Even if the physician
were on the stand repeating his diagnosis, the underlying data wouldn't
have to be in evidence, or even admissible — see FRE 703: “An expert
may base an opinion on facts or data in the case that the expert has been
made aware of or personally observed. If experts in the particular field
would  reasonably  rely  on  those  kinds  of  facts  or  data  in  forming  an
opinion on the subject, they need not be admissible for the opinion to
be admitted."

 (C) is not the best response,

because the entry records the physician's statements, not the plaintiff's.

Statements by  a  patient  regarding  the  patient's  physical  condition
made  to  a  treating  physician  in  connection  with  treatment  are
admissible as exceptions to the hearsay rule. They fall within the much
more  general  exception  in  FRE  803(3)  for  “[a]  statement  of  the
declarant's  then-existing  state  of  mind  .  .  .  or  emotional,  sensory,  or
physical condition[.]” But the statement here wasn't made by the patient
(the  plaintiff)  —  it  was  made  by  the  treating  doctor.  And  the  correct
hearsay  exception  for  the  doctor's  oral  statement  is  (as  discussed  in
choice D above) 803(4)'s exception for “a statement made for — and . .
. reasonably pertinent to — medical diagnosis or treatment.”

 Answer 54

 (C) is the best response,

because the statement was made out of court, is offered for the truth of
the matter asserted, and does not fall within any exception.

FRE 801(c) defines hearsay as a statement, other than one made by
the declarant while testifying at trial, offered in evidence to prove the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  the  statement.  The  witness's  statement

891

naming the defendant as his source was made by the witness after being
arrested  by  the  officer,  which  is  to  say  it  was  not  made  when  the
witness  was  testifying  at  trial.  The  government  seeks  to  offer  the
officer's repetition of that statement for the truth of the matter asserted
in it, i.e., that the defendant was indeed the source for the drugs he is
now  charged  with  selling.  So  the  statement  is  hearsay  and  is
inadmissible unless some exception applies.

However,  no  exception  applies.  For 

the  “prior
inconsistent statement” exception doesn't apply for the reason stated in
the  analysis  of  choice  A  below,  and  the  “identification”  exception
doesn't apply for the reason stated in the analysis of choice B below.

instance, 

 (A) is not the best response,

because the witness has made only one statement.

Certain  statements  by  a  person  who  testifies  at  a  trial  or  hearing,
and  is  subject  to  cross-examination  about  the  statements,  are  not
hearsay. FRE 801(d)(1) says that where the declarant “testifies and is
subject  to  cross-examination  about  a  prior  statement,”  the  prior
statement is non-hearsay (and thus admissible) if it “is inconsistent with
the  declarant's  testimony  and  was  given  under  penalty  of  perjury  at  a
trial,  hearing,  or  other  proceeding  or  in  a  deposition[.]”  (801(d)(1)
(A)).

This  exclusion  obviously  doesn't  apply  here:  The  declarant  is  the
witness, and he is not “testif[ying] . . . subject to cross-examination” at
trial. Merely appearing at the trial and refusing to answer doesn't count
as  “testifying,”  certainly  not  when  there  is  a  requirement  of  being
“subject  to  cross-examination.”  And  even  if  the  witness's  out-of-court
statement  after  his  arrest  is  viewed  as  being  both  “prior”  and
“inconsistent,”  it  wasn't  given  “under  penalty  of  perjury  at  a  trial,
hearing, or other proceeding or in a deposition[.]”

 (B) is not the best response,

because the witness has refused to testify.

Certain  statements  by  a  person  who  testifies  at  a  trial  or  hearing,
and  is  subject  to  cross-examination  about  the  statements,  are  not
hearsay. FRE 801(d)(1)(C) says that where the declarant “testifies and
is  subject  to  cross-examination  about  a  prior  statement,”  the  prior
statement is non-hearsay (and thus admissible) if it “identifies a person
as someone the declarant perceived earlier.”

892

This  exclusion  doesn't  apply  here,  because  the  witness  has  not
“testified” or been “subject to cross-examination” (see the analysis of
choice A for more detail about why).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the lack of confrontation doesn't have anything to do with the
inadmissibility of the statement.

There is no general principle that an out-of-court declaration can't
be  introduced  unless  the  declarant  is  “confronted  with  the  statement
while on the stand.”

It's  true  that  in  the  case  of  a  prior  inconsistent  statement  from  a
testifying witness, FRE 613(b) says that extrinsic evidence of the prior
statement is inadmissible unless “the witness is given an opportunity to
explain  or  deny  the  statement  and  an  adverse  party  is  given  an
opportunity to examine the witness about it, or if justice so requires.”
But this provision doesn't come close to applying, since the witness is
not  a  testifying  witness,  and  the  prior  statement  is  not  a  “prior
inconsistent statement.”

It's  also  true  that  in  some  cases,  the  defendant's  Confrontation
Clause  rights  will  constitutionally  prevent  an  out-of-court  declaration
from  being  admitted  against  him.  But  choice  D  refers  to  the  witness's
right to “confront” the statement while on the stand, not the defendant's
right to confront the witness.

In  summary,  the  witness  had  no  right  to  be  “confronted  with  the

statement while on the stand.”

 Answer 55

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  shows  the  former  vice  president  deposited  more  than  he
made,  and  is  thus  circumstantial  evidence  of  guilt  the  admission  of
which does not violate any evidentiary rule.

Circumstantial  evidence  is  evidence  that,  even  if  it  is  believed,
does not resolve the matter at issue unless additional reasoning is used
is  directed.
to  which 
to  reach 
Circumstantial evidence will be admitted only if it has probative value,
that  is,  only  if  it  affects  the  probability  of  the  existence  of  a  fact
consequential to the action.

the  proposition 

the  evidence 

Evidence that the former vice president deposited nearly twice his

893

salary over a two-year period is circumstantial evidence of the former
vice  president's  embezzlement,  because  this  evidence  makes  it  more
likely than it would otherwise be that the former vice president had a
major  non-salary  source  of  income.  There  is  no  evidentiary  rule  that
would bar the admission of this very-relevant evidence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  use  of  the  witness's  testimony  for  impeachment  purposes
would violate FRE 608(b).

FRE  608(b)  says  that  “[e]xcept  for  a  criminal  conviction  under
Rule  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not  admissible  to  prove  specific
instances  of  a  witness's  conduct  in  order  to  attack  or  support  the
witness's  character  for  truthfulness.”  The  evidence  here  consists  of
“specific  instances”  of  the  former  vice  president's  conduct.  If  the
evidence  is  being  offered  to  “impeach”  the  former  vice  president  as
choice B specifies, it is being offered to “attack the witness's character
for  truthfulness,”  and  falls  within  608(b),  given  that  the  specific
instances  of  conduct  did  not  lead  to  a  criminal  conviction.  Therefore,
the  specific  instances  of  conduct  can't  be  proved  by  “extrinsic
evidence”  (which  is  what  separate  testimony  from  the  banker  would
be).  Instead,  impeachment  could  only  happen  by  bringing  out  the
instances while the former vice president was on the stand (e.g., “Isn't
it  true  that  according  to  bank  records  you  deposited  almost  twice  the
amount of your salary?”).

 (C) is not the best response,

because the evidence is highly probative of embezzlement, and there is
no “unfair” prejudice.

FRE 403 says that “The court may exclude relevant evidence if its
probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed  by  a  danger  of  .  .  .  unfair
prejudice[.]” However, this provision wouldn't apply here because: (1)
the probative value is quite large (surely a person who deposits almost
twice his salary into a bank account is significantly more likely to be an
embezzler  than  one  who  does  not);  and  (2)  there  is  minimal
“unfairness” in showing that a person has made bank deposits, certainly
not  enough  unfairness  to  “substantially  outweigh”  the  large  probative
value of the evidence.

 (D) is not the best response,

894

because  the  fact  that  the  deposits  could  have  been  legitimate  goes  to
weight, not admissibility.

A piece of evidence, to be admissible (assuming no special rule of
exclusion applies), must merely have “any tendency to make a fact more
or less probable than it would be without the evidence,” where the fact
“is of consequence in determining the action.” FRE 401. The evidence
doesn't have to conclusively “prove” the ultimate proposition to which
it's  addressed,  or  even  render  that  proposition  “more  likely  than  not”
true. As the idea is sometimes put, “a brick is not a wall.”

Here, the fact that a person has made bank deposits of almost twice
his  salary  in  a  two-year  period  makes  it  more  likely  that  he's  an
embezzler than if he had only deposited the amount of his salary or less.
So  this  evidence  satisfies  the  standard  in  the  prior  paragraph,  even
though there may well be a legitimate explanation for the deposits. As
the  court  might  say,  the  possibility  of  an  innocent  explanation  here
merely “goes to weight, not admissibility.”

 Answer 56

 (D) is the best response,

because  a  trial  judge  is  allowed  to  use  hearsay  when  ruling  on
preliminary questions.

FRE  104(a)  says  that  “[t]he  court  must  decide  any  preliminary
question  about  whether  a  witness  is  qualified,  a  privilege  exists,  or
evidence  is  admissible.  In  so  deciding,  the  court  is  not  bound  by
evidence rules, except those on privilege.”

The pedestrian's statement to the nurse is admissible if, and only if,
the  statement  qualified  for  the  dying-declaration  exception.  That
exception applies only in homicide and civil cases (i.e., not in a non-
homicide criminal case); the exception requires that the declarant have
made  the  statement  “while  believing  the  declarant's  death  to  be
imminent,”  and  requires  that  the  statement  have  been  “about  [the
declarant's death's] cause or circumstances.” FRE 804(b)(2).

The  affidavit  is  relevant  to  the  issue  of  whether  the  pedestrian's
statement  to  the  nurse  qualifies  for  the  dying-declaration  exception,
since  it's  relevant  to  whether  the  pedestrian  made  the  statement  while
believing his death was imminent. It's true that the affidavit is hearsay
(since  it's  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the
matter asserted, i.e., that the pedestrian really knew or believed he was

895

dying). And this hearsay does not fall within any exception. But under
FRE  104(a),  the  court  may  consider  this  inadmissible  hearsay  in
making  the  court's  preliminary  ruling  on  the  admissibility  of  the
pedestrian's statement to the nurse.

 (A) is not the best response,

because even though the affidavit is hearsay not within any exception, it
may still be considered on the preliminary matter of the admissibility of
the statement to the nurse.

As described in the discussion of choice D above, the fact that the
affidavit is hearsay not within any exception does not prevent the court
from using it to resolve a preliminary question about the admissibility
of other evidence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  (1)  dying  declarations  are  admissible  in  civil  cases;  and  (2)
the  admissibility  of  the  affidavit  is  irrelevant  to  whether  it  can  be
considered on the preliminary question here.

First,  FRE  804(b)(2)  gives  a  hearsay  exception  for  the  following
type of statement: “In a prosecution for homicide or in a civil case, a
statement that the declarant, while believing the declarant's death to be
imminent,  made  about  its  cause  or  circumstances.”  So  the  proposition
asserted in choice B — that dying declarations can't be used except in
homicide  prosecutions  —  is  simply  incorrect  as  a  matter  of  law.
Furthermore, even if the rule of law asserted in this choice were true,
the rule would be irrelevant here — as described in the discussion of
choice D above, the judge may consider inadmissible material in ruling
on an evidentiary question.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  (1)  the  affidavit  is  the  “outer  level”  of  a  two-level  hearsay
statement, and that outer level doesn't qualify for the then-existing-state-
of-mind  exception;  and  (2)  the  affidavit's  admissibility  doesn't  matter
here anyway.

First, notice that we have hearsay within hearsay. The “outer” level
is the doctor's affidavit (a statement made out of court, repeating some
other  statement).  The  “inner”  level  is  the  pedestrian's  statement  to  the
doctor. For the combined statement to be admissible despite containing
hearsay, each  level  must  satisfy  a  hearsay  exception.  It's  true  that  the

896

inner  statement  arguably  qualifies  for  the  then-existing-state-of-mind
exception (though even this is far from clear, since under FRE 803(3),
“a  statement  of  .  .  .  belief  to  prove  the  fact  .  .  .  believed”  does  not
qualify for the exception).

But the outer statement is not a statement about the declarant's then
existing  state  of  mind  —  for  this  purpose,  the  declarant  is  the  doctor,
and  he's  not  summarizing  his  own  then  existing  state  of  mind  (except
insofar as he's making a statement of what he currently remembers the
pedestrian  to  have  said,  which  is  inadmissible  since  FRE  803(3)
denies  the  state-of-mind  exception  for  “a  statement  of  memory  .  .  .  to
prove the fact remembered”).

Since  one  of  the  two  levels  is  inadmissible  hearsay,  the  entire
statement within a statement is inadmissible. But anyway, as described
in  the  discussion  of  choice  D  above,  the  statement  need  not  be
admissible  to  be  considered  by  the  judge  in  making  a  preliminary
admissibility ruling.

 Answer 57

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  witness's  testimony  does  in  fact  fall  within  the  then-
existing–state-of-mind exception.

The out-of-court statement here is, “I'm going to spend the next three
days in State B,” offered to show that the declarant in fact spent the next
three days there. So at least in a loose sense, the declaration is being
offered to prove the “truth” of the matter asserted.

FRE  803(3)  gives  a  hearsay  exception  for  “[a]  statement  of  the
declarant's  then-existing  state  of  mind  .  .  .  (such  as  motive,  intent,  or
plan)[.]”  So  to  the  extent  that  the  statement  here  is  a  statement  by  the
defendant of the fact that she currently plans to do act X, it fits within
this  exception  as  a  statement  of  then-existing  plan.  (Once  it  comes  in,
it's allowable for the further inference that if the defendant planned to
do act X, she probably did act X as planned.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant's statement wasn't an effort to describe an event
she was perceiving.

FRE  803(1)'s  implementation  of  the  present-sense  impression
exception  gives  an  exception  for  “[a]  statement  describing  or

897

explaining an event or condition, made while or immediately after the
declarant  perceived  it.”  The  defendant's  plan  to  make  a  trip  is  not  an
“event  or  condition,”  and  she  didn't  “perceive”  it,  so  the  exception
doesn't apply.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there is no special rule against “establish[ing] an alibi by [a]
defendant's own statement.”

This is one of those cases where the examiners try to trick you into
believing that there is a “rule” on a particular subject when there isn't.
There  is  simply  no  special  rule  about  when  a  prior  statement  by  a
defendant can be introduced to furnish an alibi.

Actually,  a  prior  statement  by  a  witness  (whether  she's  the
defendant  or  otherwise)  qualifies  for  a  hearsay  exception  if  the
statement  is  “consistent  with  the  declarant's  testimony  and  is  offered:
(i)  to  rebut  an  express  or  implied  charge  that  the  declarant  recently
fabricated it or acted from a recent improper influence or motive in so
testifying[.]” FRE 801(d)(1)(B). So to the extent that the prior statement
here falls within a special rule for prior statements, the rule is one that
confers admissibility, not inadmissibility.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  falls  within  the  then-existing-state-of-mind
hearsay  exception.  See  the  analysis  of  choice  B  for  an  explanation  of
why this is so.

 Answer 58

 (A) is the best response,

because only the testimony about peaceableness is a “pertinent trait” of
the accused.

FRE  404(a),  after  stating  the  general  rule  against  evidence  of  a
character  trait  to  prove  action  in  conformity  therewith,  allows  a
criminal defendant to offer evidence of “the defendant's pertinent trait.”
Since peaceability and truthfulness are each alleged character traits of
the  defendant,  the  evidence  will  be  admissible  if  and  only  if  that
evidence concerns a trait that is “pertinent” in the case.

What  traits  are  “pertinent”  depends  on  the  nature  of  the  crime
charged and any defenses raised. Here, what's charged is a crime that

898

involves violence, but not untruthfulness.

Therefore,  the  accused's  reputation  for  peaceableness  involves  a
“pertinent” trait (one who is peaceable is less likely to have committed
a  crime  involving  violence).  However,  the  accused's  reputation  for
truthfulness would probably be held not to be pertinent (since one who
is truthful is not less likely to have committed a murder than one who is
untruthful.)

(Note,  however,  that  if  the  defendant  took  the  stand  and  the
for
prosecution  attacked  his  credibility, 
truthfulness” 
the
defendant's  truthfulness  or  untruthfulness  would  now  be  in  issue  and
would thus be a “pertinent” trait.)

the  “reputation 
testimony  would  become  admissible,  because 

then 

To the extent that choices B, C, and D each either fails to admit the
peaceableness testimony or admits the truthfulness testimony, each one
is wrong for the reasons described in the analysis of choice A.
