CRIMINAL LAW Q&A BY TOPIC

References to “LaFave” are to Wayne LaFave, Principles of Criminal Law
(Thomson/West, 2003). References to “LaFave Criminal Law” are to Wayne
LaFave, Criminal Law Hornbook (3d Ed., West, 2000). References to
“M.P.C.” are to the Model Penal Code.

CHAPTER 1
ACTUS REUS AND MENS REA

I.    ACTUS REUS

A.  Omissions

1.  Existence of legal duty

a.  Special relationship

two-year-old,  became 

Question  1:  Kathy,  a 
ill  with
meningitis.  Jim  and  Joan,  her  parents,  were  members  of  a
group that believed fervently that if they prayed enough, God
would not permit their child to die. Accordingly, they did not
seek medical aid for Kathy and refused all offers of such aid.
They prayed continuously. Kathy died of the illness within a
week.

Jim  and  Joan  are  charged  with  murder  in  a  common-law
jurisdiction.
Their best defense to the charge is that
(A)  they did not intend to kill or to harm Kathy.
(B)  they were pursuing a constitutionally protected religious

belief.

(C)    Kathy’s  death  was  not  proximately  caused  by  their

conduct.

(D)  they neither premeditated nor deliberated.

322

Answer 1: The correct choice is (A). Murder is the unlawful
killing  of  another  person  with  malice  aforethought.  “Malice
aforethought” is a term of art that encompasses any of several
mental  states,  mainly  the  intent  to  kill,  the  intent  to  cause
serious  bodily  harm,  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of
human  life,  and  intent  to  commit  one  of  a  specified  list  of
dangerous felonies (e.g., robbery or burglary). The defendants
did not possess any of the required mental states. They come
closest  to  having  had  “reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of
human  life”  (also  known  as  a  “depraved  heart”),  but  most
courts  hold  that  that  mental  state  exists  only  when  the
defendant  consciously  disregards  a  known  risk — since  the
defendants honestly (although perhaps unreasonably) believed
that God would protect their child, a court would be unlikely
to  find  that  they  had  the  requisite  conscious  disregard  of  a
high risk of harm.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  all  persons  must  obey  criminal
prohibitions  requirements  of  general  applicability,  even  if
obeying that rule of law offends the person’s religious beliefs.
Therefore,  even  if  the  defendants’  religious  beliefs  required
them to avoid seeking medical assistance for a sick child, they
did not have a constitutionally-protected right to do so.

(C) is wrong, because even though Jim and Joan did not take
any affirmative action that proximately contributed to Kathy’s
death,  their  failure  to  act  did  proximately  cause  the  death.
Since parents  have  a  duty  to  act  affirmatively  to  care  for  a
minor child, their failure to act could expose them to criminal
liability. And their failure to act would be deemed “conduct.”

(D)  is  wrong  because  not  all  forms  of  common-law  murder
require premeditated or deliberative conduct. For example, a
death  that  is  caused  by  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of
human  life  might  well  occur  without  any  premeditation  or
deliberative  conduct.  In  any  event,  the  defendants’  failure  to
seek  medical  attention  probably  was  “premeditated”  or
“deliberative,”  in  the  sense  that  their  rejection  of  offers  of
medical help indicates that they devoted conscious thought to
whether to seek such help.

II.   MENS REA

323

A.  “Knowingly”

1.  Knowledge of attendant circumstances

Question  2:  Dart  is  charged  with  the  statutory  offense  of
“knowingly  violating  a  regulation  of  the  State  Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board” and specifically that he knowingly
violated  regulation  number  345-90  issued  by  the  State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. That regulation prohibits
the sale of alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of
18 and also prohibits the sale of any alcoholic beverage to a
person over the age of 17 and under the age of 22 without the
presentation  of  such  person’s  driver’s  license  or  other
identification  showing  the  age  of  the  purchaser  to  be  18  or
older.

The  evidence  showed  that  Dart  was  a  bartender  in  a  tavern
and  sold  a  bottle  of  beer  to  a  person  who  was  17  years  old
and  that  Dart  did  not  ask  for  or  see  the  purchaser’s  driver’s
license or any other identification.

Which of the following, if found by the jury, would be of the
most help to Dart?

(A)  The purchaser had a driver’s license that falsely showed

his age to be 21.

(B)    Dart  had  never  been  told  he  was  supposed  to  check
identification  of  persons  over  17  and  under  22  before
selling them alcohol.

(C)  Dart did not know that the regulations classified beer as

an alcoholic beverage.

(D)    Dart  mistakenly  believed  the  purchaser  to  be  24  years

old.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Answer 2: Choice (D)  is  correct.  Dart  did  not  “knowingly”
violate a regulation if he did not think that the requirements of
the regulation were required to be applied in the situation he
encountered.  Dart  believed  the  purchaser  was  24  years  old;
therefore, he did not think that either of the provisions of the
regulation  applied:  the  prohibited  sale  to  a  purchaser  under
18 and the requirement to check identification of a purchaser
over the age of 17 and under the age of 22. The fact that his
belief was mistaken is not relevant.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

324

(This  scenario  is  different  from  the  “ignorance  of  the  law”
scenario  incorrectly  asserted  in  choices  (B)  and  (C).  Here,
defendant is mistaken about the underlying facts the existence
of  which  trigger  the  law,  not  mistaken  about  what  type  of
conduct  the  law  prohibits.  And  a  defendant  who  is  mistaken
about  the  underlying  facts  the  existence  of  which  make  the
conduct  illegal  won’t  be  said  to  have  “knowingly”  violated
the statute, according to the prevailing interpretation.)

(A) is wrong because, even though the purchaser had a false
driver’s  license  showing  him  to  be  21,  Dart  never  asked  to
see the license, and he was therefore in violation of the part
of the regulation requiring that he do so (for purchasers over
the  age  of  17  and  under  the  age  of  22).  The  fact  that  the
purchaser  was  indeed  of  age  and  could  purchase  the  beer
does  not  affect  a  finding  that  Dart  “knowingly”  violated  that
part of the regulation.

(B) is wrong because it’s argument is based on the theory that
ignorance  of  what  conduct  the  law  proscribes  can  be  a
defense.  It  can’t — as  a  general  principle,  if  the  defendant
intended to perform act X, and act X is proscribed by a valid
statute,  it’s  not  a  defense  that  the  defendant  didn’t  know  that
performing  act  X  was  against  the  law.  In  other  words,  the
maxim “ignorance of the law is no excuse” is for the most part
a true statement.

(C)  is  wrong  for  the  same  reason  as  (B) — it  amounts  to  a
defense  based  on  defendant’s  ignorance  that  a  particular  act
(selling beer to a minor) was against the law.

2.  “Practically certain” standard for unintended effects

Question 3: A man decided to steal a car he saw parked on a
hill.  When  he  got  in  and  started  the  engine,  the  car  began
rolling  down  the  hill.  The  man  quickly  discovered  that  the
car’s brakes did not work. He crashed through the window of
a store at the bottom of the hill.
The  man  was  charged  with  larceny  of  the  car  and  with  the
crime of knowingly damaging the store’s property. At trial, the
judge instructed the jury that if the jury found both that the man
was  guilty  of  larceny  of  the  car  and  that  the  damage  to  the
store  was  the  result  of  that  larceny,  then  it  should  also  find

325

him guilty of malicious damage of property.

The man was convicted on both counts. On appeal, he argued
that  the  conviction  for  malicious  damage  of  property  should
be  reversed  because  the  instruction  was  not  a  correct
statement of the law.

Should the man’s conviction be affirmed?

(A)    Yes,  because  his  intent  to  steal  the  car  provides  the

necessary mental element.

(B)  Yes, because he was committing a felony.
(C)    No,  because  the  instruction  wrongly  described  the

necessary mental state.

(D)  No, because it would violate double jeopardy to convict

the man of two crimes for a single act.

if  he  was  found 

Answer  3:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  man  could  be
convicted  only 
to  have  “knowingly
damag[ed]”  the  store’s  property.  For  the  man  to  have
knowingly damaged the property, the jury would have to have
found,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  that  he  either  intended  to
damage  the  property,  or  knew  that  such  damage  was
practically  certain  to  result  from  his  actions.  See,  e.g.,
Model  Penal  Code  §  2.02(b)(i):  “A  person  acts  knowingly
with respect to a material element of an offense when: . . . (ii)
if  the  element  involves  a  result  of  his  conduct,  he  is  aware
that it is practically certain that his conduct will cause such a
result.”  Here,  the  judge’s  instruction  is  asserting  that  the
man’s  mere  act  of  stealing  the  car  constitutes  “knowingly
damaging” the store’s property as long as the damage resulted
from the theft. For the instruction to be correct, it would have
to  require  “concurrence” — that  is,  it  would  have  to  require
that the guilty act and the guilty state of mind occurred at the
same time. The guilty act here is the theft, which occurred at
the  moment  the  man  started  the  engine  and  caused  the  car  to
make  a  small  movement.  So  the  guilty  state  of  mind  would
have  to  be  present  at  that  same  moment.  At  that  start-the-
engine-and-first-move-the-car moment, the man did not know
that  damage  to  the  store  was  “practically  certain”  to  occur,
because the man had not yet even discovered that the brakes
didn’t work (and if the brakes had worked, the damage to the

326

store  wouldn’t  have  occurred).  So  the  requirement  of
concurrence wouldn’t be satisfied. At the later moment when
the  man  learned  the  brakes  didn’t  work,  he  may  then  have
known  that  damage  to  the  store  was  practically  certain  to
occur,  but  by  that  moment  the  larceny  had  already  occurred,
and  it  was  too  late  for  the  requirement  of  concurrence  to  be
satisfied.

(A) is wrong because it ignores the requirement that the man
have  “knowingly  damaged”  the  store’s  property.  To  have
knowingly damaged the store’s property, the man would have
had  to  know  (at  the  time  he  stole  the  car  by  causing  it  to
move)  that  damage  to  the  store  was  practically  certain  to
occur.  And  he  didn’t  have  that  knowledge  at  that  time,  as  is
further described in Choice (C).

the 

(B) is wrong because the man’s commission of a felony is not
enough  to  supply  the  intent  necessary  for  the  crime  of
knowingly  damaging 
store’s  property.  To  have
“knowingly” damaged property, the man must have known, at
the relevant time, that damage to the property was “practically
certain”  to  occur.  And  the  judge’s  instruction  made  the
relevant time be the time at which the man committed larceny
(since that’s the time of the voluntary act, which is what has to
have temporal concurrence with the guilty state of mind). As
is  further  described  in  Choice  (C),  at  the  moment  of  larceny
the man did not yet know that damage to the store’s property
was practically certain.

(D)  is  wrong  because  double  jeopardy  does  not  preclude
conviction  of  two  distinct  crimes  with  separate  legal
elements. Blockburger v. United States (1932).
If one of the two crimes was a lesser included offense of the
other, then conviction of both would violate double jeopardy.
But here, the elements are clearly different. For instance, the
mental state needed here for larceny was an intent to steal the
property  of  another  (the  car)  by  taking  it  away,  whereas  the
mental  state  needed  for  malicious  damage  to  the  store’s
property was either intent to cause that damage, or knowledge
that  the  damage  was  practically  certain  to  occur.  Therefore,
neither  crime  is  defined  in  a  way  that  makes  it  a  lesser
included  offense  of  the  other,  so  double  jeopardy  doesn’t

327

apply.

B.  Vicarious liability

1.  Constitutionality

a.  D has no control over offender

Question  4:  Morten  was  the  general  manager  and  chief
executive officer of the Woolen Company, a knitting mill.

Morten delegated all operational decision making to Crouse,
the supervising manager of the mill. The child labor laws in
the jurisdiction provide, “It is a violation of the law for one to
employ  a  person  under  the  age  of  17  years  for  full-time
labor.” Without Morten’s knowledge, Crouse hired a number
of 15- and 16-year-olds to work at the mill full time. He did
not  ask  their  ages  and  they  did  not  disclose  them.  Crouse
could  have  discovered  their  ages  easily  by  asking  for
identification, but he did not do so because he was not aware
of  the  law  and  believed  that  company  policy  was  to  hire
young people.
If the statute is interpreted to create strict liability and Morten
is convicted of violating it, his contention that his conviction
would violate the federal Constitution is

(A)  correct, because it is a violation of due process to punish

without a voluntary act.

(B)    correct,  because  criminal  liability  is  personal  and  the
Woolen  Company  is  the  employer  of  the  children,  not
Morten.

(C)  incorrect, because regulatory offenses are not subject to

due process limitations.

(D)    incorrect,  because  he  was  in  a  position  to  exercise
control  over  the  hiring  of  employees  for  Woolen
Company.

Answer  4:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Crouse  was  acting  as
Morten’s  agent  in  running  Woolen  Company.  If  a  defendant
principal had no control over whether the agent committed the
crime,  it  might  indeed  be  a  violation  of  the  defendant’s  due
process rights for him to be convicted based on a vicarious-
liability theory; but where the principal had control over the
agent’s  conduct,  vicarious  liability  does  not  pose  a  due

328

process  or  other  constitutional  issue.  Since  Morten  (the
principal) had the ability to exercise control over how Crouse
(the  agent)  ran  the  company,  he  may  constitutionally  be  held
responsible for the criminal acts Crouse performed within the
scope of his agency.

(A)  is  wrong  because  due  process  allows  punishment  of  an
individual (call him “D”) who has not committed a voluntary
act  in  some  circumstances.  For  instance,  if  D  had  the  legal
right  and  responsibility  to  supervise  the  behavior  of  another
person  (call  him  “A”)  and  did  not  do  so,  it  would  not  be  a
violation  of  due  process  for  the  state  to  impose  vicarious
criminal  responsibility  on  D.  Therefore,  vicarious  criminal
liability  of  an  employer  or  supervisor  for  failing  to  prevent
the  criminal  acts  of  a  worker  in  furtherance  of  the  job  does
not violate due process.

(B) is incorrect because hiring the children was a criminal act
on  the  part  of  Crouse.  Therefore  Morten,  who  was  Crouse’s
supervisor  and  could  have  prevented  him  from  doing  such
hiring, can be held criminally liable for Crouse’s crimes that
were committed within the scope of his employment.
(C)  is  wrong  because  due  process  limits  do  apply  even  to
regulatory offenses. For example, some courts have found that
imprisonment for unknowingly committing regulatory offenses
can violate due process.

329

CHAPTER 2
RESPONSIBILITY

I.    THE INSANITY DEFENSE

A.  Tests for insanity

1.  M’Naghten “right from wrong” rule

Question 5: A mental patient suffered from the delusion that
he  was  a  special  agent  of  God.  He  frequently  experienced
hallucinations  in  the  form  of  hearing  divine  commands.  The
mental  patient  believed  that  God  told  him  several  times  that
the local Roman Catholic bishop was corrupting the diocese
into heresy, and that the bishop should be “done away with.”
The  patient,  a  devout  Catholic,  conceived  of  himself  as  a
religious martyr. He knew that shooting bishops for heresy is
against  the  criminal  law.  He  nevertheless  carefully  planned
how he might kill the bishop. One evening the patient shot the
bishop,  who  was  taken  to  the  hospital,  where  he  died  two
weeks later.

The mental patient told the police he assumed the institutions
of society would support the ecclesiastical hierarchy, and he
expected  to  be  persecuted  for  his  God-inspired  actions.  A
psychiatrist  examined  the  patient  and  found  that  he  suffered
from  schizophrenic  psychosis,  that  in  the  absence  of  this
psychosis he would not have shot the bishop, and that because
of  the  psychosis  the  patient  found  it  extremely  difficult  to
determine whether he should obey the specific command that
he  do  away  with  the  bishop  or  the  general  commandment
“Thou shalt not kill.” The patient was charged with murder. If
the patient interposes an insanity defense and the jurisdiction
in which he is tried has adopted only the M’Naghten test of
insanity, then the strongest argument for the defense under that
test is that
(A)    The  patient  did  not  know  the  nature  of  the  act  he  was

performing.

(B)  The patient did not know that his act was morally wrong.
(C)    The  patient  did  not  know  the  quality  of  the  act  he  was

performing.

330

(D)  The patient’s acts were the product of a mental disease.
Answer 5: Choice (B) is correct. Here, it’s key to appreciate
what  the  “best”  defense  will  be:  It  must  be  the  one  that
correctly states the M’Naghten Rule and best corresponds to
the facts given. Under M’Naghten, a person is legally insane
if, at the time of committing the crime, he was acting under a
defect of reason, caused by a disease of the mind, such that he
either (1) was unable to understand the nature and quality of
his actions, OR (2) if he did know the nature and quality, he
was unable to know that what he was doing was wrong. The
“wrong” referred to here is interpreted by most courts to refer
to  legally  wrong,  not  morally  wrong;  however,  some  courts
hold that the inability to know one’s act was morally wrong is
enough to declare one insane. Under the facts in this question,
you  aren’t  told  which  of  these  two  interpretations  the
jurisdiction  follows — “legal”  wrong  or  “moral”  wrong.
Since  there’s  a  chance  it  could  follow  the  “moral”  wrong
option, the mental patient could be exonerated due to insanity:
It’s clear that he could not appreciate the moral wrongness of
his action even though he fully realized it was legally wrong.
Since there’s a possibility that (B) could exonerate the mental
patient,  and  the  other  three  options  do  not  offer  strong
defenses, (B) is the best response.
(A)  is  wrong  because  although,  if  it  were  true,  it  would
exonerate  the  mental  patient  under  the  M’Naghten  Rule,  it
does  not  apply  to  these  facts.  As  described  in  (B)  above,
under M’Naghten, a person is legally insane if, at the time of
the crime, he was acting under a defect of reason, caused by a
disease  of  the  mind,  such  that  he  either  was  unable  to
understand the nature and quality  of  his  actions,  or  if  he  did
know  the  nature  and  quality,  he  was  not  able  to  know  that
what he was doing was wrong. Choice (A), in using the term
“nature,”  is  referring  to  the  “nature  and  quality”  part  of
M’Naghten; thus, this choice is theoretically correct in stating
that  the  inability  to  know  the  nature  of  the  act  performed
would  exonerate  the  patient.  However,  the  nature  of  the  act
performed  refers  to  the  physical  consequences  of  the  act — 
for  instance,  a  man  who  hit  his  wife  in  the  head  with  a
baseball bat, believing her head was a baseball, would have

331

the  requisite  inability  to  understand.  This  is  clearly  not
applicable  to  these  facts,  because  the  patient  knew  that
shooting  the  bishop  was  likely  to  kill  him.  Thus,  the  patient
did  appreciate  the  nature  and  quality  of  his  act,  and  the
statement in Choice (A) cannot exonerate him.

(C)  is  wrong  because  although  if  it  were  true  it  would
exonerate  the  mental  patient  under  the  M’Naghten  Rule,  it
does  not  apply  to  these  facts.  Choice  (C)  is  essentially  a
restatement  of  Choice  (A)  and  is  incorrect  on  the  same
grounds. Choice (C), in using the term “quality,” is referring
to the “nature and quality” part of M’Naghten,  which  refers
to  the  physical  consequences  of  the  act.  This  is  clearly  not
applicable to these facts, because the mental patient knew that
shooting  the  bishop  was  likely  to  kill  him,  meaning  that  he
appreciated the physical consequences of his act.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  a  correct  statement  of  the
M’Naghten  Rule — thus,  even  if  the  mental  patient’s  acts
were the product of a mental disease, as this choice states, he
would  not  be  exonerated  under  M’Naghten.  The  rule  (D)
states  is  the  Durham  Rule,  which  is  followed  by  a  small
minority  of  jurisdictions.  Under  M’Naghten,  even  if  the
patient’s  acts  were  the  product  of  a  mental  disease,  he
wouldn’t  be  exonerated  unless  he  also  satisfied  either  the
“nature  and  quality”  or  “knowledge  of  wrong”  element,  as
described in Choice (B) above.

II.   INTOXICATION

A.  Voluntary intoxication

Question  6:  During  an  altercation  between  two  men  at  a
company  picnic,  the  victim  suffered  a  knife  wound  in  his
abdomen  and  the  defendant  was  charged  with  assault  and
attempted  murder.  At  his  trial,  the  defendant  seeks  to  offer
evidence  that  he  had  been  drinking  at  the  picnic  and  was
highly intoxicated at the time of the altercation.

jurisdiction 

In  a 
the  common-law  rules
concerning  admissibility  of  evidence  of  intoxication,  the
evidence of the defendant’s intoxication should be

that  follows 

332

(A)  admitted without limitation.
(B)  admitted subject to an instruction that it pertains only to

the attempted murder charge.

(C)  admitted subject to an instruction that it pertains only to

the assault charge.
(D)  excluded altogether.
Answer 6: The correct choice is (A). This choice is correct
because  evidence  of  intoxication  might  negate  the  requisite
intent for both crimes. When the defendant is charged with a
crime  that  requires  purpose  or  intent,  evidence  of  voluntary
intoxication  may  be  offered  to  establish  that  the  intoxication
may  have  prevented  the  defendant  from  formulating  the
requisite  intent.  Each  of  the  crimes  charged  here  requires  a
particular  intent.  Assault  requires  an  intent  to  cause  bodily
harm.  Attempted  murder  requires  an  intent  to  kill.  If  the
defendant  was  intoxicated,  this  fact  might  (would  not
necessarily,  but  might)  indicate  that  he  could  not  or  did  not
form the required intent. Therefore, the evidence is relevant to
both  crimes,  and  must  be  admitted  unconditionally  (i.e.,  not
subject to any limiting instruction).

(B), (C), and (D) are all wrong because they are inconsistent
with the above analysis.

333

CHAPTER 3
JUSTIFICATION AND EXCUSE

I.    DURESS

A.  Not available for homicide

Question  7:  Smith  joined  a  neighborhood  gang.  At  a  gang
meeting,  as  part  of  the  initiation  process,  the  leader  ordered
Smith to kill Hardy, a member of a rival gang. Smith refused,
saying  he  no  longer  wanted  to  be  part  of  the  group.  The
leader,  with  the  approval  of  the  other  members,  told  Smith
that he had become too involved with the gang to quit and that
they  would  kill  him  if  he  did  not  accomplish  the  murder  of
Hardy. The next day Smith shot Hardy to death while Hardy
was sitting on his motorcycle outside a restaurant.
Smith  is  charged  with  first-degree  murder.  First-degree
murder  is  defined  in  the  jurisdiction  as  the  intentional
premeditated killing of another. Second-degree murder is all
other murder at common law.

If  Smith  killed  Hardy  because  of  the  threat  to  his  own  life,
Smith should be found

(A)  not guilty, because of the defense of duress.
(B)  not guilty, because of the defense of necessity.
(C)  guilty of first-degree murder.
(D)  guilty of second-degree murder.
Answer  7:  The  correct  choice  is  (C).  Smith  should  be
convicted of first degree murder because he intentionally and
with  premeditation  killed  Hardy.  From  the  facts  given,  it  is
clear  that  Smith  intended  to  kill  Hardy  when  he  shot  him.  In
addition, since Smith waited a full day between being told to
kill Hardy and doing so, he had a reasonable amount of time
to deliberate. If a defendant has a reasonable amount of time
to  think  about  the  decision  to  kill,  the  homicide  will  be
considered  premeditated,  supporting  a  conviction  of  murder
in  the  first  degree.  (As  discussed  below  in  the  analysis  of
choices (A) and (B), no defense applies to this situation.)

334

(A)  is  wrong  because  what  we  care  about  is  whether  the
duress defense will work, and it won’t, for two reasons. First,
duress  is  generally  not  allowed  as  a  defense  when  the
defendant is charged with the intentional killing of another — 
i.e. murder or voluntary manslaughter. Second, Smith was not
in  imminent  danger  when  he  killed  Hardy,  and  duress  only
applies  when  the  defendant  believes  that  if  he  does  not
commit  a  criminal  act  he  will  suffer  immediate  or  imminent
death or serious bodily injury. The gang leader certainly made
threats  that  Smith  could  reasonably  believe  would  have
resulted in his own death. However, there is no indication in
the  facts  given  that  Smith  was  in  fear  of  imminent  death;  at
worst,  Smith  had  fear  of  some  future  harm,  which  is
insufficient to support a claim of duress.

(B) is wrong for two reasons. First, necessity is generally not
allowed as a defense when the defendant is charged with the
intentional  killing  of  another — i.e.,  murder  or  voluntary
manslaughter.  Second,  the  gang  leader’s  threat  was  not  the
type  of  influence  to  which  the  defense  of  necessity  applies.
This question illustrates the distinction between the defenses
of duress and necessity. Duress is available when the threat of
harm  comes  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  by  a  third  party.
Necessity  is  available  when  the  threat  of  harm  is  caused  by
non-human events — for example, sickness or weather. Since
the  gang  leader  is  a  person,  rather  than  a  force  of  nature,
necessity is not a proper defense.

(D) is wrong because, although Smith has met all the elements
required for a conviction of second-degree murder, he would
be  more  properly  convicted  of  the  more  serious  first-degree
murder, as discussed in (C) above.

II.   SELF-DEFENSE

A.  Degree of force

1.  Deadly force

a.  Can’t use deadly force to prevent non-serious harm

Question  8:  Ralph  and  Sam  were  engaged  in  a  heated
their  favorite
discussion  over 

the  relative  merits  of 

335

professional football teams when Ralph said, “You have to be
one  of  the  dumbest  persons  around.”  Sam  slapped  Ralph.
Ralph  drew  a  knife  and  stabbed  Sam  in  the  stomach.  Other
persons  then  stepped  in  and  stopped  any  further  fighting.
Despite the pleas of the other persons, Sam refused to go to a
hospital or to seek medical treatment. About two hours later,
he  died  as  the  result  of  a  loss  of  blood.  Ralph  was  charged
with 
trial,  medical  evidence
established that if Sam had been taken to a hospital, he would
have survived.

the  murder  of  Sam.  At 

At  the  end  of  the  case,  Ralph  moves  for  a  judgment  of
acquittal  or,  in  the  alternative,  for  an  instruction  on  the
elements of voluntary manslaughter.

The court should

(A)   grant the motion for acquittal.
(B) 

  deny  the  motion  for  acquittal,  but  instruct  on
manslaughter  because  there  is  evidence  of  adequate
provocation.

(C)  deny both motions, because Ralph failed to retreat.
(D)  deny both motions, because malice may be proved by the
intentional use of a deadly weapon on a vital part of the
body.

Answer  8:  Choice  (C)  is  incorrect,  because  the  issue  of
retreat would never even arise. Before the duty to retreat (in a
jurisdiction  imposing  it)  could  ever  make  a  difference,  D
would have to be entitled to use deadly force in self-defense.
Here,  Sam’s  slap  neither  caused  Ralph  serious  bodily  harm
nor gave Ralph reason to fear serious bodily harm in the near
future.  Therefore,  Ralph  was  not  privileged  to  respond  with
deadly force. Since the duty to retreat (even if the jurisdiction
imposes  it)  only  makes  a  difference  where  defendant  would
otherwise be entitled to use deadly force, Ralph’s loss of the
motion  of  acquittal  couldn’t  be  due  to  his  “fail[ure]  to
retreat.” (It’s not clear what the best answer is — all the other
three choices were accepted by the examiners.)

B.  Effect of mistake

1.  Reasonable

336

 
Question  9:  While  walking  home  one  evening,  Harold,  an
off-duty  police  officer,  was  accosted  by  Jones,  a  stranger.
Jones had been drinking and mistakenly thought Harold was a
man  who  was  having  an  affair  with  his  wife.  Intending  to
frighten Harold but not to harm him, Jones pulled out a knife,
screamed  obscenities,  and  told  Harold  he  was  going  to  kill
him. Frightened and reasonably believing Jones was going to
kill  him  and  that  using  deadly  force  was  his  only  salvation,
Harold  took  out  his  service  revolver  and  shot  and  killed
Jones. Harold is charged with murder.

Harold’s claim of self-defense should be

(A)    sustained,  because  Harold  reasonably  believed  Jones
was  planning  to  kill  him  and  that  deadly  force  was
required.

(B)    sustained,  because  the  killing  was  in  hot  blood  upon

sufficient provocation.

(C)    denied,  because  Jones  did  not  in  fact  intend  to  harm
Harold  and  Harold  was  incorrect  in  believing  that  he
did.

(D)  denied, because Harold was not defending his home and
had  an  obligation  to  retreat  or  to  repel  with  less  than
deadly force.

Answer  9:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Harold’s  claim  of  self-
defense is valid because he reasonably believed that his life
was in danger and that the use of deadly force was required to
save  his  own  life.  Self-defense  is  a  complete  defense  to  a
charge  of  murder.  For  the  defense  to  be  applicable,  the
defendant  must  believe  that  he  had  to  use  force  to  protect
himself  from  the  danger.  The  belief  must  meet  both  an
objective  and  a  subjective  test:  The  defendant  must  actually
believe that he was in danger (subjective) and that belief must
be  reasonable  (objective).  Here,  we  are  told  that  Harold
reasonably believed that Jones was going to kill him, so both
the objective and subjective tests are satisfied.

Even  if  a  claim  of  self-defense  is  valid,  the  court  must  still
determine if the degree of force used was excessive. One may
only  use  deadly  force  in  self-defense  if  one  reasonably
believes  that  (1)  the  attack  carries  the  threat  of  death  or

337

serious bodily harm, and (2) nothing less than deadly force is
likely  to  repel  the  threat.  Here,  Harold’s  reasonable  belief
was that Jones intended to kill him, and Harold believed that
deadly  force  would  be  his  “only  salvation,”  so  these  two
requirements regarding deadly force are satisfied.

The fact that Harold was mistaken (but reasonably so) on this
point does not deprive him of the defense of self-defense, or
of the right to use deadly force.

(B) is wrong because “provocation” is not an element of self-
defense.  Self-defense  is  a  complete  defense,  which  applies
when a defendant uses a reasonable level of force in response
to a reasonably feared threat. Provocation, on the other hand,
is  a  partial  defense  which  applies  when  a  defendant  uses
force  because  something  causes  him  to  lose  self-control.  A
defense  based  on  provocation  would  not  be  used  if  the
defendant  was  entitled,  as  Harold  is  here,  to  assert  the
complete defense of self-defense.

(C) is wrong because, when analyzing self-defense claims, it
is  the  defendant’s  state  of  mind,  not  the  victim’s  that  is
important. The issue is not whether Jones actually intended to
harm Harold, but rather whether Harold was reasonable in his
(admittedly mistaken) belief that James intended to attack.
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  obligation  to  retreat  is  only
triggered  when  the  defendant  believes  that  he  may  retreat  to
complete  safety.  Here,  Harold  believed  that  his  “only
salvation”  was  the  use  of  deadly  force,  which  indicates  that
he  did  not  believe  that  retreat  was  possible.  Even  if  Harold
were  mistaken  in  his  belief,  so  long  as  that  mistake  was
reasonable, he had no obligation to retreat. (Note: Only some
states  require  that  a  defendant  retreat  before  using  deadly
force  in  self-defense.  And,  by  the  way,  retreat  is  never
required before the use of non-deadly force in self-defense.)

III.  ENTRAPMENT

A.  “Predisposition” test

Question 10: Kingsley was prosecuted for selling cocaine to
an  undercover  police  agent.  At  his  trial,  he  testified  that  he

338

only  sold  the  drugs  to  the  agent,  whom  Kingsley  knew  as
“Speedy,”  because  Speedy  had  told  him  that  he  (Speedy)
would be killed by fellow gang members unless he supplied
them  with  cocaine.  The  prosecution  did  not  cross-examine
Kingsley.  As  rebuttal  evidence,  however,  the  prosecutor
introduced  records,  over  Kingsley’s  objection,  showing  that
Kingsley  had  two  prior  convictions  for  narcotics-related
offenses. The court instructed the jury concerning the defense
of entrapment and added, also over Kingsley’s objection but
in accord with state law, that it should acquit on the ground of
entrapment only if it found that the defendant had established
the  elements  of  the  defense  by  a  preponderance  of  the
evidence. Kingsley was convicted.

On appeal, Kingsley’s conviction should be

(A)  reversed, because it was an error for the court to admit
the  evidence  of  his  prior  convictions  as  substantive
evidence.

(B)    reversed,  because  it  was  a  violation  of  due  process  to
impose on the defense a burden of persuasion concerning
entrapment.

(C)  reversed, for both of the above reasons.
(D)  affirmed, because neither of the above reasons constitutes

a ground for reversal.

Answer  10:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Neither  of  the  reasons
listed in (A) and (B) constitutes a ground for reversal.

(A)  is  wrong  because  where  entrapment  is  at  issue,  the
prosecution  must  prove  that  the  defendant  was  disposed  to
commit  the  criminal  act  prior  to  first  being  approached  by
government  agents.  This  may  be  done  by  showing  the
defendant’s  prior  crimes  that  are  related  to  or  similar  to  the
instant  offense.  (Generally,  evidence  of  a  person’s  other
crimes  or  acts  is  inadmissible  to  show  action  in  conformity
with  the  person’s  character.  FRE  404(b).  However,  such
other-crimes evidence would be admissible here to show that
a defense [entrapment] now being asserted lacks merit.)
(B) is wrong because entrapment is an affirmative defense. A
defendant  may  constitutionally  be  required  to  bear  both  the
burden  of  coming  forward  with  some  evidence  as  to  an

339

affirmative  defense,  and  the  burden  of  non-persuasion  (by  a
preponderance of the evidence) as to such a defense.

(C)  is  wrong  because  neither  of  the  reasons  constitutes  a
ground for reversal, as explained in (A) and (B).

340

CHAPTER 4
ATTEMPT

I.    IMPOSSIBILITY

A.  Factual impossibility

1.  Not accepted

a.  Combined with accomplice liability

Question 11: A woman promised to pay $10,000 to a hit man
if he would kill her neighbor in any manner that could not be
traced  to  her.  The  hit  man  bought  a  gun  and  watched  the
neighbor’s  house  for  an  opportunity  to  shoot  him.  One
evening,  unaware  of  the  hit  man’s  presence,  the  neighbor
tripped  as  he  was  walking  toward  his  house,  falling  and
hitting  his  head  against  the  front  steps.  Believing  that  the
neighbor  was  unconscious,  the  hit  man  ran  over  to  him  and
shot him twice in the chest.

When the woman learned of the neighbor’s death, she paid the
hit  man  $10,000.  A  medical  examiner  determined  that  the
neighbor was already dead when the hit man shot him.
The  crimes  below  are  listed  in  descending  order  of
seriousness.

What is the most serious crime for which the woman properly
could be convicted?

(A)  Murder.
(B)  Attempted murder.
(C)  Conspiracy.
(D)  Solicitation.
Answer 11:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Let’s  start  with  murder.
One theory under which the woman might be guilty of murder
would be on an accomplice theory, that she aided and abetted
the hit man to commit murder — if he is substantively liable
for murder, so is she as his accomplice. But the hit man is not
guilty of murder, because, as a factual matter, he did not cause
the  neighbor’s  death.  (You  cannot  cause  the  death  of  another
by taking an action after the other is already dead.) Since the

341

hit man is not guilty of murder, the woman can’t be guilty of it
either, on an accomplice theory. What about the woman’s guilt
of murder as a principal? Well, she can’t be guilty of murder
unless  she  played  some  causal  role  in  bringing  about  the
death; since the neighbor would have died in exactly the same
way  if  the  woman  had  not  recruited  the  hit  man,  the  woman
was not a cause-in-fact of the death, and therefore cannot be
liable for murder as a principal.

Now,  what  about  attempted  murder?  The  woman  has
certainly  tried  to  bring  about  a  murder,  and  has  caused
various  acts  to  occur  towards  fulfillment  of  that  objective
(e.g., the hit man’s lying in wait). So she is guilty of attempted
murder  unless  some  special  doctrine  helps  her.  The  only
doctrine that’s even of remotely plausible help to her here is
the  defense  of  “factual  impossibility” — can  either  the
woman or the hit man succeed with the argument that “It was
impossible  for  us  to  kill  the  neighbor  since  he  was  already
dead, making an attempted-murder conviction improper”? The
answer is no: The factual impossibility defense is rejected by
virtually every modern court. That is, where a defendant had
an intent to commit crime X, and took actions that would have
led to a completed crime X if external reality had been as the
defendant  mistakenly  believed  it  to  be,  the  fact  that  the
defendant could never have succeeded in completing crime X
because  external  reality  made  such  success  impossible  does
not  constitute  a  defense.  Clearly  the  hit  man’s  actions  and
intent  here  were  such  that  had  the  facts  been  as  the  hit  man
believed (i.e., the neighbor was only unconscious, not dead),
the hit man would have been guilty of murder. Therefore, the
hit  man  is  guilty  of  attempted  murder,  and  the  factual
impossibility  defense  won’t  work  to  save  him.  Since  the
woman urged the hit man to take the action he took, and since
the woman, too, had an intent to kill, she is guilty of attempted
murder  on  an  accomplice  theory.  The  factual  impossibility
defense doesn’t work any better for her as an accomplice than
it does for the hit man as a principal.
(A) is wrong because the woman cannot be guilty of murder,
since  the  hit  man  did  not  in  fact  cause  the  neighbor’s  death.
See Choice (B) for further analysis of why this is so.

342

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  woman  can  be  convicted  of
attempted  murder,  which  the  question  tells  us  is  a  more
serious  crime  than  conspiracy.  (But  the  woman  can  also  be
convicted  of  conspiracy  to  commit  murder,  since  she  agreed
with another to try to bring about a murder.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  woman  can  be  convicted  of
attempted  murder,  which  the  question  tells  us  is  a  more
serious  crime  than  solicitation.  (But  the  woman  can  also  be
convicted of solicitation, since she tried to persuade another
to commit a crime.)

b.  Robbery cases where V is not intimidated

two 

Question  12:  Robert  walked  into  a  store  that  had  a  check-
cashing  service  and  tried  to  cash  a  $550  check  which  was
payable  to  him.  The  attendant  on  duty  refused  to  cash  the
check  because  Robert  did  not  have 
forms  of
identification,  which  the  store’s  policies  required.  Robert,
who had no money except for the check and who needed cash
to pay for food and a place to sleep, became agitated. He put
his hand into his pocket and growled, “Give me the money or
I’ll  start  shooting.”  The  attendant,  who  knew  Robert  as  a
neighborhood character. did not believe that he was violent or
had  a  gun.  However,  because  the  attendant  felt  sorry  for
Robert, he handed over the cash. Robert left the check on the
counter and departed. The attendant picked up the check and
found that Robert had failed to endorse it.

                    If Robert is guilty of any crime, he is most likely

guilty of
(A)  robbery.
(B)  attempted robbery.
(C)  theft by false pretenses.
(D)  larceny by trick.
Answer  12:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  For  a  defendant  to  be
convicted  of  attempting  a  particular  substantive  crime,  he
must  have  had  the  intent  to  do  acts  which,  if  they  had  been
carried  out,  would  have  resulted  in  the  commission  of  that
crime. Robert pretended to have a gun and threatened to shoot
the  attendant  if  he  didn’t  hand  over  the  money.  The  fact  that
Robert’s threat was not real (because he didn’t have a gun) or

343

taken  seriously  by  the  attendant  would  not  negate  Robert’s
intent to cause the attendant to be afraid and to cause him to
hand over the money. Therefore, it is possible that he would
be  guilty  of  attempted  robbery.  Although  this  is  not  entirely
clear from the circumstances of the case (he might be able to
defend on the grounds that he wasn’t trying to take “property
of another” since he was giving equal value in the form of the
check),  of  the  choices  given,  this  would  be  the  most  likely
crime he would be guilty of if he were guilty of any crime.

(A) is wrong because property was not taken by using force
or by putting the owner in fear. The elements of robbery are
that (1) property is taken from the person or presence of the
owner;  and  (2)  the  taking  is  accomplished  by  using  force  or
putting  the  owner  in  fear.  A  threat  of  harm  will  suffice.  It  is
not required that the victim be afraid, only that he be placed in
apprehension  of  harm.  However,  since  the  attendant  knew
Robert  as  a  neighborhood  character  and  did  not  believe  that
he  was  violent  or  had  a  gun,  he  was  not  placed  in
apprehension of harm under these circumstances.

(C) is wrong because it is required that the person intend to
defraud  and  that  his  misrepresentation  cause  the  person  to
whom it was made to pass title to the property. The elements
of  the  crime  are:  (1)  a  false  representation  (2)  of  a  material
present or past fact (3) which causes the person to whom it is
made (4) to pass title to (5) his property to the misrepresenter
who (6) knows that his representation is false, and intends to
defraud.  Robert  pretended  to  have  a  gun  and  threatened  to
shoot.  He  did  make  a  misrepresentation  (that  he  had  a  gun),
but  he  intended  to  make  a  transaction,  where  he  would
relinquish his check in return for getting money. The fact that
he  did  not  endorse  the  check  is  not  proof  of  his  intent  to
defraud because it might have been a careless mistake. Also,
his misrepresentation did not cause the attendant to give him
the  cash — the  attendant  knew  he  didn’t  have  a  gun  and
merely felt sorry for him.
(D) is wrong because of the same reasons that Robert is not
guilty of the crime of false pretenses, as discussed in Choice
C.  Robert  did  not  have  the  intent  to  defraud  nor  was  the
property  turned  over  as  a  result  of  the  fact  that  Robert

344

pretended to have a gun and threatened to use it. Larceny by
trick  differs  from  false  pretenses  in  that  it  requires  only  that
possession  has  passed  (not  title)  and  also  requires  that  the
property be converted in some way as to deprive its owner of
much of its utility. It does not apply in this situation.

B.  “True legal” impossibility

1.  Arson on the MBE

Question  13:  Arnold  decided  to  destroy  an  old  warehouse
that he owned because the taxes on the structure exceeded the
income  that  he  could  receive  from  it.  He  crept  into  the
building in the middle of the night with a can of gasoline and a
fuse  and  set  the  fuse  timer  for  30  minutes.  He  then  left  the
building.  The  fuse  failed  to  ignite,  and  the  building  was  not
harmed.

Arson  is  defined  in  this  jurisdiction  as  “The  intentional
burning  of  any  building  or  structure  of  another,  without  the
consent  of  the  owner.”  Arnold  believed,  however,  that
burning  one’s  own  building  was  arson,  having  been  so
advised by his lawyer.

Has Arnold committed attempted arson?

(A)  Yes, because factual impossibility is no defense.
(B)  Yes, because a mistake of law even on the advice of an

attorney is no defense.

(C)  No, because his mistake negated a necessary mental state.
(D)  No, because even if his actions had every consequence he

intended, they would not have constituted arson.

Answer  13:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Arnold  is  not  guilty  of
attempted arson because, even if his actions had their desired
result, a crime would not have been committed. This question
involves the issue of legal impossibility, which applies when
a  defendant  is  mistaken  about  what  type  of  conduct  a  statute
prohibits.  A  defendant  is  not  guilty  of  attempt  when,  had  the
attempt  been  successful,  no  crime  would  have  been
committed,  regardless  of  whether  the  defendant  in  fact
believed  he  was  committing  a  crime.  Although  Arnold
intended to burn the warehouse down, believing that doing so
would  be  a  crime,  had  everything  gone  as  planned,  he  still

345

wouldn’t  have  committed  arson  because  the  statute  specifies
that an owner can’t be guilty of burning his own building.

(A)  is  wrong  because  Arnold’s  mistake  was  about  the  law,
not about a fact. Factual impossibility arises when some fact,
unknown  to  the  defendant,  makes  it  impossible  to  complete
the  crime  that  the  defendant  intended  to  commit.  Factual
impossibility  is  not  accepted  as  a  defense  to  attempt.  For
example,  had  Arnold  believed  the  warehouse  to  belong  to
someone  else  while  it  in  fact  belonged  to  him,  he  would  be
guilty  of  attempted  arson  despite  the  fact  that  had  he
succeeded  in  burning  the  building,  the  completed  act  would
not have been arson. In that example Arnold would be guilty
of attempt because, had the facts been as he believed them to
be, his actions would have been a crime. In the problem itself,
Arnold  was  not  mistaken  about  any  material  fact.  He  knew
that he owned the warehouse and he knew that he was trying
to  burn  it  down.  Therefore  factual  impossibility  is  not  at
issue.

(B) is wrong because, while it is true that mistake of law is
not  a  defense,  Arnold’s  mistake  wouldn’t  help  him  in  any
event.  This  “defense”  is  tried  (unsuccessfully)  by  those  who
have committed a criminal act, but believed their actions not
to have been prohibited, as a means to show they lacked the
mens  rea  to  commit  the  crime.  Arnold’s  situation  is  the
opposite. He believed his act to be a crime when it was not
prohibited  by  the  statute.  Therefore  his  mistake  would  not
tend to negate the mens rea required for arson.

(C)  is  wrong  because  mental  state  is  independent  of  any
outside  factual  or  legal  circumstances.  The  mental  state
required for arson, as defined in the given statute, is intent to
burn. Arnold certainly intended to burn the warehouse, so he
possessed the required mental state to commit arson.

346

CHAPTER 5
CONSPIRACY

I.    THE CONSPIRATORIAL OBJECTIVE

A.  Substantive liability without “aiding and abetting”

1.  Traditional view

Question  14:  Two  brothers  operated  an  illicit  still.  They
customarily  sold  to  anyone  unless  they  suspected  the  person
of  being  a  revenue  agent  or  an  informant.  One  day  when  the
older brother was at the still alone, he was approached by a
man who asked to buy a gallon of liquor. The man was in fact
a  revenue  officer.  After  the  older  brother  had  sold  him  the
liquor,  the  officer  revealed  his  identity.  The  older  brother
grabbed a pistol from his desk drawer, and shot and wounded
the officer. The older brother had kept the pistol, unbeknownst
to the younger brother, in case someone should try to rob the
still.  After  the  shooting,  other  revenue  agents,  hiding  nearby,
overpowered and arrested the older brother.

Shortly thereafter, the younger brother came on the scene. The
revenue  agents  in  hiding  had  been  waiting  for  him.  One  of
them  approached  him  and  asked  to  buy  liquor.  The  younger
brother  was  suspicious  and  refused  to  sell.  The  revenue
agents nevertheless arrested him.

The  two  brothers  were  charged  with  conspiracy  to  violate
revenue  laws,  illegal  selling  of  liquor,  and  battery  of  the
officer.

On the charge of battery, which statement concerning the two
brothers is true?
(A)  Neither is guilty.
(B)  Both are guilty.
(C)    The  older  brother  is  guilty  but  the  younger  one  is  not,
because the conspiracy had terminated with the arrest of
the older one.

(D)    The  older  brother  is  guilty  but  the  younger  one  is  not,
because the older one’s act was outside the scope of the
conspiracy.

347

Answer  14:  The  correct  choice  is  (D).  The  key  here  is
identifying the scope of the conspiracy. Under the facts given,
the older brother is clearly liable for battery, since a battery
is the unlawful application of force to the person of another,
resulting in bodily injury or offensive touching. There was no
excuse  or  justification  for  his  doing  so.  However,  if  the
conspiracy to make and sell liquor had a scope large enough
to include the shooting, the younger brother would be liable
as well. That’s because at common law, one co-conspirator is
liable  for  any  substantive  crimes  committed  by  another  co-
conspirator,  if  the  crimes  were  “within  the  scope  of  the
conspiracy.”  But  for  this  purpose,  the  scope  of  a  conspiracy
includes  only  crimes  that  (1)  were  committed  in  furtherance
of  the  conspiracy’s  objectives;  and  (2)  were  “natural  and
probable consequences” of the conspiracy, viewed from the
position  of  the  non-committing  conspirator  prior  to  the
commission  of  the  crime  in  question  (i.e.,  crimes  the
commission of which were reasonably foreseeable to the non-
committing conspirator). Here, the goal of the conspiracy was
to make and sell liquor, not to shoot revenue agents. There are
the  younger  brother’s
that  from 
no  facts 
perspective, shooting revenue agents would or might be part
of  the  liquor-selling  venture.  (The  younger  brother  is
similarly  innocent  as  an  aider-and-abetter,  since  he  didn’t
procure,  counsel  or  command  the  older  brother  to  shoot  the
officer; in fact, the younger brother didn’t intend for the older
brother to shoot the officer at all.)

to  suggest 

(A), (B), and (C) are wrong because each is inconsistent with
the above analysis.

II.   PLURALITY

A.  Inconsistent disposition

1.  One is member of protected class

a.  Common-law view

Question 15:  A  young  man,  who  was  18  years  old,  and  his
14-year-old girlfriend, made plans to meet in the young man’s
apartment to have sexual intercourse, and they then carried out

348

their  plan.  The  girlfriend  later  told  her  mother  about  the
incident. The young man was charged with statutory rape and
conspiracy to commit statutory rape.

In  the  jurisdiction,  the  age  of  consent  is  15,  and  the  law  of
conspiracy is the same as at common law. The young man was
convicted  of  both  charges  and  given  consecutive  sentences.
On appeal, he contends that his conspiracy conviction should
be reversed. That conviction should be

(A)  affirmed, because he agreed with his girlfriend to commit

(B) 

the crime.
  reversed,  because  the  girlfriend  could  not  be  a
conspirator to this crime.

(C)    reversed,  because  the  crime  is  one  that  can  only  be
committed  by  agreement  and  thus  Wharton’s  Rule  bars
conspiracy liability.

(D)  reversed, because one cannot conspire with a person too

young to consent.

Answer 15:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Members  of  a  protected
class cannot be members of a conspiracy to commit the crime
that  is  designed  to  protect  that  class  of  people.  At  common
law (as the facts specify to be the relevant law of conspiracy)
if only two people are involved, the person who is not in the
protected class cannot be guilty of criminal conspiracy on the
basis  of  an  agreement  with  a  member  in  the  protected  class,
since  there  must  be  at  least  two  members  of  the  conspiracy
(this  is  the  “plurality”  requirement).  The  girl,  as  a  14-year-
old, was part of the class the statute was designed to protect,
and so could not be a member of a conspiracy to commit the
crime. Because, under these facts, there are only two parties
involved  and  one  could  not  be  a  party  to  a  conspiracy,  the
man  could  not  be  guilty  of  conspiracy  either,  under  the
common-law  approach.  (Under  the  Model  Penal  Code’s
“unilateral”  approach,  by  contrast,  as  long  as  two  people
agreed to commit a crime, the fact that one was a member of
the  protected  class  would  not  prevent  the  other  from  being
convicted.)
(A)  is  wrong  because,  as  described  in  the  analysis  of  (B)
above,  where  two  people  are  charged  with  common-law

349

conspiracy and one is not guilty because she is a member of
the protected class, the other cannot be guilty either.

(C)  is  wrong  because  Wharton’s  Rule  does  not  apply  to
offenses  that  can  possibly  be  committed  by  a  single  person.
Wharton’s Rule says that where an offense is defined so as to
necessarily  require  the  guilty  participation  of  more  than  one
person,  and  no  more  than  the  logically  minimum  number  of
participants  are  involved,  a  charge  of  conspiracy  to  commit
that  offense  cannot  be  brought,  because  every  substantive
violation  would  logically  include  a  conspiracy.  (Example:
There  can  be  no  conspiracy  to  commit  adultery,  if  just  one
man and one woman are charged.) However, statutory rape is
not an offense so defined that more than one person’s knowing
and  guilty  participation  is  required.  It’s  true  that  two  people
must  be  “involved,”  but  by  definition  one  of  those  two  is  a
minor who cannot give consent. In other words, the over-age
person  can  be  (and  usually  is)  the  only  person  guilty  of  the
substantive crime of statutory rape. Therefore, the crime is not
the  type  of  “two  or  more  participants  logically  required”
crime to which Wharton’s Rule applies.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  answer  incorrectly  states  the  law.
Conspiracy is an agreement between two or more persons to
accomplish  some  criminal  or  unlawful  purpose.  The  man’s
conviction  should  be  reversed,  but  not  for  the  reason  given,
which  is  a  misstatement  of  the  law.  One  can  conspire  with
someone too young to consent, provided the person below the
age  of  consent  meets  the  mental  requirements  for  the
substantive  crime  that  is  the  object  of  the  conspiracy.  For
instance,  the  man  could  conspire  with  the  girl  to  commit
robbery  or  some  other  crime.  What  the  man  could  not  do  is
conspire  with  the  girl  to  commit  statutory  rape,  because  the
girl is a member of the class the law is intended to protect (as
described in the analysis of Choice (B)).

b.  Modern/Model Penal Code “unilateral” view

Question  16:  A  foreign  diplomat  discovered  that  a  small
person could enter a jewelry store by crawling through an air
vent.  The  diplomat  became  friendly  with  a  woman  in  a  bar
who  he  believed  was  small  enough  to  crawl  through  the  air
vent. Without telling her that he was a diplomat, he explained

350

how she could get into the jewelry store. She agreed to help
him  burglarize 
their
conversation and reported it to the police. Shortly thereafter,
the  police  arrested  the  diplomat  and  the  woman.  Both  were
charged with conspiracy to commit burglary.

store.  Someone  overheard 

the 

Before trial, the diplomat moved to dismiss the charge against
him on the ground that he was entitled to diplomatic immunity.
The  court  granted  his  motion.  The  woman  then  moved  to
dismiss the conspiracy charge against her.

The  jurisdiction  has  adopted  the  Model  Penal  Code  version
of conspiracy.

Should the woman’s motion to dismiss the conspiracy charge
against her be granted?

(A)  No, because the diplomat’s defense does not negate any

element of the crime.

(B)  No, because the woman was not aware of the diplomat’s

(C) 

status.
  Yes,  because  a  conspiracy  requires 
participants.

two  guilty

(D)    Yes,  because  but  for  the  diplomat’s  conduct,  no

conspiracy would have occurred.

interpretation  of  conspiracy.  Where 

Answer  16:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Model  Penal  Code  §
5.03(1), by defining conspiracy as requiring agreement by the
defendant  but  not  by  two  or  more  persons,  adopts  a
the
“unilateral” 
unilateral  interpretation  is  applied,  as  long  as  one  defendant
meets  all  requirements  for  conspiracy  (e.g.,  guilty  mind  plus
agreement  with  another),  that  defendant  may  be  convicted
though  no  other  defendant  could  be  convicted.
even 
(Furthermore, 
in  some
the  common-law  bilateral
jurisdictions 
interpretation 
unilateral
interpretation. That’s because in many such jurisdictions, the
fact that one co-conspirator has a special “personal” defense,
like 
immunity  here,  does  not  prevent
conviction of a co-conspirator who does not benefit from that
defense. See Lafave, Criminal Law, § 6.5(g).)
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  cites  an  irrelevant  fact.  The  woman

the  woman  might 
follow 
that 

the  diplomatic 

the  M.P.C.’s 

lose  even 

rather 

than 

351

would  not  be  entitled  to  dismissal  even  if  she  knew  of  the
diplomat’s  status,  because  the  diplomat’s  capacity  to  be
convicted  of  the  crime  would  be  irrelevant  in  a  jurisdiction
that adopted a unilateral view of conspiracy. And the M.P.C.
adopts a unilateral view.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  M.P.C.’s  definition  of
conspiracy.  Section  5.03(1)  of  the  M.P.C.,  which  defines
conspiracy,  does  not  require  that  there  be  two  guilty
participants.  All  that  the  M.P.C.  requires  is  that  (1)  there  be
two  persons  who  appear  to  agree  to  pursue  a  criminal
objective,  and  (2)  the  particular  defendant  being  prosecuted
have  a  guilty  mind.  So  if  X  and  Y  appear  to  agree  to  a
conspiratorial  objective,  the  fact  that  Y  has  some  personal
defense  (such  as  the  diplomatic  immunity  here)  does  not
prevent  X  from  being  convicted,  as  long  as  X  meets  all  the
requirements for conspiracy (e.g., a guilty mind, and absence
of any personal defense).

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  “but-for”  factor  that  it  cites  is
irrelevant.  The  woman  can  properly  be  convicted  because,
regardless of the diplomat’s immunity, she agreed to commit a
crime.  See  M.P.C.  §  5.03(1).  The  fact  that  the  diplomat’s
conduct was a but-for cause of the conspiracy is irrelevant. (If
the  diplomat  had  been  acting  as  an  agent  of  the  government,
and  in  order  to  get  a  conviction  for  the  government  had
persuaded the woman to agree to a crime that she would not
have  agreed  to  without  the  diplomat’s  suggestion,  then  the
woman  might  have  a  valid  entrapment  defense.  But  there  is
no suggestion in these facts that that’s what happened here.)

III.  PUNISHMENT

A.  Cumulative sentencing allowed

Question 17:  Jackson  and  Brannick  planned  to  break  into  a
federal  government  office  to  steal  food  stamps.  Jackson
telephoned  Crowley  one  night  and  asked  whether  Crowley
wanted  to  buy  some  “hot”  food  stamps.  Crowley,  who
understood  that  “hot”  meant  stolen,  said,  “Sure,  bring  them
right over.” Jackson and Brannick then successfully executed
their scheme. That same night they delivered the food stamps

352

to Crowley, who bought them for $500. Crowley did not ask
when  or  by  whom  the  stamps  were  stolen.  All  three  were
arrested. Jackson and Brannick entered guilty pleas in federal
court  to  a  charge  of  larceny  in  connection  with  the  theft.
Crowley was never charged with anything.

If Jackson and Brannick are charged with conspiracy to steal
the  stamps  in  the  state  court,  they  should,  on  the  evidence
stated, be found

(A)    not  guilty,  because  the  charge  of  conspiracy  is  a  lesser

included offense in the charge of larceny.

(B)    not  guilty,  because  to  charge  them  with  conspiracy  after
their  conviction  of  larceny  would  constitute  double
jeopardy.

(C)  not guilty, because the state prosecution is barred by the

prosecution in federal court.

(D)    guilty,  because  they  planned  and  conspired  to  steal  the

stamps.

Answer  17:  The  correct  choice  is  (D).  Conspiracy  is  a
distinct offense which is not merged into the crime which is
the  object  of  the  conspiracy.  A  conspiracy  requires  an
agreement between at least two people, an intent to enter into
such  an  agreement,  and  the  intent  to  achieve  the  agreement’s
unlawful objective (or, at common law, a lawful ultimate act
to be done unlawfully). The conspiracy is complete once the
agreement is entered into, at common law (the modern rule is
to require an act in furtherance of the conspiracy); it does not
encompass the ultimate act.

(A)  is  wrong  for  the  same  reason  that  (D)  is  correct:
Conspiracy  is  a  distinct  offense  that  is  not  merged  into  the
crime which is the object of the conspiracy. If you chose this
response,  it  could  be  because  you  confused  conspiracy  with
attempt. Attempt is merged into the completed crime, so that
the  accused  can  only  be  convicted  of  attempt  OR  the
completed offense, but not both. But conspiracy is a separate
and distinct offense, which doesn’t merge into the completed
crime.
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law,  and  arrives  at  an
incorrect result: In fact, conspiracy is a separate and distinct

353

offense from the crime which is the object of the conspiracy.
Thus, being tried for it after pleading guilty to larceny would
not  be  considered  double  jeopardy.  Double  jeopardy  only
attaches when two prosecutions meet two requirements: They
must be based  on  the  same  conduct,  AND  proof  of  the  facts
needed  for  one  must  necessarily  include  proof  of  all  facts
needed  for  the  other.  Conspiracy  focuses  on  the  agreement
aspect, and is complete once the agreement is made; larceny
requires  the  actual  larcenous  taking  of  the  stamps  (without
requiring any prior agreement between the participants).

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law.  The  facts  in  this
problem  suggest  that  the  latter  prosecution  would  not  be
barred. A state prosecution after a federal prosecution would
be forbidden under two circumstances: double jeopardy, or a
kind  of  collateral  estoppel  because  the  earlier,  federal
prosecution was resolved in defendant’s favor due to a factual
finding  that  would  bar  a  later  conviction  in  state  court  (e.g.,
an alibi was upheld). Neither of these exist under these facts.
Larceny and conspiracy are two separate and distinct crimes,
and  the  proof  that  would  be  necessary  for  them  would  be
largely  different.  Double  jeopardy  would  not  attach  to  the
federal larceny conviction (see the discussion of this point in
Choice  (B)  above),  and  there  is  nothing  under  these  facts  to
issue  precludes
suggest 
conviction in the later state prosecution.

that  resolution  of  any  factual 

354

CHAPTER 6
ACCOMPLICE LIABILITY AND
SOLICITATION

I.    ACCOMPLICES — THE ACT REQUIREMENT

A.  Liability for aiding and abetting

1.  Words alone

Question 18: A young man met the victim, whom he hated, in
the  street  outside  a  bar  and  began  to  push  him  around.  The
defendant, an older man who also hated the victim, stopped to
watch  and  shouted  to  the  young  man,  “Kill  him.”  The  young
man stabbed and killed the victim.
On a charge of murdering the victim, the defendant is

(A)  not guilty, because his words did not create a “clear and

present danger” not already existing.

(B)    not  guilty,  because  a  person’s  mere  presence  and  oral
encouragement, whether or not he has the requisite intent,
will not make him guilty as an accomplice.

(C)  guilty, because, with the intent to have the young man kill
the  victim,  the  defendant  shouted  encouragement  to  the
young man.

(D)    guilty,  because  he  aided  and  abetted  the  murder  through
his mere presence plus his intent to see the victim killed.
Answer  18:  The  correct  choice  is  (C).  One  is  liable  for  a
crime,  as  an  accomplice,  if  he  procures,  counsels,  or
commands the commission of that crime. Naturally, this would
require that he intend that the crime be committed. Here, the
defendant’s  liability  would  rest  on  his  statement  “Kill  him.”
Intent could be established by presumption, since a person of
sufficient intelligence to understand the nature of his actions is
presumed to intend the natural and probable consequences of
his actions. Here, the defendant encouraged the young man to
kill the victim, so it could be said that the defendant intended
that the young man kill the victim. Furthermore, his statement
the
would  be  considered  counseling  or  commanding 

355

commission of the crime of murder. As a result, the defendant
will be liable as an accomplice for murder.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  arrives  at  the  wrong  result,  and  it
applies the wrong rule to these facts. The “clear and present
danger” test is the test used to determine the validity, for First
Amendment  purposes,  of  a  law  designed  to  forbid  advocacy
of  unlawful  conduct.  It  provides  that  advocacy  can  only  be
forbidden  if  its  aim  is  to  produce  or  incite  imminent  illegal
action,  and  it  is  likely  to  produce  or  incite  such  action.
Whether  the  defendant’s  speech  is  protected  by  the  First
Amendment is not the issue here; instead, the issue is whether
the  defendant  can  be  held  liable  for  murder  for  encouraging
the young man to kill the victim. Since A does not apply the
correct rule, and, beyond that, arrives at the wrong result, it’s
wrong.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it’s  too  broad.  Given  the  requisite
intent, “mere presence and oral encouragement” are sufficient
to make the defendant guilty as an accomplice. An accomplice
is one who procures, counsels, or commands the commission
of  a  crime.  Choice  (B)  asserts  that  “mere  presence  and  oral
encouragement”  are  insufficient  to  make  one  liable  as  an
accomplice;  however,  under  the  definition  of  accomplice,
or
encouragement  would 
“commanding,”  and  so,  if  accompanied  by  an  intent  that  the
person being encouraged commit the underlying crime, would
create accomplice liability.

“counseling” 

constitute 

(D) is wrong because although it arrives at the correct result,
the  reasoning  it  gives  would  not  be  sufficient  to  hold  the
defendant liable for murder. It’s not the defendant’s presence
and  his  intent  that  make  him  liable,  as  D  suggests — rather,
it’s  his  act  of  encouraging  the  killing  that  makes  him  liable.
Mere  presence  wouldn’t  make  him  liable,  since,  in  general,
one  is  not  obligated  to  act  affirmatively  for  the  benefit  of
others;  furthermore,  his  intent  is  not  sufficient  to  create
liability,  since  intent  is  merely  a  state  of  mind  and,  with
nothing  more,  it’s  not  criminal  (until  it  produces  action  to
bring  about  the  desired  results).  It’s  the  defendant’s  active
encouragement — “Kill him” — that makes him liable.

2.  Failure to intervene

356

Question 19: Bill and Chuck hated Vic and agreed to start a
fight  with  Vic  and,  if  the  opportunity  arose,  to  kill  him.  Bill
and  Chuck  met  Vic  in  the  street  outside  a  bar  and  began  to
push him around. Ray and Tom, who also hated Vic, stopped
to  watch.  Ray  threw  Bill  a  knife.  Tom,  who  made  no  move
and  said  nothing,  hoped  that  Bill  would  kill  Vic  with  the
knife. Chuck held Vic while Bill stabbed and killed him.

On a charge of murdering Vic, Tom is

(A)    not  guilty,  because  mere  presence,  coupled  with  silent

approval and intent, is not sufficient.

(B)  not guilty, because he did not tell Bill ahead of time that

he hoped Bill would murder Vic.

(C)  guilty, because he had a duty to stop the killing and made

no attempt to do so.

(D)    guilty,  because  he  was  present  and  approved  of  what

occurred.

Answer 19: Choice (A) is correct. Under these facts, Tom has
done  nothing  to  subject  himself  to  liability.  The  most
promising  element  for  liability  is  the  fact  that  he  hoped  Bill
would  kill  Vic.  However,  even  though  he  hoped  that  Bill
would kill Vic, all that demonstrates is that Tom had a state of
mind  that,  with  nothing  more,  is  not  criminal.  His  failure  to
aid  Vic  would  not  subject  him  to  liability  because  the  law
imposes no general duty to act affirmatively for the benefit of
the  absence  of  some  special  pre-existing
others, 
relationship  between  the  defendant  and  the  victim  (e.g.,
defendant’s  negligence  created  the  peril,  or  a  special
relationship  mandates  affirmative  acts  [parent  and  child,  for
instance]). Liability for murder would have required that Tom
do  something — either  helping  to  plan  Vic’s  murder,  or
aiding  it  in  some  other  way — to  make  him  liable  under  a
conspiracy  or  accomplice  theory.  Under  these  facts,  no  such
action exists.

in 

(B) is wrong because although it arrives at the correct result,
the reasoning it offers would not exonerate Tom. This choice
suggests that Tom could only be liable if he told Bill ahead of
time  that  he  hoped  Bill  would  murder  Vic.  This  is  both  too
narrow and too broad a statement of the applicable law. First,

357

merely  stating  “I  hope  you  kill  Vic”  might  not  be  enough  to
make  Tom  liable,  if  he  didn’t  plan  the  killing  with  Bill
(conspiracy) or aid in any way (accomplice liability). (If the
“I  hope  you  kill  .  .  .”  statement  amounted  to  active
encouragement, and helped bring about the killing, that might
be enough for accomplice liability; but a mere statement on a
prior  occasion,  without  any  showing  of  a  causal  link  to  the
actual  killing,  wouldn’t  be  enough.)  Second,  prior
encouragement isn’t the only way Tom could be liable; had he
encouraged  Bill  at  the  scene  of  the  crime  (e.g.,  by  shouting
“Kill  him”  at  the  pivotal  moment),  he  would  be  liable  for
murder as an accomplice.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  arrives  at  an  incorrect  result,  and
misstates the law. As a general rule, an individual has no duty
to act affirmatively for the benefit of others. Although certain
relationships  between  the  defendant  and  the  one  in  peril
change this (e.g., defendant’s negligence created the peril, or
a special relationship mandates affirmative acts [parent-child,
for  instance]),  no  such  facts  exist  in  this  question.  Since  no
duty  to  aid  exists,  and  Tom  did  nothing  to  plan  or  aid  in
committing the killing, he cannot be liable for murder.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  arrives  at  an  incorrect  result,  and
misstates the law. In order to be found guilty of murder, Tom
would  have  to  undertake  some  type  of  activity — be  it
planning  or  aiding  in  the  killing.  Mere  presence  and  tacit
approval are insufficient for liability as a conspirator or as an
accomplice. Presence is not sufficient for liability, since, as a
general rule, the law imposes no duty to act affirmatively for
the  benefit  of  others.  Even  coupling  presence  with  tacit
approval  is  insufficient,  since  approval  is  a  mere  state  of
mind which, with nothing more, is not criminal.

II.   GUILT OF THE PRINCIPAL

A.  Conviction of principal for use of innocent agent

Question  20:  Grace,  while  baby-sitting  one  night,  noticed
that Sam, who lived next door, had left his house but that the
door did not close completely behind him. Grace said to Roy,
the 11-year-old boy she was baby-sitting with, “Let’s play a

358

game. You go next door and see if you can find my portable
television  set,  which  I  lent  to  Sam,  and  bring  it  over  here.”
Grace knew that Sam had a portable television set and Grace
planned  to  keep  the  set  for  herself.  Roy  thought  the  set
belonged  to  Grace,  went  next  door,  found  the  television  set,
and carried it out the front door. At that moment, Sam returned
home and discovered Roy in his front yard with the television
set.  Roy  explained  the  “game”  he  and  Grace  were  playing.
Sam took back his television set and called the police.

Grace is

(A)    not  guilty  of  larceny  or  attempted  larceny,  because  Roy

did not commit any crime.

(B)    not  guilty  of  larceny  but  guilty  of  attempted  larceny,
because she never acquired possession of the television
set.

(C)  guilty of larceny as an accessory to Roy.
(D)  guilty of larceny by the use of an innocent agent.
Answer 20: Choice (D) is correct. Larceny is the: (1) taking,
and  (2)  carrying  away,  of  the  (3)  tangible  property,  (4)  of
another, (5) by trespass or without consent, (6) with the intent
to steal it. Anyone who intentionally acts through an innocent
agent  is  classified  as  a  principal.  Grace  is  guilty  of  larceny,
even  though  she  herself  did  not  take  the  television  set.  She
knowingly  created  a  mistake  of  fact  in  the  mind  of  Roy,  and
intentionally  induced  him  to  commit  acts  satisfying  the  first
five  elements  of  the  crime  of  larceny.  Since  Roy  was  an
innocent  agent  who  acted  at  the  behest  of  Grace,  Roy’s  acts
will  be  ascribed  to  Grace  as  if  she  had  done  them  herself.
Grace  herself  satisfies  the  sixth  requirement  (intent  to  steal
the item). Therefore, Grace is guilty of larceny.

(A) is wrong because as an innocent agent of Grace’s, Roy’s
actions are imputed to Grace. It’s true that Roy did not commit
any crime. But as an innocent agent, his acts are ascribed to
the  principal.  Therefore,  his  own  innocence  is  irrelevant  to
whether  Grace  is  guilty.  See  the  analysis  in  Choice  (D)
above.
(B)  is  wrong  because  Grace’s  innocent  agent  acquired
possession.  When  a  person  intentionally  causes  an  innocent

359

agent  to  perform  an  act,  the  agent’s  act  is  attributed  to  the
principal. So once Roy took and carried away possession of
the  set,  this  act  is  ascribed  to  Grace  as  if  she  had  done  it
herself.  Therefore,  it’s  not  accurate  to  say,  as  this  choice
does, that Grace “never acquired possession.”

(C)  is  wrong  because  Roy  was  not  guilty  of  larceny,  and
Grace is a principal, not an accessory. A principal is one who
with the requisite mental state, actually engages in the act or
omission that causes the criminal result. An accessory is one
who aids or counsels a principal in the completion of a crime.
If Roy had been a principal, then Grace would probably have
been an accessory. In this case, however, Grace is not guilty
as  an  accessory,  because  she  was  the  principal.  Roy  acted
without criminal intent after being misled by Grace. Therefore
(as explained more fully in the analysis of Choice (D) above),
Roy  was  an  innocent  agent  and  Grace  a  principal  in  this
crime. 

360

CHAPTER 7
HOMICIDE AND OTHER CRIMES
AGAINST THE PERSON

I.    MURDER — GENERALLY

A.  Intent-to-kill murder

1.  Ill-will unnecessary

Question  21:  Suffering  from  painful  and  terminal  cancer,
Willa  persuaded  Harold,  her  husband,  to  kill  her  to  end  her
misery.  As  they  reminisced  about  their  life  together  and
reaffirmed  their  love  for  each  other,  Harold  tried  to
discourage  Willa  from  giving  up.  Willa  insisted,  however,
and finally Harold held a gun to her head and killed her.
The  most  serious  degree  of  criminal  homicide  of  which
Harold can be legally convicted is

(A)  no degree of criminal homicide.
(B)  involuntary manslaughter.
(C)  voluntary manslaughter.
(D)  murder.
Answer  21:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Intent-to-kill  murder
requires that the defendant have the desire to bring about the
death of another. Harold intended to kill Willa, held a gun to
her head, and succeeded in killing her. He is guilty of murder.

There is no exception in the doctrine of common-law murder
for “mercy killings.”
Choices (A), (B), and (C) are wrong for the reason that (D) is
right — this is murder.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

B.  Intent-to-do-serious-bodily-injury murder

1.  “Serious bodily injury” defined

Question 22: At a party for coworkers at Defendant’s home,
Victim  accused  Defendant  of  making  advances  toward  his
wife. Victim and his wife left the party. The next day at work,
Defendant saw Victim and struck him on the head with a soft-

361

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

drink bottle. Victim fell into a coma and died two weeks after
the incident.

This jurisdiction defines aggravated assault as an assault with
any  weapon  or  dangerous  implement  and  punishes  it  as  a
felony.  It  defines  murder  as  the  unlawful  killing  of  a  person
with  malice  aforethought  or  in  the  course  of  an  independent
felony.

Defendant may be found guilty of murder

(A)    only  if  the  jury  finds  that  Defendant  intended  to  kill

Victim.

(B)  only if the jury finds that Defendant did not act in a rage

provoked by Victim’s accusations.

(C)  if the jury finds that Defendant intended either to kill or to

inflict serious bodily harm.

(D)  if the jury finds that the killing occurred in the course of

an aggravated assault.

Answer  22:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Defendant  can  be
convicted  of  murder  if  he  intended  either  to  kill  or  inflict
serious  bodily  harm  when  he  hit  Victim  with  the  soft-drink
bottle. Murder is the unlawful killing of another person with
malice  aforethought.  “Malice  aforethought”  is  a  term  of  art
that encompasses several mental states, including the intent to
kill and the intent to cause serious bodily harm. Therefore, if
the jury finds that Defendant intended either to kill Victim or
to inflict serious bodily harm to Victim, then Defendant would
have had the requisite mens rea to be found guilty of murder.

(A) is wrong because it is too restrictive. While it is true that
intent  to  kill  is  one  mental  state  that  can  support  a  murder
conviction, it is not the only one. As discussed above, several
other  mental  states  are  included  in  “malice  aforethought.”
Since Choice (A) states that “Defendant may be found guilty
of murder only if the jury finds that Defendant intended to kill
Victim”  it  improperly  omits  the  possibility  of  conviction
based on a different mental state.
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  an  incomplete  statement  of  the
“heat of passion” defense. A defendant who acted in the heat
of  passion  when  he  killed  may  be  entitled  to  have  his  crime
reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter. But “heat of

362

passion” will result in a conviction of voluntary manslaughter
rather than murder only if four conditions have been met: (1)
the  defendant  acted  in  response  to  a  provocation  that  would
have  caused  a  reasonable  person  to  lose  self-control  (an
objective test); (2) the defendant did, in fact, act while in the
“heat  of  passion”  (a  subjective  test);  (3)  there  was  no  time
between the provocation and the act for a reasonable person
to  “cool  off”  (objective);  and  (4)  the  defendant  did  not,  in
fact,  “cool  off”  (subjective).  Here,  even  if  the  jury  were  to
accept that Defendant acted in a rage brought on by Victim’s
provocation,  only  the  subjective  elements  would  have  been
proven.  Defendant  would  still  have  to  show  that  Victim’s
accusations  were  enough  to  make  a  reasonable  person  lose
his  self  control  (unlikely)  and  that  the  full  day  that  elapsed
between  the  accusations  and  the  attack  was  an  insufficient
amount  of  time  for  a  reasonable  person  to  cool  off  (very
unlikely). Since Choice (B) omits the subjective elements of
the partial defense, it is an incorrect statement of the law.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  is  an  inaccurate  application  of  the
felony-murder  rule.  The  felony-murder  rule  states  that  if  a
defendant,  in  the  process  of  committing  certain  dangerous
felonies,  kills  another  person,  he  is  guilty  of  murder.  The
mens rea required to commit the underlying felony is used to
supply  the  mental  state  required  for  murder.  However,  in
order for the felony-murder rule to apply, the felony must be
independent  of 
this  case,  Defendant’s
aggravated  assault  with  the  soft-drink  bottle  was  a  lesser
included  offense  in  the  homicide,  and  can  therefore  not  be
used  as  the  underlying  felony  for  purposes  of  the  felony-
murder rule.

the  killing.  In 

C.  “Reckless indifference to value of human life” or “depraved

heart” murder

Question 23: Phillips bought a new rifle and wanted to try it
out  by  doing  some  target  shooting.  He  went  out  into  the
country  to  an  area  where  he  had  previously  hunted.  Much  to
his  surprise,  he  noticed  that  the  area  beyond  a  clearing
contained several newly constructed houses that had not been
there  before.  Between  the  houses  there  was  a  small
playing.
playground  where 

children  were 

several 

363

Nevertheless, Phillips nailed a paper target to a tree and went
to  a  point  where  the  tree  was  between  himself  and  the
playground.  He  then  fired  several  shots  at  the  target.  One  of
the shots missed the target and the tree and hit and killed one
of the children in the playground.

Phillips  was  convicted  of  murder.  He  appealed,  contending
that the evidence was not sufficient to support a conviction of
murder.

The appellate court should

(A)    affirm  the  conviction,  as  the  evidence  is  sufficient  to

support a conviction of murder.

(B)    reverse  the  conviction  and  remand  for  a  new  trial,
because the evidence is not sufficient for murder but will
support a conviction of voluntary manslaughter.

(C)    reverse  the  conviction  and  remand  for  a  new  trial,
because the evidence is not sufficient for murder but will
support a conviction of involuntary manslaughter.
(D)    reverse  the  conviction  and  order  the  case  dismissed,
because  the  evidence  is  sufficient  only  for  a  finding  of
negligence  and  negligence  alone  cannot  support  a
criminal conviction.

Answer 23:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  A  defendant  is  guilty  of
murder if he has acted with reckless indifference to the value
of human life. (Cf. MPC § 201.2(1)(b).) Phillips deliberately
shot in the direction of the playground. Although Phillips did
not intend to shoot into the playground (he was aiming for the
target),  the  fact  that  he  put  the  target  in  between  himself  and
the  playground  (where  several  children  were  playing)  is
enough to show that he had a reckless indifference to human
life (sometimes called a “depraved heart”).
(B)  is  wrong  because,  in  order  to  be  guilty  of  voluntary
manslaughter, it is required that the defendant either (1) acted
in response to a provocation that would be sufficient to cause
a  reasonable  person  to  lose  his  self-control;  or  (2)  made  an
unreasonable  mistake  about  the  need  for  self-defense.  The
facts  presented  here  don’t  fall  within  either  of  these
scenarios.
(C)  is  wrong  because  Phillips’  intent  was  more  than  just

364

reckless.  Shooting  into  the  path  of  a  small  playground
demonstrates  an  extreme  indifference  to  the  value  of  human
life,  which  will  suffice  for  murder  (as  further  discussed  in
(A)  above).  Therefore,  this  choice’s  statement  that  the
evidence is “not sufficient for murder” is incorrect.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  falsely  asserts  that  the  evidence
supports only a finding of negligence. In fact, as is explained
in  (A), 
the  evidence  supports  a  finding  of  extreme
indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life,  which  will  in  turn
support a murder conviction.

Question 24:  Jack,  a  bank  teller,  was  fired  by  Morgan,  the
president  of  the  bank.  Jack  decided  to  take  revenge  against
Morgan, but decided against attempting it personally, because
he  knew  Morgan  was  protected  around  the  clock  by  bank
security guards. Jack knew that Chip had a violent temper and
was  very  jealous.  Jack  falsely  told  Chip  that  Chip’s  wife,
Elsie, was having an affair with Morgan. Enraged, Chip said,
“What am I going to do?” Jack said. “If it were my wife, I’d
just  march  into  his  office  and  blow  his  brains  out.”  Chip
grabbed a revolver and rushed to the bank. He walked into the
bank, carrying the gun in his hand. One of the security guards,
believing a holdup was about to occur, shot and killed Chip.

If charged with murder of Chip, Jack should be found
(A)  guilty, based upon extreme recklessness.
(B)  guilty, based upon transferred intent.
(C)  not guilty, because he did not intend for Chip to be shot by

the security guard.

(D)  not guilty, because he did not shoot Chip and he was not

acting in concert with the security guard.

Answer  24:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Jack  should  be  found
guilty of Chip’s murder because he knowingly put Chip into a
situation where Chip was very likely to be shot. Murder is the
unlawful  killing  of  another  person  with  malice  aforethought.
includes  several  mental  states,
“Malice  aforethought” 
including  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life.
Reckless  indifference  tends  to  be  found  in  situations  where
the  defendant  was  aware  of  a  very  high  risk  of  death  to  the
victim. Jack was so aware of the risk in this case that he was

365

fearful  to  go  after  Morgan  himself.  Jack  manifested  reckless
indifference  to  the  value  of  Chip’s  life  by  sending  Chip  into
the bank, gun in hand, knowing that the bank was staffed with
armed security guards. Further, Jack’s encouragement was the
legal  cause  of  Chip’s  death  because  the  risk  he  created
(getting  shot  by  a  security  guard)  was  the  actual  means  of
death.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  a  misapplication  of  transferred
intent.  When  a  defendant  intends  a  harmful  result  to  one
victim,  but,  while  trying  to  affect  that  harm,  causes  similar
harm  to  a  different  victim,  the  doctrine  of  transferred  intent
allows the intent to harm the intended victim to be transferred
to  the  harming  of  the  actual  victim.  However,  transferred
intent only applies when the actual result of an act only differs
from the intended result in that a different victim was harmed.
That is, the same action as intended causes the same type of
harm as intended, but to a victim that was unintended. Here,
Jack  intended  that  Chip  would  fire  a  gun,  killing  Morgan.
Thus, Jack’s intent can only be transferred to a victim shot by
Chip. Since it was the security guard who shot Chip, the act
was  fundamentally  different  from  the  one  intended,  so  the
doctrine of transferred intent will not apply.
(C) is wrong because intent is not always required to support
a murder conviction. As discussed above, reckless disregard
for the value of the victim’s life is a sufficient mental state for
murder. Although Jack did not intend for the security guard to
shoot  and  kill  Chip,  he  was  certainly  aware  of  the  high  risk
that it would happen.

(D) is wrong because Jack’s creation of the very high risk to
Chip’s life is sufficient to find him guilty of murder. When the
mens rea  for  murder  is  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of
the victim’s life, the defendant needs neither to personally kill
the  victim  nor  be  an  accomplice  of  the  killer — so  long  as
Jack created a situation in which he knew Chip would be at
an  unreasonably  high  risk  of  death,  he  can  be  convicted  of
murder.

Question 25:  A  statute  in  the  jurisdiction  defines  murder  in
the  first  degree  as  knowingly  killing  another  person  after
deliberation.  Deliberation  is  defined  as  “cool  reflection  for

366

any length of time no matter how brief.” Murder in the second
degree is defined as “all other murder at common law except
felony-murder.” Felony-murder is murder in the third degree.
Manslaughter is defined by the common law.

At  2  a.m.,  Duncan  held  up  an  all-night  liquor  store  using  an
assault rifle. During the holdup, two police cars with flashing
lights  drove  up  in  front  of  the  store.  In  order  to  create  a
situation  where  the  police  would  hesitate  to  come  into  the
store (and thus give Duncan a chance to escape out the back)
Duncan fired several rounds through the front window of the
store.  Duncan  then  ran  out  the  back  but  upon  discovering
another police car there, surrendered quietly. One of the shots
he  fired  while  in  the  store  struck  and  killed  a  burglar  who
was stealing items from a closed store across the street.

The  most  serious  degree  of  criminal  homicide  Duncan  is
guilty of is

is 

(A)  murder in the first degree.
(B)  murder in the second degree.
(C)  murder in the third degree.
(D)  manslaughter.
Answer  25:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Duncan  has  committed
murder in the second degree because he fired a gun toward an
area where he knew others were located. Murder at common
law 
the  unlawful  killing  of  another  with  “malice
aforethought,” which includes, among other states of mind, a
reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life  (sometimes
called  a  “depraved  heart”).  Duncan,  knowing  that  police
officers  were  stationed  outside  the  front  of  the  store,  fired
several  times  through  the  front  window.  In  doing  so,  he
demonstrated  a  disregard  for  the  lives  of  those  standing
outside  since  the  gunfire  created  an  obvious  lethal  risk  to
them.  The  fact  that  the  person  actually  killed  by  one  of  the
shots  was  unknown  to  Duncan  is  irrelevant  since  the
“depraved heart” mental state does not require any particular
victim to be in the defendant’s mind at the time of his act.
(A) is wrong because Duncan lacked the required mental state
to  commit  first  degree  murder.  The  statute  that  defines  first
degree murder in this jurisdiction requires that the defendant

367

“knowingly”  kill  another  person.  “Knowingly”  would  be
interpreted to require that the actor either intend a particular
result, or be aware that his act will almost certainly cause that
result.  When  Duncan  fired  his  gun,  he  did  not  specifically
intend  either  to  hit  or  to  kill  anyone,  or  know  with  near-
certainty  that  someone  would  be  killed.  Thus,  it  cannot  be
said  that  Duncan  knowingly  killed  another,  as  required  for
first-degree murder.

(C)  is  wrong  because  felony  murder  is  not  the  most  serious
degree  of  homicide  of  which  Duncan  is  guilty.  As  discussed
above,  Duncan  is  guilty  of  murder  in  the  second  degree,
which  is  a  more  serious  crime  than  felony  murder,  which  is
defined here as murder in the third degree. Duncan is guilty of
felony  murder  because,  during  the  course  of  committing
robbery  (an  independent,  dangerous  felony),  Duncan  caused
the death of another.

(D) is wrong because, as discussed above, Duncan is guilty of
the  more  serious  crime  of  second  degree  murder.  Duncan
would be guilty of involuntary manslaughter because firing a
gun  toward  a  known  group  of  people  was  grossly  negligent,
risking serious bodily harm or death to those standing outside.

Question 26: At a party, a defendant and a victim agreed to
play a game they called “spin the barrel.” The victim took an
unloaded  revolver,  placed  one  bullet  in  the  barrel,  and  spun
the barrel. The victim then pointed the gun at the defendant’s
head  and  pulled  the  trigger  once.  The  gun  did  not  fire.  The
defendant then took the gun, pointed it at the victim, spun the
barrel,  and  pulled  the  trigger  once.  The  gun  fired,  and  the
victim fell over dead.
A statute in the jurisdiction defines murder in the first degree
as  an  intentional  and  premeditated  killing  or  one  occurring
during  the  commission  of  a  common-law  felony,  and  murder
in  the  second  degree  as  all  other  murder  at  common  law.
Manslaughter  is  defined  as  a  killing  in  the  heat  of  passion
upon  an  adequate  legal  provocation  or  a  killing  caused  by
gross  negligence.  The  most  serious  crime  for  which  the
defendant can properly be convicted is
(A)    murder  in  the  first  degree,  because  the  killing  was

368

intentional and premeditated and, in any event, occurred
during commission of the felony of assault with a deadly
weapon.

(B)  murder in the second degree, because the defendant’s act

posed a great threat of serious bodily harm.

(C)    manslaughter,  because  the  defendant’s  act  was  grossly

negligent and reckless.

(D)    no  crime,  because  the  victim  and  the  defendant
voluntarily agreed to play a game and each assumed the
risk of death.

Answer  26:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  the  defendant’s
actions  fit  the  requirements  for  the  “reckless  indifference  to
the value of human life” variety of murder, which is second-
degree murder in this jurisdiction.

The  act  here  cannot  be  first-degree  murder.  It  is  not
“intentional and premeditated killing” murder, because there’s
no evidence that the defendant desired to kill the victim. And
it  can’t  be  “killing  during  the  commission  of  a  common-law
felony”  murder,  because  assault  or  battery  are  generally
that  can’t  be
lesser-included  offenses 
deemed 
bootstrapped  into  felony-murder.  (Indeed,  it’s  not  even  clear
that  assault  or  battery  existed  here,  since  there’s  not  much
evidence  that  the  defendant  had  any  of  the  possible  mental
states for assault or battery — she apparently didn’t desire to
hurt the victim or even cause him fear of bodily harm.)

to  be 

On the other hand, the facts do fit the definition of murder of
the  “extreme  indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life”  (or
“depraved heart”) variety. The defendant has intentionally or
recklessly  disregarded  what  she  knows  is  an  extremely  high
risk  of  death  or  serious  bodily  harm  to  the  victim.  Since
extreme-indifference  murder  is  a  form  of  common-law
murder, and since it doesn’t fall within one of the two types of
first-degree  murder  in  this  jurisdiction  (intent-to-kill  and  in-
the-course-of-a-common-law-felony), it’s second degree.
(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  defendant’s  actions  do  not  fit  the
given  definition  for  first  degree  murder.  See  the  analysis  of
choice B for why this is so.
(C)  is  wrong,  because  the  defendant’s  actions  match  the

369

requirements for second-degree murder, a more serious crime
than  manslaughter.  The  analysis  in  choice  B  shows  why  the
defendant  qualifies  for  extreme-indifference  second-degree
murder.

(D) is wrong, because assumption of risk is a defense in torts
but normally not in criminal law. Consent of the victim is no
defense in criminal law unless the consent negates an element
of  the  offense.  The  victim’s  consent  does  not  negate  an
element of the crime of murder, because murder is defined as
a  killing  under  any  of  several  mental  states,  and  none  of  the
versions of murder is defined to include lack of the victim’s
consent  as  an  element  of  the  crime.  (For  instance,  if  H  kills
his pain-ridden dying wife W at her urging, her consent would
not  be  a  defense  to  a  “mercy  killing”  murder  prosecution  of
H.)

Question  27:  A  motorist,  while  intoxicated,  drove  his  car
through a playground crowded with children just to watch the
children  run  to  get  out  of  his  way.  His  car  struck  one  of  the
children, killing her instantly.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  best  theory  for  finding  the
motorist guilty of murder?
(A)  Transferred intent.
(B)  Felony murder, with assault with a deadly weapon as the

underlying felony.

(C)    Intentional  killing,  since  he  knew  that  the  children  were

there and he deliberately drove his car at them.

(D)  Commission of an act highly dangerous to life, without an
intent to kill but with disregard of the consequences.
Answer 27:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  key  here  is  that  the
defendant  had  no  intent  to  kill  or  cause  a  serious  injury.
Murder  is  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice  aforethought.
“Malice aforethought” is a term of art, and can be satisfied by
various mental states: (1) intent to kill; (2) intent to do serious
bodily  injury;  (3)  intent  to  commit  one  of  various  dangerous
felonies  (producing  felony  murder);  or  (4)  acting  with
reckless  disregard  of  the  value  of  human  life  (producing
“depraved-heart”  murder).  Depraved  heart  murder  occurs
where  Defendant  engages  in  conduct  which,  at  the  least,  a

370

reasonable  person  would  realize  creates  an  extremely  high
degree  of  risk  to  human  life,  and  which  results  in  death.
Choice  (D),  with  its  language  “without  an  intent  to  kill  but
with  disregard  of  the  consequences,”  coupled  with  “an  act
highly dangerous to life,” essentially reflects this rule.

(A) is wrong because it misapplies the doctrine of transferred
intent. The transferred intent doctrine applies where a person
intending  to  commit  a  crime  against  one  person  accidentally
intent  will  be
commits  a  crime  against  another.  His 
“transferred”  from  the  person  he  intended  to  harm  to  the
person  he  actually  harmed  (e.g.,  D  tries  to  shoot  A  to  death
and  instead  kills  B).  What’s  missing  under  these  facts  is  the
defendant’s intent to kill in the first place — he doesn’t intend
to  kill  or  even  injure  anyone.  If  anything,  he  intends  for  the
children to run out of the way and not be injured. Since he has
no criminal intent, it can’t be transferred.

the  felony 

is  wrong  because 

(B) 
is  not  sufficiently
“independent”  from  homicide  to  be  covered  by  the  felony
murder  rule.  The  felony  murder  rule  is  as  follows:  Where  a
killing is committed during the course of certain “dangerous”
felonies  (or  an  attempt  at  such),  the  homicide  is  considered
murder,  even  though  there  is  no  intent  to  kill  or  cause  great
bodily  harm.  Such  “dangerous”  felonies  typically  include
rape, kidnapping, mayhem, arson, robbery, and burglary. The
dangerous  felony  must  be  reasonably  “independent”  of  the
killing. Assault with a deadly weapon would itself require an
intent  to  do  serious  bodily  harm  or  to  kill,  so  the
“independence” required by the felony murder rule would be
lacking.

(C) is wrong because the reasoning it states is insufficient to
convict the defendant of intentional killing. While intentional
killing  is  sufficient  for  murder,  intent  must  be  one  of  two
types:  Either  the  actor  must  consciously  desire  a  result,
regardless  of  the  likelihood  his  conduct  will  cause  it;  or,
alternatively, he must know the result is practically certain to
result from his conduct, regardless of whether he wants it to
happen.  Thus,  under  the  facts  in  this  question,  the  defendant
would  have  to  want  to  kill  the  children,  or  know  he  was
practically certain to kill one if he drove toward them. Thus,

371

(C)  is  incorrect  in  asserting  that  knowing  the  children  were
there and deliberately driving at them would be sufficient to
convict  the  defendant — in  addition,  he’d  have  to  know  that
driving  at  them  would  result  in  one  being  killed.  In  fact,  the
defendant  believes  they  will  run  to  get  out  of  the  way — he
doesn’t know he’s practically certain to kill one.

1.  Great recklessness required

a.  Omission to act

Question 28: Trelawney worked at a day care center run by
the Happy Faces Day Care Corporation. At the center, one of
the young charges, Smith, often arrived with bruises and welts
on his back and legs. A statute in the jurisdiction requires all
day care workers to report to the police cases where there is
probable  cause  to  suspect  child  abuse  and  provides  for
immediate  removal  from  the  home  of  any  suspected  child
abuse  victims.  Trelawney  was  not  aware  of  this  statute.
to  his
Nevertheless,  he  did  report  Smith’s  condition 
supervisor, who advised him to keep quiet about it so the day
care center would not get into trouble for defaming a parent.
About  two  weeks  after  Trelawney  first  noticed  Smith’s
condition, Smith was beaten to death by his father. Trelawney
has  been  charged  with  murder  in  the  death  of  Smith.  The
evidence at trial disclosed, in addition to the above, that the
child  had  been  the  victim  of  beatings  by  the  father  for  some
time, and that these earlier beatings had been responsible for
the marks that Trelawney had seen. Smith’s mother had been
aware  of  the  beatings  but  had  not  stopped  them  because  she
was herself afraid of Smith’s father.

Trelawney’s best argument that he is NOT guilty of murder is
(A)  he was not aware of the duty-to-report statute.
(B)  he lacked the mental state necessary to the commission of

the crime.

(C)  his omission was not the proximate cause of death.
(D)    the  day  care  corporation,  rather  than  Trelawney,  was
guilty  of  the  omission,  which  was  sanctioned  by  its
supervisory-level agent.

Answer 28: Choice (B) is correct. Violation of a statute might
serve  as  a  basis  for  a  criminal  conviction  if  the  statute

372

imposes upon the defendant a duty of care that the defendant
has not met. The statute clearly imposed upon Trelawney the
duty to report suspected child abuse. In order to be guilty of
murder,  it  must  be  shown  that  a  defendant  had  “malice
aforethought.”  Malice  aforethought  includes  various  mental
states:  intent  to  kill,  intent  to  do  serious  bodily  injury,
reckless  indifference  to  human  life,  or  intent  to  commit  a
felony.  The  only  possible  qualifying  mental  state  here  is
reckless  indifference  to  human  life.  But  since  Trelawney
thought  about  the  abuse  issue,  and  brought  the  issue  to  his
supervisor’s  attention,  he’s  unlikely  to  be  found  to  have
manifested  the  required  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of
human  life.  In  any  event,  that’s  his  only  plausible  argument
from among those listed.

(A) is wrong because ignorance of the duty to report is not an
excuse. Criminal liability for omissions can arise where there
is  a  statute  imposing  on  the  defendant  a  distinct  duty  to  act.
Here, the statute imposed a duty of care on day care workers
to  report  to  the  police  where  there  is  probable  cause  to
suspect child abuse. Generally, the fact that the defendant did
not  know  that  the  law  imputes  a  legal  duty  in  a  certain
situation will not constitute a defense. Therefore, Trelawney’s
ignorance  of  the  law  is  not  a  good  argument  to  use  in
defending him from a murder charge.
(C) is wrong because Trelawney’s omission was sufficiently
related  to  Smith’s  death.  It  is  required  that  the  act  (in  this
case, omission) and the harm were sufficiently related that the
act is a proximate cause of the harm. Criminal law generally
insists  upon  a  substantially  closer  connection  between  the
defendant’s act and the ensuing harm, than that of tort law. An
act is the proximate cause if it is “not too remote or accidental
in  its  occurrence  to  have  a  [just]  bearing  on  the  actor’s
liability or on the gravity of his offense.” M.P.C. § 2.03(2)(b).
Since a report of the earlier abuse by Trelawney would likely
have induced the state to remove Smith from exposure to his
father, Trelawney’s failure to report the beating by the father
can  easily  be  said  to  have  proximately  caused  (i.e.,  been
closely related to) the death of Smith at the hands of the father.
(D) is wrong because the statute imposes a duty on day care

373

workers,  regardless  of  what  their  superiors  may  have
sanctioned. Any duty or criminal behavior attributable to the
supervisor  would  not  prevent  conviction  of  Trelawney  for
violation of his duty.

II.   FELONY-MURDER

A.  Causal relationship

1.  Robberies, burglaries and gunfights

a.  Victim or police officer kills bystander

i.  MBE tip

Question 29: Steve, in desperate need of money, decided to
hold  up  a  local  convenience  store.  Determined  not  to  harm
anyone, he carried a toy gun that resembled a real gun. In the
store, he pointed the toy gun at the clerk and demanded money.
A  customer  who  entered  the  store  and  saw  the  robbery  in
progress  pulled  his  own  gun  and  fired  at  Steve.  The  bullet
missed Steve but struck and killed the clerk.

Steve was charged with felony murder.
His best argument for being found NOT guilty is that he
(A)  did not intend to kill.
(B)    did  not  commit  the  robbery  because  he  never  acquired

any money from the clerk.

(C)  did not intend to create any risk of harm.
(D)  is not responsible for the acts of the customer.
Answer  29:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  felony-murder  rule
provides  that  if  the  defendant,  while  he  is  in  the  process  of
committing  a  felony  (such  as  robbery),  kills  another  (even
accidentally),  the  killing  is  murder.  However,  if  the  killing
that  took  place  during  commission  of  the  felony  was  by  an
innocent party (the customer) and he killed an innocent party
(the clerk), then a court may well hold that the robber would
not  be  responsible  for  the  shooting  (though  this  is  not  at  all
certain).
(A)  is  wrong  because,  in  a  jurisdiction  recognizing  felony
murder, it is not required that the defendant have the intent to

374

kill,  as  long  as  he  had  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  (in  this
case, robbery).

(B)  is  wrong  because  for  felony-murder  liability,  it  is  not
necessary that the defendant be successful in his commission
of the felony, merely that the murder occurred in the process
of an attempt to commit the felony.

(C)  is  wrong  because  where  the  defendant  had  the  intent  to
commit  one  of  the  specified  dangerous  felonies  that  will
support  felony  murder,  that’s  the  only  intent  the  defendant
needs  to  have.  So  the  fact  that  the  defendant  didn’t  intend  to
“create any risk of harm” is irrelevant.

2.  Arson

Question  30:  Shore  decided  to  destroy  his  dilapidated
building  in  order  to  collect  the  insurance  money.  He  hired
Parsons  to  burn  down  the  building.  Parsons  broke  into  the
building  and  carefully  searched  it  to  make  sure  no  one  was
inside.  He  failed,  however,  to  see  a  vagrant  asleep  in  an
office  closet.  He  started  a  fire.  The  building  was  destroyed
and the vagrant died from burns a week later. Two days after
the fire, Shore filed an insurance claim in which he stated that
he had no information about the cause of the fire.

If Shore is guilty of felony-murder, it is because the vagrant’s
death occurred in connection with the felony of

(A)  arson.
(B)  fraud.
(C)  conspiracy.
(D)  burglary.
Answer  30:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  If  Shore  is  guilty  of
felony-murder, it will be because the vagrant’s death occurred
during  the  commission  of  arson.  The  felony-murder  rule
allows  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  to  supply  the  mens  rea
required for murder when the felony is the proximate cause of
the  killing.  The  rule  states  that  when  a  defendant  commits  a
felony that is inherently dangerous, and in so doing causes the
death of another, the killing is murder. A felony is considered
inherently  dangerous  if  death  is  a  foreseeable  result  of  the
crime.  Here,  the  underlying  felony  was  arson,  which  is  an

375

inherently dangerous crime because it inherently carries with
it the risk to human life. Shore is responsible for the results of
the fire because, although he did not personally start the fire
that resulted in the vagrant’s death, he is guilty of arson as an
accomplice  since  he  hired  Parsons  to  burn  the  building.
Additionally,  for  the  felony-murder  rule  to  apply,  the  felony
must  be  independent  of  the  killing.  This  requirement  is  met
here because the purpose of starting the fire was not to harm
the vagrant, but only to destroy the building.

Choices  (B)  and  (C)  are  wrong  because  neither  fraud  nor
conspiracy  is  an  inherently  dangerous  felony,  and  therefore
the  underlying  felony  for  a  felony-murder
cannot  be 
conviction.

(D)  is  wrong  because  Shore  has  not  committed  burglary.
Burglary  requires  the  unlawful  breaking  and  entering  of  a
building  of  another  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  crime  once
inside. Although Parsons “broke” into the building, he did so
with  the  consent  of  the  building’s  owner.  As  a  result,
Parsons’s  presence  in  the  building  was  lawful,  despite  his
means of entry and intent to commit arson.

B.  Accomplice liability of co-felons

1.  “In furtherance” test

Question  31:  Dawson  was  charged  with  felony  murder
because of his involvement in a bank robbery. The evidence
at trial disclosed that Smith invited Dawson to go for a ride in
his  new  car,  and  after  a  while  asked  Dawson  to  drive.  As
Smith  and  Dawson  drove  around  town,  Smith  explained  to
Dawson  that  he  planned  to  rob  the  bank  and  that  he  needed
Dawson to drive the getaway car. Dawson agreed to drive to
the bank and to wait outside while Smith went in to rob it. As
they  approached  the  bank,  Dawson  began  to  regret  his
agreement to help with the robbery. Once there, Smith got out
of the car. As Smith went out of sight inside the bank, Dawson
drove  away  and  went  home.  Inside  the  bank,  Smith  killed  a
bank  guard  who  tried  to  prevent  him  from  leaving  with  the
money. Smith ran outside and, finding that his car and Dawson
were  gone,  ran  down  an  alley.  He  was  apprehended  a  few
blocks away. Dawson later turned himself in after hearing on

376

the radio that Smith had killed the guard.

The  jurisdiction  has  a  death  penalty  that  applies  to  felony
murder.

Consistent  with  the  law  and  the  Constitution,  the  jury  may
convict Dawson of

(A)  felony murder and impose the death penalty.
(B)  felony murder but not impose the death penalty.
(C)  bank robbery only.
(D)  no crime.
Answer  31:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  felony-murder  rule
provides  that  if  the  defendant,  while  he  is  in  the  process  of
committing  a  dangerous  felony  (such  as  robbery),  kills
another (even accidentally), the killing is murder. Dawson, by
driving Smith to the bank, serving as lookout, and agreeing to
drive  the  getaway  car,  was  an  accomplice  to  bank  robbery.
Once  Dawson  performed  those  “accomplice”  services,  in  a
way  that  contributed  to  Smith’s  carrying  out  the  robbery,
Dawson  became  substantively  liable  for  robbery  too.  After
that,  any  killing  by  Smith  that  could  be  said  to  be  a  “natural
and  probable”  result  of  the  felony  will  be  attributable  to
Dawson under the felony murder doctrine.

With respect to the death penalty, the Supreme Court has held
that  the  Eighth  Amendment  prohibits  the  use  of  the  death
penalty on a defendant “who does not kill himself, attempt to
kill, or intend that a killing take place or that lethal force may
be  employed.”  Enmund  v.  Florida  (1982).  Therefore,  the
death penalty may not be imposed upon Dawson, who did not
himself kill, attempt to kill or intend that a killing take place
or that lethal force be used.
(A)  is  wrong  because  the  death  penalty  may  not  be  imposed
under these circumstances, as discussed in the explanation of
(B).
(C)  is  wrong  because  Dawson  may  be  convicted  of  felony-
murder due to the fact that he is responsible for his co-felon’s
killing of the bank guard that was committed in furtherance of
the felony, as discussed in the explanation of (B).
(D)  is  wrong  because  (1)  Dawson  is  guilty  of  bank  robbery

377

on  an  accomplice  theory;  and  (2)  he  may  be  convicted  of
felony-murder, as discussed in the explanation of (B).

III.  MANSLAUGHTER

A.  Voluntary manslaughter

Question 32: A state statute defines murder in the first degree
as  “knowingly  causing  the  death  of  another  person  after
deliberation  upon  the  matter.”  Second-degree  murder  is
defined  as  “knowingly  causing  the  death  of  another  person.”
Manslaughter  is  defined  as  at  common  law.  Deliberation  is
defined  as  “cool  reflection  for  any  length  of  time,  no  matter
how brief.” The defendant, despondent and angry over losing
his  job,  was  contemplating  suicide.  He  took  his  revolver,
went  to  a  bar,  and  drank  until  he  was  very  intoxicated.  A
customer  on  the  next  stool  was  telling  the  bartender  how  it
was necessary for companies to downsize and become more
efficient in order to keep the economy strong. The defendant
turned to him and said, “Why don’t you shut the hell up.” The
customer  responded,  “This  is  a  free  country  and  I  can  say
what I want,” all the while shaking his finger at the defendant.
The  finger-shaking,  combined  with  the  defendant’s  already
bad  disposition  and  the  alcohol,  enraged  the  defendant.
Trembling with fury, he snatched his revolver from his pocket
and shot and killed the customer.

What crime did the defendant commit?

(A) 

  Manslaughter,  because 
explanation for his becoming enraged.

there  was  a  reasonable

(B)  Murder in the first degree, because deliberation can take

place in an instant.

(C)    Murder  in  the  first  degree,  because  he  contemplated

taking a human life before becoming intoxicated.

(D)    Murder  in  the  second  degree,  because  he  knowingly
caused the customer’s death without deliberation.
Answer 32: Choice (D) is correct, because the defendant did
“knowingly  cause  the  death  of  another  person,”  and  his
intoxication  did  not  preclude  the  mental  state  required  for
second-degree  murder.  Voluntary,  self-induced  intoxication

378

may negate the required mental state in specific intent crimes.
It is generally held, however, that intoxication cannot further
reduce  the  homicide  from  second-degree  murder  down  to
manslaughter. See LaFave, Criminal Law § 9.5(b).

(A)  is  wrong,  because  there  was  no  reasonable  explanation
the  defendant  becoming  enraged.  To  qualify  as
for 
manslaughter,  the  defendant’s  act  must  be  in  response  to  a
provocation  sufficiently  strong  that  a  reasonable  person
would  have  been  caused  to  lose  self-control  enough  to  kill.
The victim’s comments and action of shaking his finger at the
defendant are not enough to cause a reasonable person to lose
self-control  to  such  an  extent  that  he  kills.  Furthermore,  the
defendant’s  intoxication  did  not  preclude  the  mental  state
required  for  second-degree  murder.  Voluntary  self-induced
intoxication  may  negate  the  required  mental  state  in  specific
intent  crimes.  It  is  generally  held,  however,  that  intoxication
cannot  further  reduce  the  homicide  from  second-degree
murder  down  to  manslaughter.  See  LaFave,  Criminal  Law  §
9.5(b).

(B)  is  wrong  because,  even  if  this  statement  were  true,  the
defendant’s  intoxicated  anger  prevented  the  kind  of  “cool
reflection”  required  for  deliberation.  See,  e.g.,  LaFave,
Substantive  Criminal  Law  §  14.7(a):  A  “killer  may,  in  a
particular situation, be incapable of that cool reflection called
for  by  the  requirement  of  premeditation  and  deliberation,  as
where his capacity to premeditate and deliberate is prevented
by  emotional  upset,  [or]  by  intoxication  .  .  .  .”  Here,  the
defendant  was  “[t]rembling  with  fury”  due  to  his  “bad
disposition and alcohol,” which provides strong evidence that
he was not capable of cool reflection.
(C) is wrong, because the defendant did not deliberate upon
taking the life “of another person” (as required by the statute)
prior to becoming intoxicated. Instead, he was contemplating
suicide, which would not qualify as murder in the first degree
under the statute.

B.  Involuntary manslaughter

the  following  statute:
Question  33:  A  state  adopted 
“VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER. Whoever in the course of

379

driving  a  motor  vehicle  as  defined  in  the  Vehicle  Code  is
criminally  negligent  in  driving  such  vehicle  or  omits  to  do
anything  that  is  his  duty  to  do  and  shows  a  wanton  and
reckless  disregard  for  the  safety  of  other  persons  and  as  a
result  of  such  act  or  omission  causes  the  death  of  a  human
being is guilty of vehicular manslaughter.”

Vehicular  manslaughter  is  punishable  by  a  sentence  of  not
more  than  ten  years  in  the  state  prison  or  not  more  than  one
year  in  the  county  jail.  A  defendant,  driving  along  at  a
reasonable rate of speed, was distracted by a child carrying a
silver  balloon.  He  went  through  a  boulevard  stop  light  and
is  charged  with  vehicular
killed  a  pedestrian.  He 
manslaughter.  Of  the  following  proposed  definitions  of
criminal  negligence,  which 
the
defendant?

is  most  favorable 

to 

(A)    Criminal  negligence  is  something  more  than  the  slight
negligence  necessary  to  support  a  civil  action  for
damages. It means disregard for the consequences of the
act and indifference to rights of others.

(B)  Any person who drives a motor vehicle should realize the
danger  to  others.  If  he  fails  to  respond  to  surrounding
circumstances,  he  is  criminally  negligent.  Criminal
negligence  involves  reckless  disregard  for  the  lives  or
safety of others.

(C)    To  find  the  defendant  guilty  of  criminal  negligence,  the
jury  must  find  as  a  fact  that  he  intentionally  did
something he should not have done or intentionally failed
to  do  something  which  he  should  have  done  under
circumstances that demonstrate a conscious disregard of
a  known  danger  that  his  conduct  would  produce  the
result which it did produce.

(D)    Criminal  negligence  is  something  more  than  the  slight
negligence  usually  required  for  tort  liability.  It  is
something less than the wanton misconduct required for
civil  liability  under  the  guest  statute.  It  is,  of  course,
conduct  that  demonstrates  something  less  than  the
abandoned and malignant heart required for murder.
Answer 33: Choice (C) is correct, because it introduces the
strongest  subjective  element  into  the  definition  of  criminal

380

negligence.

the  defendant,  not 

The key here is that the question is asking the most favorable
the  most  reasonable
definition  for 
definition.  The  way  to  determine  this  is  to  identify  the
response that creates the most difficult standard to meet, since
that’s  the  definition  under  which  the  defendant  will  most
likely  be  exonerated.  To  do  that,  you  should  identify  the
standard  that  has  the  strongest  subjective  element — and
that’s Choice C.

This  choice  states  that  criminal  negligence  requires  the
defendant (1) to intentionally do something he shouldn’t have
done  or  (2)  to  intentionally  fail  to  do  something  he  should
have done, each of which requires a conscious disregard of a
known  danger.  Therefore,  Choice  (C)  makes  it  unlikely  that
the  defendant  will  be  convicted — while  his  behavior  was
probably negligent from an objective viewpoint, he probably
did not consciously disregard a known danger.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  it  does  not  offer  a  definition  that’s
particularly  helpful  to  the  defendant.  By  merely  stating  that
criminal negligence is something more than slight negligence,
the defendant here is left open to liability, because he clearly
disregarded the consequences of his act (whether consciously
or not) — not watching where he was going — and displayed
indifference  to  the  rights  of  others.  That’s  a  definition  less
favorable  to  him  than  (C),  which  in  effect  requires  a
conscious disregard of consequences and the rights of others.

(B) is wrong, because it is not favorable to the defendant. The
failure  to  respond  to  surrounding  circumstances  would  cook
the defendant’s goose, because that’s what he did — he failed
to  respond  to  the  stop  light.  Furthermore,  the  concept  of
reckless  disregard  might  be  interpreted  to  contain  only  an
objective  element, 
individual  undertook  an
the 
unjustifiable risk, whether he was conscious of the risk or not.
That  interpretation  would  make  it  easier  to  convict  the
defendant than the Choice (C) standard, which incorporates a
requirement of conscious disregard of risk.
(D)  is  wrong,  because  it  offers  a  definition  under  which  the
defendant would likely be found guilty. A definition favorable

that 

381

to  the  defendant  would  provide  as  strict  a  definition  as
possible  of  criminal  negligence.  By  characterizing  criminal
negligence  as  something  more  than  slight  negligence  in  tort,
but less than wanton misconduct, Choice (D) virtually invites
a  guilty  verdict,  since  the  defendant’s  conduct  in  ignoring  a
stop light and killing a pedestrian on a crosswalk could easily
be  characterized  as  gross  negligence.  The  best  thing  for  the
defendant  is  to  offer  a  definition  that  includes  as  strong  a
subjective element as possible (e.g., a definition that requires
at  least  conscious  disregard  of  the  risk),  which  Choice  (C)
does far better than (D).

IV.  RAPE

A.  Rape defined

1.  Without consent

a.  Mistake no defense

Question 34: A statute provides: A person commits the crime
of  rape  if  he  has  sexual  intercourse  with  a  female,  not  his
wife, without her consent.
Dunbar  is  charged  with  the  rape  of  Sally.  At  trial,  Sally
testifies  to  facts  sufficient  for  a  jury  to  find  that  Dunbar  had
sexual intercourse with her, that she did not consent, and that
the two were not married. Dunbar testifies in his own defense
that he believed that Sally had consented to sexual intercourse
and that she was his common-law wife.

At the conclusion of the case, the court instructed the jury that
in order to find Dunbar guilty of rape, it must find beyond a
reasonable  doubt  that  he  had  sexual  intercourse  with  Sally
without her consent.
The  court  also  instructed  the  jury  that  it  should  find  the
defendant not guilty if it found either that Sally was Dunbar’s
wife  or  that  Dunbar  reasonably  believed  that  Sally  had
consented  to  the  sexual  intercourse,  but  that  the  burden  of
persuasion as to these issues was on the defendant.
jury  found  Dunbar  guilty,  and  Dunbar  appealed,
The 
contending  that  the  court’s  instructions  on  the  issues  of
whether  Sally  was  his  wife  and  whether  he  reasonably

382

believed she had consented violated his constitutional rights.

Dunbar’s constitutional rights were

(A)  violated by the instructions as to both issues.
(B)    violated  by  the  instruction  as  to  whether  Sally  was  his
wife,  but  not  violated  by  the  instruction  on  belief  as  to
consent.

(C)  violated by the instruction on belief as to consent, but not
violated  by  the  instruction  as  to  whether  Sally  was  his
wife.

(D)  not violated by either part of the instructions.
Answer 34: Choice (B) is correct. As a criminal defendant,
the  Due  Process  Clause  guarantees  that  Dunbar  carries  no
burden  to  prove  or  disprove  any  element  of  the  crime  of
which  he  is  charged.  The  prosecution  carries  the  burden  of
persuasion as to every element of the crime. Dunbar only has
a burden of persuasion as to any affirmative defense he may
raise.  Dunbar  has  been  charged  with  rape,  which  in  this
jurisdiction  (as  at  common  law)  is  defined  as  a  defendant’s
(1) having sexual intercourse with a female, (2) not his wife,
(3) without her consent. This means that the prosecutor must
prove  each  one  of  those  elements  and  that  Dunbar  has  no
burden of persuasion as to any of them. The judge is required
to give an instruction that does not unduly saddle Dunbar with
any burden regarding any element of the crime. Let’s examine
each of the judge’s instructions separately.

The  judge’s  instruction  that  the  jury  should  find  Dunbar  not
guilty  if  it  found  that  Sally  was  Dunbar’s  wife,  and  that
Dunbar  carried  the  burden  of  persuasion  on  this  issue,
violated Dunbar’s constitutional rights. The issue of whether
Sally  was  Dunbar’s  wife  is  an  element  of  the  crime,  so
Dunbar could never be required to bear the burden to prove
or disprove it — it must be solely the prosecution’s burden to
prove  that  Sally  was  not  Dunbar’s  wife.  Therefore,  the
the  burden  of
judge’s 
persuasion  on  this  issue  from  the  prosecution  to  Dunbar,  in
violation of his due process rights.
On the other hand, the judge’s instruction that the jury should
find  Dunbar  not  guilty  if  it  found  that  Dunbar  reasonably

improperly  shifted 

instruction 

383

believed  Sally  had  consented  to  the  sexual  intercourse,  and
that  the  burden  was  on  Dunbar  to  persuade  the  jury  of  that
fact, did not violate Dunbar’s constitutional rights. Dunbar’s
belief as to consent at the time is not an element of rape, so
the  prosecution  does  not  have  to  prove  that  Dunbar  knew
Sally  did  not  consent  in  order  to  convict  him.  (If  this
jurisdiction follows the majority rule, Dunbar’s mistake about
consent,  even  if  reasonable,  would  be  no  defense  to  the
charge of rape. In that case, the judge’s instruction would be
in error, but in a way that would be likely to cause a jury to
acquit  Dunbar,  not  convict  him.  Even  if  the  defendant’s
reasonable  belief  as  to  consent  was  recognized  by  the
jurisdiction  as  an  affirmative  defense,  the  defendant  could
constitutionally  be  required  to  bear  the  burden  of  producing
evidence to support that defense, and the burden of persuasion
by a preponderance of the evidence as to it.)

(A) is wrong because it incorrectly states that Dunbar’s rights
were violated by the instruction on reasonable belief.

(C),  like  (A),  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  states  that
instruction  on
Dunbar’s  rights  were  violated  by 
reasonable belief.
(D) is wrong by not stating that Dunbar’s rights were violated
by the instruction on whether Sally was his wife.

the 

V.   KIDNAPPING

A.  Definition of kidnapping

1.  Asportation

a.  M.P.C. “substantial distance” rule

Question  35:  A  driver  stopped  at  a  red  light  in  his  home
state.  A  stranger  opened  the  passenger  door,  got  in,  and
pointed  a  gun  at  the  driver.  The  stranger  then  directed  the
driver to keep driving. They drove several miles, crossed into
a neighboring state, and drove several more miles. When they
reached a remote location, the stranger ordered the driver to
pull  over.  The  stranger  then  robbed  the  driver  of  his  wallet
and cash, and ordered him out of the car. The stranger drove
off in the driver’s car.
The  stranger  is  charged  with  kidnapping  in  the  neighboring

384

state, which has adopted the Model Penal Code.

Could the stranger properly be convicted of kidnapping in the
neighboring state?

(A)   Yes, because the driver was transported under threat of

force in the neighboring state.

(B)      Yes,  because  the  driver  in  effect  paid  ransom  for  his

release.

(C)      No,  because  any  kidnapping  took  place  in  the  driver’s

home state.

(D)   No, because the restraint was incidental to the robbery.
Answer  35:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  First,  notice  that  the
question  was  carefully  set  up  to  involve  two  states:  the
victim’s home state, and the neighboring state. The reason the
examiners set it up this way is that they wanted to be able to
ask  you  whether  that  part  of  the  episode  that  involved
transporting  the  victim  into  and  within  the  neighboring  state
was  part  of  the  crime — for  instance,  if  the  crime  of
kidnapping was defined in such a way that the crime here was
over as soon as the stranger got in the car and drove the first
few miles with the victim, then there would be no kidnapping
in the neighboring state, only in the home state. But the M.P.C.
does not define kidnapping in such a narrow way. The M.P.C.
(like  nearly  all  states)  defines  kidnapping  to  require  either
transporting  of  the  victim  (usually  called  “asportation”)  or
secret  imprisonment  of  the  victim.  The  M.P.C.  then  says  that
asportation occurs only if the defendant either (1) “removes”
the  victim  from  his  “place  of  residence  or  business,”  or  (2)
moves  the  victim  “a  substantial  distance  from  the  vicinity
where  he  is  found.”  M.P.C.  §  212.1.  The  Commentary  says
that  the  “substantial  distance”  requirement  is  designed  to
“preclude kidnapping convictions based on trivial changes of
location having no bearing on the evil at hand” (e.g., a rapist
who forces his victim a few steps into a parked car does not
commit kidnapping).
Here,  the  stranger’s  act  of  forcing  the  driver  to  transport
himself “several miles” to the state border, then several more
miles,  clearly  meets  the  “substantial  distance”  requirement.
And since the description of the crime makes it clear that the

385

stranger wanted to abandon the driver in a secluded location,
the transporting was not a “trivial change [] of location having
no bearing on the evil at hand.” So the part of the episode that
occurred  in  the  neighboring  state  was  definitely  part  of  the
crime,  under  the  definition  of  kidnapping  in  the  M.P.C.  (and
indeed, under the definitions of virtually every state).

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  reaches  the  correct  conclusion  by
incorrect  reasoning.  First,  it  is  hard  to  characterize  the
proceeds  of  the  robbery  as  “ransom.”  But  more  importantly,
the  propriety  of  a  kidnapping  conviction  does  not  turn  on
whether ransom was paid. The M.P.C. defines kidnapping to
mean  either  the  moving  of  a  person  “a  substantial  distance,”
or the “unlawful confine[ment]” of a person “for a substantial
period  in  a  place  of  isolation,”  so  long  as  the  moving  or
confinement is done with any of a variety of purposes (e.g.,
holding  for  ransom,  holding  as  a  hostage,  facilitating
commission  of  any  felony  or  flight  thereafter,  inflicting  any
bodily injury, etc.). M.P.C. § 212.1. Here, the stranger carried
out the “moving” (“asportation,” as it’s usually called) for the
purpose of later committing robbery, a felony. So whether the
driver  did  or  did  not  pay  ransom  is  irrelevant.  (Indeed,
kidnapping  is  like  burglary,  in  the  sense  that  as  long  as  the
defendant  confines  or  transports  with  one  of  the  forbidden
purposes, the crime is complete as soon as the confinement or
moving-a-substantial-distance  occurs,  even  if  the  purpose  is
never  fulfilled.  So  here,  once  the  stranger  transported  the
driver into the neighboring state, the crime was complete even
if  the  stranger  had  then  abandoned  his  plan  of  robbing  the
driver of his car and wallet.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  stranger  properly  could  be
convicted  of  kidnapping  in  both  states.  The  movement  in  the
neighboring state was more than incidental to the robbery, and
would  constitute  kidnapping  there  as  well  as  in  the  driver’s
home state. That’s especially true since the underlying felony
of  robbery — the  “purpose”  for  which  the  transportation
occurred — happened  in  the  neighboring  state.  For  more
about  why  the  crime  is  deemed  to  have  occurred  in  both
states, see the analysis of Choice (A).
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  restraint  was  not  incidental  to  the

386

robbery. It’s true that the M.P.C. defines kidnapping in such a
way that where a restraint and/or a transporting is for a brief
time  or  distance,  and  is  truly  incidental  to  the  “main”  crime
intended  by  the  defendant,  kidnapping  will  not  be  deemd  to
have occurred. So, for instance, a rapist who forces his victim
into a parked car or dark alley does not commit kidnapping.
M.P.C. § 212.1, Commentary. But here, the stranger caused the
driver to be transported several miles to the state border, then
another several miles, all for the purpose of getting him to a
secluded location where the car could be stolen. Under these
facts, the restraint (and the transporting) were not  incidental
to the robbery.

2.  Confinement must be against V’s will

Question 36: John asked Doris to spend a weekend with him
at his apartment and promised her they would get married on
the following Monday. Doris agreed and also promised John
that  she  would  not  tell  anyone  of  their  plans.  Unknown  to
Doris,  John  had  no  intention  of  marrying  her.  After  Doris
came  to  his  apartment,  John  told  Doris  he  was  going  for
cigarettes.  He  called  Doris’s  father  and  told  him  that  he  had
his  daughter  and  would  kill  her  if  he  did  not  receive
$100,000.  John  was  arrested  on  Sunday  afternoon  when  he
went to pick up the $100,000. Doris was still at the apartment
and knew nothing of John’s attempt to get the money.

John is guilty of

(A)  kidnapping.
(B)  attempted kidnapping.
(C)  kidnapping or attempted kidnapping but not both.
(D)  neither kidnapping nor attempted kidnapping.
Answer 36:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  John  is  guilty  of  neither
kidnapping  nor  attempted  kidnapping.  Let’s  examine  each
crime separately.
John has not committed kidnapping because Doris was free to
leave  his  apartment  at  any  time.  Kidnapping  is  the  (1)
unlawful confinement of another person, (2) accompanied by
either the moving or secreting away of that person. Although
John may have tricked Doris into spending the weekend at his
apartment,  he  did  nothing  to  confine  her  once  she  got  there.

387

Confinement occurs when the victim is either forced to remain
where she does not wish to remain or compelled to go where
she  does  not  wish  to  be.  Doris  desired  to  be  at  John’s
apartment and could have left had she so chosen, so she was
not confined. The lack of confinement negates the first element
of kidnapping, so John has not committed the crime. (And the
fact that Doris’ presence was brought about by John’s trickery
about  his  intent  to  marry  her  won’t  matter — he  hasn’t
confined her, and that’s all that matters.)

John is not guilty of attempted kidnapping because he did not
intend  for  his  actions  to  confine  Doris  to  his  apartment.  In
order  to  find  John  guilty  of  attempt,  the  prosecution  would
have to show that John intended to commit each element of the
crime.  In  this  case,  John  didn’t  intent  to  confine,  so  he  can’t
have attempt to kidnap.

Choices  (A),  (B),  and  (C)  are  all  wrong  because  they  each
state  that  John  is  guilty  of  either  kidnapping  or  attempted
kidnapping,  which  cannot  be  true  if  there  has  been  no
confinement and no attempt to confine.

388

CHAPTER 8
THEFT CRIMES

I.    LARCENY

A.  Trespassory taking

1.  Larceny by trick

a.  Intent to steal required

Question 37: Smith asked Jones if he would loan him $500,
promising  to  repay  the  amount  within  two  weeks.  Jones
loaned  him  the  $500.  The  next  day  Smith  took  the  money  to
the race track and lost all of it betting on horse races. He then
left town for six months. He has not repaid Jones.

Smith has committed

(A)    both  larceny  by  trick  and  obtaining  money  by  false
pretenses  (although  he  can  only  be  convicted  of  one
offense).

(B)  larceny by trick only.
(C)  obtaining money by false pretenses only.
(D)    neither  larceny  by  trick  nor  obtaining  money  by  false

pretenses.

Answer 37: Choice (D) is correct. Let’s take the crimes one
at a time. First, larceny by trick is a form of larceny, in which
the  initial  possession  by  the  defendant  is  not  only  wrongful
(which is required for any form of larceny), but is caused by
fraud or deceit (as opposed to, say, by force). The fact pattern
does  not  indicate  that  Smith  had  any  intention  other  than  the
intent to repay the loan, when he asked to borrow money from
Jones. Therefore, he did not intend to “steal” at the moment he
received the money, which would be required for larceny by
trick.
Next,  obtaining  money  by  false  pretenses  occurs  when  the
defendant  makes  a  false  representation  of  a  material  present
or  past  fact,  which  causes  the  person  to  whom  it  is  made  to
pass title to his property to the defendant, who knows that his
representation  is  false,  and  intends  to  defraud.  So  for  this

389

offense,  the  defendant  must  be  proved  to  have  knowingly
made a false representation that causes the victim to pass title
to  his  property.  There  is  no  indication  that  when  Smith
promised  to  repay  the  $500  within  two  weeks,  Smith  was
intentionally making a false representation about his intent — 
for all we know, he indeed believed that he would be willing
and able to repay the loan on schedule. Therefore, Smith did
not have the mental state required at the time title to the money
was  passed  (if,  indeed,  title  rather  than  mere  possession  is
deemed to have passed at the moment of the loan), and can’t
be guilty of false pretenses no matter what his post-loan state
of mind may have been.

(A),  (B),  and  (C)  are  all  wrong,  because  each  would  make
Smith  guilty  of  at  least  one  crime  (either  larceny  by  trick  or
false pretenses, or both) and he cannot be convicted of either
for the reasons discussed in Choice (D).

B.  Personal property

1.  No minimum value

Question  38:  David  entered  the  county  museum  at  a  time
when  it  was  open  to  the  public,  intending  to  steal  a  Picasso
etching. Once inside, he took what he thought was the etching
from  an  unlocked  display  case  and  concealed  it  under  his
coat.  However,  the  etching  was  a  photocopy  of  an  original
that  had  been  loaned  to  another  museum.  A  sign  over  the
display  case  containing  the  photocopy  said  that  similar
photocopies  were  available  free  at  the  entrance.  David  did
not see the sign.

Burglary in the jurisdiction is defined as “entering a building
unlawfully with the intent to commit a crime.”
David may be convicted of:

(A)  burglary and larceny.
(B)  burglary and attempted larceny.
(C)  larceny.
(D)  larceny and attempted larceny.
Answer  38:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  For  this  choice  to  be
correct,  David  must  have  committed  larceny.  Larceny  is  the
(1)  trespassory  (2)  taking  and  (3)  carrying  away  (4)  of  the

390

personal  property  (5)  of  another  with  (6)  the  intent  to  steal.
David’s  actions  fulfill  all  of  the  elements:  (1)  he  had  no
permission  to  take  the  document,  (2)  he  took  it,  (3)  and
removed  it  from  its  case,  (4)  and  (5)  the  document  was
property that didn’t belong to him, and (6) he intended to steal
it.  David’s  mistaken  belief  that  the  photocopy  was  in  fact  a
valuable Picasso original is irrelevant. The value of the item
he stole would be relevant to the degree of larceny of which
David is guilty, but the common law definition of larceny has
no  minimum  value  threshold.  Also  irrelevant  is  the  fact  that
David  could  have  lawfully  obtained  a  duplicate  for  free — 
it’s true that he could legally have taken one of the copies at
the entrance, but he had no permission to take the copy in the
display case.

(A)  is  wrong  because  David  is  not  guilty  of  burglary.  As
defined  in  the  given  statute,  burglary  requires  two  elements:
(1)  entering  a  building  unlawfully,  (2)  with  the  intent  to
commit  a  crime.  It  is  indisputable  that  David  intended  to
commit a crime once inside the museum since we are told that
he  entered  “intending  to  steal  a  Picasso  etching.”  However,
David’s entry wasn’t unlawful. When he entered the museum,
it  was  open  to  all  members  of  the  public,  including  David.
The fact that a criminal purpose motivated his entry does not
make  that  entry  “unlawful.”  For  the  purposes  of  burglary,
entry is only unlawful if the defendant entered a building, or
remained in a building, in which he had no permission to be.
Since  David’s  entry  to  the  museum  was  lawful,  he  has  not
committed burglary.

(B) is wrong for the same reason that (A) is wrong: David is
not guilty of burglary.
(D)  is  wrong  because  although  David  could  be  convicted
solely  of  attempted  larceny,  under  the  majority  approach  he
cannot be convicted of both larceny and attempted larceny. On
these  facts,  attempted  larceny  is  a  lesser  included  offense
within larceny (only one act of “taking” is charged), so if the
court  convicts  him  of  larceny,  it  cannot  separately  also
convict him of attempted larceny.

C.  Intent to steal

391

1.  Claim of right

a.  Grievance not enough

Question  39:  The  defendant  worked  as  the  cashier  in  a
restaurant.  One  night  after  the  restaurant  had  closed,  the
defendant  discovered  that  the  amount  of  cash  in  the  cash
register did not match the cash register receipt tapes. He took
the  cash  and  the  tapes,  put  them  in  a  bag,  gave  them  to  the
manager of the restaurant, and reported the discrepancy. The
manager  immediately  accused  him  of  taking  money  from  the
register  and  threatened  to  fire  him  if  he  did  not  make  up  the
difference.  The  manager  placed  the  bag  in  the  office  safe.
Angered by what he considered to be an unjust accusation, the
defendant  waited  until  the  manager  left  the  room  and  then
reached  into  the  still  open  safe,  took  the  bag  containing  the
cash, and left.
The defendant is guilty of
(A)  larceny.
(B)  embezzlement.
(C)  either larceny or embezzlement but not both.
(D)  neither larceny nor embezzlement.
Answer  39:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Larceny  is  the  (1)
trespassory (2) taking and (3) carrying away of (4) personal
property (5) of another (6) with intent to steal. The defendant
took  the  restaurant’s  money  from  the  safe  with  the  intent  to
steal it, so he is guilty of larceny. The fact that the defendant
felt  (properly  or  not)  aggrieved  by  the  false  accusation  is
irrelevant.  If  the  defendant  had  had  a  genuine  belief  that  he
had a “claim of right” to money or property in the defendant’s
possession,  and  had  taken  the  money  in  satisfaction  of  that
claim,  this  might  be  a  defense  to  larceny;  but  the  defendant
didn’t have that belief here — he was just feeling aggrieved.
(B) is wrong because the defendant took the money from the
office safe. Embezzlement is the (1) fraudulent (2) conversion
of (3) the property (4) of another (5) by one who is already in
lawful  possession  of  it.  The  element  missing  here  is  the  one
requiring  lawful  possession.  The  defendant,  as  cashier,  had
lawful  possession  of  the  money  while  he  was  working  the
cash register and putting it into a bag in order to give it to the

392

manager (so if he had taken it and carried it away with intent
to steal at that point, it would have been embezzlement). But
once the bag was put into the office safe, the defendant did not
have  lawful  possession  of  it  any  more.  Therefore,  when  he
took it from the safe he could not be guilty of embezzlement.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  defendant  is  not  guilty  of
embezzlement, as discussed in Choice (B). (Also, at common
law,  larceny  and  embezzlement  are  defined  in  mutually
exclusive  ways,  so  it  could  not  be  the  case  that  the
prosecution  had  a  choice  of  which  crime  to  charge  on  any
given state of facts.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  defendant  is  guilty  of  larceny,  as
discussed in Choice (A).

II.   BURGLARY

A.  Breaking

Question  40:  Sam  told  Horace,  his  neighbor,  that  he  was
going away for two weeks and asked Horace to keep an eye
on his house. Horace agreed. Sam gave Horace a key to use to
check on the house.

Horace decided to have a party in Sam’s house. He invited a
number  of  friends.  One  friend,  Lewis,  went  into  Sam’s
bedroom,  took  some  of  Sam’s  rings,  and  put  them  in  his
pocket.

Which of the following is true?

(A)  Horace and Lewis are guilty of burglary.
(B)    Horace  is  guilty  of  burglary  and  Lewis  is  guilty  of

larceny.

(C)    Horace  is  guilty  of  trespass  and  Lewis  is  guilty  of

larceny.

(D)  Lewis is guilty of larceny and Horace is not guilty of any

crime.

Answer  40:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  First,  let’s  examine
whether  either  Horace  or  Sam  committed  burglary.  The
answer  is  that  neither  did.  Burglary  is  the  breaking  and
entering  of  the  dwelling  of  another  at  night  with  intent  to

393

commit a felony. Breaking does not occur when one is invited
into a house. Since Horace had a key to the premises and had
permission  to  enter  the  house,  there  was  no  breaking.
Furthermore,  the  facts  do  not  indicate  that  Horace  had  the
intention  to  commit  a  felony  at  the  time  he  entered  the
premises  (or  at  any  time,  for  that  matter);  therefore,  this
requirement is not met either. As to Lewis, he was let into the
premises  by  one  who  was  authorized  to  be  there  (and
presumably, who was authorized to let in others). Therefore,
Lewis, too, did not “break.” (Nor is there any indication that
Lewis had the intent to commit a felony at the time he entered
the  premises — for  all  we  know  this  intent  might  have  been
formed later, when he noticed the jewelry.) Therefore, Lewis
is not guilty of burglary either.

Lewis is guilty of larceny because he took property belonging
to another (Sam’s rings) and “carried them away” (by putting
them in his pocket); a jury could infer that he did this because
he  meant  to  steal  them.  Horace  hasn’t  taken  any  property
belonging to another or intended to; deciding to have a party
in someone else’s house, when one has the right to be in the
house, is not any particular crime, theft or otherwise.

Now, let’s examine whether Horace is guilty of trespass, the
only crime other than burglary about which any of the choices
asserts  Horace  to  be  guilty.  Horace  is  not  guilty  of  trespass,
because  at  all  times  he  was  permitted  to  be  in  Sam’s  house,
under Sam’s invitation. (If Sam had expressly told him not to
have a party, by having a party Horace might have exceeded
the scope of the invitation, and thus become guilty of trespass.
But under the actual facts, he had no reason to believe that the
invitation did not include the right to have a party, or to invite
others to the house.)
(A) is wrong because neither defendant is guilty of burglary,
as explained in the discussion of Choice (D) above.
(B)  is  wrong  because  Horace  is  not  guilty  of  burglary,  as
explained in the discussion of Choice (D) above.
(C) is wrong, because Horace is not guilty of trespass, since
at  all  times  he  was  permitted  to  be  in  Sam’s  house,  and  did
not exceed the scope of his invitation (as is further explained

394

in the last paragraph of the discussion of Choice (D) above).

B.  Entry

Question  41:  A  woman  decided  to  steal  a  necklace  that
belonged to her neighbor. She knew where the neighbor kept
the necklace because she had been in the neighbor’s house on
many occasions when the neighbor had taken off the necklace
and put it away in a jewelry box in the bathroom. One night,
the  woman  went  to  the  neighbor’s  house.  The  neighbor  was
away  and  the  house  was  dark.  The  woman  opened  the
bathroom  window,  saw  the  jewelry  box  on  the  counter,  and
started  to  climb  inside.  As  her  leg  cleared  the  window  sill,
the neighbor’s cat let out a loud screech. Terrified, the woman
bolted back outside and fled.

The  crimes  below  are  listed  in  descending  order  of
seriousness. What is the most serious crime committed by the
woman?

(A)  Burglary.
(B)  Attempted burglary.
(C)  Attempted larceny.
(D)  No crime.
Answer 41: The correct choice is (A). Common-law burglary
is defined as the breaking and entering of the dwelling house
of another in the nighttime with the intent to commit a felony.
LaFave, Criminal Law, § 8.13, at p. 883. The woman satisfies
this definition because she unlawfully entered the neighbor’s
house at night with intent to commit a felony therein (larceny).
The  “breaking”  element  is  satisfied  because  the  woman
opened a window — there is no requirement that the breaking
occur  by  means  of  force,  or  that  the  premises  have  been
secured, such as by a lock. Id. at 884. The “entering” element
is more questionable on these facts, but the woman’s actions
satisfy  this  element  as  well.  See  LaFave,  Criminal  Law,  §
8.13(b), at p. 886 (to constitute burglary it is “sufficient if any
part of the actor’s person intruded, even momentarily, into the
structure. Thus it has been held that the intrusion of a part of a
hand in opening a window, or the momentary intrusion of part
of  a  foot  in  kicking  out  a  window,  constituted  the  requisite
entry.”).

395

(B) is wrong because the woman’s action proceeded beyond
the  point  of  attempted  burglary  to  the  completed  crime  of
burglary, as discussed in the analysis of Choice (A) above.

(C) is wrong because, while the woman may have been guilty
of  attempted  larceny,  that  crime  arguably  would  merge  into,
and in any event was less serious than, the burglary crime.

(D) is wrong because the woman is guilty of burglary, since
she  unlawfully  entered  the  neighbor’s  house  at  night  with
intent to commit a felony (larceny), as more fully discussed in
the analysis of Choice (A) above.

III.  ARSON

A.  Nature of offense

1.  Act posing great risk of fire

a.  Failure to take action

i.  Failure to put out fire D started

Question 42: Defendant was upset because he was going to
have  to  close  his  liquor  store  due  to  competition  from  a
discount store in a new shopping mall nearby. In desperation,
he  decided  to  set  fire  to  his  store  to  collect  the  insurance.
While  looking  through  the  basement  for  flammable  material,
he lit a match to read the label on a can. The match burned his
finger and, in a reflex action, he dropped the match. It fell into
a barrel and ignited some paper. Defendant made no effort to
put  out  the  fire  but  instead  left  the  building.  The  fire  spread
and the store was destroyed by fire. Defendant was eventually
arrested and indicted for arson.
Defendant is
(A)    guilty,  if  he  could  have  put  out  the  fire  before  it  spread
and  did  not  do  so  because  he  wanted  the  building
destroyed.

(B)  guilty, if he was negligent in starting the fire.
(C)  not guilty, because even if he wanted to burn the building
there was no concurrence between his mens rea and the
act of starting the fire.

(D)  not guilty, because his starting the fire was the result of a

396

reflex action and not a voluntary act.

Answer  42:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Ordinarily,  a  defendant
has  no  affirmative  obligation  to  avoid  harm,  only  an
obligation to refrain from doing harm. But where a defendant
brings about a risky situation, then he does have a duty to use
reasonable  efforts  to  avoid  the  harm.  So  once  Defendant
dropped  the  match  (even  if  only  reflexively),  he  had  an
affirmative obligation to stop the fire. When he didn’t, and his
mental state matched a state that will suffice for arson (intent
to burn), he became guilty of arson.

(B)  is  wrong  because  mere  negligence  doesn’t  suffice  for
arson — it’s a crime that requires either an intent to burn, or
(in  some  states)  recklessness  with  regard  to  the  risk  of
burning.

(C)  is  incorrect,  because  there  was  concurrence.  Even  if
Defendant behaved non-negligently in lighting a match in the
first  instance,  and  involuntarily  in  dropping  it,  once  the  fire
started  he  had  the  obligation  to  make  reasonable  efforts  to
stop  it,  because  he  had  caused  the  peril  in  the  first  place.
Once he simultaneously failed to perform that duty to stop the
peril  and  desired  that  the  bad  result  defining  the  crime
(burning) occur, he met the concurrence requirement.

(D) is wrong because, while Defendant may have started the
fire reflexively, once he failed to put it out while under a duty
to do so, this was a voluntary act.


CRIMINAL PROCEDURE Q&A BY TOPIC

References to “L&I” are to Lafave & Israel, Criminal Procedure Hornbook
(2d Ed., West, 1992).

CHAPTER 1
ARREST; PROBABLE CAUSE; SEARCH
WARRANTS

I.    AREAS AND PEOPLE PROTECTED BY THE

FOURTH AMENDMENT

A.  Guests

1.  Guest staying in hotel room

Question 1: A federal officer had probable cause to believe
a woman had participated in a bank robbery. Two days after
the  robbery,  the  woman  checked  into  a  local  hotel  room.
When  the  woman  left  for  the  evening,  the  hotel  manager
opened  the  hotel  room  door  so  the  officer  could  enter  the
room  and  look  inside.  The  officer  did  not  find  any  of  the
stolen money but did see, lying open on the bed, the woman’s
diary.  The  diary  contained  an  entry  describing  the  woman’s
involvement in robbing the bank.
The woman was charged in federal court with bank robbery.
She moved to suppress the diary.
Should the court suppress the diary?
(A)  Yes, because the officer had no warrant.
(B)    Yes,  because  admitting  the  diary  would  violate  the

woman’s privilege against self- incrimination.

(C)    No,  because  the  hotel  manager  had  actual  authority  to

allow the officer into the hotel room.

398

(D)    No,  because  the  officer  reasonably  relied  on  the  hotel
manager’s apparent authority to allow the officer into the
hotel room.

Answer  1:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  Fourth  Amendment
protects  places  as  to  which  a  person  has  a  reasonable
expectation  of  privacy.  One  of  those  places  is  a  person’s
dwelling, even a temporary dwelling like a hotel room. See,
e.g., Minnesota  v.  Olson  (1990)  (overnight  social  guest  has
reasonable expectation of privacy in the home in which she is
staying);  Stoner  v.  California  (1964)  (hotel  guest  is  to  be
treated like any other tenant, and management may not consent
to a search of the guest room prior to check-out). Before the
police  may  enter  a  place  as  to  which  a  suspect  has  a
reasonable  expectation  of  privacy,  the  police  must  (1)  have
probable cause to suspect a crime; and (2) have a search or
arrest warrant, or benefit from some exception to the warrant
requirement. Here, although requirement (1) (probable cause)
was  satisfied,  the  police  did  not  have  a  search  or  arrest
warrant,  and  there  was  nothing  in  the  facts  to  suggest  any
exception  to  the  warrant  requirement.  For  example,  although
there is an exception to the warrant requirement for “exigent
circumstances,”  no  such  circumstances  were  presented  here,
since the woman was out for the evening and thus did not pose
an  imminent  threat  to  destroy  evidence.  (If  the  police  were
worried  that  she  would  destroy  evidence  as  soon  as  she
returned, they could have posted an officer outside the room
to prevent her re-entry, while they sought a warrant.)

Nor  did  the  permission  from  the  hotel  manager  override  the
woman’s  right  not  to  have  her  premises  searched  without  a
warrant, for the reasons described in the analysis of choices
(C) and (D).
(B) is wrong because, although it reaches the right outcome, it
does  so  on  incorrect  reasoning.  The  privilege  against  self-
incrimination  protects  a  person  against  being  required  by
government  to  make  an  incriminating  communication.  Since
the  woman  made  the  diary  entries  without  being  required  to
do so by government, the later seizure of that diary could not
violate her privilege. (If she had been required by subpoena
to produce, say, “any diary or other communication in which

399

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

you discuss the alleged crime,” then this probably would have
violated her privilege, since it would in effect require her to
communicate the information, “This is a diary that I wrote,” a
communication  that  would  tend  to  incriminate  her.  But  here,
since the police seized the diary without requiring the woman
to produce it or authenticate it, there is no self-incrimination
problem.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  hotel  manager  did  not  have  actual
authority  to  allow  the  officer  into  the  hotel  room.  “Actual
authority”  is  a  concept  of  agency  law:  If  the  principal
intentionally confers on the agent the right to do something, the
agent is said to have actual authority to do that thing. So if the
woman  had  indicated  (either  expressly  or  by  implication)  to
the hotel management that it was OK for management to enter
and search her room at any time, the management would have
had  actual  authority  to  conduct  its  own  search,  and  also
authority  to  consent  to  the  police  search.  In  another  context,
suppose that D was an employee of X Corp. and had an office
at  corporate  headquarters;  if  the  understanding  was  that  X
Corp.  had  the  right  as  owner  of  the  office  to  search  its
contents  at  any  time,  then  X  Corp.  would  have  had  actual
authority to permit the police to make such a search, and that
permission  would  have  overridden  D’s 
reasonable
expectation of privacy in the office.
But  here,  hotel  management  had  at  most  actual  authority  to
enter for the limited purposes of cleaning, trash removal, and
the like, not for the purpose of making a search of the guest’s
belongings.  Therefore,  the  manager  did  not  have  actual
authority  to  consent  to  the  police  search.  See  Stoner  v.
California (1964) (hotel guest is to be treated like any other
tenant,  and  management  may  not  consent  to  a  search  of  the
guest room prior to check-out).
(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  hotel  manager  did  not  have
apparent  authority  to  allow  the  officer  into  the  hotel  room.
“Apparent  authority,”  like  “actual  authority,”  is  a  concept
from  agency  law — if  the  principal  puts  the  agent  in  such  a
position  that  the  world  reasonably  infers  that  the  agent  has
actual authority to do Act X, then the agent is deemed to have
apparent  authority  to  do  X  even  though  the  agent  does  not

400

have actual authority to do X.

Here,  the  defendant  hotel  guest  (the  principal)  probably  has,
merely  by  checking  into  the  room  and  not  indicating
otherwise,  conferred  on  hotel  management  (the  agent)
apparent authority to enter for limited purposes like cleaning.
But  the  guest  has  not  conferred  apparent  authority  on
management  to  search  the  room,  or  to  give  consent  to  law
enforcement  to  search  the  room — that’s  because  renting  a
hotel  room  is  not  commonly  understood  to  confer  such
authority  on  hotel  management.  Since  hotel  management  did
not  have  apparent  authority  to  consent  to  the  search,  the
police’s reliance on what they thought was apparent authority
was not reasonable, and therefore not effective. Consequently,
the defendant’s basic reasonable expectation of privacy in her
temporary hotel dwelling prevailed, and was enough to make
the  warrantless  entry  a  Fourth  Amendment  violation,  as
further described in Choice (A).

II.   THE “PLAIN VIEW” DOCTRINE

A.  Aerial observation

Question 2:  Police  received  an  anonymous  tip  that  Tusitala
in  her  backyard,  which  was
was  growing  marijuana 
surrounded  by  a  15-foot  high,  solid  wooden  fence.  Officer
Boa was unable to view the yard from the street, so he used a
police helicopter to fly over Tusitala’s house. Boa identified
a  large  patch  of  marijuana  plants  growing  right  next  to  the
house and used this observation to obtain a search warrant.

Tusitala is prosecuted for possession of marijuana and moves
to suppress use of the marijuana in evidence.
The court should
(A)  grant the motion, because the only purpose of Boa’s flight

was to observe the yard.

(B)    grant  the  motion,  because  Tusitala  had  a  reasonable
expectation of privacy in the curtilage around her house
and the police did not have a warrant.

(C)  deny the motion, because a warrant is not required for a

search of a residential yard.

401

(D)    deny  the  motion,  because  Tusitala  had  no  reasonable

expectation of privacy from aerial observation.

Answer 2: Choice (D)  is  correct.  Where  objects  on  private
property  can  be  seen  from  public  places,  observation  by  the
police  does  not  constitute  a  Fourth  Amendment  search.  The
fact  that  a  police  officer  who  obtains  the  “plain  view”  does
so  from  a  contorted  or  otherwise  unusual  position  does  not
prevent  the  “plain  view”  doctrine  from  applying,  assuming
that the policeman is in a place where he has a prior right to
be. Harris v. U.S. (1968). If the police use an aircraft to view
the  defendant’s  property  from  the  air  and  the  aircraft  is  in
public, navigable, airspace, anything the police can see with
the naked eye from that airspace falls within the “plain view”
doctrine.  Even  a  view  taken  by  the  police  from  a  helicopter
flying  only  400  feet  above  the  ground  still  fell  within  the
“plain view” doctrine according to a five-Justice majority in
Florida  v.  Riley  (1989).  Therefore,  the  search  of  Tusitala’s
yard  from  an  aerial  view  was  valid,  and  the  subsequent
issuance of a warrant to seize the marijuana observed in the
search was valid.
(A) is wrong because the purpose of the flight was irrelevant,
as  long  as  the  police  officer  was  in  a  place  where  he  had  a
prior right to be. There is nothing to indicate that the officer
was  not  allowed  to  be  in  the  airspace  above  Tusitala’s
property.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  although  Tusitala  had  a  reasonable
expectation  of  privacy 
in  his  yard  from  ground-level
observation  due  to  his  erection  of  a  15-foot  high  fence,  this
expectation of privacy did not extend to aerial observation, as
explained in the discussion of (D).
(C) is wrong because if a person has a reasonable expectation
of  privacy  in  his  yard,  then  a  warrant  would  be  required  to
enter  it.  In  this  case,  ground-level  observation  of  Tusitala’s
yard,  which  was  enclosed  by  a  15-foot  high  fence,  would
require a warrant; by contrast, aerial observation of the yard
would not require a warrant.

III.  PROBABLE CAUSE GENERALLY

402

A.  Only evidence heard by magistrate used

1.  Perjured affidavit

a.  Honest police error

Question  3:  On  October  22,  a  police  officer  submitted  an
application  for  a  warrant  to  search  217  Elm  Street  for
cocaine.  In  the  application,  the  officer  stated  under  oath  that
he  believed  there  was  cocaine  at  that  location  because  of
information supplied to him on the morning of October 22 by
Susie  Schultz.  He  described  Schultz  as  a  cocaine  user  who
had  previously  supplied  accurate  information  concerning  the
use of cocaine in the community and summarized what Schultz
had  told  him  as  follows:  The  previous  night,  October  21,
Schultz  was  in  the  defendant’s  house  at  217  Elm  Street.  The
three
defendant  gave  her  cocaine.  Schultz  also  saw 
cellophane  bags  containing  cocaine 
the  defendant’s
bedroom.
The warrant was issued and a search of 217 Elm Street was
conducted on October 22. The search turned up a quantity of
marijuana  but  no  cocaine.  The  defendant  was  arrested  and
charged with possession of marijuana. The defendant moved
to suppress the use of the marijuana as evidence, contending
that Susie Schultz was not in 217 Elm Street on October 21 or
at any other time.

in 

If,  after  hearing  evidence,  the  judge  concludes  that  the
statement  in  the  application  attributed  to  Susie  Schultz  is
incorrect, the judge should grant the motion to suppress

(A)  because the application contains a material statement that

is false.

(B)    because  of  the  false  statement  and  because  no  cocaine

was found in the house.

(C)  only if he also finds that Susie Schultz’s statement was a

deliberate lie.

(D)    only  if  he  also  finds  that  the  officer  knew  the  statement

was false.

Answer  3:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  exclusionary  rule
provides  that  evidence  obtained  by  violating  the  defendant’s
constitutional rights may not be introduced by the prosecution,

403

at  least  for  purposes  of  providing  direct  proof  of  the
defendant’s guilt. The exclusionary rule does not bar evidence
that was obtained by officers acting in reasonable reliance on
a search warrant issued by a proper magistrate but ultimately
found  to  be  unsupported  by  probable  cause.  U.S.  v.  Leon
(1984). This good-faith exception will not apply if the officer
who  prepared  the  affidavit  on  which  the  warrant  is  based
knows  that  the  information  in  it  is  false  or  recklessly
disregards  its  truth  or  falsity.  Therefore,  the  motion  to
suppress should be granted under these circumstances.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  is  irrelevant  that  there  was  a  false
material  statement  in  the  application,  as  long  as  the  police
officers  acted  in  reasonable  reliance  upon  it.  The  informant
was described as a cocaine user who had previously supplied
accurate  information  concerning  the  use  of  cocaine  in  the
community; she also supplied detailed information about how
she  came  upon  the  information  which  she  supplied  to  the
police. It was reasonable for the police to rely on the warrant
that was based on this information offered by this informant.
And  under  U.S.  v.  Leon,  supra,  the  evidence  obtained  by
reasonable  reliance  on  a  search  warrant  is  not  excludible
even though there was not in fact probable cause for issuance
of the warrant. (See the analysis of Choice (D) above.)
(B) is wrong because not only is it irrelevant that there was a
false statement in the application, but it is also irrelevant that
no  cocaine  was  found  in  the  house,  as  long  as  the  police
officers acted in reasonable reliance upon the warrant. There
was  reasonable  reliance  on  the  warrant  as  explained  in  the
discussion of Choice (A).

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  nature  of  the  false  statement  is
irrelevant, as long as the police officers acted in reasonable
reliance upon the warrant. There was reasonable reliance on
the warrant, as explained in the discussion of Choice (A).

404

CHAPTER 2
WARRANTLESS ARRESTS AND
SEARCHES

I.    SEARCH INCIDENT TO ARREST

A.  Protective sweep

1.  Can’t search too-small spaces

Question 4: The police had, over time, accumulated reliable
information  that  a  rock  singer  operated  a  large  cocaine-
distribution  network,  that  he  and  his  accomplices  often
resorted  to  violence,  and  that  they  kept  a  small  arsenal  of
weapons in his home.
One day, the police received reliable information that a large
brown  suitcase  with  leather  straps  containing  a  supply  of
cocaine  had  been  delivered  to  the  singer’s  home  and  that  it
would be moved to a distribution point the next morning. The
police obtained a valid search warrant to search for and seize
the  brown  suitcase  and  the  cocaine  and  went  to  the  singer’s
house.

The  police  knocked  on  the  singer’s  door  and  called  out,
“Police.  Open  up.  We  have  a  search  warrant.”  After  a  few
seconds  with  no  response,  the  police  forced  the  door  open
and  entered.  Hearing  noises  in  the  basement,  the  police  ran
down there and found the singer with a large brown suitcase
with leather straps. They seized the suitcase and put handcuffs
on the singer. A search of his person revealed a switchblade
knife and a .45-caliber pistol.
The police then fanned out through the house, looking in every
room  and  closet.  They  found  no  one  else,  but  one  officer
found an Uzi automatic weapon in a box on a closet shelf in
the singer’s bedroom.

In addition to charges relating to the cocaine in the suitcase,
the singer is charged with unlawful possession of weapons.
The singer moves pretrial to suppress the use as evidence of
the  Uzi  automatic  weapon.  The  singer’s  motion  to  suppress

405

should be

(A)  granted, because the search exceeded the scope needed to

find out if other persons were present.

(B)    granted,  because  once  the  object  of  the  warrant — the
brown suitcase — had been found and seized, no further
search of the house is permitted.

(C)  denied, because the police were lawfully in the bedroom
and  the  weapon  was  immediately  identifiable  as  being
subject to seizure.

(D)  denied, because the police were lawfully in the house and
had probable cause to believe that weapons were in the
house.

Answer 4: Choice (A) is correct. Incident to a lawful arrest
in an arrestee’s home, the officers executing the warrant may
conduct a “protective sweep” of all or part of the premises, if
they have a “reasonable belief” that another person who might
be  dangerous  to  the  officers  may  be  present  in  the  areas
swept. Maryland v. Buie (1990). So here, the police had the
right to search the house for accomplices. The Uzi, however,
was found in a box on a closet shelf. Clearly the weapon was
neither in plain sight nor in a place where a person could be
found.  Therefore,  the  protective-sweep  exception  doesn’t
apply.  Since  the  search  warrant  covered  only  the  brown
suitcase (which the police had already seized), their search of
the closet could not be justified on the grounds that they were
executing the search warrant either.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  answer  misstates  the  applicable
law:  The  police  had  the  right  to  search  the  house  for
accomplices.  As  is  described  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (A)
above, the police had the right to check protectively for other
persons. Therefore, this choice — since it says that no further
search  of  the  house  was  permitted  once  the  suitcase  was
seized — is  inconsistent  with  the  officers’  right  to  make  the
protective  search  (which  may  be  made  at  any  time  that  the
police  are  still  on  the  premises  and  are  thus  vulnerable  to  a
sudden attack from someone who might be hiding).
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  weapon  was  not  in  an  area  that
could  be  searched.  It’s  true  that  the  police  were  lawfully  in

406

the bedroom (under their right to make a protective sweep — 
see  Choice  (A)).  But  while  they  were  in  the  bedroom,  the
police were only permitted to look in places where a person
might  be  hiding.  They  therefore  weren’t  allowed  to  look  in
small boxes, as they did here.

(D) is wrong because, while the police knew that there might
well  be  weapons  in  the  house,  they  would  have  needed  a
warrant  in  order  to  look  for  such  weapons  at  the  top  of  the
closet.  There  are  two  requirements  that  must  be  satisfied
before a house may be searched for a particular item, unless
there  is  some  applicable  exception:  (1)  probable  cause  to
believe  that  the  item  will  be  found;  and  (2)  a  warrant  to
search for it. Here, since the facts tell us that the police had
gotten reliable information that the singer and his accomplices
“kept  a  small  arsenal  of  weapons  in  [the  singer’s]  home,”
requirement (1) was satisfied as to the weapons. But although
the  police  procured  a  search  warrant,  that  warrant  did  not
cover  the  weapons,  only  the  brown  suitcase.  Therefore,  the
fact that the police were already in the home, and the further
fact that they had probable cause to believe that the weapons
would or might be found, were not enough to permit them to
look  either  in  the  bedroom  or  in  the  closet.  And  while  their
need to make a “protective sweep” justified them in looking
in  the  bedroom,  this  need  did  not,  as  described  in  the
discussion of Choice (A), authorize them to search in a small
box on a shelf, since no one could have been hiding there.

II.   AUTOMOBILE SEARCHES

A.  Two special exceptions

1.  Field search for contraband

Question 5: Police received information from an undercover
police  officer  that  she  had  just  seen  two  men  (whom  she
described)  in  a  red  pickup  truck  selling  marijuana  to
schoolchildren  near  the  city’s  largest  high  school.  A  few
minutes  later,  two  police  officers  saw  a  pickup  truck  fitting
the description a half block from the high school. The driver
of  the  truck  matched  the  description  of  one  of  the  men
described by the undercover officer.

407

The only passenger was a young woman who was in the back
of the truck. The police saw her get out and stand at a nearby
bus stop. They stopped the truck and asked the driver to exit
the car; they then searched the driver’s person. In the pocket
of the driver’s jacket, the police found a small bottle of pills
that they recognized as narcotics. They arrested the driver and
handcuffed him to the back of the police car. The police then
broke  open  a  locked  toolbox  attached  to  the  flatbed  of  the
truck and found a small sealed envelope inside. They opened
it and found marijuana. They also found a quantity of cocaine
in the glove compartment.

After completing their search of the driver and the truck, the
police went over to the young woman and searched her purse.
In  her  purse,  they  found  a  small  quantity  of  heroin.  Both  the
driver and the young woman were arrested and charged with
unlawful possession of narcotics.

If  the  driver  moves  to  suppress  the  use  as  evidence  of  the
marijuana  and  cocaine  found  in  the  search  of  the  truck,  the
court should
(A)  grant the motion as to both the marijuana and the cocaine.
(B)  grant the motion as to the marijuana but deny it as to the

cocaine.

(C)  deny the motion as to the marijuana but grant it as to the

cocaine.

(D)  deny the motion as to both the marijuana and the cocaine.
Answer 5: Choice (D) is correct. The court should deny the
driver’s motion to suppress both types of evidence since the
search  that  allowed  the  police  to  find  the  drugs  was
conducted  properly.  Generally, 
the  Fourth  Amendment
requires  that  police  have  a  warrant  to  search  a  person  or
location.  There  are  many  exceptions  to  this  rule,  several  of
which involve the searches of automobiles. In particular, the
police could search the driver’s car without a warrant if they
had probable cause to believe that it contained contraband or
evidence of a crime. (California v. Carney (1985).) Since the
officers  who  stopped  the  car  were  informed  by  another
officer  that,  only  a  few  minutes  earlier,  the  occupants  of  the
truck  had  been  observed  selling  marijuana,  the  arresting

408

officers had probable cause to search the driver’s person for
drugs.  Once  they  found  drugs  on  the  driver,  they  then  had
probable  cause  (which  they  may  even  have  had  before  the
stop) to believe that the truck would contain drugs. Given that
belief, they were entitled to search the car for drugs, without
first getting a warrant.

Once  we  have  determined  that  the  search  was  allowed,  we
need  to  check  whether  the  scope  of  the  search  was  proper.
When  the  police  stop  a  vehicle  and  have  probable  cause  to
believe that contraband is contained in it, they may search any
container that could possibly contain the object of the search.
(U.S. v. Ross  (1982).)  Since  the  officers  were  searching  the
driver’s truck for evidence of a recent drug sale, the object of
the search was marijuana, which can be stored in very small
containers.  Both  the  glove  compartment  of  the  truck  and  the
toolbox in the flatbed were large enough to contain the drugs,
so the police could lawfully search them without a warrant.

Notice that this is not a case in which the driver is benefited
by Arizona v. Gant (2009), where the Court held that the mere
fact that a driver has been arrested for, say, a traffic violation
does  not  automatically  entitle  the  police  to  do  a  complete
search  of  the  passenger  compartment.  Here,  by  the  time  the
police  started  their  search  of  the  truck  itself  (as  opposed  to
the  driver’s  person),  they  already  had  probable  cause  to
believe  that  the  truck  would  contain  evidence  of  narcotics
possession, the offense for which they had arrested the driver.
So  they  were  entitled  to  search  the  truck’s  passenger
compartment  for  drugs.  That  probable  cause  to  believe  that
drugs  would  be  found  in  the  car  makes  the  constitutional
difference.  For  instance,  suppose  the  police  had  merely
stopped  the  truck  for,  say,  a  traffic  violation,  arrested  the
driver  for  that  violation  and  handcuffed  him,  and  then  did  a
search  of  the  passenger  compartment  incident  to  arrest,
without  any  probable  cause  to  believe  that  drugs  or
contraband would be found within the truck. In this situation,
Gant  would  have  made  the  search  of  the  truck  illegal.  But
here,  since  the  police  already  had  appropriately  obtained
probable cause to suspect that the truck would contain drugs
prior to the moment when they started the truck search, Gant

409

is irrelevant, and the search was proper.

Choices (A), (B), and (C) are incorrect because they wrongly
conclude that the police improperly searched either the glove
compartment or the toolbox.

III.   CONSENT SEARCHES GENERALLY

A.  Consent generally

Question 6:  Police  officers  received  a  tip  that  drug  dealing
was  occurring  at  a  certain  ground-floor  duplex  apartment.
They  decided  to  stake  out  the  apartment.  The  stakeout
revealed  that  a  significant  number  of  people  visited  the
apartment for short periods of time and then left. A man exited
the apartment and started to walk briskly away. The officers
grabbed the man and, when he struggled, wrestled him to the
ground. They searched him and found a bag of heroin in one
of  his  pockets.  After  discovering  the  heroin  on  the  man,  the
police  decided  to  enter  the  apartment.  They  knocked  on  the
door, which was opened by the woman who lived there. The
police asked if they could come inside, and the woman gave
them permission to do so. Once inside, the officers observed
several bags of heroin on the living room table. The woman is
charged  with  possession  of  the  heroin  found  on  the  living
room table. She moves pretrial to suppress the heroin on the
ground that it was obtained by virtue of an illegal search and
seizure.

Should the woman’s motion be granted?

(A)  No, because the tip together with the heroin found in the
man’s pocket provided probable cause for the search.
(B)  No, because the woman consented to the officers’ entry.
(C)  Yes, because the officers’ decision to enter the house was

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

the fruit of an illegal search of the man.

(D)  Yes, because the officers did not inform the woman that

she could refuse consent.

Answer  6:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  woman’s  consent
justified  the  officers’  entry.  When  a  person  consents  to  the
entry of law enforcement officers into an area as to which the
person  would  otherwise  have  a  justifiable  expectation  of

410

privacy,  that  consent  validates  the  police  entry,  and  nullifies
any need for either probable cause or a search warrant if such
a need existed prior to the consent. Once the police then make
their  consented-to  entry,  the  “plain  view”  doctrine  entitles
them to seize any item whose contraband or evidentiary nature
is obvious, as long as when they have the view the police are
standing  in  a  place  where  they  have  a  right  to  be.  Harris  v.
U.S. (1968). Since the woman consented to the officers’ entry
into her house, and since the officers spotted the heroin while
standing in a place to which the consent applied, there could
not have been either an illegal search or an illegal seizure.

(A) is wrong because, while this answer correctly states that
the  woman’s  motion  to  suppress  the  heroin  should  not  be
granted, it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion. Even
assuming  there  was  probable  cause  to  search  the  home,  a
warrant  would  have  been  required  for  entry  had  the  woman
not consented. See, e.g., Payton v. New York (1980).

(C) is wrong because the search of the man, even assuming it
was  improper,  did  not  violate  the  woman’s  rights  and
therefore provides no basis for suppressing evidence found in
her  house.  That  is,  the  woman  did  not  have  “standing”  to
assert a violation of the constitutional rights of a third party.
Cf.  Minnesota  v.  Carter  (1998)  (discussing  standing
requirements for third-party constitutional claims).

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  is  no  requirement  that  officers
inform  individuals  of  their  right  to  refuse  consent.  See
Schneckloth  v.  Bustamonte  (1973).  Therefore,  the  consent
was valid.

B.  D need not know he can refuse consent

1.  Must be voluntary

a.  Ignorance of police motive

Question 7:  Larson  was  charged  with  the  murder  of  a  man
who had been strangled and whose body was found in some
woods  near  his  home.  Larson  suffers  from  a  neurological
problem  that  makes  it  impossible  for  him  to  remember  an
occurrence for longer than 48 hours.

After Larson was charged, the police visited him and asked if

411

they  might  search  his  home.  Larson  consented.  The  police
found a diary written by Larson. An entry dated the same day
as 
“Indescribable
excitement. Why did no one ever tell me that killing gave such
pleasure to the master?”

the  victim’s  disappearance 

read, 

Larson was charged with murder. His attorney has moved to
exclude  the  diary  from  evidence  on  the  ground  that  its
admission  would  violate  Larson’s  privilege  against  self-
incrimination. Counsel has also argued that Larson could not
give  informed  consent  to  the  search  because  more  than  48
hours had passed since the making of the entry and hence he
could not remember the existence of the incriminating entry at
the  time  he  gave  his  consent.  There  is  no  evidence  that  the
police  officers  who  secured  Larson’s  consent  to  the  search
were aware of his memory impairment.

With regard to the diary, the court should

(A)    admit  it,  because  Larson’s  consent  was  not  obtained  by
intentional  police  misconduct  and  Larson  was  not
compelled to make the diary entry.

(B)    admit  it,  pursuant  to  the  good-faith  exception  to  the

exclusionary rule.

(C)  exclude it, because Larson was not competent to consent

to a search.

(D)    exclude  it,  because  use  of  the  diary  as  evidence  would

violate Larson’s

                    privilege against self-incrimination.
Answer  7:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  police  may  make  a
constitutional warrantless search if they receive the consent of
the  individual  whose  premises,  effects  or  person  are  to  be
searched.  The  police  did  not  deceive  Larson  nor  make  any
misrepresentations  in  order  to  obtain  his  consent.  Nor  did
they  compel  him  to  make  the  diary  entry,  a  requirement  in
order  for  him  to  claim  that  his  Fifth  Amendment  privilege
against  self-incrimination  was  violated,  as  discussed  more
fully  in  the  analysis  of  (D).  Therefore,  the  diary  should  be
admitted.
(B)  is  wrong  because  the  “good  faith”  exception  to  the
exclusionary rule does not apply in this context, nor is it even

412

necessary to rely on an exception, since the search and seizure
were  valid.  The  exclusionary  rule  provides  that  evidence
obtained by violating the defendant’s constitutional rights may
not be introduced by the prosecution, at least for purposes of
providing  direct  proof  of 
the  defendant’s  guilt.  The
exclusionary rule does not bar evidence that was obtained by
officers  acting  in  reasonable  reliance  on  a  search  warrant
issued  by  a  proper  magistrate  but  ultimately  found  to  be
unsupported by probable cause (“good faith” exception). U.S.
v.  Leon  (1984).  There  was  no  warrant  issued  in  this  case;
therefore,  the  concept  is  misapplied  here.  In  addition,  the
diary  is  admissible  without  reliance  on  an  exception  to  the
exclusionary rule, because of Larson’s consent, as discussed
in the explanation to (A).

(C)  is  wrong  because  Larson’s  disability  did  not  affect  his
ability  to  understand  the  nature  of  his  consent.  It’s  true  that
Larson could not remember things that happened more than 48
hours  previously,  so  that  he  did  not  remember  making  the
diary  entry.  However,  what  is  relevant  is  that  he  was  fully
competent to understand the consequences of his consent to a
present search of his home. Therefore, the consent was valid.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  police  did  not  compel  the
production of the diary, nor would evidence of a diary entry
be  considered  “testimonial  or  communicative.”  The  Fifth
Amendment  privilege  against  self-incrimination  protects
against  compulsion  to  give  “testimonial  or  communicative”
evidence.  Larson  consented  to  the  search  without  any
compulsion  on  the  part  of  the  police.  Additionally,  Larson’s
intended  as  a
earlier  writing  of 
communication (the fact pattern does not indicate that it was
intended to be anything other than a private writing meant to
be read only by Larson) and would therefore not be covered
under the privilege for that reason as well.

the  diary  was  not 

IV.  INSPECTIONS AND WEAPONS SEARCHES

A.  Searches in schools

1.  Law enforcement agencies involved

Question 8: The police suspected that Yancey, a 16-year-old

413

high  school  student,  had  committed  a  series  of  burglaries.
Two  officers  went  to  Yancey’s  high  school  and  asked  the
principal  to  call  Yancey  out  of  class  and  to  search  his
backpack.  While  the  officers  waited,  the  principal  took
Yancey into the hall where she asked to look in his backpack.
When  Yancey  refused,  the  principal  grabbed  it  from  him,
injuring  Yancey’s  shoulder  in  the  process.  In  the  backpack,
she found jewelry that she turned over to the officers.

Yancey  was  charged  with  the  burglaries,  and  moves  to
suppress the use of the jewelry.

The court should

(A)    deny  the  motion  on  the  ground  that  the  search  was

incident to a lawful arrest.

(B)    deny  the  motion  on  the  ground  that  school  searches  are
reasonable  if  conducted  by  school  personnel  on  school
grounds on the basis of reasonable suspicion.

(C)    grant  the  motion  on  the  ground  that  the  search  was

conducted with excessive force.

(D)    grant  the  motion  on  the  ground  that  the  search  was

conducted without probable cause or a warrant.

Answer 8: Choice (D) is correct. School officials may search
the person and property of a student without a warrant if there
is “reasonable ground for suspecting that the search will turn
up evidence that the student has violated or is violating either
the  law  or  the  rules  of  the  school.”  New  Jersey  v.  T.L.O.
(1985).  However,  this  rule  almost  certainly  doesn’t  apply
where the school authorities are performing the search at the
express  request  of  the  police.  Consequently,  the  usual
requirement  of  probable  cause  for  a  search,  plus  the
requirement  of  a  search  warrant,  apply  if  there  is  no  other
applicable exception to these requirements. There is no such
exception to either of these requirements on these facts.
(A)  is  wrong  because  a  search  incident  to  an  arrest  must  be
made incident to a valid arrest, supported by probable cause.
The facts do not offer a basis on which probable cause could
have  been  found,  only  a  vague  reference  that  the  police
“suspected”  Yancey.  Additionally,  the  search  here  happened
before  the  arrest;  a  valid  search  incident  to  an  arrest  occurs

414

after the arrest has been made.

(B) is wrong because, while it’s true that school officials may
search the person and property of a student without a warrant
if  there  is  “reasonable  ground  for  suspecting  that  the  search
will  turn  up  evidence  that  the  student  has  violated  or  is
violating  either  the  law  or  the  rules  of  the  school,”  (N.J.  v.
T.L.O., supra) this rule doesn’t apply here. That’s because the
principal  was  acting  at  the  specific  behest  of  the  police.
Consequently,  the  search  had  to  meet  the  same  requirements
as  a  police  search  (including  satisfaction  of  the  warrant
requirement),  and 
the  search
wouldn’t be enough to validate it.

the  “reasonableness”  of 

(C) is wrong because there is no “excessive force” basis for
excluding the fruits of a search.

415

CHAPTER 3
CONFESSIONS AND POLICE
INTERROGATION

I.    VOLUNTARINESS

A.  Voluntariness generally

1.  Must be police coercion

Question  9:  Dan  entered  the  police  station  and  announced
that he wanted to confess to a murder. The police advised Dan
of the Miranda  warnings,  and  Dan  signed  a  written  waiver.
Dan  described  the  murder  in  detail  and  pinpointed  the
location where a murder victim had been found a few weeks
before.  Later,  a  court-appointed  psychiatrist  determined  that
Dan was suffering from a serious mental illness that interfered
with his ability to make rational choices and to understand his
rights and that the psychosis had induced his confession.

Dan’s confession is

(A)    admissible,  because  there  was  no  coercive  police

conduct in obtaining Dan’s statement.
(B)  admissible, because Dan was not in custody.
(C)  inadmissible, because Dan’s confession was a product of

his mental illness and was therefore involuntary.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  under  these  circumstances,  there

was no valid waiver of Miranda warnings.

Answer  9:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Dan’s  confession  is
admissible  because  it  was  made  voluntarily  after  he  had
validly  waived  his  Fifth  Amendment  right  against  self-
incrimination. A confession may only be introduced against a
defendant  if  it  meets  two  criteria.  First,  the  defendant  must
have made the confession voluntarily. This hurdle is very easy
to  clear  since  a  statement  is  considered  “voluntary”  unless
there is evidence of police coercion. Nothing the police did in
this  situation  forced  Dan  to  confess,  so  his  statement  was
voluntary.  (As  discussed  in  Choice  (C)  below,  the  Supreme
Court has held that a suspect’s mental illness, standing alone,

416

will  not  result  in  a  statement  being  considered  involuntary.)
Second, the confession must be made in accordance with the
decision in Miranda, which requires that the suspect be given
“Miranda warnings” and have validly waived them before he
is questioned by law enforcement authorities. A waiver of the
Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and the Sixth
Amendment  right  to  have  counsel  present  at  questioning  is
valid only if it is made “knowingly and intelligently.” To meet
this  standard,  the  prosecution  must  show  that  (1)  the  suspect
knew what his rights were when he waived them, and (2) he
understood that he was giving up those rights. “Intelligence,”
for  the  purposes  of  waiver  analysis,  has  nothing  to  do  with
whether  the  suspect  was  making  a  wise  decision.  Dan  was
given his Miranda  warnings  and  signed  a  written  waiver  of
his rights before confessing. Since there is no evidence that he
was  coerced  into  signing  the  waiver,  the  waiver  was  valid
and the confession is admissible against him.

(B) is wrong because Dan was in custody when he confessed.
A  defendant  is  in  custody  when  police  action  has  restricted
his  “freedom  of  action 
in  any  significant  way.”  The
“reasonable suspect” test is used to determine if a defendant
is in custody. The issue is whether a reasonable person in the
suspect’s position would believe that he would be allowed to
leave.  Dan  had  already  walked  into  a  police  station  and
announced  that  he  wanted  to  confess  to  murder.  Since  a
reasonable person would believe that the police would not let
him  simply  walk  out  of  the  station  after  making  such  an
announcement, Dan was in custody at that point.

(C)  is  wrong  because  Dan’s  mental  illness  did  not  render
either  his  confession  or  his  waiver  of  his  Miranda  rights
involuntary. The issue is not whether the decision to confess
was  rational,  but  rather  whether  it  was  made  of  Dan’s  free
will. The Supreme Court has held that a mentally ill suspect’s
decision to confess and waive his Miranda rights, no matter
is  voluntary  absent  police  coercion.
how 
(Colorado v. Connelly, 479 U.S. 157 (1986).)
(D)  is  wrong  because  Dan’s  waiver  of  his  Miranda  rights
was  valid.  As  discussed  above,  a  suspect’s  mental  illness
does not render his waiver invalid. Additionally, it should be

irrational, 

417

noted that express, written waivers are almost always valid,
absent some evidence of police trickery or coercion.

II.   WHAT CONSTITUTES INTERROGATION

A.  Volunteered statements

1.  Voluntary custodial statements

Question  10:  A  grand  jury  indicted  Alice  on  a  charge  of
arson, and a valid warrant was issued for her arrest. Paul, a
police  officer,  arrested  Alice  and  informed  her  of  what  the
warrant  stated.  However,  hoping  that  Alice  might  say
something  incriminating,  he  did  not  give  her  Miranda
warnings. He placed her in the back seat of his patrol car and
was driving her to the police station when she said, “Look. I
didn’t mean to burn the building; it was an accident. I was just
burning some papers in a wastebasket.”
At  the  station,  after  being  given  Miranda  warnings,  Alice
stated  she  wished  to  remain  silent  and  made  no  other
statements.
Alice  moved  to  suppress  the  use  of  her  statement  to  Paul  as
evidence  on  two  grounds:  first,  that  the  statement  was
acquired without giving Miranda warnings, and second, that
the  police  officer  had  deliberately  elicited  her  incriminating
statement after she was in custody.

As to Alice’s motion to suppress, the court should

(A)  deny the motion.
(B)    grant  the  motion  only  on  the  basis  of  the  first  ground

stated.

(C)    grant  the  motion  only  on  the  basis  of  the  second  ground

stated.

(D)  grant the motion on either ground.
Answer  10:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  court  should  deny
Alice’s motion to suppress her statement because she wasn’t
being  interrogated  when  she  said  it.  Alice  argues  that  her
statement  should  be  suppressed  on  two  different  grounds,  so
we should examine them separately.
First,  Alice  claims  that  because  her  statement  was  given

418

before she had been read her Miranda warnings, it should not
be admissible. Therefore, the question becomes, at what point
must  a  police  officer  give  a  suspect  Miranda  warnings?
Miranda  only  applies  if  three  requirements  have  been  met:
(1)  the  defendant  has  been  taken  into  custody,  (2)  the
confession  was  given  in  response  questioning,  and  (3)  the
interrogation  was  conducted  by  the  police.  If  all  three
conditions  are  met,  then  any  confession  may  not  be  admitted
unless the police have informed the defendant that she had the
right  to  remain  silent,  that  anything  she  said  could  be  used
against her in a court of law, that she had the right to have an
attorney present at questioning, and that if she could not afford
an  attorney,  one  would  be  appointed  for  her  before
questioning  if  she  wished.  In  this  case,  Alice,  having  been
arrested  and  put  into  a  police  car,  was  certainly  in  custody,
since  a  defendant  is  considered  in  custody  for  Miranda
purposes when a reasonable suspect in her position would not
believe she was free to leave. But although Paul believed that
Alice  might  say  something  incriminating  while  in  the  patrol
car,  he  neither  said  nor  did  anything  to  her  other  than  what
was required to arrest her and take her into custody. Since, as
discussed below, Paul did nothing that was reasonably likely
to  elicit  an  incriminating  response  from  Alice,  there  was  no
“interrogation” that would trigger Alice’s right to be read her
Miranda warnings.

Second,  Alice  claims  that  Paul  had  deliberately  elicited  the
incriminating statement she made while in the patrol car. The
Miranda Court specifically said that “volunteered statements
of any kind are not barred by the Fifth Amendment and their
admissibility  is  not  affected  by  our  holding.”  The  question
now  becomes  what,  if  anything,  did  Paul  do  that  would  be
considered  an  “interrogation,”  rendering  Alice’s  statement
non-voluntary? The Supreme Court has held that, in addition
to  direct  questioning  of  a  suspect,  an  interrogation  has  taken
place whenever the police do anything that they should know
is  reasonably  likely  to  elicit  an  incriminating  response  from
the  suspect.  Here,  Alice  argues  that  arresting  her  for  arson
and  putting  her  in  the  patrol  car  was  enough  to  be  the
functional  equivalent  of  questioning.  However,  that  police
conduct  was  insufficient  to  constitute  interrogation  without

419

some further act by Paul, since “officers do not interrogate a
suspect  simply  by  hoping  that  he  will  incriminate  himself.”
Arizona v. Mauro (1987).

Choices (B), (C), and (D) are wrong because they contradict
the analysis given above.

B.  Police allow situation to develop

1.  Police set up situation

Question  11:  The  police  suspected  that  Yancey,  a  16-year-
old high school student, had committed a series of burglaries.
They  arrested  Yancey,  took  him  to  the  station,  and  gave  him
Miranda warnings. Yancey asked to see a lawyer. The police
called Yancey’s parents to the station. When Yancey’s parents
arrived, the police asked them to speak with Yancey. They put
them in a room and secretly recorded their conversation with
a  concealed  electronic  device.  Yancey  broke  down  and
confessed to his parents that he had committed the burglaries.

Yancey was charged with the burglaries.

Yancey  moves  to  suppress  the  use  of  the  statement  Yancey
made to his parents.

The best argument for excluding it would be

(A)    Yancey  was  in  custody  at  the  time  the  statement  was

recorded.

(B)    the  police  did  not  comply  with  Yancey’s  request  for  a

lawyer.

(C)    once  Yancey  had  invoked  his  right  to  counsel,  it  was
improper  for  the  police  to  listen  to  any  of  his  private
conversations.

(D)  the meeting between Yancey and his parents was arranged
by the police to obtain an incriminating statement.
Answer 11: Choice (D) is correct. Once Yancey asked for a
lawyer,  no  “interrogation”  could  occur  until  the  police
provided one. Interrogation, for purposes of Miranda, occurs
“whenever a person in custody is subjected to either express
questioning or its functional equivalent . . . words or actions
on  the  part  of  police  that  the  police  should  know  are
reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from the
suspect.” Rhode Island v. Innis (1980).

420

If the police conduct merely consists of arranging a situation
in  which  the  police  believe  it  likely  that  the  defendant  may
volunteer  an  incriminating  remark,  there  is  no  interrogation,
because  “officers  do  not  interrogate  a  suspect  simply  by
hoping  that  he  will  incriminate  himself.”  Arizona  v.  Mauro
(1987).  However,  if  the  arrangement  involves  sending  in  a
trusted  person  to  speak  to  the  defendant  alone  and  secretly
recording  the  conversation,  this  would  likely  constitute
interrogation. The police asked Yancey’s parents to speak to
him and then listened in secretly. This is a situation where the
police  should  know 
that  an
incriminating remark will be elicited. Therefore, interrogation
occurred  and  the  statement  should  be  suppressed  because  it
was obtained in violation of Yancey’s Miranda rights.

is  reasonably 

likely 

it 

(A) is wrong because, regardless of the fact that Yancey was
in  custody  at  the  time,  it  still  needs  to  be  established  that
Yancey  was  interrogated  in  order  for  the  statement  to  be
suppressed. This is the case, as discussed in the explanation
to Choice (D).

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  police  don’t  have  to  provide  a
lawyer as long as the suspect is not interrogated. The essence
of  the  warning  about  an  attorney  is  not  that  a  suspect  has  an
automatic right to have the police provide him with a lawyer
while they hold him in custody — all the police must do is to
choose  between  providing  a  lawyer  or  questioning,  so  they
are always free to defer their questioning until some later date
if they can’t (or don’t want to) provide a lawyer. Therefore,
the  fact  that  a  lawyer  was  not  procured  is  not  significant  by
itself. It is significant because, despite the fact that a lawyer
was  not  procured,  Yancey  was  subject  to  interrogation,  as
explained in the discussion of Choice D.
(C)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  true  that  the  police  may  not
listen to any of Yancey’s private conversations. The argument
for  exclusion  of  the  statement  is  based  on  the  fact  that
Yancey’s  Miranda  rights  were  violated  because  he  was  in
custody and was subjected to interrogation despite his request
for  an  attorney.  The  police  were  permitted  to  eavesdrop  on
Yancey’s  conversations  while  he  was  in  custody,  as  long  as
the statements he made were not in response to interrogation

421

(or the equivalent of interrogation) by them.

422

CHAPTER 4
LINEUPS AND OTHER PRE-TRIAL
IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES

I.    THE PRIVILEGE AGAINST SELF-

INCRIMINATION

A.  General rule

1.  Other procedures

Question  12:  A  defendant  was  lawfully  arrested  without  a
warrant  for  bank  robbery.  He  was  not  given  Miranda
warnings,  but  was  immediately  taken  to  a  police  station
where  he  and  five  other  men  were  placed  in  a  lineup  to  be
viewed by the bank teller. Each man was required to say the
words spoken by the bank robber: “Give me all your money.
I’ve  got  a  gun.”  After  all  the  men  in  the  lineup  spoke  those
words, the teller identified the defendant as the robber.

The defendant subsequently moved to suppress the testimony
of the teller, claiming the lineup violated his privilege against
self-incrimination.  At  a  suppression  hearing,  the  teller
testified  that  she  had  not  gotten  a  good  look  at  the  robber’s
face, because the robber had been wearing a hat pulled down
over most of his face, but that she was certain the defendant
was  the  robber  because  she  had  recognized  his  voice  at  the
lineup.

Should the defendant’s motion be granted?

(A)  No, because being required to speak at the lineup, while
compelled, was not testimonial or communicative.
(B)    No,  because  testimony  of  a  witness  based  on  firsthand
observation is not subject to exclusion as the fruit of the
poisonous tree.

(C)  Yes, because the defendant was compelled to speak at the
lineup,  and  this  compelled  speech  led  to  the  witness’s
identification testimony.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  defendant  was  never  informed  that  he
could  refuse  to  make  a  statement  and  that  any  statement

423

could be used as evidence against him.

Compulsory 

Answer 12: Choice (A) is correct. The privilege against self-
to  compelled  “testimonial”
incrimination  extends  only 
communications. 
physical-identification
procedures,  like  being  forced  to  give  fingerprints,  blood
samples, voice prints, and the like, have been held not to be
“testimonial,” because the accused is not being asked to make
statements  that  have  communicative  value.  See,  e.g.,  United
States  v.  Hubbell  (2000):  “Thus,  even  though  the  act  may
provide  incriminating  evidence,  a  criminal  suspect  may  be
compelled . . . to make a recording of his voice.” So here, the
defendant  could  properly  be  required  to  utter  the  words
spoken  by  the  bank  robber,  since  those  words  were  being
used merely to help the victim identify which of the men in the
lineup was the robber, not for the communicative value of the
words being spoken.
(B) is wrong because it is both overbroad and not applicable
to  these  facts.  Why  is  it  overly  broad?  There  is  some
testimony  based  on  first-hand  observation  that  is  subject  to
exclusion  as  the  fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree:  If  a  law
enforcement officer gets the opportunity to make a first-hand
observation  as  the  direct  result  of  police  illegality,  then  his
testimony  based  on  that  observation  will  be  excludable  as
fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree.  So,  for  instance,  if  the  officer
breaks into D’s house without a warrant and without probable
cause,  and  while  there  secretly  listens  to  D  making  a
confession  of  crime  to  D’s  wife,  the  officer  would  not  be
permitted  to  testify  to  what  he  heard,  because  his  first-hand
observation  is  the  fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree  (the  illegal
break-in).
Nor  is  the  statement  in  this  choice  applicable  to  these  facts 
— since  the  teller’s  testimony  here  is  based  on  the  teller’s
own first-hand observation, and the teller got that observation
without  any 
the
principle stated in this choice would not apply even if it was
an accurate statement of the law.
(C)  is  wrong  for  the  same  reason  that  (A)  is  right:  The
privilege against self-incrimination extends only to compelled
“testimonial” communications, and being compelled to supply

law-enforcement  procedures, 

improper 

424

a voice sample or other form of physical identification is not
testimonial.

(D)  is  wrong  because  Miranda  did  not  apply  to  these  facts.
Miranda  warnings  are  designed  to  protect  the  suspect’s
ability  to  exercise  his  privilege  against  self-incrimination.
The need to supply Miranda  warnings  is  therefore  triggered
only  when  the  suspect  is  being  subjected  to  custodial
“interrogation,”  meaning  that  the  suspect  in  custody  is  being
asked questions in an attempt to elicit communications. When
the  defendant  here  was  asked  to  repeat  the  words  from  the
holdup,  he  was  not  being  asked  to  communicate  or  give
“testimonial”-type information, but rather, to supply a form of
physical  identification.  Therefore,  Miranda  warnings  were
not required.

Question  13:  Devlin  was  charged  with  murder.  Several
witnesses testified that the crime was committed by a person
of  Devlin’s  general  description  who  walked  with  a  severe
limp. Devlin in fact walks with a severe limp. He objected to
a prosecution request that the court order him to walk across
the courtroom in order to display his limp to the jury to assist
it  in  determining  whether  Devlin  was  the  person  that  the
witnesses had seen.

Devlin’s objection will most likely be
(A)    sustained,  because  the  order  sought  by  the  prosecution
self-

would  violate  Devlin’s  privilege 
incrimination.

against 

(B)    sustained,  because  the  order  sought  by  the  prosecution

would constitute an illegal search and seizure.

(C)  denied, because the order sought by the prosecution is a
legitimate  part  of  a  proper  courtroom  identification
process.

(D)    denied,  because  a  criminal  defendant  has  no  legitimate

expectation of privacy.

Answer  13:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  Fifth  Amendment
protects only against the compulsion of “communications” or
“testimony”  (privilege  against  self-incrimination)  and  not
against  “compulsion  which  makes  a  suspect  or  accused  the
source  of  ‘real  or  physical  evidence’.”  Schmerber  v.

425

California (1966). In U.S. v. Wade (1967), the Court said that
the privilege did not apply to a defendant forced to appear in
a  lineup  and  to  speak  for  identification.  Similarly,  the
displaying of a defendant’s limp would not be covered by the
privilege because it is a legitimate part of a proper courtroom
identification process.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  as  described  in  the  explanation  of
Choice (C), the privilege against self-incrimination would not
apply to these facts.

(B) is wrong because no search or seizure has been conducted
under circumstances where the defendant is being asked to do
something  as  part  of  a  proper  courtroom  identification
process.

(D)  is  wrong  because  every  person  has  a  legitimate
expectation  of  privacy,  regardless  of  one’s  status  as  a
criminal defendant. In addition, this situation is not one where
legitimate
there  has  been  an 
expectation  of  privacy — Devlin  is  not  in  a  place  where  he
has the reasonable expectation of privacy (the courtroom), nor
is his affliction a private matter (since it is readily apparent
when he walks).

invasion  of  a  person’s 

426

CHAPTER 5
FORMAL PROCEEDINGS

I.    GRAND JURY PROCEEDINGS

A.  Self-incrimination and immunity

Question  14:  A  state  grand  jury  investigating  a  murder
learned  that  the  key  suspect  might  have  kept  a  diary.  The
grand  jury  issued  a  subpoena  duces  tecum  requiring  the
suspect  to  produce  any  diary.  The  subpoena  made  clear  that
the  grand  jury  was  seeking  only  the  diary  and  not  any
testimony  from  the  suspect.  The  suspect  refused  to  produce
the diary, citing the privilege against self-incrimination.

Under what circumstances, if any, could the grand jury compel
production  of  the  diary  over  the  suspect’s  Fifth  Amendment
privilege?
(A)  It  may  compel  production  without  granting  immunity
because the suspect was not compelled to write a diary.

(B)  It  may  compel  production  only  if  the  suspect  is  granted
use and derivative use immunity from the act of production.

(C)  It  may  compel  production  only  if  the  suspect  is  granted
transactional immunity.

(D) It may not compel production of a private diary under any
circumstances.

Answer 14: Choice (B) is correct. The confusing thing about
this  question  is  that  at  first  glance,  the  Fifth  Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination doesn’t seem to play any
role at all. What the privilege protects against is government’s
compelling  a  person  to  make  a  testimonial  communication,
and it’s hard to see what testimonial communication is being
compelled  here.  After  all,  the  government  didn’t  compel  the
suspect to keep a diary (if he indeed kept one). But the Fifth
Amendment  has  also  been  held  to  protect  against  orders
compelling  a  person  to  produce  (i.e.,  deliver  to  the
government)  a  document  or  other  thing,  if  the  act  of
production  would  have  testimonial  significance  by,  say,
the
authenticating 

the  document  or 

thing.  So  here, 

427

government, by issuing the subpoena, is in effect saying to the
suspect,  “If  you  have  kept  a  diary,  give  us  that  diary,  and
we’ll  know  from  the  fact  that  you  gave  it  to  us  that  you  are
conceding  that  it  is  indeed  something  you  wrote.”  So  the
suspect’s  mere  act  of  complying  with  the  subpoena  would
amount to implied testimony that the diary was written by him.

the 

two  sorts  of 

the  diary.  Of 

Because  of  the  above  analysis,  the  government  may  compel
production only if it gives the suspect some sort of immunity
against  the  testimonial  consequences  of  being  required  to
produce 
immunity — 
transactional  and  use — mere  use  immunity,  the  narrower  of
the  two,  suffices  for  Fifth  Amendment  purposes.  So  here,  as
this choice indicates, the government would have to give “use
and derivative use immunity from the act of production”; what
this means is that the diary would be admissible, but only as
long  as  the  government  had  some  other,  wholly-independent,
way  to  prove  to  the  jury  that  this  was  a  diary  kept  by  the
suspect. For instance, the prosecution might have a friend or
relative of the suspect testify that she saw the suspect keep a
diary  with  a  cover  that  matches  this  one,  and/or  that  the
witness  now  recognizes  the  handwriting  as  belonging  to  the
suspect — that  way,  the  government  would  not  be  relying  in
any  way  on  the  suspect’s  act  of  turning  over  this  particular
diary in order to show that the diary was kept by the suspect.
(A) is wrong because it ignores the problem that if the suspect
complies by producing his diary, this mere act of production
will itself tend to authenticate the diary, and thus be implicitly
testimonial. See Choice (B) for more about this problem.

(C)  is  wrong  because  use  immunity  is  enough  to  protect
against  violations  of  the  Fifth  Amendment.  It’s  true  that
transactional  immunity  (which  in  this  case  would  mean  that
the suspect would not be prosecuted for any crime described
in the diary) would also suffice to avoid the Fifth Amendment
problem.  But  that  sort  of  immunity  is  overkill — it’s  more
than  the  Constitution  requires.  As  is  further  explained  in
Choice (B), the less-broad “use immunity” would be enough.
Use  immunity  in  this  case  would  mean  that  the  government
must prove the diary’s authenticity (i.e., that it was written by
the suspect) by means wholly unconnected to the fact that the

428

suspect produced it in response to the subpoena.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  suspect’s  limited  privilege  against
self-incrimination  here  (the  privilege  not  to  have  his  act  of
producing  the  diary  in  response  to  the  subpoena  be  used  as
proof  of  the  diary’s  authenticity)  is  adequately  protected  by
either  use  immunity  or  transactional  immunity.  See  the
analysis in Choice (B) for more about this. So the government
can compel the production of this private diary.

B.  Attorney’s presence in grand jury room

Question  15:  A  federal  grand  jury  was  investigating  drug
trafficking  in  the  jurisdiction.  It  subpoenaed  a  witness  to
testify,  and  the  prosecutor  advised  the  witness  that  he  had  a
Fifth  Amendment  privilege  not  to  testify  if  he  so  chose.  The
witness  asked  that  his  counsel  be  allowed  to  advise  him
inside  the  grand  jury  room,  but  the  prosecutor  refused  to
allow the attorney inside. The witness, after speaking with his
attorney  outside  the  grand  jury  room,  decided  to  testify  and
ended up making self-incriminating statements.

The  witness  subsequently  was  indicted  for  drug  crimes.  The
indictment  was  based  on  the  witness’s  grand  jury  testimony
and  on  evidence  seized  in  an  unconstitutional  search  of  the
witness’s home.

The witness moved to dismiss the indictment.

Should the court dismiss the indictment?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  witness  was  denied  his  constitutional

right to advice of counsel.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  indictment  was  based  upon  illegally

seized evidence.

(C)  No, because the witness waived his constitutional rights

by testifying.

(D)  No, because the witness had no right to counsel inside the
grand jury room and the illegally seized evidence did not
affect the validity of the indictment.

Answer 15: Choice (D) is correct. First, a grand jury witness
does not have a constitutional right to counsel inside a grand
jury  room.  U.S.  v.  Mandujano  (1976).  Second,  the  Fourth
the
Amendment  exclusionary  rule  does  not  apply 

to 

429

presentation  of  evidence  before  a  federal  grand  jury.
Therefore, such a grand jury can properly issue an indictment
based  on  illegally-obtained  evidence.  U.S.  v.  Calandra
(1974).

(A)  is  wrong  because  a  grand  jury  witness  does  not  have  a
constitutional right to counsel inside a grand jury room. And
that is true even if the lawyer is “retained” rather than court-
appointed. U.S.  v.  Mandujano  (1976).  (By  the  way,  it’s  not
even clear that the prosecutor was constitutionally required to
let  the  witness  leave  the  grand  jury  room  to  consult  his
lawyer, as the prosecutor did here.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  Fourth  Amendment  exclusionary
rule  does  not  apply  to  the  presentation  of  evidence  before  a
federal  grand  jury.  See  the  discussion  of  this  issue  in  the
analysis of Choice (D).

(C) is wrong because although it reaches the right outcome, it
does  so  on  reasoning  that  is  less  good  than  the  reasoning  in
Choice (D). It’s certainly the case that the witness indeed had
a  Fifth  Amendment  right  to  decline  to  testify,  and  that  the
witness  waived  that  right  by  testifying  voluntarily  after
learning that he had the right. (His having consulted with his
lawyer  outside  the  jury  room  further  reinforces  the  idea  that
he voluntarily waived his right not to testify.) But this waiver
does  not  really  explain  why  the  court  will  refuse  to  dismiss
the  indictment.  That’s  because  the  indictment  was  based  not
only  on  the  testimony  but  also  on  the  evidence  from  the
unconstitutional  search,  and  even  unconstitutionally-obtained
evidence  can  be  considered  by  a  grand  jury  in  reaching  its
decision  to  indict.  (See  Choice  (D)  for  more  about  this.)  In
other words, even if the witness had not waived his right not
to  testify,  the  indictment  would  likely  have  been  issued
anyway,  and  properly  so.  Therefore,  any  waiver  by  the
witness is not the best explanation of why the court refused to
dismiss the indictment.

C.  Use of illegally obtained evidence

Question 16:  Suspecting  that  a  husband  had  slain  his  wife,
police  detectives  persuaded  one  of  the  husband’s  employees
to remove a drinking glass from the husband’s office so that it

430

could be used for fingerprint comparisons with a knife found
near  the  body.  The  fingerprints  matched.  The  prosecutor
announced that he would present comparisons and evidence to
the  grand  jury.  The  husband’s  lawyer  immediately  filed  a
motion 
fingerprint
comparisons  to  bar  its  consideration  by  the  grand  jury,
contending that the evidence was illegally acquired.

the  evidence  of 

to  suppress 

the 

The motion should be

(A)    granted,  because,  if  there  was  no  probable  cause,  the

grand jury should not consider the evidence.

(B)    granted,  because  the  employee  was  acting  as  a  police
agent and his seizure of the glass without a warrant was
unconstitutional.

(C)    denied,  because  motions  based  on  the  exclusionary  rule

are premature in grand jury proceedings.

(D)    denied,  because  the  glass  was  removed  from  the
husband’s  possession  by  a  private  citizen  and  not  a
police officer.

Answer 16: Choice (C) is correct. A grand jury may hear and
use  any  piece  of  evidence  regardless  of  its  admissibility,
including hearsay and illegally-obtained evidence. Therefore,
there are no grounds to seek the suppression of any particular
piece of evidence by a grand jury, and the filing of a motion to
suppress before the grand jury proceeding was premature.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law  and  does  not
address the relevant issue. During its deliberations, the grand
jury  may  review  all  evidence  available  to  it  to  determine
whether  there  is  sufficient  evidence  to  justify  a  trial.  In
particular,  the  fact  that  the  police’s  seizure  of  the  glass  may
have been illegal (which it would have been if the police had
not  had  probable  cause  and/or  had  not  gotten  a  search
warrant)  would  not  matter,  because  even  illegally-seized
evidence may be considered by the grand jury, as discussed in
Choice (C) above.
(B) is wrong because even if the seizure was unconstitutional,
the  grand  jury  was  entitled  to  consider  the  evidence.  By  the
way, on the underlying merits it probably is the case that: (1)
the employee was acting as a police agent (he was doing what

431

they  requested  him  to  do);  (2)  the  husband  probably  had  a
reasonable  expectation  of  privacy  in  the  glass  located  in  his
office (at least if it was his private office, rather than a part of
the  office  space  that  he  shared  with  employees);  and  (3)
whether  or  not  the  police  had  probable  cause  to  suspect  the
husband,  they  were  required  to  get  a  search  warrant  before
seizing an item as to which he had a reasonable expectation of
privacy.  But  none  of  this  matters  here,  because  even  if  the
seizure  was  a  violation  of  the  husband’s  Fourth  Amendment
rights, the grand jury was still entitled to consider the seized
item, as described in the discussion of Choice (C) above.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  arrives  at  the  correct  result,  but  for
the wrong reason. The reason the motion should be denied is
because  it  was  filed  at  the  wrong  time.  Whether  or  not  the
employee was considered a private citizen when he obtained
the drinking glass will become relevant only when a motion is
properly made at a later point. (However, it is likely that in a
pre-trial suppression hearing, a court would conclude that the
employee was acting as a government agent, in which case the
evidence would be inadmissible at trial since it was obtained
without  a  search  warrant,  and  its  seizure  therefore  violated
the husband’s Fourth Amendment rights.)

II.   THE TRIAL

A.  Burden of proof in criminal cases

1.    General rules of allocation

a.   Elements

i.  Standard of proof

Question  17:  A  state  statute  provides  as  follows:  “In  all
criminal cases, whenever the Constitution permits, the burden
of proof as to a defense claimed by the defendant shall rest on
the  defendant,  and  the  magnitude  of  the  burden  shall  be  as
great as the Constitution permits.”
The same state defines the crime of forcible rape as follows:
“Forcible  rape  consists  of  sexual  penetration  inflicted  on  an
unconsenting  person  by  means  of  force  or  violence.  Consent
of the victim is a complete defense to a charge of rape.”

432

At  a  defendant’s  trial  for  forcible  rape,  he  testified  that  the
alleged  victim  had  consented  to  having  sexual  intercourse
with him.

How should the trial judge instruct the jury regarding the issue
of consent?

(A)  The  burden  of  proving  that  the  victim  consented,  by  a
preponderance of the evidence, rests on the defendant.

(B) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by clear
and convincing evidence, rests on the defendant.

(C) The burden of proving that the victim consented, by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the defendant.

(D) The burden of proving that the victim did not consent, by
proof beyond a reasonable doubt, rests on the prosecution.

an 

Answer 17: Choice (D) is correct. The state statute includes
lack  of  consent  as  an  element  of  the  offense.  (We  know  that
because  the  statute  defines  forcible  rape  as  penetration
inflicted  on 
“unconsenting  person.”)  Therefore,
constitutional  due  process  requires  the  state  to  prove  that
element (and every element) of the crime beyond a reasonable
doubt.  Patterson  v.  New  York  (1977).  What  makes  this
question  mildly  confusing  is  that  the  statute  also  says
“Consent  of  the  victim  is  a  complete  defense  to  a  charge  of
rape” — this  might  lead  you  to  believe  that  the  victim’s
consent  is  an  affirmative  defense.  (The  defendant  may  be
constitutionally required to bear both the burden of production
and  the  burden  of  persuasion  with  respect  to  an  affirmative
defense.)  But  once  the  state  defined  lack  of  consent  as  an
element  of  the  crime,  as  it  did  here,  the  state  was  no  longer
free  to  classify  lack  of  consent  as  an  affirmative  defense,  if
the  consequence  of  that  classification  was  to  impose  on  the
defendant  either  the  burden  of  coming  forward  with  some
evidence  of  lack  of  consent,  or  the  burden  of  persuading  the
jury that the victim consented.
(A), (B), and (C) are all wrong because they are inconsistent
with  the  principle — correctly  expressed  in  (D) — that  the
prosecution  bears  the  burden  of  proving  lack  of  consent
because the crime is defined so as to make lack of consent an
element of the crime rather than an affirmative defense.

433

B.  Motion for directed verdict

1.   Standard

Question  18:  State  Y  employs  the  Model  Penal  Code  or
American Law Institute test for insanity, and requires the state
to  prove  sanity,  when  it  is  in  issue,  beyond  a  reasonable
doubt. At Askew’s trial for murder, he pleaded insanity. The
state put on an expert psychiatrist who had examined Askew.
He testified that, in his opinion, Askew was sane at the time
of  the  murder.  Askew’s  attorney  did  not  introduce  expert
testimony  on  the  question  of  sanity.  Rather,  he  presented  lay
witnesses  who  testified  that,  in  their  opinion,  Askew  was
insane at the time of the murder. At the end of the trial, each
side moves for a directed verdict on the question of sanity.

Which  of  the  following  correctly  describes  the  judge’s
situation?
(A)    She  may  grant  a  directed  verdict  for  the  defense  if  she
believes  that  the  jury  could  not  find  the  prosecution  to
have proved sanity beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B)  She may grant a directed verdict for the prosecution if she
believes that Askew’s witnesses on the insanity question
are not believable.

(C)    She  may  not  grant  a  directed  verdict  for  the  defense,
because  the  state  had  expert  testimony  and  the  defense
only lay witnesses.

(D)  She may grant a directed verdict for the prosecution if she
is  convinced  by  their  experts  that  Askew  was  sane
beyond a reasonable doubt.

Answer 18: Choice (A) is correct. When an insanity defense
is raised, if the case is tried before a jury, the jury will have
the  task  of  deciding  the  merits  of  the  defendant’s  insanity
defense,  just  as  it  will  decide  the  other  factual  issues  in  the
case.  Here,  where  the  state  must  prove  sanity  beyond  a
reasonable doubt, a verdict should be granted for the defense
if and only if the judge believes that a reasonable jury could
not  find  the  prosecution  to  have  proved  sanity  beyond  a
reasonable doubt.
(B)  is  wrong  because  the  judge’s  determination  of  the
credibility of the witnesses is not relevant. It is up to the jury

434

to determine the credibility of the witnesses and to decide the
factual issue of sanity. In fact, granting a directed verdict for
the  prosecution  on  any  element  of  the  case  would  deprive
defendant of his constitutional Sixth Amendment right to a jury
trial.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  jury  need  not  weigh  an  expert
witness’s  testimony  more  heavily  than  that  of  a  lay  witness.
The  jury  is  always  free  to  disregard  or  disbelieve  any
witness’s evaluation of the defendant’s condition.

(D) is wrong because the determination is made by the jury. In
order to grant a directed verdict in favor of the prosecution, it
is not necessary that the judge be convinced that Askew was
sane,  only  that  a  jury  could  be  convinced  of  Askew’s  sanity
(beyond a reasonable doubt).

C.  D’s Confrontation Clause rights

1.  Confession implicating someone else, used during joint trial

Question  19:  Smith  and  Penn  were  charged  with  murder.
Each  gave  a  confession  to  the  police  that  implicated  both  of
them.  Smith  later  retracted  her  confession,  claiming  that  it
was coerced.

Smith  and  Penn  were  tried  together.  The  prosecutor  offered
both  confessions  into  evidence.  Smith  and  Penn  objected.
After  a  hearing,  the  trial  judge  found  that  both  confessions
were  voluntary  and  admitted  both  into  evidence.  Smith
testified at trial. She denied any involvement in the crime and
claimed  that  her  confession  was  false  and  the  result  of
coercion. Both defendants were convicted.

On appeal, Smith contends her conviction should be reversed
because of the admission into evidence of Penn’s confession.

Smith’s contention is
(A)  correct, unless Penn testified at trial.
(B)  correct, whether or not Penn testified at trial.
(C)  incorrect, because Smith testified in her own behalf.
(D)  incorrect, because Smith’s own confession was properly

admitted into evidence.

Answer  19:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  Sixth  Amendment

435

gives  any  criminal  defendant  “the  right  .  .  .  to  be  confronted
with  the  witnesses  against  him.”  The  Confrontation  Clause
has  two  main  components:  (1)  the  right  to  compulsory
process; and (2) the right to cross examine hostile witnesses.
The  Confrontation  Clause  prevents,  in  some  circumstances,
the  use  of  one  person’s  out-of-court  confession  against
another.  The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  A’s  Confrontation
Clause  rights  are  violated  if  the  confession  of  B,  his  non-
testifying  co-defendant,  naming  A  as  a  co-participant  in  the
crime, is introduced at their joint trial. This is true even if the
jury  is  instructed  to  consider  the  confession  only  against  B,
not  A.  Bruton  v.  U.S.  (1968).  The  Bruton  principle  applies
where the defendant who allegedly confessed declines to take
the  stand.  If  the  confessor  takes  the  stand  and  denies  having
made the confession — and perhaps even if he takes the stand
and  acknowledges  the  confession,  but  then  opens  himself  up
to the other defendant’s cross-examination about it — there is
probably no Confrontation Clause problem. Therefore, if and
only if Penn testified at trial, Smith’s appeal would be denied
because his Confrontation Clause rights would not have been
denied.

(B)  is  wrong  because  whether  or  not  Smith’s  Confrontation
Clause rights were denied does depend upon whether or not
Penn testified. If Penn testified, then Smith’s rights would not
have been violated, as discussed in the explanation of Choice
(A).

(C)  is  wrong  because  whether  or  not  Smith  testified  is
irrelevant.  Smith’s  Confrontation  Clause  rights  give  him  the
right  to  cross  examine  hostile  witnesses.  Therefore,  it  is
relevant  whether  or  not  Penn  testifies,  as  he  is  a  hostile
witness that Smith has a right to cross examine.
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  Smith’s  confession  was
properly  admitted  has  no  bearing  on  whether  his
Confrontation Clause rights have been violated by admission
of  a  co-defendant’s  confession.  He  is  afforded  the  right  to
cross  examine  hostile  witnesses,  a  right  which  has  been
denied to him in these circumstances.

III.  SENTENCING

436

A.  Sentencing generally

Question 20: During the course of a car chase in which two
police  officers  tried  to  apprehend  and  arrest  the  driver  and
passenger  for  bank  robbery,  one  of  the  officers  fired,  first  a
warning  shot  and  then  at  the  car.  He  struck  the  passenger
sitting next to the driver.

The driver was caught five minutes later. The passenger died
from loss of blood. The driver was charged with the murder
of  the  passenger.  The  jury  found  the  driver  guilty  of  the
murder  of  the  passenger.  Before  passing  sentence,  the  judge
heard argument by both parties. The prosecutor introduced the
criminal  record  of  the  driver,  showing  two  prior  felony
convictions.  Defense  counsel  admitted  the  correctness  of  the
record.  The  court  imposed  the  maximum  sentence  of  life
imprisonment. On appeal, the appellate court should hold that
this sentence

(A)    violated  the  driver’s  right  to  due  process,  in  that  it

deprived him of a fair and unbiased tribunal.

(B)    was  in  error  because  the  introduction  of  new  evidence

after the trial deprived the driver of a fair trial.

(C)  was not in error.
(D)    deprived  the  driver  of  the  right  to  confront  the  witness

against him.

Answer 20:  The  correct  choice  is  (C),  because  it  correctly
identifies  that  the  prior  convictions  can  be  introduced  at  the
sentencing hearing. In imposing sentences, the judge can rely
on a wide variety of evidence, including hearsay, reports that
are  not  cross-examined,  and  the  like.  (Somewhat  different
rules  apply  to  ‘‘unusual’’  sentencings — e.g.,  the  death
penalty — as  well  as  to  sentencing  guidelines  that  let  the
judge increase the maximum punishment based on the judge’s
factual findings. But neither of these factors is present here.)
Prior convictions are relevant to sentencing since they bear on
the  likelihood  of  a  defendant’s  rehabilitation.  Since  C
correctly  identifies  that  the  convictions  will  be  admissible,
it’s the best response.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  it  misstates  the  law:  The  driver  was
not deprived of a fair and unbiased tribunal. At a sentencing

437

hearing,  the  judge  is  entitled  to  take  into  account  prior
convictions,  as  a  means  of  determining  the  likelihood  of  the
defendant’s  rehabilitation,  among  other  things  (somewhat
different  rules  apply  to  ‘‘unusual’’  sentencings — e.g.,  the
death penalty).

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  driver  was  not  deprived  of  a  fair
trial  by  the  delay  in  introducing  the  prior  convictions.  In  a
usual  sentencing  hearing,  the  judge  may  take  into  account  a
broad  spectrum  of  evidence,  including  hearsay,  non-cross-
examined reports, and prior convictions (somewhat different
rules  apply  to  ‘‘unusual’’  sentencings — e.g.,  the  death
penalty). If anything, introducing the prior convictions at trial
would have been fraught with pitfalls, since prior convictions
can be a very dangerous form of character evidence (the jury
is likely to grant them undue weight). As a result, introducing
the  prior  convictions  at  the  sentencing  hearing  for  the  first
time does not deprive the driver of a fair trial.

(D) is wrong, because it misstates the law. The driver was not
entitled  to  confront  witnesses  against  him  in  this  sentencing
hearing,  because  a  usual  sentence  was  imposed  (e.g.,  the
death  penalty  was  not  being  considered).  In  imposing  a
‘‘usual’’  sentence,  a  judge  can  rely  on  hearsay  evidence  as
well as reports that are not cross-examined. Williams v. N.Y.
(1949).

IV.  DOUBLE JEOPARDY

A.  Overlapping offenses

1.  Lesser included offense tried first

a.  Felony-murder scenario

Question  21:  Donald  was  arrested  in  Marilyn’s  apartment
after her neighbors had reported sounds of a struggle and the
police  had  arrived  to  find  Donald  bent  over  Marilyn’s
prostrate body. Marilyn was rushed to the hospital where she
lapsed into a coma. Despite the explanation that he was trying
to  revive  Marilyn  after  she  suddenly  collapsed,  Donald  was
charged  with  attempted  rape  and  assault  after  a  neighbor
informed the police that she had heard Marilyn sobbing, “No,

438

please no, let me alone.”

At  trial,  the  forensic  evidence  was  inconclusive.  The  jury
acquitted  Donald  of  attempted  rape  but  convicted  him  of
assault.  While  he  was  serving  his  sentence  for  assault,
Marilyn,  who  had  never  recovered  from  the  coma,  died.
Donald  was  then  indicted  and  tried  on  a  charge  of  felony
murder.  In  this  common-law  jurisdiction,  there  is  no  statute
that prevents a prosecutor from proceeding in this manner, but
Donald argued that a second trial for felony murder after his
original trial for attempted rape and assault would violate the
Double Jeopardy Clause.

His claim is

(A)  correct, because he was acquitted of the attempted rape

charge.

(B)  correct, because he was convicted of the assault charge.
(C)  incorrect, because Marilyn had not died at the time of the

first trial and he was not placed in jeopardy for murder.

(D)  incorrect, because he was convicted of the assault charge.
Answer 21: Choice (A) is correct. When a person is tried for
offense  A,  then  whether  he  is  convicted  or  acquitted,  the
Double  Jeopardy  Clause  prevents  him  from  being  later  tried
of  an  offense  B  of  which  offense  A  was  a  lesser-included
offense.  So  Donald  can  base  his  double  jeopardy  claim  on,
and  only  on,  an  offense  that  was  a  lesser-included-offense
within  the  felony-murder  charge.  Courts  and  legislatures
generally restrict application of the felony-murder doctrine to
certain dangerous felonies. The doctrine does apply to rape (a
crime of which Donald was acquitted), but generally does not
apply to assault (a crime of which Donald was convicted). So
the acquittal on the rape charge triggers double jeopardy, but
the conviction on the assault charge does not.
(B)  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  generally,  the  felony-murder
doctrine  does  not  apply  to  assault.  Therefore,  the  assault
charge  could  not  be  a  lesser-included-offense  within  the
felony-murder charge, making the assault charge irrelevant for
double jeopardy purposes.
(C) is wrong because it overlooks the fact that an acquittal on
lesser-included-offense  A  will  block  a  trial  for  greater-

439

offense-B.  Therefore,  even  though  Donald  couldn’t  have  yet
been  prosecuted  for  felony-murder  at  the  time  his  rape  trial
started  (because  Marilyn  was  still  alive),  the  rape  trial
invoked Donald’s double jeopardy rights. (If Donald had been
convicted  at  the  rape  trial,  the  fact  that  the  felony-murder
charge couldn’t have been tried yet would negate his double
jeopardy  claim;  but  given  that  the  rape  trial  led  to  his
acquittal, the fact that the felony- murder charge couldn’t have
been  tried  when  the  rape  trial  started  probably  won’t  negate
Donald’s use of double jeopardy.)

2.  Unable to try both charges at once

Question 22: On May 1, 2007, a car driven by the defendant
struck  a  pedestrian.  On  July  1,  2007,  with  regard  to  this
incident,  the  defendant  pleaded  guilty  to  reckless  driving  (a
misdemeanor) and was sentenced to 30 days in jail and a fine
of $1,000. She served the sentence and paid the fine. On April
1,  2008,  the  pedestrian  died  as  a  result  of  the  injuries  she
suffered  in  the  accident.  On  March  1,  2011,  a  grand  jury
indicted  the  defendant  on  a  charge  of  manslaughter  of  the
pedestrian. On May 15, 2011, the trial had not begun and the
defendant  filed  a  motion  to  dismiss  the  indictment  on  the
ground of double jeopardy, in that her conviction of reckless
driving arose out of the same incident, and on the ground that
the three-year statute of limitations for manslaughter had run.

The defendant’s motion should be

(A)  granted only on double jeopardy grounds.
(B)  granted only on statute of limitations grounds.
(C)    granted  on  either  double  jeopardy  grounds  or  statute  of

limitations grounds.
(D)  denied on both grounds.
Answer 22: Choice (D) is correct, because neither provides
a valid ground for dismissal.
The double jeopardy guarantee of the Fifth Amendment states
that a person cannot be tried twice for the same offense. The
guarantee  also  bars  the  government  from  trials  for  two
different  crimes  if  one  is  a  ‘‘lesser  included  offense’’  of  the
other.  However,  there  are  two  exceptions  to  the  lesser-
included-offense  doctrine.  One  of  those  exceptions  is  that  if

440

the  government  could  not  have  tried  the  second  crime  at  the
time  it  tried  the  first,  due  to  circumstances  beyond  the
government’s  control,  and  the  defendant  is  convicted  of  the
first crime the lesser-included-offense doctrine doesn’t apply.
That’s  what  happened  here:  By  the  time  of  the  original  trial
(or,  actually,  guilty  plea)  on  reckless  driving,  the  pedestrian
hadn’t yet died, so no manslaughter prosecution was possible.
Therefore, double jeopardy doesn’t apply.

Nor  does  the  statute  of  limitations  bar  the  manslaughter
prosecution. The statute of limitations doesn’t start to run until
all  facts  necessary  for  prosecution  have  occurred.  Here,  the
pedestrian’s death was one such fact, and it occurred less than
three years before the indictment, so the statute of limitations
hadn’t run by the date of indictment (which was the event that
satisfied the statute).

(A), (B), and (C) are wrong, since each of them asserts that at
least  one  of  the  two  grounds  was  valid,  and  neither  was  (as
shown in the discussion of choice D).
