QUESTIONS

CIVIL PROCEDURE

 Question 1

A pedestrian was injured in State A when a taxicab hit her while she was
crossing the street. The pedestrian, who is a citizen of State B, sued the cab-
driver (a citizen of State A) for negligence in State A court. The pedestrian's
lawyer  then  suggested  that  the  pedestrian,  as  a  State  B  citizen,  might  do
better  with  a  suit  in  federal  rather  than  state  court.  Therefore,  before  the
cab-driver  filed  an  answer,  the  pedestrian  voluntarily  dismissed  her  state-
court suit (as state law allowed), and filed a new suit in diversity in State A
federal  court  against  the  cab-driver,  alleging  the  same  facts  and  theory  of
negligence as in the earliest state-court suit. The pedestrian then discovered
that  the  cab-driver  was  judgment-proof  and  that  the  cab  was  owned  by  a
small corporation, Cab Corp; the cab-driver was a minority shareholder of
Cab Corp. and the cab-driver's wife owned the remaining majority interest.
Therefore,  acting  before  the  cab-driver  answered  the  federal  suit,  the
pedestrian  filed  a  notice  with  the  federal  court  voluntarily  dismissing  that
suit;  the  notice  did  not  attempt  to  specify  what  effect  the  dismissal  would
have on future suits. Two weeks later, the pedestrian filed a new diversity
action, still in State A federal court, against the cab-driver and Cab Corp.,
alleging that the cab-driver had negligently caused the accident and that Cab
Corp., as owner of the cab, was vicariously liable for that negligence under
State  A  tort  principles.  Prior  to  answering,  both  defendants  have  now
moved  to  have  the  complaint  dismissed  on  the  grounds  that  the  two  prior
dismissals compel this result. Should the court grant the dismissal motion?

 (A) No, because the cab-driver had not answered or moved against either of

the two prior complaints before they were dismissed.

(B) No, because the first dismissal was in state rather than federal court.
(C) No, because the third suit involves different parties than the first two

suits.

(D) Yes, because the pedestrian previously voluntarily dismissed the same

claim twice, causing the second dismissal to be with prejudice.

 Question 2

132

A  driver  was  badly  injured  when  her  car  ran  off  the  road  for  unknown
reasons and hit a tree, and the car's airbags did not inflate. The driver sued
the manufacturer in a federal diversity action for product liability, alleging
that there was a defect in the airbags' inflating mechanism. At the jury trial,
the  plaintiff's  lawyer  offered  testimony  by  two  other  consumers  that  the
airbags  in  their  cars,  which  were  the  same  model  and  manufacturer  as  the
driver's  car,  also  failed  to  trigger  during  collisions.  The  manufacturer's
lawyer objected to the evidence, arguing (without factual contradiction from
the  plaintiff)  that  the  speed  and  other  circumstances  in  the  two  witnesses'
collisions  had  not  been  shown  to  be  substantially  similar  to  those  of  the
present  case,  creating  a  large  risk  that  these  witnesses'  testimony  would
mislead the jury and be unfairly prejudicial to the defense. The trial judge
allowed the two witnesses to testify, and the jury returned a verdict in favor
of the plaintiff. The manufacturer appealed; one of its arguments on appeal
was  that  the  two  witnesses'  testimony  about  their  airbags'  failure  should
have been excluded as irrelevant, misleading, and highly prejudicial.

What standard will the appeals court use in evaluating this argument?

 (A) An “abuse of discretion” standard.
(B) A “clearly erroneous” standard, applied while giving due regard to the
trial court's opportunity to judge the proposed witnesses' credibility.
(C) A “de novo” standard, giving no special deference to the trial court's

decision to admit the evidence.

(D) A “harmless error” standard, requiring reversal unless the reviewing
court believes that the evidence ruling was not only erroneous but
probably changed the trial's outcome.

 Question 3

Plaintiff,  a  State  A  citizen,  worked  in  a  plant  in  State  A  operated  by
Defendant,  a  company  that  manufactures  radioactive  materials  used
exclusively by the federal government. Defendant is incorporated in State B,
but  conducts  all  of  its  day-to-day  operations  (including  all  manufacturing,
shipping,  accounting,  and  sales-generation  activities)  at  the  State  A  plant.
Defendant's corporate officers all work from a small office in State C, from
which they direct, control, and coordinate the company's activities. Plaintiff
was injured by radiation burns from radioactive materials he was handling
at  the  State  A  plant,  due  to  a  fellow  employee's  negligent  removal  of  a
warning sign on the materials. Plaintiff sued Defendant for negligence in a
State  A  state  court  (located  in  State  A's  capital  city  of  Cap  City)  for

133

$100,000. The complaint alleged that under respondeat superior, Defendant
was  liable  to  Plaintiff  for  his  personal  injuries  caused  by  the  fellow
employee's negligence. Defendant timely removed the action to the federal
district  court  located  in  Cap  City.  Defendant  then  filed  an  answer  in  the
federal court denying liability, citing (correctly) a federal statute that gives
any  defense  contractor  an  affirmative  defense  to  any  federal-law-based  or
state-law-based negligence claim by an employee if the claim is premised
on the respondeat superior doctrine.

Now,  in  the  State  A  federal  court,  Plaintiff  opposes  the  removal  and
moves to have the case transferred back to the State A state court where it
was  originally  filed.  Should  the  federal  court  grant  Plaintiff's  transfer
motion?

 (A) Yes, because the fact that Defendant conducts its day-to-day operations
in, and maintains its inventory in, State A causes it to be a citizen of that
state, nullifying Defendant's right of removal.

(B) No, because Defendant is a citizen solely of States B and C and Plaintiff
is a citizen of State A, thereby creating complete diversity and satisfying
all requirements for Defendant to have a right to remove to the State A
federal court.

(C) Yes, because Plaintiff is a citizen of State A and Defendant is a citizen
of both State A and State C, preventing the required complete diversity
from existing and nullifying Defendant's right of removal.

(D) No, because the case presents a federal question, thereby entitling

Defendant to remove whether or not it is a citizen of State A, in whose
state courts the action was originally filed.

 Question 4

A doctor, a citizen of State A, went to shop at a factory outlet for computers
located  in  that  state.  The  outlet  was  operated  by  a  corporation  that  makes
computers and sells them throughout the U.S. While at the outlet, the doctor
fell down the stairs in a poorly-lit stairwell, hit his head, and died instantly.
The doctor died intestate, leaving only one relative and heir, his son, who is
a  citizen  of  State  B.  The  son  procured  from  the  State  B  courts  an  order
appointing  him  as  the  doctor's  personal  representative  for  purposes  of
bringing any wrongful-death action on behalf of the doctor's estate. The son
then commenced a wrongful death action for negligence in the State B courts
for  $1  million  against  the  corporation;  the  complaint  listed  the  plaintiff  as
being the son suing “as personal representative of” the estate of the doctor

134

and  stated  that  the  son  was  a  citizen  of  State  B.  The  corporation  then
removed  the  suit  to  the  federal  district  court  located  in  State  B,  and  in  its
removal  petition  asserted  that  there  was  diversity  of  citizenship.  The
corporation's headquarters are located in a 2,000 square foot office in State
A, from which all 3 officers of the corporation supervise the corporation's
activities. Three-quarters of the corporation's employees work in a 200,000
square-foot plant located in State C, at which all of the computers made and
sold by the corporation are manufactured. The corporation is incorporated
in State D, where it has no employees or operations. All required pleadings
were served several months ago, and the son has not opposed the removal.

You are the clerk for the federal judge sitting in State B who has been
assigned  the  suit.  The  judge  asks  you  for  advice  about  how  she  should
resolve  any  issue  that  may  exist  relating  to  the  court's  subject-matter
jurisdiction over the case. You should tell her that her court

 (A) has jurisdiction and may hear the case, because the son is a citizen of
State B and the corporation is a citizen of States C and D only, thereby
creating complete diversity.

(B) has jurisdiction and may hear the case, because the son is a citizen of

State B and the corporation is a citizen of State D only, thereby creating
complete diversity.

(C) does not have jurisdiction and may not hear the case, because the doctor
was a citizen of State A at his death and the corporation is a citizen of
States A and C, thereby preventing complete diversity from existing.
(D) may hear the case whether or not complete diversity exists, because the
son has by now waived any objection based on lack of subject-matter
jurisdiction.

 Question 5

Plaintiff  is  a  State  A  corporation  that  rents  stage  equipment  for  use  in
theatrical performances. Defendant is a small theater group that entered into
a rental agreement with Plaintiff. Defendant is incorporated in State A and
its  main  theater  is  in  that  state.  Defendant's  latest  show  was  a  box  office
failure. Defendant has been unable to pay Plaintiff the annual rental fee, and
Plaintiff  wanted  to  compel  payment  by  means  of  a  federal-court  suit.
Therefore,  Plaintiff  assigned  its  interest  in  the  rental  agreement  for  “one
dollar” to Lawyer, an individual who lives and works in nearby State B. By
separate agreement, Lawyer agreed that if he litigated or settled the assigned
claim,  he  would  pay  Plaintiff  two-thirds  of  any  recovery  he  received,

135

“solely as a bonus.” Under State A law, an assignment is legal “when made
for  valid  consideration,  even  if  only  for  a  nominal  amount.”  After  the
assignment, Lawyer sued Defendant in diversity in federal district court for
the District of State A, alleging breach of the rental agreement.

Defendant  has  moved  to  dismiss  the  action  for  lack  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction.  Assuming  the  amount-in-controversy  is  satisfied,  the  district
court should

 (A) grant the motion because diversity jurisdiction is not available if any
defendant is a citizen of the state in which the federal court sits.

(B) deny the motion, because Lawyer and Defendant are citizens of different

states, and the assignment was legal under state law.

(C) grant the motion, because the assignment was collusively made for the

purpose of creating diversity of citizenship.

(D) deny the motion, because Defendant and Lawyer are citizens of different

states, and Lawyer has a sufficiently large economic stake in the
outcome to motivate him to vigorously litigate the suit.

 Question 6

A  consumer  brought  a  diversity  suit  against  a  baker  in  State  A  federal
district court, alleging that the baker made a defectively dangerous croissant
that  contained  glass  fragments  that  injured  the  consumer.  The  complaint
asserted that the baker made the croissant at his sole proprietorship in State
B, sold the croissant to a State B wholesaler, who sold it to a restaurant in
State A, where the consumer bought it, ate it, badly cut his mouth, and had to
be hospitalized for nearly a week. The suit sought $100,000 in damages.

The  baker  appeared  in  the  action  via  his  lawyer  and  filed  an  answer
consisting solely of a general denial. The baker did not attend the trial and
relied  on  his  lawyer  to  conduct  the  trial  without  calling  witnesses  and
relying  solely  on  the  lawyer's  cross-examination  of  the  consumer's
witnesses. The trial evidence showed that the baker had never travelled to
State  A,  sold  all  items  he  baked  solely  to  wholesalers  located  in  State  B,
and  did  no  advertising  outside  of  State  B.  On  June  1,  the  jury  awarded
$55,000 to the consumer for various categories of damages. The baker made
a  post-trial  motion  to  set  aside  the  verdict  on  various  grounds,  including
lack of jurisdiction; the motion was denied by the judge on July 1. On July
15,  the  judge  had  the  court  clerk  file  a  judgment  against  the  baker  for
$55,000, and notice of the entry of judgment was sent to the baker's lawyer.
On Sept. 20, the baker via his lawyer filed a notice of appeal with the clerk

136

of the district court. The notice of appeal correctly listed the parties and the
judgment being appealed from, and the parties then timely submitted briefs
to  the  federal  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  circuit  encompassing  State  A.  The
baker  based  his  appeal  on  two  errors:  that  the  district  court  had  lacked
subject-matter  jurisdiction  due  to  the  award  of  less  than  $75,000,  and  that
the  court  lacked  personal  jurisdiction  over  him  because  he  did  not  have
minimum contacts with State A.

How will the Court of Appeals likely rule in the appeal?

 (A) The court will dismiss the appeal because it lacks jurisdiction, whether
or not the district court had subject matter and personal jurisdiction
over the action.

(B) The court will reverse the judgment, because the district court lacked

personal jurisdiction over the baker.

(C) The court will reverse the judgment, because the district court lacked

subject matter jurisdiction over the action.

(D) The court will affirm the judgment, because the baker waived both of

the jurisdiction-related defenses at the district-court level.

 Question 7

Company  is  a  for-profit  corporation  that  at  the  time  of  the  relevant
transactions  was  incorporated  in  and  headquartered  in  State  A.  Company
hired  Partnership,  a  two-partner  general  partnership  of  the  state  where  it
was  organized,  to  redesign  its  computer  system  so  as  to  improve  security.
Partnership's  two  members  were  and  are  citizens  of  State  B  and  State  C
respectively. After the contract work was done, the system was hacked by
unknown  persons,  causing  Company  to  sue  Partnership  for  breach  of
contract  in  federal  district  court  for  State  A.  The  suit  sought  damages  in
excess  of  $75,000.  Partnership  did  not  initially  challenge  subject-matter
jurisdiction.  During  discovery,  and  after  the  time  to  make  threshold
objections  had  passed,  Partnership 
that  Company  had
reincorporated in State B during the course of the lawsuit.

learned 

Partnership now moves to dismiss the action for lack of subject-matter

jurisdiction. How should the court resolve the motion?

 (A) The court should deny the motion because it was made too late.
(B) The court should grant the motion, dismiss the action, and sanction
Company for having withheld information pertinent to jurisdiction.
(C) The court should deny the motion because the court has subject-matter

137

jurisdiction.

(D) The court should remand the matter to State A state court to be tried

there.

 Question 8

An  animal-rights  protester  joined  others  in  carrying  a  picket  sign  on  the
front  steps  of  a  U.S.  Army  facility  in  which,  the  protesters  claimed,  the
Army  was  conducting  experiments  that  abused  monkeys.  A  military  police
officer  employed  by  the  Army  arrested  the  protester  for  trespassing  and
forcibly  handcuffed  him.  The  protester  brought  a  federal  civil  suit  against
the  officer  for  violation  of  a  federal  statute  making  a  person  civilly  liable
for violating another person's constitutional rights under color of federal or
state  law  (in  this  case,  for  violating  the  protester's  Fourth  Amendment
rights). After discovery and before trial, the officer made two motions: (1) a
motion  for  summary  judgment  on  the  grounds  that  his  behavior  was
objectively reasonable and was therefore not a substantive violation of the
protester's constitutional rights; and (2) a motion to dismiss the claim based
on  the  judge-made  doctrine  of  qualified  immunity,  under  which  a
government  official  has  civil  immunity  from  trial  if  he  reasonably  though
incorrectly  believes  that  his  conduct  is  lawful.  The  district  court  denied
both motions on the grounds that it could not be said as a matter of law that
the  protester  would  not  be  able  to  establish  the  officer's  civil  liability  at
trial. The judge then ordered a trial. The officer immediately appealed the
rulings denying each of his motions. The protester now argues in the Court
of Appeals that neither ruling is properly appealable until after the case has
been tried. How should the Court of Appeals rule as to the timeliness of the
appeals of the two rulings?

 (A) Neither the summary judgment ruling nor the immunity ruling is properly

appealable now.

(B) Both of the rulings are properly appealable now.
(C) The immunity ruling is appealable now, but the summary judgment

ruling is not.

(D) The summary judgment ruling is appealable now, but the immunity

ruling is not.

 Question 9

A teacher who was suffering from abdominal pain agreed to be operated on
by a surgeon who practiced in State A. Immediately after the operation, the

138

teacher developed a pelvic infection, which she suspected was the result of
negligence by the surgeon during the operation. The teacher then consulted a
tort lawyer, who urged that the teacher retain her to bring a federal diversity
action  in  State  A  federal  district  court  against  the  surgeon  for  medical
malpractice.

The  lawyer  prepared  a  complaint  that  in  its  first  count  alleged
malpractice.  Without  consulting  the  teacher,  the  lawyer  added  a  second
count  alleging  that  the  surgeon,  in  his  advertising  to  the  public,  had  made
various  false  advertising  claims  (e.g.,  that  he  graduated  from  State  A
University  Medical  School),  and  that  these  false  claims  constituted  a
“pattern of racketeering activity” in violation of a State A anti-racketeering
criminal  statute.  The  teacher  read  the  draft  complaint,  understood  merely
that it was a suit for “medical malpractice,” did not know what was meant
by  “pattern  of  racketeering  activity,”  and  authorized  the  lawyer  to  file  the
complaint. The lawyer signed the complaint and brought the action. During
discovery, it became clear that (1) the lawyer's only reason for believing the
surgeon  had  made  false  advertising  claims  was  hearsay  passed  on  to  the
lawyer  by  a  colleague  (and  the  lawyer  did  not  check  with  the  Medical
School,  which  would  immediately  have  confirmed  that  the  surgeon  really
did  graduate  from  the  School);  (2)  the  claims  of  false  advertising  were  in
fact themselves all false; and (3) the lawyer had previously made virtually
the same racketeering allegations in a state-court malpractice suit against the
same  surgeon  on  behalf  of  a  different  client,  which  allegations  had  been
dismissed  on  summary  judgment  as  being  both  legally  and  factually
completely  without  merit.  Defense  counsel  therefore  drafted  a  motion
reciting the above facts about the racketeering count and seeking as a Rule
11  sanction  an  award  against  both  the  teacher  and  her  lawyer  of  the
attorney's fees actually spent by the surgeon in defending against the count.
Defense  counsel  followed  proper  procedures  for  filing  and  serving  the
motion.

Assume  that  the  federal  court  has  now  concluded  that  the  motion's
allegation that there was no factual or legal basis for the racketeering count
was correct. The court, in response to the defense motion for attorney's fees
as a sanction under Rule 11

 (A) may order that the surgeon be reimbursed for the defense attorney's fees,
with the teacher to be vicariously liable for the reimbursement if the
teacher's lawyer does not pay.

(B) may order that the teacher reimburse the surgeon for the defense

attorney's fees, because the teacher should have known that she did not

139

have actual knowledge about whether there was evidentiary support for
the racketeering charge.

(C) may not order the teacher's lawyer to reimburse the surgeon for the

defense attorney's fees, because Rule 11 sanctions, if monetary, must
take the form of fines paid to the court.

(D) may order that the teacher's lawyer reimburse the surgeon for the
defense attorney's fees even if the lawyer honestly believed the
racketeering count was supported by evidence, if the court finds that the
lawyer failed to make reasonable inquiries into whether there was
factual support for the count.

 Question 10

A  broker,  who  was  African  American,  worked  for  a  brokerage  company.
The  broker  applied  to  be  promoted  to  supervisor,  but  the  company's  sole
owner  awarded  the  promotion  to  a  white  male  who  worked  in  the  same
office.  The  broker  quit  and  then  sued  the  company  in  federal  court  for
violating  a  federal  statute  prohibiting  intentional  racial  discrimination  in
employment.  The  complaint  quoted  several  detailed  conversations  that  the
broker claimed to have overheard in the office, in which the owner said he
would  never  promote  the  plaintiff  or  any  other  African  American  as  a
supervisor because blacks rarely have managerial talent. The company filed
a  general  denial.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  company  moved  for  summary
judgment  on  the  grounds  that  there  was  no  evidence  that  the  owner's
decision  to  pass  over  the  broker  for  the  promotion  was  caused  by  racial
animus.  In  support  of  the  motion,  the  company  submitted  an  affidavit  from
the owner in which he stated, “I never made any of the statements imputed to
me in the complaint; all of those supposed statements are lies the plaintiff is
telling  in  order  to  coerce  me  into  settling  this  suit.”  The  broker's  lawyer,
who  was  out-of-state  tending  to  a  dying  parent,  failed  to  submit  papers  in
opposition to the motion within the allowable time. The trial judge granted
summary  judgment  in  favor  of  the  defendant.  The  full  text  of  the  judge's
opinion  was  as  follows:  “Because  the  plaintiff  failed  to  submit  papers  in
opposition  to  the  motion,  I  will  treat  all  statements  made  by  the  defendant
and  its  owner  as  undisputed.  Therefore,  I  find  that  the  plaintiff  has  come
forward with no evidence which would be sufficient to allow a reasonable
jury to find that the plaintiff has carried his burden of proving that he was
passed over on account of his race.”

The broker has appealed the grant of summary judgment. Will the Court

of Appeals likely reverse the grant of summary judgment?

140

 (A) Yes, because the owner's moving papers established that the broker's

credibility was a central issue that must be resolved during a trial rather
than as a matter of law.

(B) Yes, because the complaint contained detailed factual allegations that, if
believed by a jury, would justify a finding that the defendant violated the
plaintiff's federal rights.

(C) No, because the broker's failure to submit papers in opposition to the
motion meant that there was no sworn affidavit as required to support
the factual allegations of the complaint.

(D) No, because the broker's failure to submit papers in opposition to the
motion constituted a default, entitling the judge to treat the defendant's
uncontested allegations as true.

 Question 11

Plaintiff, while a pedestrian, was struck by a truck owned by Defendant, a
corporation in the business of making local deliveries. The truck was driven
by Driver, a full-time employee of Defendant. Since Plaintiff and Defendant
were  citizens  of  different  states,  Plaintiff  brought  a  diversity  suit  in
Defendant's home state against Defendant for negligence, seeking more than
$75,000  in  damages.  Plaintiff  elected  not  to  make  Driver  (who  left
Defendant's  employ  soon  after  the  accident)  a  co-defendant.  Defendant
served an answer denying liability on the grounds that the accident occurred
because  Driver  had  a  sudden  epileptic  seizure  that  neither  Driver  nor
Defendant could have foreseen. Plaintiff then served on Defendant a motion
under  FRCP  35  to  compel  Defendant  to  produce  Driver  for  a  physical
examination to be conducted by a physician identified in the motion papers.
In  support  of  the  motion,  Plaintiff  asserted  that  the  examination  was
necessary  in  order  for  Plaintiff's  attorneys  to  assess  the  accuracy  of
Defendant's assertion that the accident was caused by a seizure. Defendant
opposed  the  motion.  The  district  court  hearing  the  suit  should  rule  on
Plaintiff's motion by

 (A) granting the discovery request because a physical examination is

relevant to at least one claim or defense in the action.

(B) denying the discovery request because Driver no longer works for

Defendant and is thus not under Defendant's legal control.

(C) denying the discovery request unless the court finds that Plaintiff has

shown good cause for the examination.

(D) granting the request and, if Defendant does not produce Driver for the

141

examination, treating Defendant's failure as a contempt of court.

 Question 12

On  January  1  three  years  ago,  Defendant,  a  technology  company,  hired
Plaintiff, a technology specialist, on a one-year contract terminable only for
cause.  The  parties  agreed  that  any  dispute  was  to  be  governed  by  the
substantive law of State A. Three months after the contract began, Defendant
fired  Plaintiff  on  April  1  for  what  Plaintiff  believed  was  no  cause  at  all.
The statute of limitations on a contract action, according to State A's laws,
is  three  years,  and  was  therefore  about  to  expire  on  April  1  of  this  year.
Consequently,  on  March  15  of  this  year,  Plaintiff  filed  a  diversity  action
against Defendant in federal district court for State A alleging that the firing
breached her contract. On June 1 of this year, Plaintiff remembered that on
May 1 three years ago (i.e., 30 days after the firing), Defendant wrongfully
interfered  with  Plaintiff's  ability  to  take  a  new  job  (also  in  State  A)  that
another  potential  employer  had  offered  her  by  falsely  telling  the  new
employer  that  Defendant  had  recently  fired  Plaintiff  for  cheating  on  her
expense  account.  Therefore,  on  June  2  of  this  year,  Plaintiff  amended  her
suit  to  add  a  new  state-law  claim:  that  by  telling  this  lie,  Defendant
tortiously interfered with Plaintiff's new employment contract. The statute of
limitations for tortious interference in State A is also three years; therefore,
if the new tortious-interference claim had been a separate action, it would
have become time-barred in the courts of State A on May 1 of this year.

Defendant  has  now  moved  in  federal  court  to  have  the  tortious-
interference  claim  dismissed  as  time-barred.  Under  the  procedural  law  of
State  A,  when  an  existing  complaint  is  amended,  the  doctrine  of  “relation
back”  applies  for  statute  of  limitations  purposes  if  and  only  if  any  newly-
added claims (1) arise out of the same conduct, transaction, or occurrence
as  set  out  in  the  original  pleading  and  (2)  are  supported  by  the  same  or
nearly-same  legal  theory  as  at  least  one  claim  set  out  in  the  original
pleading.

If Defendant's motion succeeds, which of the following is the most likely
legal  explanation  for  that  success?  In  evaluating  each  choice,  assume  that
any  factual  allegation  contained  in  that  choice  is  correct  (though  do  not
necessarily assume that any legal conclusion the choice draws from that fact
is correct).

 (A) Under State A law, the relation-back rule does not permit relation back.
(B) The tort claim rests on a legal theory different from that of the original

142

contract claim.

(C) The tort claim arose out of a different transaction or occurrence than the

original contract claim.

(D) Plaintiff unduly delayed in amending her complaint.

 Question 13

Plaintiff, a company that manufactures pencils, is organized under the laws
of China and has its operating plant and management office in that country. It
bought wood pulp from Defendant, a corporation incorporated and located
in State A. The sales contract provided that “the laws of China will govern
any dispute that might arise between the parties pertinent to this agreement.”
Defendant  was  late  in  delivering  the  wood  pulp,  and  Plaintiff  sued
Defendant in State A federal district court. Plaintiff has no office or agents
in  the  United  States,  and  the  contract  was  negotiated  and  executed  through
the Internet.

Defendant has moved to dismiss the action under the doctrine of forum
non conveniens  on  the  ground  that  the  case  should  be  heard  in  a  court  in
China. How should the court resolve the motion?

 (A) The court should grant the motion because the requirements of the

federal “transfer of venue” statute are satisfied.

(B) The court should deny the motion if a court in China will apply law less

favorable to Plaintiff than will the Delaware district court.
(C) The court should grant the motion if it determines that China is an

appropriate alternative forum for the lawsuit.

(D) The court has a duty to first establish that it has jurisdiction before

deciding the motion to dismiss.

 Question 14

A musician, who lived in State A, was a member of a touring rock band. On
a  day  the  musician  was  away  from  State  A,  an  envelope  sent  “first  class,
certified, return receipt requested” via the U.S. Postal Service mail arrived
at  his  residence.  The  envelope  contained  a  summons  and  complaint  for  an
action  being  brought  against  the  musician  by  an  accountant.  The  summons
and complaint stated on their face that the action was for breach of contract
and was being brought in federal court for the district of State B, which was
the accountant's state of residence. The suit was properly based on diversity
and met the jurisdictional amount. The musician had authorized his fiancée
to accept mailed letters and packages he might receive and to sign receipts

143

for them. Therefore, the fiancée signed the delivery receipt for the envelope
and handed the receipt to the mail carrier. The musician never answered or
otherwise  responded  to  the  summons  or  complaint,  and  the  court  in  due
course entered a $1.7 million default judgment against him. Two years after
the entry of judgment, the musician happened to discover on the Internet that
the default judgment against him had been entered. He immediately moved
under FRCP Rule 60 to have the judgment set aside as void because proper
service  had  never  been  made  on  him.  At  a  judicial  hearing  on  his  motion,
the  musician  testified  that  he  had  seen  the  original  sealed  certified-mail
envelope on his desk when he returned from his trip, but had never opened it
because he thought it related to some other completed business transaction.
The accountant's lawyer did not contest this factual testimony. At the time of
the  original  mailing,  neither  the  law  of  State  A  nor  the  law  of  State  B
authorized in-state service of process on an individual by means of certified
mail (or, indeed, by any means other than personal service).

Should the federal judge set aside the default judgment as requested by

the musician?

 (A) Yes, but only if the judge finds that the musician was not negligent in

failing to open the certified letter envelope.

(B) Yes, because the judgment was void due to lack of proper service on the

musician.

(C) No, because the musician did not make his motion until more than one

year had elapsed from the entry of the default judgment.

(D) No, because the musician had authorized his fiancée to sign for mail,
causing her receipt of the envelope to constitute valid service on the
musician.

 Question 15

A  consumer  was  driving  a  car  late  at  night  when  the  headlights  went  out,
causing the consumer to run off the road and hit a tree, injuring him badly.
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
The consumer brought a product  liability  suit  in  diversity  against  the  car's
manufacturer, a large publicly-traded corporation. The suit alleged that the
headlight  system  failed  on  account  of  a  defective  design.  The  consumer
demanded a jury trial. During voir dire, one prospective juror testified that
he  owned  $100  of  publicly-traded  stock  in  the  defendant  manufacturer.
Under  questioning  by  the  judge,  the  prospective  juror  said  that  she  was
confident that her stock ownership would not interfere with her ability to be
impartial in the case. The consumer's lawyer has challenged the prospective

144

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

juror for cause. Should the judge dismiss the juror for cause?

 (A) No, because the juror's financial stake is sufficiently small that it would

not affect the ability of an average juror to be impartial.

(B) Yes, because there is a presumption that any direct financial relationship

between a juror and a party will impair the juror's ability to be
impartial.

(C) Yes, so long as there is at least one other potential juror in the pool who

would not be challengeable for cause.

(D) No, so long as the judge believes the juror's testimony that she can be

impartial.

 Question 16

Until she was fired, a cook worked in a restaurant owned by a corporation.
The  cook  sued  the  corporation  in  federal  court,  alleging  that  her  firing
violated  a  federal  statute  forbidding  intentional  discrimination  against
employees  on  the  basis  of  gender.  In  her  suit,  the  cook  asked  for  an  order
that she be reinstated to her job, plus money damages as compensation for
the  firing.  The  cook  also  timely  asked  for  a  jury  trial  on  the  issues  of
liability and damages, but conceded that under court rules the decision about
reinstatement would have to be made by the judge. During jury selection, the
two sides each used one peremptory challenge during the course of seating
the first 10 members of a proposed 12-member jury of whom 6 were men
and  4  were  women.  Then,  as  to  the  next  prospective  Jurors,  XX  and  YY
(who if accepted would fill the final two seats, and who were both women),
the  plaintiff  approved  these  jurors,  but  the  defendant's  lawyer  announced
that she wanted to use her final two peremptory challenges on them, giving
as her only explanation that, “I'm sure these two ladies would be fair, but I
think that on average males will be more sympathetic to my client's position
than  women  will  be.”  The  judge  is  now  prepared  to  decide  two  motions
before him:

Motion  1:  The  defendant  corporation  has  moved  to  have  the  facts
bearing  on  “Did  the  defendant  discriminate  against  the  plaintiff  on  gender
grounds?” tried first. Then, it argues, the judge should immediately decide
whether the defendant discriminated, and if so, whether the defendant should
be ordered to reinstate the plaintiff. After that, the motion says, if the court
found that discrimination occurred, the jury should be asked to decide on the
amount  of  damages.  The  plaintiff  opposes  this  motion,  saying  that  the  jury
should first decide whether there was discrimination, and if so, decide what

145

damages to award; only then should the judge decide on reinstatement.

Motion 2:  The  plaintiff  has  moved  to  have  the  defendant's  peremptory
challenges  to  potential  jurors  XX  and  YY  disallowed,  on  the  grounds  that
allowing  these  challenges  would  violate  the  excluded  jurors'  equal
protection right not to be disqualified from a jury on account of their gender
and that the plaintiff has standing to assert these jurors' rights.
The court will most likely rule on the two motions by

 (A) denying Motion 1 and granting Motion 2.
(B) granting Motion 1 and denying Motion 2.
(C) granting both motions.
(D) denying both motions.

 Question 17

A statute passed by the legislature of State A, the “Employee Check Act” or
“ECA,” provides that if five or more persons work in the state for a given
employer, the employer may pay them by check only if the employer offers
the employees a free method of cashing the check within one mile or less of
the  workplace.  The  statute  also  provides  a  flat  damages  award  of  $1,000
per employee for each check as to which the employer violates the ECA. A
brokerage  firm  with  many  employees  in  State  A  failed  to  comply  with  the
statute. Twenty employees of the firm, each of whom was given payroll five
checks in violation of the ECA, joined as co-plaintiffs in a non-class-action
suit against the brokerage firm filed in the State A state courts; each plaintiff
asserted  a  claim  for  $5,000.  The  brokerage  firm  promptly  filed  a  notice
removing the action to the local federal court for State A. Ninety days after
the  firm  filed  the  notice  of  removal,  all  plaintiffs  jointly  filed  a  motion  to
remand the case to the State A court from which it had been removed, on the
grounds  that  the  case  did  not  satisfy  the  relevant  amount-in-controversy
requirement.

Should the court grant the plaintiffs' motion to remand the case?

 (A) No, because the federal supplemental jurisdiction statute permits the

court to aggregate all of the plaintiffs' claims since they all derive from
a common series of transactions, and when aggregated the claims are
collectively worth in excess of $75,000.

(B) No, because by case law the claims here may be aggregated for amount-
in-controversy purposes since they arise from a common series of
transactions, and when aggregated the claims are collectively worth in

146

excess of $75,000.

(C) No, because the plaintiffs waived their right to request remand when
more than 30 days passed following the brokerage firm's filing of its
notice of removal.

(D) Yes, because by case law the fact that the claims are not for a single

right in which all plaintiffs have a common interest prevents the claims
from being aggregated for amount-in-controversy purposes.

 Question 18

A construction company was incorporated and headquartered in State A. A
distributor (a corporation that was a citizen of State B) was in the business
of distributing asphalt used in the construction of residential driveways. The
construction company placed a large order for asphalt with the distributor,
and  the  distributor  failed  to  deliver  the  product  on  time.  The  construction
company sued the distributor in diversity in State A federal court for breach
of  contract,  claiming  losses  of  more  than  $3  million  from  the  delay.  The
distributor then impleaded a trucker that it had hired to ship the products in
question  to  the  construction  company.  In  the  distributor's  third-party
complaint against the trucker, the distributor alleged that the trucker “is or
may be liable” to the distributor if the distributor were found liable to the
construction company.

Which  of  the  following  defenses,  if  supported  by  the  facts,  may  the

trucker properly assert?

 (A) The construction company could not recover directly against the trucker.
(B) The distributor may seek to implead the trucker only after, not before, a
judgment is entered in the construction company's suit against the
distributor.

(C) The court lacks venue over the distributor.
(D) The statute of limitations has lapsed on the construction company's

claim against the distributor.

 Question 19

A messenger, who is a citizen of State A, drove his truck onto a construction
site in State A in order to deliver a package. There were a number of other
vehicles on the site. The messenger's truck was hit from the rear by one of
these vehicles, injuring the messenger. He sued an electrician (a citizen of
State  B),  alleging  that  the  electrician  had  negligently  driven  the  vehicle,  a
van, that hit the messenger's truck. The suit, seeking $100,000 in damages,

147

was  based  on  diversity  and  was  filed  in  State  A  federal  court.  The
electrician filed an answer denying that he had driven the vehicle that had
hit  the  messenger's  truck.  Eleven  days  after  the  electrician  served  his
answer, he also served a third-party impleader complaint against a plumber
(a  citizen  of  State  B)  who  had  been  driving  a  truck  on  the  same  site;  that
complaint alleged that it was the plumber whose truck hit the messenger, and
that if there was anyone whose negligence caused the accident, that person
was  the  plumber.  The  electrician  made  personal  service  of  the  third-party
complaint on the plumber by having the summons and complaint handed to
the plumber while the plumber was doing a multi-week project at a job site
in State C, at a location 80 miles from the State A federal courthouse where
the  messenger-electrician  suit  was  pending.  No  provision  of  State  A  law
would permit service of process on a defendant found at the State C job site
for a complaint in the State A courts on facts analogous to the facts of the
electrician-plumber complaint here.

The  plumber  would  like  to  try  to  get  the  third-party  (“TP”)  complaint
against  him  dismissed  by  the  federal  court.  Which  of  the  following
arguments offers the plumber the best chance of achieving that result?

 (A) The court does not have subject-matter jurisdiction to adjudicate the TP
complaint, because the electrician and the plumber are both citizens of
State B.

(B) The court does not have personal jurisdiction over the plumber for

purposes of adjudicating the TP complaint.

(C) The electrician did not serve the TP complaint within the “of right” time
limit for such service and did not obtain leave of court as required for a
TP complaint served after expiration of that “of right” time limit.

(D) The TP complaint fails to state a valid third-party claim.

 Question 20

A  novelist  sued  her  accountant,  an  individual,  in  a  federal-court  diversity
action based on breach of contract. The novelist, who is a citizen of State A,
brought  the  suit  in  that  state's  federal  court.  After  the  novelist  filed  the
complaint,  she  instructed  a  process  server  to  serve  the  summons  and
complaint  personally  on  the  accountant  at  what  a  recent  check  of  the
accountant's business website check showed to be his business address, 123
Main  Street,  Suite  101,  in  City,  State  B.  Unbeknownst  to  the  novelist,  the
accountant  had  moved  his  office  to  a  different  location  in  City  one  month
before and had neglected to update his website with the new address. The

148

process server arrived at Suite 101 in the 123 Main Street office building
and  asked  the  receptionist  there  if  the  accountant  was  present  to  receive
papers.  The  receptionist  replied  that  the  accountant  had  moved,  but
mentioned that she would be seeing him the next day; she therefore offered
to  take  the  papers  and  give  them  to  the  accountant.  The  process  server
agreed, leaving the papers with the receptionist, who as promised gave the
papers to the accountant the next day. The accountant then immediately filed
a  timely  answer,  in  which  he  raised  the  defense  of  improper  service.  The
provisions  of  State  A  and  State  B  regarding  valid  methods  of  service  are
identical to the ones set forth for federal courts in the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.

Should the court dismiss the complaint for improper service?

 (A) Yes, because although the papers were left with a person of suitable age

and discretion, this was done at a location that was no longer the
accountant's usual place of business.

(B) Yes, because no federal or relevant state statute allows service on an

individual by leaving papers with a person of suitable age and
discretion at that person's usual place of business.

(C) No, because the process server left the papers with a person of suitable
age and discretion at what the accountant represented to the world to be
his usual place of business.

(D) No, because the accountant waived any objection to improper service
by asserting the defense in an answer instead of by a motion made
before the answer.

 Question 21

A  skydiver  was  injured  in  a  skydiving  accident  in  State  A  when  his
parachute opened late. The skydiver brought a product liability suit, based
on  diversity,  against  the  manufacturer  of  the  parachute  in  State  A  federal
court. At trial, one of the issues was the extent of the skydiver's injuries. The
skydiver's  lawyer  offered  into  evidence  that  the  hospital  that  treated  the
skydiver for his injuries billed him $200,000 for care, and that this amount
was paid in full by the skydiver's health insurance carrier on his behalf. The
manufacturer's lawyer did not contest the accuracy or reasonableness of the
hospital's bill. Nor did the manufacturer offer evidence that any person other
than  itself  was  fully  or  partly  at  fault.  The  case  was  submitted  to  the  jury
without  any  motion  having  been  made  by  either  side.  The  jury  returned  a
verdict of $100,000, and the judge entered judgment for this amount. Under

149

the  relevant  law  of  State  A,  a  state  trial  judge  is  encouraged  to  use  the
“additur”  technique  where  appropriate,  i.e.,  to  conditionally  grant  a  new
trial in response to a verdict for an amount markedly lower than that shown
by the clear weight of the evidence; the grant is conditional in the sense that
the  new  trial  will  be  canceled  if  the  defendant  agrees  to  pay  an  amount
specified by the trial judge as being the minimum justified by the evidence.
After the disappointing verdict in the federal action, the skydiver's lawyer
asked  the  judge  by  motion  either  (1)  to  issue  an  additur  under  which  the
manufacturer  would  be  given  a  choice  between  undergoing  a  new  trial
solely  on  the  issue  of  damages  (with  liability  deemed  decided  in  the  first
trial) or agreeing to pay $200,000 in damages; or (2) alternatively, to issue
judgment as a matter of law for $200,000.

Assume  that  the  district  judge  believes  that  the  weight  of  the  evidence
clearly shows that the skydiver has sustained at least $200,000 of damages
—the amount of the hospital bill—for injuries that would be compensable
under State A's case law on tort damages. Which of the following represents
the  ruling  the  judge  is  most  clearly  authorized  to  make  on  the  skydiver's
alternative motions?

 (A) The court may award judgment as a matter of law (JML) for $200,000,
so long as the skydiver made his JML motion for within 28 days after
the entry of the judgment for $100,000.

(B) The court may award additur as proposed by the skydiver, because
additur represents a substantive legal rule of State A that should be
applied by the federal court sitting in diversity.

(C) The court may not award additur as proposed by the skydiver, because
additur may be applied only in federal-question cases, not in cases
based solely on diversity.

(D) The court may not apply additur as proposed by the skydiver, because to
do so would violate the defendant's jury trial rights under the Seventh
Amendment.

 Question 22

A landscaper who was a citizen of State A bought a lawn mower produced
in  State  B  by  a  manufacturer  incorporated  and  headquartered  in  State  B.
While the landscaper was doing a job in State C, he was badly injured when
the mower rolled over his foot. The landscaper brought a $1 million strict
product  liability  action  in  diversity  against  the  manufacturer  in  State  C
federal court, based on the allegedly defective design of the mower. States

150

A,  B,  and  C  all  impose  slightly  different  tests  for  determining  whether  a
product's  design  should  be  deemed  defective.  Which  of  the  three  states'
substantive  test  for  determining  whether  a  design  is  defective  should  the
federal court apply?

 (A) The design-defect test used by the State C courts in cases involving only
State C's tort laws, because State C is where the federal court sits.
(B) The design-defect test developed by the federal courts for use in claims

arising under federal statutes.

(C) The design-defect test of the state whose design-defect law the State C
courts would apply if the suit had been filed in the State C court system.

(D) The design-defect test developed by whichever of the three states the
federal court believes has the strongest interest in having its own
substantive laws apply to this controversy.

 Question 23

Plaintiff,  an  individual  who  is  a  citizen  of  State  A,  wanted  to  bring  a
diversity  suit  against  Defendant,  a  corporation  incorporated  and  with  its
headquarters  in  State  B.  The  suit  alleged  that  some  years  ago,  Defendant
committed  fraud  on  Plaintiff.  On  July  1,  Plaintiff  filed  the  civil  fraud
complaint against Defendant with the federal district court located in State
A.  On  July  5,  Plaintiff  sent,  by  first-class  mail,  a  package  containing  the
following  documents  to  Defendant  (“c/o  President”)  at  Defendant's
headquarters address in State B: (1) a copy of the complaint; (2) two copies
of  a  form  (appended  to  a  copy  of  FRCP  4)  by  which  Defendant  could  by
signing agree to waive service of a summons; and (3) a prepaid means for
Defendant  to  return  a  signed  copy  of  the  waiver  form.  The  mailing  also
included a notice to Defendant stating that the suit had been commenced and
requesting  that  Defendant  waive  service  of  a  summons  by  signing  and
returning a copy of the waiver form by no later than 30 days after the July 5
mailing  date.  The  notice-and-request  met  all  requirements  set  forth  in
Federal Rule 4(d)(1).

In  order  to  determine  whether  Plaintiff  satisfied  the  statute  of
limitations, it has become important to know the earliest date as of which
all  events  needed  for  the  complaint  to  be  deemed  served  via  the  waiver
method  had  occurred.  The  earliest  date  as  of  which  service  in  the  action
will be treated as complete would be

 (A) July 5, by virtue of Plaintiff's act of mailing the package to Defendant.

151

(B) August 10, if on that day Plaintiff, not having received from Defendant
the signed waiver form or any communication, filed a sworn statement
with the court stating that Defendant had not submitted the requested
signed waiver within the 30 days specified in the waiver request.
(C) August 20, if on that day Plaintiff received from Defendant a return of

the signed waiver form.

(D) August 22, if on that day Plaintiff filed the signed waiver form with the

court, after having received it from Defendant on August 20.

 Question 24

A husband got into a heated argument with his wife. During the course of the
argument, he fired a hand gun, and the bullet ricocheted off the floor and hit
her,  causing  her  instant  death.  The  man  was  charged  with  second  degree
murder but instead was permitted to plead guilty to voluntary manslaughter
under  a  plea  agreement  with  the  county  prosecutor.  A  State  A  statute
provides  that  voluntary  manslaughter  is  “an  intentional  or  reckless  killing
committed  under  the  effect  of  extreme  emotional  distress.”  The  plea
agreement stated that the husband “intentionally killed the wife while under
the effect of extreme emotional distress,” but contained no other details. The
State A judge, in accepting the plea, required the husband to make an oral
allocution before the court, whose purpose was to assure the court that there
was a “factual basis” for the plea; the judge concluded that there was such a
basis, though the husband in the allocution denied that he had intended for
the  bullet  to  strike  his  wife.  Meanwhile,  the  husband  was  the  named
beneficiary  of  a  life  insurance  policy  bought  by  the  wife  on  her  own  life.
The policy contained a “homicide clause,” which provided that the insurer
would not be liable under the policy if the insured's death was the result of a
voluntary  act  by  the  insured  or  her  spouse  committed  with  the  intent  of
causing the insured's death. In reliance on this clause, the insurer refused to
make payment on the policy. The husband, a State A resident, filed suit in a
State  A  state  court  to  establish  his  right  to  the  policy  proceeds.  The
insurance  company,  as  a  non-citizen  of  State  A,  properly  removed  to  the
federal district court for State A. The husband and the insurer have agreed
to have the case decided by the federal judge rather than a jury.

The insurer has moved for summary judgment, based on the theory that
the  husband's  guilty  plea  conclusively  established  the  fact  that  he
intentionally  killed  the  wife,  thereby  making  the  policy's  homicide  clause
applicable.  State  A  follows  the  prevailing  national  approach  to  issue
preclusion. The federal Court of Appeals for the circuit that includes State

152

A, acting in cases where the court was free to make its own determination
about  whether  issue  preclusion  applied,  has  issued  opinions  taking  that
same  prevailing  national  approach  to  issue  preclusion.  How  should  the
federal court rule on the insurer's motion?

 (A) Because the State A courts would apply issue preclusion to prevent the
husband from denying that he intentionally killed the wife, the federal
court must follow the State A approach and apply such preclusion too.
(B) Because the State A courts would not apply issue preclusion to prevent
the husband from denying that he intentionally killed the wife, the
federal court must follow the State A approach and decline to apply
such preclusion too.

(C) The federal court should follow federal case law from the circuit, and

under that case law issue preclusion will not apply, because the issue of
the husband's intent was never actually litigated in the criminal
proceeding.

(D) The federal court should follow federal case law from the circuit, and
under that case law issue preclusion will apply, because the husband's
guilty plea constituted a final and conclusive determination that the
killing was intentional.

 Question 25

Plaintiff brought a diversity suit in federal court against Defendant. The suit
claimed  that  several  years  previously,  Defendant,  an  individual,  had
breached  a  contract  to  deliver  certain  food  colorings  to  Plaintiff,  also  an
individual, for use in Plaintiff's bakery. Plaintiff filed the complaint with the
district  court  on  March  1.  On  March  3,  Plaintiff  requested  by  mail  that
Defendant  waive  service,  and  Defendant  did  so  by  returning  the  waiver
form  on  March  10.  On  March  15,  Defendant  served  his  answer,  which
consisted solely of a general denial. On April 20, Defendant first realized
that  he  probably  had  a  valid  defense  based  on  the  statute  of  limitations.
Defendant's  lawyer  decided  not  to  ask  Plaintiff  to  consent  to  Defendant's
immediate  filing  of  an  amended  answer  that  would  include  the  limitations
defense.

Which  of  the  following  statements  best  describes  whether  and  how

Defendant may, on April 20, assert the limitations defense?

 (A) Defendant may assert the defense by amending his answer as of right,

because due to his having signed the waiver his original time to answer

153

has not yet run.

(B) Defendant may not assert the defense by amending his answer unless he
receives leave of court to do so, because more than 21 days have
passed since Defendant's service of his original answer, and that answer
did not require a responsive pleading.

(C) Defendant may not assert the defense by amending his answer unless he
receives leave of court, because his filing of an answer that did not
contain an affirmative defense in his answer resulted in his automatic
waiver of that defense and left him without the ability to amend as of
right.

(D) Defendant may, as of right, make a motion asserting the defense.

 Question 26

Defendant, a corporation that manufactures automobile tires, entered into a
long-term  sales  contract  with  Plaintiff,  company  that  distributes  used  cars.
Plaintiff, dissatisfied with the quality of Defendant's tires, filed a diversity
action  in  federal  court  against  Defendant.  The  complaint  alleged  three
claims: breach of warranty, strict liability, and breach of contract. On April
1, the district court granted Plaintiff's motion for partial summary judgment
(judgment  only  as  to  the  contract  claim)  and  ordered  a  trial  on  the  two
remaining claims. The court's opinion granting the partial summary judgment
said nothing about whether the judgment was deemed final or whether there
was  any  reason  to  allow  an  immediate  appeal  from  it.  On  April  15,
Defendant filed a motion in the appropriate federal court of appeals, asking
that  court  to  hear  an  immediate  appeal  of  the  grant  of  partial  summary
judgment. On April 25, Plaintiff filed a written consent to this appeal—he
did so in the hopes that if he won that appeal, Defendant would immediately
settle the contract claim without a trial in return for Plaintiff's dropping the
other two claims.

Assuming  that  the  appeals  court  desires  to  hear  the  immediate  appeal,

does that court have jurisdiction to do so?

 (A) Yes, because the grant of partial summary judgment is a final judgment.
(B) Yes, because the grant of partial summary judgment, although an

interlocutory order, may be immediately appealed in the discretion of
either the trial or appeals court.

(C) No, because the grant of partial summary judgment here was an

interlocutory order from which no immediate appeal is possible.
(D) No, because the parties did not file their consent to the appeal within

154

ten days of the court's entry of its order.

 Question 27

An engineer worked for many years for a manufacturer of auto airbags. The
engineer's  job  was  both  to  design,  and  to  evaluate  the  safety  of,  the
manufacturer's  airbag  inflation  systems.  Three  years  ago,  the  engineer  quit
and  began  giving  paid  expert  testimony  against  the  manufacturer  in  civil
suits  brought  by  consumers  who  said  they  had  been  injured  when  airbags
made by the manufacturer had detonated prematurely; the engineer testified
that based on his own experience working for the manufacturer, the airbags
in question were defectively designed. The manufacturer responded to this
testimony  by  suing  the  engineer  in  State  A  state  court,  alleging  that  his
testimony  unfairly  disclosed 
trade  secrets.  The
manufacturer and the engineer then settled this suit. As part of the settlement,
both  parties  asked  the  State  A  judge  to  enter  an  injunction  prohibiting  the
engineer  from  “giving  testimony,  by  deposition  or  trial  testimony,  in  any
personal  injury  suit  brought  in  any  American  state  or  federal  court  against
[the  manufacturer]  concerning  [the  engineer's]  knowledge  of  the  design  of
manufacturer's airbag systems.” The judge entered the requested injunction.

the  manufacturer's 

Shortly  thereafter,  a  consumer  was  injured  in  a  car  crash  in  State  B
when an airbag system made by the manufacturer allegedly failed to inflate
properly  in  the  consumer's  car.  The  consumer  brought  a  diversity  action
based on product liability against the manufacturer in federal district court
for  State  B.  The  consumer's  lawyer  issued  a  subpoena  to  compel  the
engineer to testify about his personal knowledge of the design of the airbag
at issue in the consumer's case. The state courts of State B have said in past
opinions that the state has a strong public interest in ensuring that potential
witnesses with knowledge of pertinent matters not be barred from testifying
to  that  knowledge  on  account  of  confidentiality  agreements  between  the
witness and another private party. The manufacturer has now asserted in the
federal  court  action  that  under  the  relevant  federal  full  faith  and  credit
statute, the federal court has a duty to exclude any testimony by the engineer
about matters covered by the injunction, including the engineer's knowledge
about  the  manufacturer's  airbag  designs.  Should  the  federal  court  grant  the
manufacturer's request to exclude the engineer's testimony?

 (A) No, because the application of full faith and credit principles must yield
to any strong countervailing public-policy interest on the part of State B,
and admitting the engineer's testimony here would serve such a public-

155

policy interest held by that state.

(B) No, because the admissibility of evidence is not governed by full faith

and credit principles.

(C) Yes, because the principles of claim preclusion embodied in the federal
full faith and credit statute require a State B federal court to enforce the
injunction issued by the State A court even if a State B state court would
not issue such an injunction on comparable facts if the suit were pending
in that court.

(D) Yes, so long as the federal court believes that the State A judge who

issued the injunction would on request modify it to allow the engineer to
obey the subpoena and give the testimony sought here.

 Question 28

Plaintiff  is  a  widow  whose  husband  was  killed  in  an  accident  while
working for Defendant, a construction company. Plaintiff is a citizen of State
A.  Defendant  is  incorporated  in  and  has  its  principal  place  of  business  in
State  B.  Plaintiff  brought  a  diversity  action  against  Defendant  in  federal
district  court  for  State  A,  alleging  negligence  and  seeking  $100,000  in
damages.  Defendant  filed  a  third-party  claim  against  Distributor,  seeking
$100,000 in damages and alleging that if Defendant were to be found liable
to  Plaintiff,  Distributor  would  be  liable  to  Defendant  for  having  leased  to
Defendant  the  defective  equipment  that  caused  the  accident.  Distributor  is
incorporated  in  State  A  and  has  its  principal  place  of  business  there.
Plaintiff  then  amended  her  complaint  to  assert  a  defective-product  claim
directly against Distributor; the claim sought $100,000 in damages.

Defendant  and  Distributor  have  now  moved  to  dismiss  the  claims
against them based on lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. Defendant moves
to  dismiss  Plaintiff's  negligence  claim,  and  Distributor  moves  to  dismiss
both  claims  against  it,  Defendant's  third-party  claim,  and  Plaintiff's  direct
claim. The court should dispose of these motions by

 (A) granting all of the motions.
(B) granting only Distributor's motion as to both claims against it.
(C) granting only Distributor's motion, and only as to Plaintiff's claim

against it.

(D) granting only Defendant's motion.

 Question 29

A screenwriter wanted to bring a federal lawsuit for copyright infringement

156

against  a  movie  studio  that  he  believed  had  copied  elements  of  his
unpublished  screenplay.  He  consulted  a  lawyer,  who  agreed  to  bring  the
case. The lawyer drafted a complaint, signed it, and filed it with the court.
At about the same time, the screenwriter and the lawyer agreed that a jury
would probably be more sympathetic to the screenwriter's claim than would
be  a  judge,  so  they  tentatively  decided  to  demand  a  jury  trial  on  the
infringement claim. However, the lawyer and the screenwriter also decided
that  it  would  be  best  to  postpone  making  the  jury-trial  demand  as  long  as
possible,  since  later  events  in  the  case,  including  the  attitude  of  whatever
judge  was  assigned,  might  cause  them  to  change  their  mind  and  prefer  a
bench trial instead of a jury trial.

The  following  times  for  the  screenwriter  to  demand  a  jury  trial  are
arranged in anticipated chronological order, with the earliest-to-occur listed
first. Which choice represents the LATEST stage at which the screenwriter
can serve a demand on the studio for a jury trial while being confident that
his demand will not be deemed to have been waived?

 (A) At the same time as the summons and complaint are served on the

studio.

(B) Within 60 days after the studio serves its answer, if the answer does not

contain a counterclaim.

(C) On or before the date on which the parties' lawyers conduct their initial

case-planning conference required by FRCP 26(f).

(D) On or before the date on which the first pretrial conference in the case

occurs.

 Question 30

The plaintiff, while driving on April 2, was injured in a collision with a car
driven by the defendant. The plaintiff believed that the defendant had gone
through  a  stop  sign.  The  police  officer  at  the  scene  did  not  perform  a
sobriety test, but the plaintiff thought she smelled liquor on the defendant's
breath. The plaintiff brought a negligence suit against the defendant in State
A  state  court.  The  plaintiff's  lawyer  then  engaged  a  private  investigator  to
try to find out whether the defendant had been drinking prior to the accident.
The  investigator  located  a  musician  who  had  the  status  of  “friend”  of  the
defendant on a particular social media website. The investigator conducted
an  interview  with  the  musician,  at  which  she  told  the  investigator  that  on
April 3, the defendant had posted a message on the social media website in
which he said “I had a few beers yesterday and then got into a car accident,

157

but  fortunately  the  dumb  cop  didn't  make  me  walk  a  white  line.”  The
musician  then  at  the  investigator's  request  wrote  a  handwritten  statement
with these facts, signed it, and handed it to the investigator, who gave it to
the  plaintiff's  lawyer.  The  plaintiff's  lawyer  plans  to  call  the  musician  at
trial to testify about the defendant's admission of drinking, and plans to use
the statement either in its case in chief, or to rehabilitate that testimony if the
defendant  claims  on  cross-examination  that  the  musician's  testimony  is  a
recent fabrication.

The defendant, during discovery, made a demand for the production of
any  written  statements  in  the  possession  of  the  plaintiff  or  her  attorney  by
any person with knowledge relevant to the accident. The plaintiff's lawyer
submitted  a  “privilege  log”  to  the  defendant,  mentioning  the  musician  by
name,  and  stating  that  the  musician  had  given  a  written  statement  to  the
plaintiff's  legal  team  about  a  matter  relevant  to  the  accident;  but  the
plaintiff's lawyer refused to produce the statement itself on the grounds that
it was protected by work-product immunity. The defendant has now moved
for a court order compelling production of the statement on the grounds that
any  work-product  immunity  should  not  prevent  production  on  these  facts.
State A follows the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure on all matters relevant
to discovery.

Should the court grant the defendant's motion to compel the plaintiff to

produce the statement?

 (A) Yes, because the defendant is entitled to a copy of his own prior

admissions regarding the action or its subject matter.

(B) Yes, because the statement contains only the musician's own words and

does not reveal any mental impressions or legal theories of the
plaintiff's legal team.

(C) No, because the defendant and his attorney have not demonstrated that
they cannot obtain their own statement from the musician that would be
substantially equivalent to the one being sought.

(D) No, because the use the plaintiff intends to make of the statement at trial,

if it's used at all, will be solely to enhance the musician's credibility as
a witness.

 Question 31

Plaintiff  lives  in  State  A.  He  bought  hiking  equipment  from  Defendant,  a
catalog retailer that is incorporated in, and has its headquarters in, State B.
Plaintiff,  from  his  home  in  State  A,  selected  his  purchase  from  a  copy  of

158

Defendant's  hard-copy  catalog;  he  then  placed  his  order  by  telephone  to  a
sales  agent  working  out  of  Defendant's  State  B  headquarters.  20%  of
Defendant's  annual  sales  are  made  by  mail-order  and  Internet-order  to
customers  who  live  in  State  A.  However,  Defendant  has  no  employees  or
agents physically located in State A. The hiking equipment turned out to be
defective, and Plaintiff decided to sue Defendant in State A state court for a
refund.  Before  filing  the  suit,  Plaintiff  looked  on  the  Internet  and  located
Defendant's published street address in State B. However, Plaintiff did not
serve a copy of the summons and complaint on Defendant either by mail or
hand-delivery to that State B address. Instead, Plaintiff discovered a State A
statute providing that “Service for an action in this state may be made upon
a  nonresident  company  that  is  registered  to  do  business  in  this  state  by
means  of  hand-delivery  of  the  summons  and  complaint  to  the  State  A
Secretary  of  State  at  the  Secretary's  official  address  in  Capital  City,  State
A.” Plaintiff therefore served Defendant by having his agent hand-deliver a
copy  of  the  summons  and  complaint  to  the  State  A  Secretary  of  State  as
provided  in  the  statute.  It  is  unclear  what  additional  actions,  if  any,  were
taken  by  either  Plaintiff  or  the  Secretary  of  State  to  attempt  to  give
Defendant actual notice of the suit.

Defendant  did  not  appear  in  the  action,  and  a  default  judgment  was
entered  against  it  by  the  State  A  court  last  year.  Defendant  now  seeks  to
have  the  default  judgment  re-opened,  and  the  suit  dismissed  for  improper
service; Defendant claims not to have received actual notice of the suit until
this  year.  (The  statute  of  limitations  ran  on  Dec.  31  of  last  year,  so  if  the
court finds that Defendant was not validly served prior to Dec. 31, Plaintiff
will not be able to re-serve Defendant.) Defendant does not dispute that it is
registered  to  do  business  in  State  A,  but  claims  that  whatever  service
occurred  did  not  comport  with  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment. The following choices list, in estimated ascending order of the
likelihood  that  they  would  have  given  Defendant  actual  notice  of  the  suit,
various  additional  steps  that  might  have  been  taken  to  notify  Defendant  of
the  suit.  Which  choice  represents  the  additional  step(s)  beyond  service  on
the Secretary of State that would be the LEAST likely-to-be-effective notice
steps  that  would  nonetheless  have  been  sufficient  to  give  Defendant
constitutionally-sufficient notice of the suit?

 (A) No other acts calculated to give notice to Defendant were required,
because service was constitutionally sufficient as soon as Plaintiff
hand-delivered the summons and complaint to the state official.
(B) Notice published in a newspaper of general circulation widely

159

distributed through State B would have sufficed (if done in addition to
the delivery of the summons and complaint to the state official).

(C) A mailing of the summons and complaint to Defendant at its last-known

address, by either Plaintiff or the Secretary of State, would have
sufficed (if done in addition to the delivery of the summons and
complaint to the state official).

(D) Only hand delivery of the summons and complaint by Plaintiff or his

agent to Defendant's published address in State B would have sufficed
(even if there had been delivery of the summons and complaint to the
state official), given that Plaintiff knew that published address.

 Question 32

Plaintiff was born in State A and has lived there her entire life. For the last
20 years she worked as a data-entry operator for Employer, a corporation
incorporated  in,  and  with  its  principal  place  of  business  in,  State  B.
Employer  announced  one  day  that  it  was  outsourcing  its  data-entry
operations  and  gave  Plaintiff  the  choice  between  transferring  to  a  lower-
paying  job  and  being  fired.  Plaintiff  refused  the  transfer  and  was  fired.
Plaintiff  believed  that  Employer  had  discriminated  against  her  because  of
her age. She therefore brought a lawsuit against Employer and Manager, the
controlling  shareholder  of  Employer  who,  Plaintiff  believed,  made  the
decision  to  force  her  to  choose  between  being  fired  or  taking  the  lower-
paying  job.  Manager,  an  individual,  lives  and  works  in  State  A.  The
complaint  contained  two  claims.  The  first  claim  was  against  Employer
alone  and  asserted  that  Employer  had  violated  the  federal  Age  Bias  Act
(ABA Act), which provides, “No employer shall discriminate on the basis
of  age.”  The  second  claim  was  against  both  Manager  and  Employer;  it
alleged that (1) Employer breached Plaintiff's employment contract, a clause
that  Employee  could  only  be  fired  for  “repeated
of  which  said 
unwillingness or inability to perform the essential functions of the job”; and
(2) Manager used his control of Employer to cause Employer to breach the
contract, thereby himself committing the tort of interference with contract.

Plaintiff filed her lawsuit in a federal district court located in State A.
Both  claims  seek  more  than  $100,000  in  damages  against  each  party.
Manager  has  moved  to  dismiss  the  claim  against  him  for  lack  of  subject-
matter jurisdiction. How should the court resolve the motion?

 (A) The court should deny the motion because the court can exercise

federal-question jurisdiction over Manager since the ABA claim arises

160

under a federal statute.

(B) The court should deny the motion because it can exercise federal

diversity jurisdiction over Manager.

(C) The court has power to hear the claim against Manager since that claim
is closely related to a federal-question claim in the case, and there is no
reason for the court to exercise its discretion not to hear the claim
against Manager.

(d) The court should grant the motion because Manager is a pendent party
over whom the court cannot exercise jurisdiction on these facts.

 Question 33

In  State  A,  an  accountant  got  into  a  taxi  cab  owned  by  a  company  that
employed the driver as a full-time driver. During the trip, the cab collided
with a truck whose driver sped away and was never located. The accountant
brought a negligence suit in a State A court known as a “city court,” whose
jurisdiction  was  limited  to  claims  not  to  exceed  $250,000,  but  whose
procedures  were  otherwise  identical  to  those  of  the  State  A  courts  of
general  jurisdiction.  The  suit  was  solely  against  the  cab  driver,  and  the
relief sought was $20,000 to compensate for property damage caused during
the  collision  to  a  framed  oil  painting  that  the  accountant  owned  and  was
carrying with her in the cab. After the resulting jury trial, the jury returned a
verdict in favor of the cab driver, and the judge entered final judgment. The
accountant  then  brought  a  $200,000  negligence  suit  in  a  State  A  court  of
general  jurisdiction  against  the  company  that  owned  the  cab,  for  personal
injuries  the  accountant  had  sustained  in  the  same  collision.  The  company
moved to dismiss the suit on account of the earlier judgment in favor of the
cab driver. Will the court dismiss the suit on this ground?

 (A) Yes, based on the doctrine of issue preclusion (or “collateral

estoppel”).

(B) Yes, based on the doctrine of claim preclusion (or “res judicata”).
(C) No, because the cab company would not have been bound had the

judgment in the earlier suit been in favor of the accountant.

(D) No, because the first suit was in a court of limited jurisdiction, making

any form of preclusion unfair to the accountant.

 Question 34

A  plumber  who  lived  in  State  A  had  surgery  in  a  hospital,  which  was
operated by a non-profit corporation incorporated and located in State A. A

161

serious  infection  set  in,  which  the  plumber  believed  was  negligently
handled  by  the  hospital.  After  partly  recovering,  the  plumber  moved
permanently  to  State  B.  Then,  shortly  before  expiration  of  State  A's  two-
year  statute  of  limitations  on  medical  malpractice  claims,  the  plumber
brought a $300,000 diversity action for malpractice against the hospital in
the federal district court located in State A. The legislature of State A has
enacted a statute providing that before any medical malpractice suit may be
filed  in  the  State  A  courts  against  a  hospital  located  in  that  state,  the
claimant  must  first  send  a  “notice  of  claim”  to  the  hospital  stating  the
claimant's intent to sue and the nature of the claimed malpractice; only after
waiting  for  60  days  following  the  giving  of  this  notice  is  the  claimant
permitted  to  file  the  malpractice  suit  in  the  state  A  courts.  The  purpose  of
the notice-of-claim provision is to give the hospital the chance to investigate
and negotiate a settlement before a malpractice suit is publicly filed, thereby
reducing  the  cost  of  hospital  malpractice  insurance  by  encouraging  lower-
cost  settlements.  In  the  case  of  the  plumber's  federal  suit,  the  hospital's
lawyer  noticed  that  the  plumber  had  not  given  a  notice  of  claim  prior  to
filing that suit.

The  hospital  has  now,  in  a  timely  manner,  moved  the  State  A  federal
court  to  dismiss  the  case.  The  motion  makes  two  arguments  for  dismissal:
(1) because diversity of citizenship is lacking; and (2) because the federal
court  must  enforce  the  notice-of  claim  requirement,  thus  requiring  it  to
dismiss  for  failure  to  state  a  claim  for  which  relief  may  be  granted.  The
federal judge should

 (A) allow the suit to proceed, because there is diversity, and the notice-of-
claim provision is a procedural rule that is therefore not binding on the
federal court.

(B) dismiss the suit, because the plumber was a citizen of State A at the time
the malpractice claim arose, preventing him from having diversity of
citizenship as to the hospital.

(C) dismiss the suit, because the notice-of-claim requirement is sufficiently
bound up with the substantive rights of the parties that the federal court
must enforce that requirement since the State A courts would do so.
(D) dismiss the suit, because the court must apply the State A notice-of-

claim rule as long as there is a non-trivial chance that the decision on
whether to apply that rule will be outcome-determinative.

 Question 35

162

A woman brought suit in State A federal district court against the company
she worked for, claiming that it had failed to promote her on account of her
gender,  in  violation  of  a  federal  employment-discrimination  statute.  The
woman is a citizen of State A; the company is a corporation incorporated in
State  B,  with  its  headquarters  in  State  C  and  with  most  of  its  employees
working at the office in State A where the woman works. The relief sought
by  the  suit  consisted  solely  of  $46,000  in  back  pay.  Two  months  after  the
company timely filed its answer, and while discovery was still pending, the
company  made  a  motion  to  dismiss  the  suit  for  lack  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction. Will the federal court grant the motion?

 (A) Yes, because the company is a citizen of several states, one of which is

the same as the woman's state of citizenship.

(B) Yes, because although there is diversity of citizenship, the amount in

controversy requirement is not met.

(C) No, because the woman's claim arises under federal law.
(D) No, because the company waived its objection by failing to assert it
either in its answer or in a motion made before it served its answer.

 Question 36

Plaintiff is a franchisor of brake-repair services for automobiles. Plaintiff's
headquarters are in State A, a state located in the southwestern part of the
U.S. Plaintiff issues franchises for the operation of local brake-repair stores
to  franchisees  located  in  all  50  states,  as  well  as  in  20  foreign  countries.
Defendant,  an  individual  with  considerable  business  sophistication,  was
and is a citizen and resident of Canada. After meeting with Plaintiff's two-
person  Canadian  sales  office  regarding  his  desire  to  buy  a  franchise  from
Plaintiff, Defendant negotiated for 6 months to complete the purchase. The
franchise  was  to  be  located  in  eastern  Canada,  about  2,000  miles  from
Plaintiff's  State  A  headquarters.  Most  negotiations  occurred  by  telephone
and  email,  with  Defendant  participating  from  his  home  in  Canada  and
Plaintiff  from  its  State  A  headquarters.  During  that  period,  Plaintiff's  only
connections  with  State  A  were  that  he  travelled  twice  to  Plaintiff's
headquarters for face-to-face negotiating sessions, and on one of those trips
also  attended  a  three-day  “prospective  franchisee  training  session”  there.
Defendant then signed his copy of the final contract in Canada, and Plaintiff
signed  its  copy  in  State  A.  The  contract  said  that  any  disputes  would  be
“resolved  according  to  the  laws  of  State  A,”  and  said  nothing  about  in
which  court(s)  a  suit  on  the  contract  could  be  brought.  The  contract  also
required  Plaintiff  to  support  Defendant's  efforts  as  to  sales,  marketing,

163

finance,  and  operations,  and  indicated  that  most  such  support  work  by
Plaintiff  would  be  done  by  employees  working 
from  Plaintiff's
headquarters. After signing the contract, Plaintiff never travelled to State A,
and never did any business in the state, or with State A parties, other than
having some dealings by telephone with Plaintiff's personnel located in the
state.

After Defendant failed to make required payments of monthly franchise
fees,  Plaintiff  brought  a  breach-of-contract  action  against  Defendant  based
on diversity in federal district court for State A. The State A long-arm grants
the  State  A  courts  personal  jurisdiction  to  hear  all  disputes  concerning
contracts, if one party to the contract is an individual or business located in
State A, and if such exercise of personal jurisdiction “would be consistent
with the due process limits imposed by the U.S. Constitution.” Before filing
an answer to the suit, Defendant made a timely motion that the court lacked
personal jurisdiction over him. The trial court denied the motion. Defendant
tried the case on the merits, lost, and then appealed the adverse judgment to
the  appropriate  federal  Court  of  Appeal  on  the  grounds  that  the  trial  court
erred in concluding that it had personal jurisdiction over Defendant.

Should  the  federal  Court  of  Appeals  reverse  the  judgment  and  dismiss

the case for lack of personal jurisdiction?

 (A) No, because by raising and losing the jurisdiction question and then

continuing to trial on the merits, Defendant waived the right to raise the
jurisdiction issue on appeal.

(B) No, because Defendant should have anticipated being required to

defend an action in State A, making it not unfair to require him to do so.
(C) Yes, because although Defendant had minimum contacts with State A, it

would violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice to
require him to defend this suit in State A.

(D) Yes, because Defendant did not voluntarily avail himself of the

privilege of doing business in State A, thereby preventing him from
having minimum contacts with that state.

 Question 37

Company  manufactures  off-road  recreational  vehicles.  Driver  owns  a
vehicle  manufactured  by  Company.  Driver  was  injured  while  driving  the
vehicle on the highway. A state trooper was called and arrived at the scene
of  the  accident.  Driver  has  informed  Company  that  he  intends  to  file  a
federal  action,  based  on  diversity  jurisdiction,  for  injuries  caused  by  the

164

car's  alleged  product-design  defects;  Driver  claims  that  the  vehicle
accelerated when it was supposed to brake, and as a result it rolled into a
ditch.  Company  now  wants  to  find  out  whatever  the  state  trooper  knows
about  the  accident.  Company  has  filed  a  verified  petition  with  the  federal
district court in the district in which the accident occurred, asking the court
to issue an order granting Company permission to depose the state trooper.
The  petition  does  not  specify  any  particular  topics  to  be  covered  in  the
deposition.

Should the court issue the requested order?

 (A) No, because in federal civil practice a party may not take discovery

from a nonparty before the commencement of a lawsuit.

(B) No, because a party may take discovery before a suit is commenced

only if the request is accompanied by a draft complaint against the party
from whom discovery is sought.

(C) Yes, because a party to an anticipated federal civil suit may depose a
non-party witness who is believed to be in possession of information
that is relevant to a claim or defense that is expected to be raised in the
suit.

(D) No, because a party may not take discovery before the commencement
of a federal lawsuit absent a special need to preserve testimony.

 Question 38

Plaintiff  is  an  insurance  company  incorporated  and  headquartered  in  State
A.  It  issued  a  liability  insurance  policy  to  Defendant,  a  company
incorporated  and  headquartered  in  State  B  that  operates  an  interstate  bus
line. A bus driver employed by Defendant crashed into a car on an interstate
highway  in  State  B.  More  than  a  dozen  individuals,  both  drivers  and
passengers,  were  seriously  injured.  Under  the  policy,  Plaintiff  insured
Defendant  for  claims  aggregating  up  to  $3  million  arising  from  any
accidents occurring during the one-year policy period where a single driver
was at the wheel of a bus owned by the Defendant. Ten of the injured parties
brought  individual  negligence  suits  against  Defendant  in  various  state
courts.  Two  of  the  claimants  are  citizens  of  State  A,  three  are  citizens  of
State  B,  and  the  remaining  five  are  citizens  of  States  C,  D,  E,  F,  and  G,
respectively. The individual claims were for sums between $10,000 and $3
million. Plaintiff then filed a statutory interpleader action in federal court in
State  B.  The  interpleader  action  purported  to  join  all  ten  state-court
claimants (each of whom was individually personally served in his or her

165

home  state).  As  part  of  the  interpleader  action,  Plaintiff  requested  that  the
federal court enjoin each claimant from trying to collect any amounts from
Plaintiff under the policy in the separate state-court actions (though Plaintiff
did  not  ask  that  the  claimants  be  enjoined  from  seeking  judgments  against
Defendant in those state-court actions). The ten claimants hired a lawyer to
represent them jointly in the interpleader action. The lawyer sought to have
the interpleader action dismissed on procedural grounds so that the 10 state-
court suits could proceed unimpeded.

Which  of  the  following  statements  best  summarizes  how  the  federal
court should dispose of one or both requests of the parties (i.e., Plaintiff's
request  for  injunctions  and/or  the  claimants'  joint  request  for  dismissal  of
the interpleader action)?

 (A) The court must dismiss the entire interpleader suit if complete diversity

does not exist between Plaintiff and all of the claimants.

(B) The court must dismiss from the interpleader suit any claimant whose
individual claims, when aggregated together, do not total at least
$75,000 in value.

(C) The court must dismiss the interpleader suit if Plaintiff fails to either

deposit the $3 million policy limit in cash with the court or to furnish a
bond in that amount, after being ordered by the court to do so.

(D) Even if the court properly declines to dismiss the interpleader suit, the

court may not issue the injunctions against continuation of the state-court
actions.

 Question 39

Three years ago, a limited partnership as plaintiff brought a suit, stated to be
based  on  the  alienage  variety  of  diversity,  against  the  defendant,  a
corporation,  in  federal  court  for  the  district  of  State  A.  The  defendant
corporation was and is a citizen of State A, since it was incorporated in that
state and has its principal place of business there. The partnership was and
still  is  organized  under  the  law  of  Canada,  with  its  principal  place  of
business  also  in  Canada.  At  the  time  the  suit  was  filed,  the  partnership
consisted  of  a  general  partner  (a  corporation  that  was  solely  a  citizen  of
Canada)  and  ten  limited  partners,  all  individuals.  Eight  of  the  limited
partners were citizens of Canada; two were citizens of State A. Last year,
after  discovery  had  been  completed  but  the  case  not  yet  tried,  the  two
limited  partners  who  were  citizens  of  State  A  left  the  partnership  because
they  sold  their  interests  to  the  other  limited  partners,  and  under  the

166

partnership  agreement  were  thus  required  to  leave  the  partnership.  (This
sale and exit happened for reasons unrelated to the lawsuit.) This year, after
a  one-month  trial,  the  jury  rendered  a  verdict  in  favor  of  the  plaintiff
partnership.  The  next  day,  before  any  judgment  had  been  entered,  the
defendant  corporation  moved  to  have  the  action  dismissed  for  lack  of
subject matter jurisdiction, in that there had not been complete diversity of
citizenship between the parties at the time the suit was filed three years ago.

Should the district court grant the defense motion and dismiss the suit for

lack of subject-matter jurisdiction?

 (A) Yes, because at the time suit was commenced the partnership was a

citizen of both Canada and State A, preventing the existence of complete
alienage diversity between the partnership and the corporation.

(B) Yes, so long as the court does not believe that the defendant learned or
should have learned of the two limited partners' State A citizenship
prior to the start of the trial.

(C) No, because the two limited partners' exit from the partnership prior to

the start of trial was a timely cure for any lack of subject-matter
jurisdiction that might otherwise have existed.

(D) No, because a partnership is deemed to be a citizen of the place where
it was formed, plus the place of its principal place of business, so there
was complete alienage diversity jurisdiction at the time the suit was
filed.

 Question 40

Purchaser  is  an  individual  who  lives  in  State  A  and  operates  a  factory  in
State B. He entered into a contract with Seller, a company incorporated in
State C. The contract provided that goods purchased under the contract were
to be delivered from Seller's warehouse in State D to Purchaser's factory in
State B. Seller failed to deliver the goods on time, and Purchaser brought a
diversity suit against Seller in federal court for the District of State A. Soon
after the case was filed (but after the statute of limitations for bringing such
an  action  had  expired),  Purchaser  moved  for  a  change  of  venue  to  the
Western  District  of  State  B,  the  district  in  which  Purchaser's  factory  was
located.  Seller  opposed  the  transfer.  Assume  that  the  court  has  concluded
that litigating in the Western District of State B would be more convenient
overall  for  the  parties  and  the  witnesses,  considered  as  a  group,  than
litigation in the District of State A.

How should the district court resolve the transfer motion?

167

 (A) Grant the motion, so long as Purchaser could initially have brought the

action in the Western District of State B.

(B) Deny the motion, because Purchaser, having chosen the action's original

venue, waived the right to request a transfer of the action.

(C) Deny the motion, because changes of venue, even in the federal system,
may not cross state boundaries if the suit is based solely on diversity of
citizenship.

(D) Dismiss the action if the court concludes that the District of State A was

not a district in which venue was ever proper.

168

ANSWERS

CIVIL PROCEDURE

 Answer Key

Use this Answer Key to quickly identify the answer to each question.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

169

ANSWERS

CIVIL PROCEDURE

 Answer 1

(D) is the best response,

because  the  “two  dismissal”  rule  means  that  the  second  voluntary
dismissal  of  the  claim  acted  as  an  adjudication  on  the  merits,  causing
the third version of the claim to be barred by claim preclusion.

The  FRCP  implements  the  so-called  “two  dismissal  rule,”  by
which  when  a  party  dismisses  the  same  claim  voluntarily  twice,  the
second  dismissal  is  ordinarily  “with  prejudice,”  preventing  the
bringing of that claim a third time against the same or related parties.
The rule is implemented by two sub-sections of FRCP 41. First, Rule
41(a)(1)(A) says that subject to some exceptions not relevant here, “the
plaintiff may dismiss an action without a court order by filing: (i) a
notice  of  dismissal  before  the  opposing  party  serves  either  an
answer  or  a  motion  for  summary  judgment[.]”  This  provision,
viewed  in  isolation,  gave  the  pedestrian  the  right  to  make  a  voluntary
dismissal  of  her  first  federal-court  suit  without  getting  leave  of  the
court. (The facts tell you that before that, the pedestrian had the right to
voluntarily  dismiss  the  state-court  suit.)  But  then,  the  effect  of  this
second dismissal was controlled by a later section of Rule 41; 41(a)(1)
(B), entitled “Effect,” says that:

“Unless  the  notice  .  .  .  states  otherwise,  the  dismissal  is  without
prejudice.  But  if  the  plaintiff  previously  dismissed  any  federal-  or
state-court action based on or including the same claim, a notice of
dismissal operates as an adjudication on the merits.”

So if the pedestrian had never brought the state-court suit, the effect
of her dismissal of the federal-court suit would have been controlled by
the  first  sentence  of  41(a)(1)(B)  quoted  above,  making  the  dismissal
“without  prejudice”  (i.e.,  without  impairment  of  her  right  to  re-file).
But because the pedestrian did bring, and then voluntarily dismiss, the
state-court suit, her voluntary dismissal caused the second sentence of
41(a)(1)(B)  to  take  effect;  the  pedestrian  had  indeed  “previously
dismissed  [a]  federal-  or  state-court  action  based  on  or  including
the same claim,”  so  the  second  voluntary  dismissal  “operates  as  an

170

adjudication  on  the  merits”  unless  the  notice  of  dismissal  “state[d]
otherwise.”  And  the  facts  tell  you  that  the  notice  of  dismissal  of  the
second suit “did not attempt to specify what effect the dismissal would
have  on  future  suits.”  So  the  second  dismissal  indeed  operated  as  an
“adjudication on the merits.” (Note, by the way, how 41(a)(1)(B) refers
to  a  previous  dismissal  of  a  “federal-  or  state-court  action”—so  the
fact  that  the  first  action  was  in  state  rather  than  federal  court  did  not
prevent  the  federal  two-dismissal  rule  from  operating.  On  the  other
hand,  had  the  sequence  been  reversed,  so  that  the  first  suit  was  in
federal  court  and  dismissed,  and  the  second  was  a  state  action  later
dismissed,  then  41(a)(1)(B)  would  not  have  applied,  and  the
pedestrian would be allowed to bring a second federal action.)

If  all  three  claims  had  involved  only  the  same  parties—the
pedestrian  versus  the  cab-driver—the  conclusion  that  the  second
dismissal took away the pedestrian's right to bring the third suit would
be  crystal  clear.  But  what  do  we  make  of  the  fact  that  between  the
second and third suits, the pedestrian added a new co-defendant, the
corporation? If the third suit had involved a completely different party
(as where the plaintiff learned that she had simply been suing the wrong
party until now), probably the two-dismissal rule of FRCP 41 wouldn't
apply. But where the defendant(s) to the third action are closely related
to the original defendant(s), most courts have interpreted the change as
not blocking application of the two-dismissal rule. This makes sense—
the  purpose  of  the  rule  is  mainly  to  prevent  harassment  of  the
defendant(s).  So  in  a  situation  like  the  one  here,  the  fact  that  the
corporation was controlled by the same person who was an individual
defendant  in  the  first  two  actions  means  that  that  individual  defendant
(the  cab-driver)  and  his  family-controlled  corporation  have  indeed
been  harassed  by  having  to  devote  resources  to  answering  and
preparing a defense to three separate actions, making the situation fall
within  the  anti-harassment  purpose  of  the  rule.  See, e.g., Lake  at  Las
Vegas  Investors  Group.  v.  Pacific  Malibu  Dev.  Corp.,  933  F.2d  724,
728  (9th  Cir.  1991)  (where  two  prior  suits  were  against  a  parent
corporation, and the third suit on the same claim was against both the
parent's  subsidiary  and  a  partnership  of  which  the  subsidiary  was  the
general  partner,  the  subsidiary  and  partnership  were  so  “closely
related” to the parent that the anti-harassment purpose of Rule 41(a)(1)
would  be  served  by  letting  the  subsidiary  and  partnership  invoke  the
two-dismissal rule).

Given  that  the  dismissal  of  the  federal  suit  is  deemed  to  be  “with

171

prejudice,” the consequence is that that suit is equivalent to a disposal
of  the  suit  on  the  merits.  Therefore,  under  the  basic  doctrine  of  claim
preclusion  (a/k/a  “res  judicata”),  that  same  claim  may  not  be  brought
against the same or closely-related parties in the future.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the cab-driver's failure to answer the two prior complaints is
irrelevant to whether the third claim is barred.

It's  true  that  the  fact  that  the  defendant  did  not  answer  or  move
against a complaint sometimes plays a role in whether the plaintiff can
dismiss without leave of court: Rule 41(a)(1)((A) says that as a general
matter,  “the  plaintiff  may  dismiss  an  action  without  a  court  order  by
filing: (i) a notice of dismissal before the opposing party serves either
an  answer  or  a  motion  for  summary  judgment[.]”  But  the  two-
dismissal rule—which makes a second voluntary dismissal of the same
claim  operate  with  prejudice—applies  even  where  one  or  both  of  the
dismissals  is  made  prior  to  the  defendant's  service  of  an  answer  or
motion.  (Indeed,  in  the  case  of  the  second  dismissal,  a  dismissal  pre-
answer/pre-motion  is  the  only  situation  to  which  41(a)(1)(A)'s
formulation  of  the  two-dismissal  rule  applies;  once  the  defendant
answers or moves, the plaintiff loses her right to dismiss without leave
of court, so that any dismissal would have to be with leave of court, in
which case it would be up to the judge to specify in the order whether
the dismissal is to be with or without prejudice.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the two-dismissal rule applies even where the first dismissal
is in state court.

The  two-dismissal  rule  is  set  forth  in  FRCP  41(a)(1)(B),  which
says that ordinarily, a dismissal will operate as an adjudication on the
merits  (i.e.,  be  “with  prejudice”),  if  the  plaintiff  had  previously
dismissed “any federal- or state-court action based on or including the
same claim[.]” In other words, the two-dismissal rule explicitly applies
the  same  way  where  the  first  dismissal  was  on  a  state-court  claim  as
where it was on a federal claim. (But note that the converse is not true:
if the first suit is in federal court and the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses
it, then does the same thing as to a second suit in state court, Rule 41(a)
(1)(B)'s two-dismissal rule will not apply to bar a later, third, suit in
federal court.)

172

 (C) is not the best response,

because the two-dismissal rule applies even if the configuration of the
parties changes, as long as the new parties are closely related to the old
ones.

The purpose of the two-dismissal rule is to prevent the harassment
of  the  defendant  that  would  occur  if  he  were  forced  to  defend  three
actions  on  the  same  claim.  Therefore,  the  courts  interpreting  the  rule
have held that even if the third claim involves a “new” defendant, the
claim  is  barred  if  there  is  such  a  close  relationship  between  the
defendant(s)  to  the  first  two  claims  and  the  defendant(s)  to  the  new
claim  that  allowing  the  new  claim  would  have  the  effect  of  forcing  a
single or small group to defend multiple actions. (For more about this,
see  the  discussion  of  this  point  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (D)  above,
including the cite to the Lake at Las Vegas Investors Group case.) So
here, where the cab-driver is a defendant to all three suits, and where
the  only  new  defendant  is  a  corporation  wholly  owned  by  the  cab-
driver and his wife, a court would surely say that the fact that a “new”
party  has  been  added  doesn't  negate  the  need  to  interpret  the  two-
dismissal rule as applicable, in order to prevent harassment of the cab-
driver.

Answer 2

 (A) is the best response,

because the evidence issue here required balancing various factors that
are left to the discretion of the trial judge.

This  is  a  Civil  Procedure  question,  not  an  Evidence  question,  but
the solution nonetheless depends on the technical rule of evidence that
applies  to  this  particular  admissibility  issue.  The  manufacturer's
objection to the evidence would have to have been based on FRE Rule
403,  which  says  that  “The  court  may  exclude  relevant  evidence  if  its
probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed  by  a  danger  of  one  or
more  of  the  following:  unfair  prejudice,  confusing  the  issues,
misleading  the  jury,  undue  delay,  wasting  time,  or  needlessly
presenting cumulative evidence.” Since the rule requires the trial judge
not  only  to  estimate  the  “probative  value”  of  the  evidence  (which  in
turn depends on an assessment of all other evidence in the case dealing
with the same issue), but also to “weigh” that probative value against a
whole  range  of  hard-to-quantify  dangers  (like  prejudice  and  juror

173

confusion),  the  trial  judge  is  in  a  much  better  position  to  make  this
complex  assessment  than  is  the  reviewing  court.  Therefore,  Rule  403
gives  wide  discretion  to  the  trial  judge  about  whether  to  admit  or
exclude  the  evidence,  and  the  appellate  court  will  reverse  only  if  the
judge has clearly “abused” that discretion, a very hard standard for the
appellant  to  satisfy.  See,  e.g.,  Rigby  v.  Beech  Aircraft  Co.,  548  F.2d
288,  293  (10th  Cir.  1977):  “The  [Rule  403]  task  of  balancing  the
probative value of evidence against danger of confusion of the issues is
one  for  which  the  trial  judge,  because  of  his  familiarity  with  the  full
array of evidence in the case, is particularly suited.”

 (B) is not the best response,

because the standard to which it refers applies to a judge's findings of
fact in a non-jury case, not to the ruling on evidence at issue here.

If the phrasing of this choice seemed familiar to you, you were not
imagining  things.  FRCP  52  governs  the  procedures  for  bench  trials;
Rule  52(a)(1)  says  that  the  judge  must  “find  the  facts  specially,”  and
then put those findings into the record. Then, Rule 52(a)(6) goes on to
say  that  these  “[f]indings  of  fact,  whether  based  on  oral  or  other
evidence, must not be set aside [on appeal] unless clearly erroneous,
and  the  reviewing  court  must  give  due  regard  to  the  trial  court's
opportunity  to  judge  the  witnesses'  credibility.”  So  as  you  can  see,
this  “clearly  erroneous”  standard  applies  only  to  appellate  review  of
the “findings of fact” made by the judge sitting without a jury—it does
not apply to review of the judge's decision on evidentiary matters.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the standard to which it refers applies only to certain issues of
pure law.

Appellate courts give greater or lesser deference to the trial judge's
rulings depending on how fact-intensive the ruling under review is. A
“de  novo”  review  is  a  review  taken  from  scratch,  i.e.,  from  the  same
position as the trial judge would have been in. De novo review tends to
occur only when the main issue is how the law applies to a given set of
facts. See, e.g., F,K&M (5th Ed.), §13.4, p. 603: “The fullest scope of
review,  not  surprisingly,  is  for  errors  of  law;  the  appellate  court  will
decide questions of law de novo.” The issue here, which requires the
court  to  consider  how  the  jury  is  likely  to  react  to  a  mass  of  factual
evidence, is not considered the sort of purely-legal issue that is suitable

174

for de novo review. (As you would guess, de novo review involves the
appellate  court's  giving  virtually  no  deference  to  the  trial  judge's
familiarity with the case or her opportunity to see the demeanor of the
witnesses; the issue here is at the other end of the spectrum in terms of
the degree of deference which the appeals court should and will give to
the trial court's initial decision.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  this  choice  does  not  list  a  standard,  but  rather  a  method  of
judging whether one or more errors justify a reversal on appeal.

The  question  asks  you  to  specify  the  “standard”  for  evaluating  the
manufacturer's argument that the judge committed error in allowing the
testimony.  That  is,  the  question  asks  you  to  describe  the  test  that  the
appellate court will use to determine whether the judge's ruling was an
error  at  all.  The  concept  of  “harmless  error”  deals  with  a  separate
issue—whether, on the assumption that a ruling was erroneous, the
error  was  sufficiently  grave  that  the  judgment  below  cannot  be
affirmed. Even when the appellate court decides that a particular ruling
or set of rulings was incorrect, that court will not reverse (i.e., order a
new trial, or a judgment for the other party) if the court believes that the
error was unlikely to have changed the outcome of the trial.  Here,
given  the  large  degree  of  deference  given  by  the  appellate  court  to  a
trial  court's  ruling  on  a  Rule  403  “probative  value”  objection,  the
appellate  court  would  probably  not  find  error  at  all  (i.e.,  would  find
that the trial judge did not “abuse his discretion”), so the court would
never  even  get  to  the  question  of  whether  any  error  that  may  have
occurred was harmless. So, in short, this choice is incorrect in saying
that  “harmless  error”  specifies  a  “standard”  by  which  the  appellate
court will evaluate whether the trial judge's ruling was correct.

Answer 3

 (B) is the best response,

because there is complete diversity of citizenship, and Defendant is not
a citizen of the state where the action was filed.

In those cases where Congress has chosen to allow a defendant to
remove  a  state-court  action  to  federal  court,  the  removal  is  “of  right”
—  if  the  pre-conditions  for  removal  are  met,  the  court  does  not  have
discretion  to  send  the  case  back  to  state  court.  Thus  28  U.S.C.  §

175

1441(a) says that unless Congress has specifically said otherwise, “any
civil action brought in a State court of which the district courts of the
United  States  have  original  jurisdiction,  may  be  removed  by  the
defendant or the defendants, to the district court of the United States for
the  district  and  division  embracing  the  place  where  such  action  is
pending.”  Here,  since  Plaintiff  brought  suit  in  state  court  in  Cap  City,
State  A,  Defendant  had  the  right  to  remove  the  case  to  the  federal
district  court  in  the  district  that  includes  Cap  City,  so  long  as  (1)
Congress  didn't  expressly  impose  a  limitation  on  removal  that  would
apply to these facts; and (2) the federal district court here would have
had  “original  jurisdiction”  had  the  case  been  initially  filed  in  that
federal court. Both of these requirements are satisfied here.

Because the claim asserted by Plaintiff is a state-law tort claim, any
federal-court  jurisdiction  over  the  claim  would  have  to  be  based  on
diversity of citizenship (not on the presence of a federal question). For
the court to exercise diversity jurisdiction, both citizenship and amount-
in-controversy  requirements  must  be  met.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1332.  In
particular,  the  citizenship  of  all  plaintiffs  must  be  diverse  from  the
citizenship  of  all  defendants—a  rule  known  as  the  requirement  of
complete diversity. Since Plaintiff is a citizen of State A, the required
complete diversity is present if and only if Defendant is not a citizen of
State A. The fact that defendant not only operates a factory in State A
but does all of its day-to-day manufacturing in State A might lead you to
guess that defendant would be considered to be a citizen of that state.
But  such  a  guess  would  be  incorrect.  Under  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(c),  the
citizenship  of  a  corporation  includes  the  state  in  which  it  is
incorporated  and  the  state  in  which  it  has  its  principal  place  of
business.  The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the  principal  place  of
business  of  a  corporation  is  the  state  from  which  the  company's  high
level officers, such as the chief executive officer, the treasurer, and the
secretary,  direct  the  corporation's  decisions—the  so-called  “nerve
center test.” See Hertz Corp. v. Friend, 559 U.S. 77 (2010). Since all
of  Defendant's  corporate  officers  direct  the  corporation's  affairs  from
their  office  in  State  C,  only  State  C,  not  State  A,  is  the  Defendant's
principal place of business under Hertz,  making  the  Defendant's  State
A-based  factory  operations 
issue.
Therefore, Defendant is a citizen of both State C and State B (its state
of  incorporation)  but  not  of  State  A.  That,  in  turn,  means  that  there  is
complete diversity of citizenship—the sole plaintiff is not a citizen of
any of the two states in which Defendant is a citizen.

the  citizenship 

irrelevant 

to 

176

As  to  the  requirement  that  there  not  exist  any  provision  by  which
Congress  explicitly  took  away  the  removal  right  of  a  defendant  in  the
position of Defendant, there is no such provision.

 (A) is not the best response,

because Defendant is not in fact a citizen of State A.

As  is  more  fully  explained  with  respect  to  Choice  (B),  a
corporation is deemed to be a citizen only of its state of incorporation
and the state in which it has its principal place of business. “Principal
place of business” has been defined by the Supreme Court as the place
from  which  the  corporations-level  officers  control  business,  which  in
this case is Texas. So the fact that day-to-day operations all took place
in  State  A  is  not  sufficient  to  make  Defendant  a  citizen  of  State  A,
making Choice (A) factually incorrect. (If Defendant were a citizen of
State A, however, the outcome predicted by this choice—removal not
allowed—would be correct for two reasons: (1) there would not be the
required  complete  diversity  of  citizenship  between  Plaintiff  and
Defendant,  thereby  depriving  the  federal  court  of  original  jurisdiction
since  there  is  no  federal  question  present;  and  (2)  even  if  there  were
diversity,  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1441(b)(2),  a  case  based  solely  on
diversity may not be removed if any defendant is a citizen of the state
where the action was originally brought.)

 (C) is not correct,

for  the  same  reason  (A)  is  not  correct;  the  choice  incorrectly  asserts
that Defendant is a citizen of State A.

See the more extensive discussion of why Defendant is not a citizen
of State A in the treatment of choices (A) and (B) above. (If Defendant
were a citizen of State A, this choice would be correct, though no more
correct than Choice (A) would be as well.)

 (D) is not correct,

because  it  is  factually  incorrect;  the  claim  does  not  fall  within  the
federal courts federal-question jurisdiction.

If Plaintiff's claim did present a federal question, this choice would
be correct; Defendant would have the right to remove even if it was a
citizen of State A, the state where the action was originally brought by
plaintiff.  But  here,  Plaintiff  has  alleged  negligent  infliction  of  harm,
which  is  a  state-law  claim.  It's  true  that  Defendant  has  raised  an

177

affirmative defense that is based on federal law. But under Louisville
& Nashville R.R. Co. v. Mottley, 211 U.S. 149 (1908), a claim will fall
within the federal court's federal-question jurisdiction only if the claim
“arises under” a federal constitutional provision or federal statute, and
this fact must appear on the face of the (well-pleaded) complaint—it's
not enough that the federal question is raised in the answer or raised by
a  defense  that  is  certain  to  be  litigated.  Therefore,  the  fact  that
Defendant has already raised an appropriate affirmative defense based
on a federal statute is not enough to convert the claim into one raising a
federal  question,  and  jurisdiction  will  have  to  be  premised  solely  on
diversity of citizenship.

Answer 4

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  suit  is  deemed  to  be  between  the  doctor  and  the
corporation, who are both citizens of State A.

For  jurisdiction  to  be  based  on  diversity,  the  diversity  must  be
“complete.” That is, it must be the case that no plaintiff is a citizen of
the same state as any defendant. Determining whether there is diversity
here  requires  you  to  answer  two  different  questions:  (1)  Whose
citizenship counts when a personal representative sues on behalf of an
estate,  and  (2)  of  what  state(s)  is  a  corporation  deemed  to  be  a
citizen?

As  to  problem  (1),  the  answer  is  given  quite  specifically  in  a
federal  statute.  According  to  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(c)(2),  “The  legal
representative  of  the  estate  of  a  decedent  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a
citizen only of the same state as the decedent[.]” So here, the fact that
the  son  is  domiciled  in  State  B  is  irrelevant—given  that  the  son  is
bringing suit here as the legal representative of the estate of his father
the doctor, § 1332(c)(2) requires that the son be deemed to be a citizen
of  State  A,  since  that  was  the  state  of  citizenship  of  the  doctor  at  the
moment  of  his  death.  (For  purposes  of  applying  §  1332(c)(2),  the
“decedent”  is  deemed  to  be  a  citizen  of  whatever  state  he  was
domiciled  in  at  the  moment  of  his  death,  which  in  the  case  of  the
doctor is State A.)

Now,  as  to  problem  (2),  how  to  determine  the  citizenship  of  a
corporation is specified in almost the same place as the citizenship of
an estate. 28 U.S.C. § 1332(c)(1) says that a corporation is deemed to

178

be a citizen of both of the following, if they are different: (a) the state in
which the corporation was incorporated; and (b) the state in which the
corporation  “has  its  principal  place  of  business.”  Place  (a)  is  easy;
the facts tell you the corporation was incorporated in State D. But what
is  the  state  in  which  the  corporation  here  “has  its  principal  place  of
business”?

The Supreme Court has given guidance on the meaning of this term
in Hertz Corp. v. Friend, 559 U.S. 77 (2010), by applying the so-called
“nerve  center”  test.  That  is,  a  corporation's  “principal  place  of
business” is “best read as referring to the place where a corporation's
officers direct, control, and coordinate the corporation's activities.”
In  practice,  the  Court  said  in  Hertz,  this  will  normally  be  “the  place
where the corporation maintains its headquarters—provided that the
headquarters is the actual center of direction, control, and coordination,
i.e., the ‘nerve center'.” Here, the nerve center is clearly State A, since
the  facts  tell  you  that  State  A  is  not  only  the  state  in  which  the
corporation's  “headquarters”  are  located,  but  the  state  from  which  all
the  officers  of  the  corporation  supervise  the  corporation's  activities.
Because  the  “nerve  center”  test  is  used,  the  fact  that  three  quarters  of
the  corporation's  employees  work  in  State  C,  and  all  of  the
corporation's products are made in that state, is irrelevant. In sum, the
corporation here is a citizen of both State D (its state of incorporation)
and State A (its state of principal place of business, i.e., the state of its
“headquarters,” from which its executives supervise the business).

Since the plaintiff is deemed to be a citizen of State A (because that
was the doctor's state of domicile at his death), and the defendant is a
citizen  of  both  State  A  and  State  D,  the  same  state  (State  A)  is
represented on both sides of the suit. And that is enough to destroy the
required  complete  diversity.  Furthermore,  as  discussed  more
extensively in the treatment of Choice (D) below, the federal court must
refuse  to  hear  the  case  once  it  realizes  that  the  required  complete
diversity  is  absent,  even  if  no  litigant  has  raised  the  subject-matter-
jurisdiction issue.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the relevant citizenship on both sides of the suit.

On the plaintiff side of the equation, the relevant citizenship is that
of the decedent (the doctor), not that of the nominal plaintiff (the son as
personal  representative).  See  the  discussion  of  Choice  (C)  above  for

179

why  this  is  the  case.  And  on  the  defendant  side,  the  corporation,  in
addition  to  being  a  citizen  of  the  state  of  incorporation  (State  D),  is
deemed a citizen of its headquarters location (State A), and not the state
where most employees work and most production occurs (i.e., not State
C). This, too, is discussed further in the treatment of Choice (C) above.

 (B) is not the best choice,

because  like  choice  (A),  it  misstates  the  relevant  citizenship  on  both
sides.

On  the  plaintiff  side,  it's  the  citizenship  of  the  decedent,  not  the
personal  representative,  that  counts.  On  the  defendant  side,  while  it's
true  that  the  corporation  is  a  citizen  of  State  D  (its  state  of
incorporation), the choice incorrectly fails to list State A as the second
state of which the corporation is deemed a citizen; it's a citizen of State
A because that's the state in which the corporation's principal place of
business (i.e., its headquarters) is located.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because lack of federal subject matter jurisdiction is never waived.

Many defenses are deemed waived if not promptly asserted. That's
true even of the defense that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over
the  defendant.  (See  Rule  12(h)(1),  saying  that  the  defense  of  lack  of
personal  jurisdiction  is  among  those  waived  if  the  defendant  doesn't
raise it by either making a timely motion under Rule 12(b) or asserting
it as part of his answer.) But there is a different rule for the defense of
lack  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction:  Rule  12(h)(3)  says  that  “If  the
court  determines  at  any 
lacks  subject-matter
jurisdiction, the court must dismiss the action.” So the son's failure
to  raise  this  defense  prior  to  the  completion  of  the  pleadings  is
irrelevant—the judge has no choice but to dismiss the action for lack of
subject-matter jurisdiction “sua sponte” (on her own). And that would
be  true  even  if,  say,  the  trial  was  already  complete,  and  even  if  the
reason  the  lack  of  jurisdiction  wasn't  discovered  before  then  was
because, say, one of the parties fraudulently concealed the lack.

time 

that 

it 

Answer 5

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  recognizes  that  diversity  jurisdiction  cannot  be  created

180

through the collusive assignment of a claim.

the  claim 

Had  Plaintiff  not  assigned 

to  Lawyer,  diversity
jurisdiction would not be present in a lawsuit filed by Plaintiff against
Defendant,  because  Plaintiff  and  Defendant  are  citizens  of  the  same
state,  State  A.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(a).  So  the  issue  is  whether
Plaintiff's  assignment  of  its  claim  to  Lawyer,  a  citizen  of  State  B,
creates diversity jurisdiction (since if Lawyer is viewed as now being
the  true  plaintiff,  he  is  diverse  with  Defendant).  The  answer  is  “no,”
because of a statute enacted by Congress to deal with exactly this sort
of scenario. 28 U.S.C. § 1359 provides that a “district court shall not
have jurisdiction of a civil action in which any party, by assignment or
otherwise,  has  been  improperly  or  collusively  made  or  joined  to
invoke  the  jurisdiction  of  such  court.”  One  of  the  circumstances  in
which  the  courts  are  especially  likely  to  find  that  an  assignment  was
collusive is where “the assignee merely functions as a collection agent
for  the  assignor[.]”  F,K&M  (5th  Ed.),  §  2.7,  p.  42.  Here,  notice  that
Lawyer (1) has not paid any of his own money (beyond the token $1) as
compensation for the assignment; (2) will do all the work of collecting
the debt; and (3) holds as his only economic interest the possibility of
receiving one-third of the amount collected (a fairly standard fee-split
in  contingent-fee  debt-collections  cases).  So  a  court  would  almost
certainly conclude that Lawyer is merely functioning as a collection
agent for the assignor, bringing the case squarely within § 1359. See,
e.g.,  Kramer  v.  Caribbean  Mills,  394  U.S.  823,  824  (1969)
(assignment held collusive where assignee paid $1 for the assignment
and at the same time promised to pay back to the assignor 95% of any
net recovery on the assigned claim).

 (A) is not correct,

because  the  rule  that  it  relies  upon  is  not  accurate.  Diversity
jurisdiction  may  be  invoked  by  a  plaintiff  even  in  a  suit  against  a
defendant  who  is  a  citizen  of  the  state  in  which  the  federal  court  sits.
The  exception  to  which  this  choice  seems  to  pertain  applies  only  in
removal cases; a defendant who is sued in the state courts of his state
of residence may not remove the suit to that state's federal court on the
basis  of  diversity  jurisdiction.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1441(b)(2).  Here,  the
action  was  filed  in  federal  court  as  an  original  matter,  so  the  ban  on
removal by an in-state defendant is irrelevant.

181

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  relevant  test  here  for  the  purpose  of  determining  federal
diversity  jurisdiction  is  whether  the  assignment  is  impermissibly
collusive, not whether it is valid under state law.

As  discussed  in  the  context  of  Choice  (C),  28  U.S.C.  §  1359
prohibits  a  district  court  from  exercising  diversity  jurisdiction  if  the
requisite  diversity  is  brought  about  (by  assignment  or  otherwise)
“improperly  or  collusively.”  The  factual  issue  of  whether  the  joinder
here was collusive is a matter of federal, not state, law — so the fact
that the assignment may have been effective or legal under State A law
is irrelevant to whether § 1359 applies.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  assignment  is  collusive  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1359  and
therefore does not create diversity jurisdiction.

The  likely  vigor  of  Lawyer's  representation  will  not  cure  the  fact
that  the  assignment  here  was  collusive  and  done  for  the  purpose  of
manufacturing diversity.

Answer 6

 (A) is correct,

because the baker's notice of appeal was filed too late, and the lateness
divested the Court of Appeals of jurisdiction.

Federal  Rule  of  Appellate  Proc.  4(a)(1)(A)  says  that  as  a  general
rule,  in  a  civil  case  a  “notice  of  appeal”  must  be  “be  filed  with  the
district  clerk  within  30  days  after  entry  of  the  judgment  or  order
appealed  from.”  The  facts  tell  you  that  the  judgment  for  $55,000  was
filed on July 15. Therefore, once 30 days passed, it was too late for the
baker  to  file  his  notice  of  appeal.  There  are  a  few  exceptions  to  this
strict  30-day  filing  period,  but  none  applies  here.  For  instance,  an
extension can be given by the trial judge if the party seeking to appeal
makes a motion for the extension no more than 30 days after the end of
the  30-day-of-right  period;  but  even  that  30  day  period  in  which  to
move  for  an  extension  ended  on  September  15.  So  by  Sept.  20,  the
baker's  time  to  file  a  notice  of  appeal  had  passed,  and  the  failure  to
timely file such a notice is “jurisdictional”—that is, neither the district
court  nor  the  Court  of  Appeals  has  the  power  to  excuse  the  lateness

182

even if it wants to (putting aside the special case where the would-be
appellant  shows  that  he  never  got  notice  of  the  entry  of  the  judgment,
not something that he can show here).

Therefore, the Court of Appeals will have no choice but to dismiss
the  late-filed  appeal.  And  that's  true  even  in  situations  where  the
would-be appellant would have had a good chance of demonstrating on
appeal  that  the  district  court  lacked  subject  matter  jurisdiction  (an
objection  that  is  never  deemed  waived  as  long  as  the  case  is  alive).
Once the time for filing a notice of appeal has passed, the case is over,
even  for  purposes  of  determining  that  there  was  never  valid  subject-
matter jurisdiction in the first place. (In any event, as is discussed in the
treatment of Choice (C) below, the lower court did have subject-matter
jurisdiction.)

 (B) is not the best response,

both because the appeal was not timely filed, and because the baker had
waived any objection to personal jurisdiction.

On  the  underlying  facts,  there  is  a  relatively  good  chance  that  the
baker would have been able to establish that his contacts with State A
were  so  slight  that  he  would  not  have  been  found  to  have  “purposely
availed himself” of the opportunity to do business in the state, making
the State A federal court's exercise of personal jurisdiction over him a
denial  of  due  process.  (The  resolution  of  this  issue  would  depend  on
just  how  the  court  applied  the  “stream  of  commerce”  theory,  under
which  a  defendant  who  knowingly  puts  an  article  into  interstate
commerce  may  be  found  to  have  minimum  contacts  with  the  place
where the article ends up causing injury; application of the test depends
on  subtleties  of  the  particular  facts,  including  how  much  of  the
defendant's product went into the forum state, what the defendant knew
about the likelihood that an article would find its way to that state, etc.)
But  for  this  question,  you  don't  have  to  decide  how  the  minimum
contacts  issue  would  have  been  decided  had  it  been  properly  raised;
that's  because  the  baker  waived  any  lack  of  personal  jurisdiction  by
neither making a pre-answer motion raising that defense nor including
the  defense  in  his  answer.  So  even  if  the  baker  had  timely  filed  his
notice  of  appeal,  he  would  still  have  been  found  to  have  waived  the
personal-jurisdiction  objection,  and  would  not  be  permitted  to  re-
litigate the objection as part of his appeal.

183

 
(C) is not the best response,

in part because the district court had subject matter jurisdiction over the
action.

is 

The facts tell you that the baker's objection to lack of subject-matter
jurisdiction is based on the fact that the jury's award was for less than
the  minimal  amount-in-controversy
$75,000,  and  $75,000 
requirement  for  diversity  cases.  But  an  action  will  not  be  dismissed
based on failure to meet the amount-in-controversy requirement unless
it is clear at the moment of filing that to a legal certainty, more than
$75,000  cannot  be  in  issue.  Here,  where  the  claim  is  for  personal
injuries that led to a hospital stay, it certainly cannot be said as a legal
certainty  that  no  jury  could  reasonably  award  more  than  $75,000.  So
the fact that the ultimate judgment awarded by the jury was less than
the  jurisdictional  amount  does  not  mean  that  the  case  failed  to  satisfy
the  requirement.  In  any  event,  this  choice  is  also  wrong  because  the
appeal  was  not  timely  filed  (as  discussed  in  Choice  (A)),  so  no
reversal would have been possible even if, in fact, the district court had
lacked subject-matter jurisdiction.

 (D) is not the best response,

both because there could not have been a waiver of the subject-matter
jurisdiction defense and because the lack of a timely notice of appeal
would prevent the appeals court from affirming the judgment.

Unlike an objection to lack of personal jurisdiction, an objection to
lack of subject-matter jurisdiction is never waived—as long as the case
is  still  alive  (i.e.,  there  has  not  been  a  final  judgment  entered  from
which  any  appeal  is  now  time-barred),  either  party  can  raise  the
objection,  and  the  district  court  or  Court  of  Appeals  must  dismiss  the
case if it notices the lack of subject-matter jurisdiction on its own. So
this  choice,  by  saying  that  “both”  of  the  jurisdiction-related  defenses
were  waived  at  the  district-court  level,  incorrectly  describes  how  a
subject-matter jurisdiction objection would be treated. Furthermore, the
Court of Appeals can “affirm” the judgment of the lower court only if
the appeal is properly before the appellate court; here, where the notice
of  appeal  was  not  timely  filed,  the  Court  of  Appeals  never  got
jurisdiction  over  an  appeal,  and  is  not  in  a  position  to  “affirm”  the
judgment. All the Court of Appeals can do is to dismiss the improperly-
asserted appeal, leaving the judgment in place.

184

 Answer 7

 (C) is the best response,

because  subject-matter  jurisdiction  is  determined  based  on  the  facts
regarding citizenship on the day that the lawsuit is commenced.

Changes  in  a  party's  citizenship  post-commencement  do  not  affect
the  court's  jurisdiction  unless  they  suggest  that  a  party  acted  in  bad
faith.  See  Grupo  Dataflux  v.  Atlas  Global  Group,  LP,  541  U.S.  567
(2004).  Thus,  although  a  defect  in  subject-matter  jurisdiction  can  be
raised  at  any  time  during  a  lawsuit,  and  even  for  the  first  time  on
appeal, the federal court does not lose subject-matter jurisdiction over
the action because of changes in the citizenship of an existing party that
occurred after the commencement of the suit. Here, the court properly
exercised diversity jurisdiction over the suit when it was filed. See 28
U.S.C.  §  1332(a).  Diversity  jurisdiction  requires  a  showing  of
complete  diversity  —  meaning  that  no  plaintiff  may  be  a  citizen  of  a
state that is also the state of citizenship of any defendant. A corporation
is a citizen of the state(s) in which it is incorporated and of the state in
which  it  has  its  principal  place  of  business;  so  in  this  problem,
Company was a citizen of State A (and only State A) at the moment the
action was filed. See 28 U.S.C. § 1332(c); Hertz Corp. v. Friend, 559
U.S. 77 (2010). A partnership is an unincorporated association and is
deemed  to  be  a  citizen  of  every  state  in  which  any  member  of  the
partnership  is  a  citizen.  See  Carden  v.  Arkoma  Associates,  494  U.S.
185  (1990).  Since  neither  of  the  partners  on  the  date  of  the
commencement  of  the  suit  was  a  citizen  of  State  A  (Company's  sole
state of citizenship on that date), the requirement of complete diversity
was  satisfied  on  that  date.  And  the  fact  that  Company's  own  state  of
citizenship  changed  after  the  date  the  suit  was  filed  (so  that  Company
then became a citizen of the same state as one partner of Partnership)
did not trigger the need to re-evaluate the existence of diversity.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  objections  to  lack  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction  are  never
waived.

In  the  federal  system,  objections  to  lack  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction are never waived and can thus be raised at any time during
the lawsuit and even for the first time on appeal. See FRCP 12(h)(3):
“If  the  court  determines  at  any  time  that  it  lacks  subject-matter

185

jurisdiction, the court must dismiss the action.” See also Capron v. Van
Noorden, 6 U.S. 126 (1804). (So if the district court lacked jurisdiction
as of the time of the commencement of the suit, the court would have an
obligation  to  dismiss  the  lawsuit  if  it  later  discovered  this  lack.)
However,  as  discussed  in  the  treatment  of  Choice  (C),  diversity
jurisdiction did exist at the time of the commencement of the suit, and
no  change  in  one  party's  citizenship  post-commencement  could  divest
the  court  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction.  Therefore,  the  motion  to
dismiss should be denied not because it was made too late, but because
it is incorrect on the merits.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  subject-matter  jurisdiction  problem,  and  in  any
event sanctions would not be appropriate here.

As  to  the  absence  of  a  subject-matter  jurisdiction  problem,  the
existence of subject-matter jurisdiction is determined as of the moment
the case is filed, and a post-filing change in the citizenship of a party
cannot  divest  jurisdiction  that  existed  at  the  time  of  filing,  as  is  more
fully  explained  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (C).  As  to  sanctions,
sanctions would be warranted, with appropriate notice, if the party in
question  had  violated  its  obligations  of  pleading  in  good  faith  (see
FRCP 11) or had violated its obligations to comply with the discovery
rules (see FRCP 37). But the mere fact that Company changed its state
of incorporation after the filing of the action does not indicate bad faith
in  pleading,  and  Company's  failure  to  tell  the  court  about  the  change
after it occurred does not indicate bad faith either (especially given that
the change didn't in fact affect the existence of jurisdiction).

 (D) is not the best response,

because no remand was called for (or even authorized) on these facts.

Remand  to  a  state  court  is  a  procedural  step  that  would  be
appropriate only if plaintiff had originally filed the action in state court
and defendant had improperly removed it. In this case, the action was
filed as an original matter in federal court; therefore, remand would not
be an option even if subject-matter jurisdiction did not exist. Rather, if
subject-matter  jurisdiction  did  not  exist,  the  appropriate  course  of
action would be for the district court to dismiss the suit, not to remand
it to state court. (And in any event, as discussed in Choice (C), subject-
matter jurisdiction does exist.)

186

Answer 8

 (C) is the best response,

because  only  the  decision  on  the  immunity  motion  falls  within  an
exception to the final-judgment rule.

As a general rule, only “final judgments” may be appealed from the
federal district court to the federal Court of Appeals. Thus 28 U.S.C. §
1291  gives  the  Court  of  Appeals  jurisdiction  over  “appeals  from  all
final decisions of the district courts of the United States[.]” There are a
few situations in which an “interlocutory” appeal—i.e., an appeal from
a  lower-court  decision  that  has  not  yet  been  embodied  in  a  final
judgment—is  allowed  in  the  federal  system.  But  unless  the  decision
falls within one of this handful of exceptions (mostly, decisions granting
or denying injunctions), the decision is not appealable if there has not
yet been a final judgment in the case.

Here, the trial judge has denied both motions and has set the case
for  trial.  So  you  should  be  able  to  infer  that  there  has  been  no  final
judgment in the case. Therefore, the problem boils down to determining
whether  either  of  the  two  rulings  here  falls  within  one  of  the  rare
exceptions to the general principle that interlocutory appeals—appeals
from  decisions  that  have  not  led  to  a  final  judgment—are  usually  not
allowed.

Let's  look  first  at  the  denial  of  the  officer's  motion  for  summary
judgment  on  the  “objectively  reasonable”  contention.  Motions  for
summary judgment—like motions for other dispositions that would end
the case, like Rule 12(b)(6) motions for dismissal for failure to state a
claim—are  part  of  the  category  called  “motions  to  dismiss.”  And  the
denial of a motion to dismiss is virtually never a final judgment. See W,
M&C  (2d  Ed.),  Vol.  15A,  §  3914.6  (“Orders  refusing  to  dismiss  an
action  are  almost  always  not  final.”)  Since  there  is  nothing  about  the
present  denial  of  summary  judgment  that  would  bring  it  within  one  of
the rare situations allowing an interlocutory appeal, the court's refusal
to grant summary judgment was not properly appealable. That being the
case, the Court of Appeals has no choice—it must, as a jurisdictional
matter,  refuse  to  review  the  correctness  of  the  denial,  even  if  both
parties would like the court to conduct the review now.

Now,  let's  look  at  the  other  ruling,  the  trial  court's  denial  of
immunity to the defendant officer. Denials of motions for governmental
immunity are one of the rare situations in which an interlocutory appeal

187

may be allowed.
Under 

the  “collateral  order”  doctrine,  certain  orders  are
characterized  as  “final”  for  appeal  purposes,  even  though  they  don't
terminate any part of the action; where the collateral order doctrine is
or  may  be  applicable,  the  only  “finality”  required  is  that  the  lower
court  “have  made  its  final  determination  of  the  matter  in  question.”
W,M&C  (2d  Ed.),  Vol.  15A,  §  3911,  p.  329.  A  collateral  order  that
meets this definition of finality can be immediately appealed if: (1) the
matter  is  separate  from  (i.e.,  “collateral  to”)  the  merits  of  the  claim
being  pursued;  (2)  the  matter  is  too  important  to  be  denied  appellate
review entirely; and (3) deferring appeal until entry of a final judgment
in  the  whole  case  would  prevent  the  eventual  review  from  being
“effective”  in  the  circumstances.  Id.  at  p.  330;  Cohen  v.  Beneficial
Indus. Loan Corp., 337 U.S. 541 (1949). Trial-court decisions denying
a  defendant's  claim  of  governmental  immunity  often  satisfy  the
requirements of the collateral order doctrine, and that is the case here:
(1)  the  issue  of  whether  the  officer  is  entitled  to  immunity  for  his
official  acts  is  quite  distinct  from  the  issue  of  whether  he  actually
violated  the  protester's  constitutional  rights  (since  immunity  at  least
sometimes applies to a situation in which, were there no immunity, the
defendant would be liable for such a violation); (2) a grant of immunity
here would be completely outcome-determinative (the case would end),
so  the  issue  is  too  important  to  deny  the  officer  forever  a  right  to
appellate  review;  and  (3)  governmental  immunity,  where  it  applies,
confers  on  the  defendant  not  just  freedom  from  ultimate  liability,  but
also freedom from the burden of having to prepare for and go through
a trial,  so  forcing  the  defendant  to  wait  until  after  trial  to  appeal  the
denial of immunity would make eventual review “ineffective,” thereby
denying him this core “avoidance of trial” benefit.

Note that the claim here is for “qualified immunity,” i.e., immunity
that applies unless the defendant's actions violated the plaintiff's rights
under  “clearly  established  law.”  So  when  the  court  denied  the
defendant's motion asserting that he had qualified immunity, this was a
collateral  order  that  met  the  above  requirements  for  immediate
appealability, at least as to “the purely legal [issue] of whether the facts
alleged  by  the  plaintiff  .  .  .  support  a  claim  of  violation  of  clearly
established law.” Mitchell v. Forsyth,  472  U.S.  511  (1985).  (In  other
words, the appeals court will avoid reviewing the highly fact-intensive
issue of whether the defendant actually and reasonably believed that his
the  purely
conduct  was 

the  court  will  review  only 

lawful; 

188

legal/pleadings-driven  issue  of  whether  the  plaintiff  has  alleged  facts
that  if  proven  at  trial  would  constitute  a  violation  of  a  clearly
established legal right.)

 Neither Choices (A), (B), or (D) is the best response,

because each resolves the appealability of one of the two rulings in a
way  that  is  inconsistent  with  the  correct  resolution  described  in  the
discussion of Choice (C).

Answer 9

 (D) is the best response,

because Rule 11 sanctions are available against a lawyer who fails to
make reasonable inquiries, even if the lawyer behaves in good faith.

FRCP  11  specifies  the  obligations  imposed  on  a  lawyer  who
submits a pleading to a court, as well as the sanctions that are available
if the lawyer does not discharge these obligations. Rule 11(a) requires
that  where  a  party  is  represented,  at  least  one  lawyer  of  record  must
sign  the  pleading  (which  happened  here).  Then,  11(b)  specifies  that
when a lawyer signs or files the pleading, that lawyer “certifies that to
the  best  of  the  [lawyer's]  knowledge,  information,  and  belief,  formed
after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances,” certain things
are true. One of the propositions that the lawyer is deemed to certify is
that  “the  factual  contentions  have  evidentiary  support  or,  if
specifically  so  identified,  will  likely  have  evidentiary  support  after  a
reasonable  opportunity  for  further  investigation  or  discovery”  (11(b)
(3)).  Since  there's  no  indication  in  the  facts  here  that  the  complaint
identified  the  racketeering  allegations  as  needing  further  investigation
or  discovery  in  the  future  in  order  to  be  supported  by  evidence,  the
lawyer's  filing  of  the  pleading  containing  those  allegations  constituted
his  certification  that,  to  the  best  of  the  lawyer's  present  knowledge,
information,  and  belief,  those  racketeering  allegations  (e.g.,  the
allegation  that  the  surgeon  falsely  advertised  where  he  had  gone  to
medical  school)  currently  “have  evidentiary  support.”  Unverified
hearsay based on a rumor passed to the lawyer by another lawyer (and
without any attempt to perform an easily-done fact-check) would not be
considered  “evidentiary  support”  of  those  allegations.  Therefore,  the
court can and should easily determine that by making the factually-false
racketeering allegations, the lawyer violated the “evidentiary support”

189

certification imposed by Rule 11(b)(3).

inquiry  reasonable  under 

Furthermore, Rule 11(b)(2) says that the lawyer is also certifying a
belief,  again  “formed  after  an 
the
circumstances,” that “the claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
are  warranted  by  existing  law  or  by  a  nonfrivolous  argument  for
extending, modifying, or reversing existing law or for establishing new
law.” Since the facts tell us that the lawyer had previously made these
same  racketeering  allegations  against  the  same  surgeon  on  behalf  of  a
different malpractice client in a state proceeding, and that that court had
dismissed the allegations as meritless, the federal court seems justified
in concluding that the lawyer's reusing the same allegations against the
same defendant in a different court violates this “warranted by existing
law” certification.

The next sub-issue is whether, even if the teacher's lawyer had an
“honest”  but  erroneous  belief  that  the  racketeering  count  was
“supported  by  evidence”  and  “warranted  by  existing  law,”  that  good-
faith but unreasonable belief insulates the lawyer against sanctions. The
answer  is  “no,”  at  the  least  where  the  lawyer  arrives  at  her  honest
belief  without  having  performed  the  “inquiry  reasonable  under  the
circumstances”  that  Rule  11(b)  requires.  As  one  court  put  it,  “[W]e
must  inquire  whether  [the  attorney]  would  have  been  aware  that  [the
claim]  was  frivolous  if  she  had  conducted  a  reasonable  inquiry.  If  an
attorney has failed to conduct a reasonable inquiry into the matter, then
the court is obligated to impose sanctions even  if  the  attorney  had  a
good  faith  belief  that  the  claim  was  sound.”  In  Re  Mroz,  65  F.3d
1567,  1573  (11th  Cir.  1995).  That's  the  situation  here:  The  teacher's
lawyer  knew  he  was  relying  only  on  hearsay  as  to  the  racketeering
matters  and  that  he  had  made  no  independent  attempt  to  check  the
underlying facts (a check that would have immediately disclosed that at
least  the  medical  school  attendance  allegation  was  false);  therefore,
even if the attorney had a “good faith belief that the claim was sound”
(which  is  questionable),  that  belief  would  not  insulate  him  from  Rule
11 sanctions.

Finally, there is a sub-issue about whether, given that some sort of
Rule  11  sanction  was  appropriate,  requiring  reimbursement  of  the
defendant's attorney's fees spent in combating the frivolous count is an
appropriate form of sanction. The answer is yes, in the circumstances.
It's  true  that,  in  general,  Rule  11  reflects  a  preference  that  a  monetary
sanction  be  paid  to  the  court,  not  the  movant,  in  most  circumstances.
Thus,  the  Advisory  Committee  Note  to  the  1993  Amendments  to  Rule

190

11 say that “[s]ince the purpose of Rule 11 sanctions is to deter rather
than  to  compensate,  the  rule  provides  that,  if  a  monetary  sanction  is
imposed, it should ordinarily be paid into court as a penalty.” But the
Rule  itself  says,  in  11(c)(4),  that  “The  sanction  may  include  .  .  .  if
imposed on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an order
directing  payment  to  the  movant  of  part  or  all  of  the  reasonable
attorney's  fees  and  other  expenses  directly  resulting  from  the
violation.”  Here,  the  fact  that  the  lawyer  had  already  made  the  same
false allegations in a different suit and has repeated them here suggests
that  an  award  of  attorney's  fees  is  indeed  “warranted  for  effective
deterrence”;  also,  the  award  that's  being  sought  is  limited  to  the
attorney's fees spent by the surgeon on rebutting the wrongfully-asserted
racketeering claim, not rebutting the plaintiff's entire case, so it's fair to
say  that  the  fees  being  sought  are  ones  “directly  resulting  from  the
violation.”

 (A) is not the best response,

because  nothing  in  Rule  11  allows  the  court  to  make  the  client
vicariously liable for a sanction that is imposed on the lawyer without
any wrongdoing by the client.

You  have  to  read  this  choice  carefully  to  see  exactly  what  it's
asserting.  The  choice  does  not  assert  that  the  judge  should  find  the
teacher herself in violation of any Rule 11 obligation; it merely asserts
that sanctions should be awarded against the lawyer and that the client
should  be  made  vicariously  liable  as  a  “back-up”  source  of  payment.
But  nothing  in  Rule  11  authorizes  the  court  to  make  the  client
vicariously  liable  for  a  sanction  imposed  against  the  lawyer—and,
indeed, vicarious liability would be inconsistent with Rule 11's general
approach,  which  focuses  mainly  on  lawyer  misconduct  rather  than
client misconduct.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it relies on a factual assertion about the teacher's state of mind
that,  even  if  true,  would  not  by  itself  justify  the  conclusion  that  the
teacher violated Rule 11.

The scheme of Rule 11 generally favors sanctions against attorneys,
not  against  the  client  when  the  client  is  represented  by  an  attorney.
There  are  exceptions,  but  none  applies  here.  As  is  described  in  the
analysis  of  Choice  (D)  above,  the  wrongdoing  here  has  two

191

components: (1) a lack of belief, formed after reasonable inquiry, that
the  “factual  contentions”  of  the  racketeering  claim  “have  evidentiary
support” (a violation of Rule 11(b)(3)); and (2) a lack of belief, again
formed  after  reasonable  inquiry,  that  the  “claims  [of  racketeering]  are
warranted  by  existing  law”  (a  violation  of  Rule  11(b)(2)).  As  to
component (2), the violation of 11(b)(2), Rule 11 specifically prohibits
the  judge  from  imposing  a  sanction  on  the  client  (since  11(c)(5)  says
that  “The  court  must  not  impose  a  monetary  sanction:  (A)  against  a
represented party for violating Rule 11(b)(2).” (The idea is that it's up
to the lawyer, not the client, to form a belief, after reasonable inquiry,
that the claims are “warranted by existing law.”) And here, where the
facts  tell  you  that  the  teacher  did  not  even  know  what  the  complaint
meant  by  “a  pattern  of  racketeering  activity,”  it  would  be  especially
inappropriate  to  sanction  the  teacher.  As  to  component  (1)  (that  the
claim had “evidentiary support”) the facts indicate that the racketeering
claim was invented by the lawyer, not the client, and that the client did
not  supply  any  factual  background  at  all  relating  to  the  supposed
advertising  falsehoods  that  were  alleged  to  constitute  racketeering.
Therefore,  any  wrongdoing 
frivolous
racketeering  claim  was  solely  that  of  the  lawyer,  not  the  client,  and
nothing  in  Rule  11  authorizes  sanctions  against  the  client  in  this
“innocent client” scenario.

in  connection  with 

the 

To put it another way, it is simply not the case, as this choice says it
is, that Rule 11 sanctions can be imposed on a client merely because the
client “should have known that she did not have actual knowledge about
whether there was evidentiary support” for the claim in question. See,
e.g., Byrne v. Nezhat, 261 F.3d 1075, 1118 (11th Cir. 2001), a case on
facts similar to those in this question; the court held that the client could
not be sanctioned because there was no evidence that the client “knew
the complaint filed on her behalf was factually or legally baseless,” and
no evidence that she had “provided false information to her attorneys,
thereby facilitating a factually groundless complaint.” That's equally the
case in our question.

 (C) is incorrect,

because it misstates what Rule 11 provides.

It's true that Rule 11, and the Advisory Committee Notes to it from
the  1993  Amendments,  say  that  ordinarily,  if  the  sanctions  are
monetary, the payment should take the form of a fine paid to the court.
But this is not a hard-and-fast rule; if the court believes that deterrence

192

will be better accomplished by an award of attorney's fees payable to
the  movant  who  has  incurred  the  expense  of  defending  against  the
frivolous claim, such a fee award is permitted. For more about this, see
the last paragraph in the explanation of Choice (D) above.

Answer 10

 (A) is the best response,

because issues of credibility will almost never be suitable for summary
judgment, and the defendant's papers establish that credibility is a key
issue here.

the  plaintiff  about 

The standards for granting summary judgment are set out in FRCP
56,  which  says  that  the  court  “shall  grant  summary  judgment  if  the
movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact
and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Since the
defendant company is not disputing the fact that the company promoted
someone else rather than the plaintiff, the only real issue in the case is
whether  the  company's  (i.e.,  its  owner's)  reason  for  doing  so  was
racially  discriminatory.  The  basis  for  the  defendant's  claim  that  it  is
entitled  to  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law  is  that  the  only  potential
the  defendant's  racially-
evidence  cited  by 
discriminatory mental state—the quotations recited in the complaint—
are “lies.” In other words, the defendant's own affidavit in support of
the summary judgment motion puts the plaintiff's credibility (as well
as  the  owner's  actual  intent)  in  issue  and  suggests  that  the  defendant
will win at trial only if the plaintiff's expected admissible testimony is
found not to be credible. In general, summary judgment is not a suitable
vehicle  for  disposing  of  a  case  where  a  witness's  credibility—
especially as to matters of mental state (such as intent to lie or intent to
discriminate)—is  central.  See,  e.g.,  W,M&K  (3d  Ed.),  Vol.  10A,  §
2727,  p.  485:  “[I]f  the  evidence  contained  in  the  moving  party's
affidavit  raises  subjective  questions  such  as  motive,  intent,  or
conscience,  there  may  have  to  be  a  trial  inasmuch  as  cross-
examination is the best means of testing the credibility of this kind
of  evidence.”  See  also  the  Advisory  Committee  Note  to  the  1963
amendment of Rule 56: “Where an issue as to a material fact cannot be
resolved without observation of the demeanor of witnesses in order
to evaluate their credibility, summary judgment is not appropriate.”

Furthermore,  as  is  discussed  more  fully  in  the  analysis  of  Choice

193

(C) below, the plaintiff's failure to submit an affidavit or other sworn
testimony in opposition to the motion does not entitle the court to treat
the company's factual allegations in the motion papers as undisputed, if
the  motion  papers  themselves  show  that  there  is  a  disputed  factual
issue.  Here,  the  reference  in  the  owner's  affidavit  to  the  plaintiff's
“lies” shows that the plaintiff's credibility, as well as the owner's state
of mind, are genuinely disputed issues that will require trial.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  factual  allegations  of  the  complaint,  no  matter  how
detailed,  cannot  themselves  rebut  the  movant's  claim  that  there  is  no
available evidence that would permit the plaintiff to carry her burden of
production at trial.

This  choice  essentially  asserts  that  the  detailed  factual  allegations
in  the  complaint  here  are  sufficient  by  themselves  that  if  they  are
believed,  they  would  rebut  the  defendant's  claim  that  there  is  no
“genuine  dispute  as  to  any  material  fact.”  But  that  assertion  is  unduly
broad,  and  is  contradicted  by  something  in  Rule  56(c).  Rule  56(c)(2)
says that “A party may object that the material cited to . . . dispute a fact
cannot  be  presented  in  a  form  that  would  be  admissible  in
evidence.” This means that if the papers in support of the motion (here,
the  defendant's  submission)  contain  evidence  that  if  uncontradicted
would demonstrate that there is no genuine dispute of material fact, the
nonmovant will lose on the motion unless he can point to “admissible
evidence”  that  if  believed  would  put  some  fact  into  dispute.  The
plaintiff's pleadings here are not themselves “admissible evidence,” so
factual allegations in the pleadings—unless they're specifically shown
to  be  embodied  in  admissible  evidence—can't  create  a  genuine  issue.
The reason that the appeals court will reverse is not that the pleadings
themselves can be enough to create a genuine dispute of material fact—
the reason is that the defendant's affidavit demonstrates (by putting the
plaintiff's  credibility  at  issue)  that  there  will  be  an  issue,  plaintiff's
credibility, that cannot be resolved as a matter of law.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  in  this  situation  no  sworn  affidavit  was  required  to  be
submitted by the plaintiff.

There  are  certainly  situations  in  which  the  nonmovant's  failure  to
submit an affidavit will cause the nonmovant to have summary judgment

194

entered against him. But here, as is discussed further in Choice (A), the
owner's  affidavit  itself  shows  the  existence  of  a  genuine  dispute
(plaintiff's  credibility)  that  cannot  be  resolved  except  by  a  trial.
Because that is so, the plaintiff survives the motion even without having
submitted  an  affidavit.  But  if  the  fact  pattern  were  one  in  which  there
were no issues of mental state or credibility (e.g., a suit to collect on a
negotiable instrument), the nonmovant's failure to submit an affidavit or
any other piece of admissible evidence would likely be fatal—it's only
the fact that the defendant inadvertently injected a credibility issue that
allows  the  plaintiff  here  to  avoid  summary  judgment  without  having
submitted an affidavit or other admissible piece of evidence.

 (D) is incorrect,

because there is no such thing as an automatic “default” in response to a
motion for summary judgment.

The Advisory Committee Note on the 2010 amendments to Rule 56
says that “summary judgment cannot be granted by default even if there
is a complete failure to respond to the motion[.]” Rather, the court may
grant summary judgment only “if the motion and supporting materials
– including the facts considered undisputed—show that the movant is
entitled to it[.]” (Rule 56(e)(3)). In other words, the mere fact that the
nonmovant  (the  plaintiff)  here  didn't  file  papers  in  opposition  to  the
motion does not mean that every fact asserted by the movant should be
accepted  as  undisputed  by  the  court—the  judge  was  required  to
examine  all  evidence  called  to  the  court's  attention,  including  the
movant's  own  affidavit  (with  its  accusation  that  the  plaintiff  was
lying), and to notice that that affidavit itself demonstrated the existence
of a triable issue (the credibility of the plaintiff). Given that the judge
was  required  to  review  this  evidence  from  sources  other  than  the
plaintiff, no submission by the plaintiff in opposition to the motion was
required  in  order  for  the  plaintiff  to  be  entitled  to  have  the  motion
denied.

Answer 11

 (B) is the best response,

because Rule 35 orders for medical examinations may be rendered only
against parties or those under a party's control.

FRCP 35(a)(1) specifies which persons may be ordered to undergo

195

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

a  physical  or  mental  examination:  “The  court  where  the  action  is
pending  may  order  a  party  whose  mental  or  physical  condition—
including  blood  group—is  in  controversy  to  submit  to  a  physical  or
mental  examination  by  a  suitably  licensed  or  certified  examiner.  The
court  has  the  same  authority  to  order  a  party  to  produce  for
examination  a  person  who  is  in  its  custody  or  under  its  legal
control.” The facts tell you that Driver is not a party to the action. And
while  Plaintiff  might  point  to  Driver's  status  as  an  employee  of
Defendant  at  the  time  of  the  accident  in  support  of  an  argument  that
Driver  is  “under  [Defendant's]  legal  control,”  this  argument  would
almost  certainly  fail—the  facts  tell  you  that  Driver  is  no  longer
employed  by  defendant,  so  he  is  no  longer  under  Defendant's  “legal
control”  even 
that  control  while  employed.
(Furthermore,  it's  doubtful  that  even  if  Driver  were  still  employed  by
Defendant,  this  would  be  enough  to  put  him  under  Defendant's  “legal
control.”  The  courts  have  interpreted  the  sole  purpose  of  the  “under
legal  control”  clause  as  being  to  help  in  cases  where  a  parent  or
guardian is suing to recover for injuries to a minor; the clause “allows
the court to order that the parent or guardian makes a good faith effort to
produce the minor for examination.” Scharf v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 597 F.2d
1240,  1244  (9th  Cir.  1979).  That  purpose  obviously  does  not  apply
here.)

if  he  was  under 

 (A) is not the best response,

because Rule 35 does not authorize in order to compel a non-party to
submit  to  a  physical  or  mental  examination,  even  if  the  examinee's
medical condition is relevant to a claim or defense in the action.

As  is  more  fully  discussed  in  the  treatment  of  choice  (B)  above,
only a party (or a person under the legal control of a party) may be the
subject of a Rule 35 order.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the court would be required to deny the discovery request even
if the plaintiff had shown good cause for the examination.

It's true that even in the core situation to which Rule 36 applies—a
request  for  an  order  compelling  a  party  to  submit  to  a  physical  or
mental  examination—the  person  requesting  the  order  must  show  good
cause.  See  Rule  35(a)(2)(A),  which  provides  that  the  order  for  an
examination  may  be  made  “only  on  motion  for  good  cause  and  on

196

notice to all parties and the person to be examined.” But a showing of
good  cause  is  necessary  but  not  sufficient  for  the  order—no  matter
how  strong  the  movant's  need  is  for  a  physical  examination  of  a  non-
party, Rule 35 does not authorize the court to order that examination. By
implying  that  a  showing  of  good  cause  would  justify  the  court  in
ordering  the  examination,  Choice  (C)  incorrectly  states  how  Rule  35
works.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  rule  that  applies  to  requests  for  physical
examinations.

As is discussed in Choice (B), Rule 35 authorizes the court to order
a  party  to  produce  a  non-party  for  examination  only  if  that  party  has
“legal control” over the non-party, a situation that does not exist here,
since Driver no longer works for Defendant.

Answer 12

 (C) is the best explanation,

because  it  recognizes  that  an  untimely  amended  claim  will  “relate
back” to the date of the original pleading only if it arises out of the
same transaction or occurrence as the original claim.

The facts tell you that the tort claim would be time-barred if it were
brought  as  a  new  state-court  action.  The  federal  courts  in  diversity
cases are required to treat a state-law-based claim as time-barred if it
would be time-barred in a state-court action. Therefore, the tort claim
will also have to be time-barred in the federal diversity action unless
there is some procedural rule that allows the tort claim to “relate back”
to  the  earlier-filed  contract  claim.  In  federal  actions—whether  ones
asserting  federal-question  claims  or  state-law  claims  asserted  in
diversity—the  availability  of  the  relation-back  doctrine  is  controlled
by Rule 15(c). Assuming that all defendants to the newly-asserted claim
are ones who were named in the previously-filed claims (and that's the
situation here, where only Defendant is named in both the old contract
claim and the new tort claim), Rule 15(c)(1) recognizes two situations
in which relation back will apply. 15(c)(1) says that:

“An  amendment  to  a  pleading  relates  back  to  the  date  of  the

original pleading when:

(A)  the  law  that  provides  the  applicable  statute  of  limitations

197

allows relation back; [or]

(B) the amendment asserts a claim or defense that arose out of
the conduct, transaction, or occurrence set out—or attempted to be
set out—in the original pleading[.]”

that 

As to 15(c)(1)(A), the “law that provides the applicable statute of
limitations” is, of course, the substantive law of State A, since the new
claim  is  based  on  state  tort  law.  The  facts  tell  you  that  under  State  A
law,  “relation  back”  applies  where  the  new  and  old  claim  not  only
arise  out  of  the  same  conduct  or  transaction  but  are  supported  by
identical or near-identical legal theories. Here, the old claim is a pure
breach-of-contract claim, and the new claim is a pure tort claim, so it is
very unlikely that the federal court would find that State A law would
allow relation back in this circumstance. This fact means that Plaintiff's
only  hope  of  getting  relation  back  applied  will  have  to  come  from
convincing the court that the requirements of 15(c)(1)(B) are satisfied
here—i.e., 
tortious-
interference  claim  arise  out  of  the  same  “conduct,  transaction  or
occurrence.” Plaintiff is unlikely to succeed in convincing the court of
this.  But  you  don't  have  to  decide  whether  plaintiff  will  succeed  with
that  argument—you  just  have  to  realize  that  if  we  start  from  the
assumption  that  Defendant  wins  on  its  motion  (i.e.,  gets  the  tort  claim
dismissed as time-barred), the only one of the four choices that asserts
a  legal  theory  that  would  deliver  a  victory  to  Defendant  is  the  choice
that  turns  on  whether  both  claims  involved  the  same  conduct  or
transaction. Because of 15(c)(1)(B), a conclusion by the court that they
involve  different  conduct/transactions  will  deliver  a  victory  to
defendant; and as we'll see in the discussion of the other choices, none
of  those  makes  a  legal  argument  that  could  deliver  a  victory  to
Defendant.

the  breach-of-contract  claim  and 

the 

 (A) is not correct,

because it misstates the significance of the law of State A.

As  discussed  in  Choice  (C)  above,  Rule  15(c)(1)  allows  the
pleader to get the benefit of relation back if either of two standards is
satisfied,  one  of  which  (given  in  15(c)(1)(A))  is  that  in  a  diversity
case, the law of the state that supplies the rule of decision would allow
relation-back. So if State A law allowed relation back on these facts,
Plaintiff would get the benefit of relation back here, without any need to
consider  the  other  (federal-law)  standard  listed  in  15(c)(1).  But  the

198

converse is not true—even if the law of the state that supplies the rule
of decision doesn't allow relation back, the pleader gets the benefit if
the  test  of  15(c)(1)(B)  (the  old  claim  and  new  claim  arose  out  of  the
same  transaction  or  occurrence)  is  satisfied.  Choice  (A)  asserts  that
Defendant automatically wins (i.e., there's no relation back) if State A
law doesn't allow relation back; since Plaintiff could still win based on
same-transaction-or-occurrence  even  if  State  A  law  didn't  allow
relation back, Choice (A) is legally incorrect.

 (B) is not correct,

because  a  difference  in  legal  theory  between  the  two  claims  does  not
necessarily prevent relation back from operating.

Remember that regardless of what the relevant state law says about
the  availability  of  relation  back,  Rule  15(c)(1)(B)  says  that  Plaintiff
can  get  the  benefit  of  relation  back  based  solely  on  whether  the  old
claim  and  the  new  claim  arise  out  of  the  same  transaction  or
occurrence.  In  other  words,  for  purposes  of  meeting  the  15(c)(1)(B)
federal standard, there is no requirement that the old claim and the new
claim be based on the same legal theory. Since Choice (B) says that a
difference  in  legal  theory  would  cause  Defendant  to  win  (i.e.,  would
cause relation back not to apply), that choice is legally incorrect.

 (D) is not correct,

because any delay by Plaintiff in amending would be irrelevant to the
issue of whether relation back is allowed.

It's  true  that  in  some  circumstances,  a  federal  court  may  use  its
discretion  to  deny  leave  to  amend  a  pleading  because  the  pleader
delayed his attempt to amend unduly and without good cause. However,
the  issue  here  is  solely  the  one  raised  by  Defendant  on  its  motion;
whether the tort claim is time-barred, i.e., foreclosed by the statute of
limitations.  Any  delay  by  the  Plaintiff  in  amending  would  not  bear  on
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
whether  the  statute  of  limitations  has  run—only  successful  use  of  the
relation-back doctrine will allow plaintiff to avoid being time-barred,
and  a  delay  by  plaintiff  in  amending  will  not  prevent  use  of  relation
back if the requirements imposed by Rule 15(c)(1) for that doctrine are
otherwise satisfied. See Arthur v. Maersk, Inc., 434 F.3d 196, 203 (3d
Cir.  2006)  (“There  is  no  allowance  in  Rule  15(c)  for  inquiry  into  a
party's delay in moving for leave to amend.”).

199

Answer 13

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  properly  applies  the  federal-court  standard  governing  a
motion  to  dismiss  on  grounds  of  forum  non  conveniens  when  the
plaintiff is not a U.S. citizen.

The doctrine of forum non conveniens authorizes a trial court, in its
discretion, to decline to exercise jurisdiction and to dismiss the action
in favor of an alternative forum if that forum is adequate. The decision
to grant such a motion is governed by a number of public and private
considerations, including which state or country's substantive law will
govern the case, the forum state's interest in trying the case, the location
of witnesses, and the burdensomeness of jury duty. See Gulf Oil Corp.
v. Gilbert,  330  U.S.  501  (1947).  A  foreign  plaintiff's  forum  choice  is
not entitled to deference (see Piper  Aircraft  Co.  v.  Reyno,  454  U.S.
235 (1981)), and the key question is whether an alternative forum that
would be adequate to hear the claim is available. The contract for sale
specifies  that  the  laws  of  China  will  govern  any  dispute  between  the
parties, which suggests (but does not dictate) that the remedy offered by
a  Chinese  forum  is  not  “clearly  inadequate  or  unsatisfactory”;  if  the
federal court decides that the suit may indeed appropriately be tried in
China, the court may use its discretion to dismiss so that the case may
be tried there. Id. at 254. If the federal judge here cannot find any strong
reasons to honor Plaintiff's forum choice (and none are apparent from
the facts as presently stated), the court should exercise its discretion to
grant the motion, leaving Plaintiff to re-file the case in China.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the federal statute does not allow transfer to a foreign court.

The  federal  transfer-of-venue  statute,  28  U.S.C.  §  1404,  permits
either plaintiff or defendant to move to transfer an action that is pending
in  a  federal  district  court to  any  other  district  in  the  United  States
“[f]or  the  convenience  of  parties  and  witnesses,  in  the  interest  of
justice.” Transfers under § 1404 can be made only between different
federal  district  courts,  not  to  a  foreign  court.  Furthermore,  transfer
under  the  statute  does  not  result  in  a  dismissal  of  the  action,  just  a
transfer (and the facts tell you that Defendant is seeking to dismiss the
action). Plus, Defendant is urging that the action would be better heard
in China (not in some other federal district court). So the use of § 1404

200

would be inappropriate for two distinct reasons—the lack of a transfer
and  the  fact  that  the  proposed  alternative  forum  is  not  another  federal
district  court.  Thus,  although  this  choice  reaches  the  correct  outcome
(that the motion should be granted), its reliance on the transfer-of-venue
statute as the reason for granting the motion is incorrect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  standard  used  in  a  federal  case  to  decide
whether  an  action  should  be  dismissed  on  grounds  of  forum  non
conveniens.

The motion is directed to the district court's discretion, and it is not
an  abuse  of  discretion  to  grant  such  a  motion  even  if  the  grant  will
result  in  an  unfavorable  change  in  the  law  for  the  plaintiff.  This
principle  is  illustrated  by  the  Supreme  Court's  decision  in  Piper
Aircraft  Co.  v.  Reyno,  454  U.S.  235  (1981),  where  plaintiff  (an
American administratrix representing the estates of foreign individuals
killed  in  an  airplane  crash  in  Scotland)  opposed  a  forum  non
conveniens dismissal on the ground that Scotland, the alternative forum,
would apply law less favorable to plaintiff (for example, by refusing to
apply  strict  tort  liability).  The  Supreme  Court  rejected  this  argument,
holding that a change in law would defeat such a motion only when the
remedy  in  the  alternative  forum  is  “so  clearly  inadequate  or
unsatisfactory that it is no remedy at all.” Id. at 254. Here, the parties
themselves contracted to be bound by the law of China, so it would be
difficult for Plaintiff to argue that the law is inadequate.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  jurisdiction  is  not  a  pre-condition  to  the  court's  power  to
dismiss for forum non conveniens.

The  Supreme  Court  has  made  clear  that  district  courts  have
authority  to  dismiss  a  federal  action  on  grounds  of  forum  non
conveniens without first determining that they have jurisdiction over the
case.  See  Sinochem  Intern  Co.  Ltd.  v.  Malaysia  International
Shipping Corp. 549 U.S. 422, 435-36 (2007) (“[W]here subject matter
jurisdiction  or  personal  jurisdiction  are  difficult  to  determine,  and
forum non-conveniens weighs heavily in favor of dismissal, the court
properly takes the less burdensome course.”). So there is no bright-line
rule  stating  that  a  federal  court  must  first  consider  dismissal  on
jurisdictional  grounds  before  reaching  the  question  of  forum  non

201

conveniens.

Answer 14

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  default  judgment  was  void  for  invalid  service,  and  the
court must therefore set aside the judgment.

Solving this problem requires multiple steps. Probably the best way
is  to  start  at  the  “back  end,”  by  first  looking  at  whether  there  is  a
procedural mechanism  whereby  the  court  can  be  induced  to  consider
setting aside the judgment. Where a judgment has become final (as it is
here), the mechanism for relief is given in FRCP 60(b). 60(b) says that
“On  motion  and  just  terms,  the  court  may  relieve  a  party  or  its  legal
representative  from  a  final  judgment,  order,  or  proceeding  for  the
following  reasons,”  and  then  lists  six  categories  of  reasons,  of  which
the  fourth  is  because  “the  judgment  is  void.”  So  if  the  musician  can
show that the judgment is “void,” he will be entitled to have it set aside
under Rule 60(b).

All  federal  courts  agree  that  if  a  court  enters  an  in  personam
judgment  against  the  defendant  without  the  court's  having  personal
jurisdiction over the defendant, the judgment is void. See, e.g., Combs
v.  Nick  Garin  Trucking,  825  F.2d  437,  442  (D.C.  Cir.  1987)  (“Of
course, an in personam judgment entered without personal jurisdiction
over a defendant is void as to that defendant.”). All courts also agree
that  where  the  requirements  for  effective  service  of  process  on  a
defendant  have  not  been  met  (and  have  not  been  waived  by  the
defendant),  the  court  does  not  gain  personal  jurisdiction  over  that
defendant. See id. at 442: “[S]ince service of process is the means by
which a court asserts jurisdiction to adjudicate the rights of a party, it is
uniformly  held  that  a  judgment  is  void  where  the  requirements  for
effective  service  have  not  been  satisfied.”  So  the  musician  will  be
entitled to have the default judgment set aside as void if he can show
that  service  of  process  on  him  was  not  effective  (assuming  he  is  not
found to have waived service).

The  valid  procedures  for  making  service  of  a  summons  and
complaint on an individual within the United States are forth in FRCP
4(e), which reads as follows:

“(e) Unless federal law provides otherwise, an individual — other
than  a  minor,  an  incompetent  person,  or  a  person  whose  waiver  has

202

been filed — may be served in a judicial district of the United States
by:

(1)  following  state  law  for  serving  a  summons  in  an  action
brought in courts of general jurisdiction in the state where the district
court is located or where service is made; or

(2) doing any of the following:

(A) delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint

to the individual personally;

(B)  leaving  a  copy  of  each  at  the  individual's  dwelling  or
usual  place  of  abode  with  someone  of  suitable  age  and
discretion who resides there; or

(C)  delivering  a  copy  of  each  to  an  agent  authorized  by

appointment or by law to receive service of process.”
Here,  the  facts  tell  you  that  the  two  states  whose  law  might  apply
(State  A,  where  the  service  is  being  attempted,  or  State  B,  where  the
federal court hearing the suit is located) do not have laws allowing any
possibly  relevant  method  of  service,  such  as  service  by  mail.
Therefore,  Rule  4(e)(1)'s  grant  of  the  right  to  make  service  by
“following  state  law  for  serving  a  summons”  does  not  apply  here.
Consequently, you know that if service here was valid, it would have to
have been done pursuant to Rule 4(e))(2), which lists three methods (in
2(A),  (B),  and  (C)  respectively,  quoted  above)  that  are  always
available  based  on  “federal  law,”  regardless  of  whether  they  are
allowed under state law.

But all three of these methods (service on the individual defendant
personally, service by leaving a copy at the defendant's dwelling with
an adult co-resident, and service by delivery to an agent) all require “in
person”  delivery.  That  is,  although  Rule  4(e)(2)  doesn't  expressly  say
that the delivery must be “in person” as opposed to, say, by registered
mail, courts have universally interpreted the Rule to require in-person
service. So the attempted service here, in which the mails were used,
does  not  meet  the  requirements  for  any  of  the  three  branches  of  Rule
4(e)(2).

Now, it so happens that the federal courts recognize—and, indeed,
to  use  an  alternative  non-physical-service
encourage—litigants 
notification method, namely the “request for waiver of service” method
authorized by Rule 4(d), in which a copy of the summons and complaint
can be sent by “first-class mail or other reliable means,” together with
a  request  that  the  defendant  waive  personal  service.  But  even  when  a
plaintiff attempts to use the request-for-waiver method, the attempt does

203

not eliminate the need for personal service unless the defendant signs
and  returns  the  waiver  form  (and  the  plaintiff  files  the  signed  form
with the court). Here, it's clear that even if the envelope that was sent to
the  musician  met  the  standards  for  a  Rule  4(d)  request  for  waiver
(which  it  probably  did  not,  since  there  is  no  mention  in  the  facts  of  a
waiver  form  or  a  pre-paid  method  for  the  defendant  to  return  it),  the
musician never signed and returned any form. Therefore, no waiver-of-
service  ever  occurred.  Putting  it  all  together,  there  never  occurred
either  a  valid  service  or  a  valid  waiver  of  the  need  for  service.
Consequently, the federal court never gained personal jurisdiction over
the  musician,  and  the  default  judgment  against  him  was  a  nullity.
Therefore,  the  court  can—and,  indeed,  must—set  power  to  set  aside
“void” judgments. (By the way, strictly speaking, this result would be
true even if the musician had actually opened the envelope and learned
of the suit in a timely way; however, the fact that the musician asserts—
without  proof  to  the  contrary—that  he  never  received  actual  notice  of
the suit until recently, makes it even easier for the court to conclude that
it never had personal jurisdiction over him.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  service  was  improper  even  if  the  musician  was  negligent  in
failing to open the envelope.

As  is  discussed  more  extensively  as  to  Choice  (B)  above,  the
sending of the summons and complaint by certified mail was not a valid
way to carry out service under these circumstances. And, according to
most courts, that would be true even if the musician had in fact opened
the envelope and learned of the suit in a timely manner. But certainly,
the mere fact that the musician was negligent in failing to open the letter
would not be enough to convert the mail service into a valid method of
service,  assuming  that  the  musician  did  not  in  fact  gain  timely  actual
knowledge of the suit.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  musician's  right  to  move  to  set  aside  the  default  was  not
limited to a one-year period.

It's  true  that  for  some  types  of  relief  from  a  judgment  available
under Rule 60, there is a one-year time limit. Rule 60(c)(1) says that,
“A motion under Rule 60(b) must be made within a reasonable time—
and for reasons (1), (2), and (3) no more than a year after the entry

204

of  the  judgment  or  order  or  the  date  of  the  proceeding.”  But  relief
from a judgment because it is “void” is made for reason (4) in 60(b),
not reasons (1), (2), or (3). Therefore, there is no one-year limit, though
the motion must be made “within a reasonable time.” Here, where the
facts  tell  you  that  the  musician  made  his  motion  “immediately”  after
discovering  the  judgment's  existence,  the  “within  a  reasonable  time”
requirement would certainly be deemed satisfied (at least assuming that
there  is  no  contrary  evidence  that  the  musician  unreasonably  ignored
other evidence of the judgment's existence, and nothing in the facts here
suggests that there was such evidence).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whatever  authority  the  fiancée  might  have  been  given  would
not be relevant to papers that were attempted to be served by mail.

There can indeed be situations, as this choice suggests, in which it
matters whether the summons and complaint were or were not left with
a  person  whom  the  defendant  had  “authorized”  to  receive  them.  In
particular,  where  the  plaintiff  is  relying  on  federal-law-based  rather
than state-law-based methods of service, Rule 4(e)(2)(C) make service
valid if it is accomplished by “delivering a copy of [the summons and
complaint] to an agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive
service  of  process.”  (And  at  least  some  cases  say  that  “by  law”  can
include  an  authorization  that  occurs  pursuant  to  the  common-law  of
agency,  whereby  the  defendant  might  confer  on,  say,  a  family  member
actual authority to accept papers on his behalf.) But 4(e)(2)(C), like the
other two branches of 4(e)(2), applies only where the papers are hand-
delivered  by  a  person  purporting  to  make  service  Here,  where  the
papers  arrive  via  the  U.S.  Postal  Service,  the  fact  that  the  defendant
might  have  authorized  someone  else  to  “receive  service  of  process”
will not be enough to make the mail service valid merely because the
mail carrier hands the document to that authorized person.

Answer 15

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  federal  courts  presume  that  a  direct  financial  relationship
between a juror and a party will interfere with the juror's ability to be
impartial.

Most American courts, including the federal system, apply a per se

205

presumption that a prospective juror who owns even a small amount of
stock  in  a  party  must  be  discharged  for  cause.  See,  e.g.,  Chestnut  v.
Ford Motor Company, 445 F.2d 967, 971-72 (4th Cir. 1971): “That a
stockholder in a company which is a party to a lawsuit is incompetent
to sit as juror is so well settled as to be black letter law.” In fact, most
state and federal courts hold that a trial judge's refusal to strike a juror
for cause who owns any stock at all in a party is reversible error. Id.

In  the  federal  system,  there  is  no  statute  or  Federal  Rule  that
expresses this presumption—it is merely a policy applied as a matter of
judge-made  law.  But  the  strength  of  the  policy  is  demonstrated  in  an
analogous area in which there is a federal statute that imposes a similar
per  se  restriction:  28  U.S.C.  §  455(b)(4)  requires  a  federal  judge  to
disqualify himself from any case in which he, his spouse, or his minor
child residing in the judge's household has a financial interest in a party
(including even a small amount of publicly-traded stock in the party). In
fact,  the  presumption  of  conflict  is  so  strong  that  under  §  455(e),  the
judge may not participate in the case even if both parties are willing to
waive the disqualification.

 Neither (A), (C), or (D) is the best response,

because  each  of  them  is  flatly  inconsistent  with  the  per  se  rule
discussed in Choice (B) that any ownership stake by a juror in a party,
no  matter  how  small,  and  no  matter  how  convincing  the  juror's
testimony  that  she  can  be  impartial,  is  automatically  grounds  for
disqualifying the juror for cause.

Answer 16

 (A) is the best response,

because 
constitutional rights.

these  decisions  are  both  required 

to  protect  various

First,  let's  consider  Motion  1.  If  a  federal-court  claim  is  one  that
would have been “at common law” at the time the Seventh Amendment
was adopted in 1791, that Amendment guarantees the plaintiff the right
to have the claim heard by a jury. Where a federal court suit involves
both  a  “legal”  claim  (roughly  speaking,  one  that  in  1791  would  have
been  a  claim  “at  common  law”)  and  an  “equitable”  claim  (one  that
could not have been brought “at common law” in 1791, and thus would
have had to be brought before a court of equity), various Supreme Court

206

decisions  require  the  federal  judge  to  manage  trial  of  the  case  so  that
the  plaintiff's  right  to  have  the  legal  claim  heard  by  a  jury  is  not
impaired.  Because  of  the  rules  of  “former  adjudication”  (claim
the  plaintiff's
preclusion  and  collateral  estoppel),  safeguarding 
practical  ability  to  have  the  legal  claim  heard  by  a  jury  generally
requires  that  any  issue  of  law  or  fact  that  is  common  to  the  legal  and
equitable claims be tried first to (and decided by) the jury—only then
may the judge decide the equitable claims. See Beacon Theatres, Inc. v.
Westover, 359 U.S. 500 (1959), so holding. Here, this principle means
that  since  the  cook  has  a  Seventh  Amendment  right  to  have  a  jury
determine whether her firing was a gender-discriminatory act and, if so,
what  compensatory  damages  she  is  entitled  to,  the  jury  must  decide
these two issues before the judge may rule on whether the cook is also
entitled to an order reinstating her at her job. (Furthermore, whichever
way the jury rules on whether the defendant discriminated, the rules of
former adjudication mean that the trial court probably has to accept and
apply  that  ruling  in  deciding  the  reinstatement  issue.)  So  the  motion,
which  asks  the  court  to  make  the  first  ruling  on  whether  there  was
discrimination and, if so, on whether reinstatement is required, cannot
be  granted  without  violating  the  cook's  Seventh  Amendment  right  to
have her damages claim decided by a jury.

Now,  let's  look  at  Motion  2.  The  Supreme  Court  has  held
repeatedly  that  neither  state  nor  federal  courts  may  permit  a  private
litigant  (or  for  that  matter  a  government  litigant)  to  use  peremptory
challenges  to  exclude  civil  jurors  on  the  basis  of  either  their  race  or
their  gender—allowing  such  challenges  violates  the  excluded  jurors'
equal  protection  rights,  and  the  opposing  litigant  is  given  standing  to
assert these rights. See, e.g., J. E. B. v. Alabama Ex Rel. T. B., 511 U.S.
127,  146 
(1994):  “[T]he  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits
discrimination  in  jury  selection  on  the  basis  of  gender,  or  on  the
assumption that an individual will be biased in a particular case for no
reason  other  than  the  fact  that  the  person  happens  to  be  a  woman  or
happens to be a man”; Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U.S.
614  (1991):  Even  in  civil  litigation,  allowing  racially-discriminatory
peremptory challenges constitutes state action because the government-
run court system becomes a party to the discrimination.

It  is  usually  not  easy  for  one  party  to  demonstrate  that  the  other
party  has  indeed  used  its  peremptory  strikes  in  a  race-  or  gender-
discriminatory  way.  But  the  facts  here  are  so  egregious  that  the
challenger  (the  cook)  will  succeed  with  her  motion.  To  make  a

207

challenge  to  the  discriminatory  use  of  peremptory  challenges,  the
challenger  must  first  show  a  “pattern”  of  discriminatory  peremptory
strikes;  the  two  strikes  here,  coupled  with  the  defendant's  bald-faced
(and tactically stupid) explicit reference to gender as being the reason,
will be enough to satisfy this first step. If the defendant had succeeded
in  giving  a  “facially  neutral”  explanation  for  the  strikes  (i.e.,  one  that
avoided expressly referring to gender as the reason for the strikes, such
as an explanation like “I didn't like the way either juror refused to look
me in the eye when I was questioning her”), then the burden would have
shifted  to  the  cook  to  show  that  this  neutral  explanation  was  a  mere
pretext. But here, where the defendant has not even been able to come
up  with  a  facially-neutral-though-unconvincing  explanation,  the  judge
should  deny  the  peremptory  strikes  out-of-hand,  without  even  shifting
back on the cook the burden of showing pretext.

 Neither (B), (C), nor (D) is the best response,

because each reaches the wrong outcome as to at least one of the two
motions (and (B) gets both outcomes wrong).

Answer 17

 (D) is correct,

because multiple plaintiffs are not permitted to aggregate their claims to
meet  the  jurisdictional  amount  unless  they  are  suing  to  enforce  their
common interest in a single undivided right.

First, pay attention to the obvious fact that here, no single plaintiff
has  claims  aggregating  more  than  $75,000.  (If  one  plaintiff  did  have
claims  aggregating  more  than  $75,000  against  a  single  defendant,  that
would  pose  a  very  different  situation,  discussed  at  the  end  of  this
discussion  of  Choice  (D).)  It  has  long  been  the  case  that  where  no
single  plaintiff  has  claims  against  any  defendant  for  more  than  the
jurisdictional amount, the court will not combine the dollar amounts of
multiple  plaintiffs'  claims  for  purposes  of  determining  whether  more
than  the  jurisdictional  amount  is  at  stake,  except  in  the  uncommon
situation  where  all  plaintiffs  share  a  “single  title  or  right.”  See,  e.g.,
Snyder v. Harris, 394 U.S. 332, 334-335 (1969): “[T]he separate and
distinct  claims  of  two  or  more  plaintiffs  cannot  be  aggregated  in
order to satisfy the jurisdictional amount requirement. Aggregation has
been permitted only (1) in cases in which a  single  plaintiff  seeks  to

208

aggregate two or more of his own claims against a single defendant
and  (2)  in  cases  in  which  two  or  more  plaintiffs  unite  to  enforce  a
single  title  or  right  in  which  they  have  a  common  and  undivided
interest.”

The “single title or right [with] a common and undivided interest”
standard is very rarely met—an example where it would be met is that
four individuals are each bequeathed an “undivided interest” in a piece
of property (so that if the plaintiffs all sued a defendant over title to the
property,  the  amount-in-controversy  requirement  would  be  satisfied  if
the  property  was  worth  more  than  $75,000,  even  if  no  one  person's
interest would be worth $75,000 if the property were partitioned). The
fact that the defendant may have committed the “same” wrong towards
each plaintiff by violating a single rule of law in the same way at the
same  time,  is  not  enough  to  give  the  plaintiffs  the  requisite  “single
undivided title or right” status. So here, the fact that the brokerage firm
violated the ECA statute by the same type of act, at the same time, as to
each  employee  would  not  be  enough  to  permit  aggregation  of  their
claims.

Note,  however,  that  where  there  is  at  least  one  plaintiff  whose
own claim (or claims) against a single defendant is/are valued at more
than $75,000, the doctrine of supplemental jurisdiction, as enacted in
28  U.S.C.  §  1367  and  then  interpreted  by  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  in
Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U.S. 546 (2005),
applies.  In  that  situation,  supplemental  jurisdiction  does  permit  the
federal  court  to  hear  the  claims  of  certain  other  plaintiffs  with  claims
that  are  transactionally  related  to  the  “main”  plaintiff's  claim,  even
though each of these “minor” plaintiffs has less than $75,000 at stake—
and that's true whether the way the multiple plaintiffs are together in the
case is via a class action or via a Rule 20 joinder. So on our facts, if
one employee had received 76 checks so that his claims against the firm
amounted to $76,000, the court would have supplemental jurisdiction to
hear the transactionally related claims of the other 19 employees, each
of whom had less than $76,000 at stake. In other words, the key point
here is that no single plaintiff has claims against any defendant totaling
more than $75,000. But nothing in the supplemental jurisdiction statute
changes  the  main  “no-aggregation-of  sub-$75,000-plaintiffs”  result
we've been discussing above—supplemental jurisdiction can only kick
in when there is at least one single plaintiff-vs-defendant pairing as to
which there is both diversity and more than $75,000 at stake.

209

 (A) is not the best response,

because  supplemental  jurisdiction  does  not  apply  to  the  situation  in
which no single plaintiff has more than $75,000 at stake.

As  is  further  explained  in  the  discussion  of  choice  (D)  above,  the
supplemental jurisdiction statute (28 U.S.C. § 1367(a)) does not apply
where  no  single  plaintiff  has  claims  against  a  single  defendant
aggregating more than $75,000. And that's true even though the various
plaintiffs  have  claims  that  all  derived  from  the  same  transaction  or
series  of  transactions  (which  is  the  case  here).  (But  if  at  least  one
employee had claims totaling more than $75,000 against the defendant,
then  the  court  could  use  supplemental  jurisdiction  to  hear  the  other
employees' claim as well, assuming these other plaintiffs were diverse
with the defendant.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is an incorrect statement of how the case law of aggregation
has developed.

As  is  further  explained  in  the  discussion  of  choice  (D)  above,
Supreme  Court  cases  like  Snyder  v.  Harris,  394  U.S.  332,  334-335
(1969)  have  expressly  rejected  the  argument  that  where  multiple
plaintiffs  have  claims  arising  out  of  the  same  transaction  or  series  of
related  transactions,  aggregation  of  the  various  claims  should  be
permitted for purposes of determining whether the $75,000 amount-in-
controversy requirement is satisfied. It is only in the very unusual case
where  all  plaintiffs  have  a  common  or  undivided  interest  in  a  “single
right” that the dollar value of each plaintiff's interest may be aggregated
in determining whether the $75,000 requirement is satisfied.

 (C) is not the best response,

because an objection to the court's lack of subject matter jurisdiction is
never waived.

Where the defendant has improperly removed from state to federal
court, the plaintiff or plaintiffs normally have a limited time in which to
move  to  have  the  case  remanded  back  to  state  court:  28  U.S.C.  §
1447(c)  says  that  “A  motion  to  remand  the  case  on  the  basis  of  any
defect  other  than  lack  of  subject  matter  jurisdiction  must  be  made
within 30 days after the filing of the notice of removal[.]” But where
the motion is based upon the lack of subject matter jurisdiction, the next

210

sentence of § 1447(c) shows that there's no time limit: “If at any time
before  a  final  judgment  it  appears  that  the  district  court  lacks  subject
matter  jurisdiction,  the  case  shall  be  remanded.”  (And  notice  that  the
remand  can  happen  even  if  no  party  moves  for  it—so  if  the  federal
judge suddenly notices the lack of, say, complete diversity or amount-
in-controversy,  the  judge  not  only  may  but  must  remand  the  case  no
matter how far it has proceeded on the merits, as long as final judgment
has not yet been entered.)

Answer 18

 (D) is the best response,

because  a  third-party  defendant  may  assert  against  the  plaintiff  any
defenses that the third-party plaintiff has to the plaintiff's claim.

Once a person is brought in as a third-party defendant, Rule 14(a)
(2)(C) says that that person “may assert against the plaintiff any defense
that the third-party plaintiff has to the plaintiff's claim[.]” By allowing
the third-party defendant to raise defenses that the third-party plaintiff
might  have  failed  to  raise,  the  Rule  14(a)(2)(C)  “protects  the
impleaded third-party defendant where the third-party plaintiff fails or
neglects to assert a proper defense to the plaintiff's action.” Lindner
v. Meadow Gold Dairies, Inc., 515 F. Supp. 2d 1141, 1149 (D. Haw.
2007)  (quoting  Advisory  Committee  Notes  to  1946  Amendments  to
FRCP 14(a)). While it is unclear from the fact pattern whether a statute
of  limitations  defense  would  be  meritorious,  the  trucker  is  entitled  to
assert it as a way of showing that he has no third-party liability.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant for impleader whether the third-party defendant
is or could be directly liable to the original plaintiff.

Impleader does not require that the third-party defendant be liable
directly  to  the  original  plaintiff;  rather,  it  requires  that  the  third-party
defendant “is or may be liable” to the original defendant. Impleader
thus is based on the theory of derivative or secondary liability. “It is
well established that a defendant may, as third-party plaintiff, implead a
party that the plaintiff could not sue directly, [so that] the claim against
the  third-party  defendant  inur[es]  to  the  benefit  of  the  third-party
plaintiff and not to the original plaintiff.” Parks v. United States, 784
F.2d 20, 24 (1st Cir. 1986). So here, even though it is probably true as a

211

matter  of  substantive  law  that  the  construction  company  could  not
recover  directly  against  the  trucker  (because  the  trucker's  promise  of
performance  ran  only  to  the  benefit  of  the  distributor,  and  the
construction  company  was  not  an  intended  third-party  beneficiary  of
that  promise),  this  would  be  completely  irrelevant  to  the  key  issue  in
the  third-party  suit  of  whether  the  trucker  is  liable  to  the  distributor.
Consequently, the court will not permit the trucker to raise as a defense
that  the  construction  company  couldn't  recover  directly  against  the
trucker.

 (B) is not the best response,

because impleader does not have to await judgment on the main claim.

Federal Rule 14(a)(1) allows impleader against a party who “is or
may  be  liable”  to  the  third-party  plaintiff,  and  this  use  of  “may  be”
indicates  that  the  impleader  claim  is  permitted  before  the  third-party
plaintiff's liability has been determined by the court in the main action.
In other words, the Rule does not require that the court first adjudicate
the third-party plaintiff's liability. (In fact, Rule 14's strong preference
that  impleader  occur  very  early  in  the  litigation  of  the  main  claim  is
demonstrated by the last sentence of Rule 14(a)(1), which says that if
the  third-party  plaintiff  will  be  filing  the  third-party  complaint  “more
than 14 days after serving its original answer,” the third-party plaintiff
must move to obtain leave of court to allow this later-than-usual filing.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  the  federal  rule  permits  a  third-party  defendant  to
assert most defenses that the third-party plaintiff may have against the
original  plaintiff,  there  is  an  exception  for  “personal  defenses”  like
venue.

As is discussed more fully in the explanation of choice (D) above,
as  a  general  rule  the  third-party  defendant  may  assert  against  the
original plaintiff any defense that the third-party plaintiff would have to
the original plaintiff's claim. But the federal courts have recognized an
exception  to  this  general  rule  for  any  defense  held  by  the  third-party
plaintiff  that  is  classified  as  a  “personal  defense,”  and  venue  (like
lack  of  personal  jurisdiction  and  improper  service)  is  one  of  these
personal  defenses.  See  W,M&K  (3d  Ed.),  Vol.  6,  §  1457,  p.  518:
“[T]he  third-party  defendant  may  not  object  to  the  court's  lack  of
personal jurisdiction over the defendant . . . [or] its lack of venue over

212

the  original  action  .  .  .  even  if  the  original  defendant  has  not  waived
these  defenses  .  .  .  .  These  matters  are  considered  the  original
defendant's  personal  defenses  and  are  therefore  not  available  to  the
third-party defendant.”

Answer 19

 (D) is the best response,

because  a  third-party  complaint  is  proper  only  where  any  liability  it
alleges  would  be  derivative  of  the  main  plaintiff's  claim  against  the
third-party plaintiff.

First,  let's  take  care  of  several  pieces  of  nomenclature:  The
electrician's claim against the plumber is a “third-party complaint”; the
electrician is the “third-party plaintiff” (or “TPP”), and the plumber is
the “third-party defendant” (or “TPD”). Now, then: The mechanism by
which a third-party plaintiff may bring a third-party complaint against a
third-party defendant is specified by FRCP 14. Rule 14(a)(1) says that
“A defending party may, as third-party plaintiff, serve a summons and
complaint on a nonparty who is or may be liable to it for all or part of
the  claim  against  [the  third-party  plaintiff].”  So  the  Rule  14
impleader  procedure  applies  where,  and  only  where,  the  third-party
plaintiff is alleging that the third-party defendant “is or may be liable to
[the  third-party  plaintiff]  for  all  or  part  of  the  claim  against”  that
third-party  plaintiff.  In  other  words,  the  third-party  complaint  must
assert some sort of derivative liability, whereby the TPD is alleged to
be  liable  not  directly  to  the  original  plaintiff,  but  to  the  TPP  in  the
event that the TPP is found liable to the original plaintiff. See W,M&K
(2d Ed.): “A third-party claim may be asserted under Rule 14(a) only
when  the  third  party's  liability  is  in  some  way  dependent  on  the
outcome  of  the  main  claim  or  when  the  third  party  is  secondarily
liable to defendant.”

Consequently, one type of claim that cannot be made in the form of
a  Rule  14  third-party  claim  is  a  so-called  “claim”  (which  is  really  a
“defense” rather than a claim) of the form, “If any party is liable to the
main  plaintiff,  it's  X,  not  me.”  See,  e.g.,  Toberman  v.  Copas,  800  F.
Supp. 1239, 1242 (M.D. Pa. 1992): “A theory that another party is the
correct defendant is not appropriate for a third party complaint.” And
that's  what's  going  on  here:  The  electrician  is  claiming  that  the  driver
who hit the messenger (the messenger being the original plaintiff) is not

213

the electrician, but rather the plumber, so that only the plumber, not the
electrician, could possibly be liable to the messenger. This claim is not
a  valid  third-party  claim,  because  any  liability  that  the  plumber  might
have for negligent driving is completely separate from the electrician's
conduct and does not derive from any liability that the electrician might
have to the messenger. Since the claim is not a valid third-party claim,
the court should (indeed must) dismiss the third-party complaint under
Rule  12(b)(6)  for  failure  to  state  a  claim  on  which  relief  can  be
granted.

 (A) is not the best response,

if 

the  electrician-vs-plumber  complaint  here  were  an
because 
otherwise-valid  third-party  complaint,  the  doctrine  of  supplemental
jurisdiction would remove any subject-matter jurisdiction problem.

Supplemental  jurisdiction  is  granted  by  28  U.S.C.  §  1367.  §
1367(a) says that “in any civil action of which the district courts have
original  jurisdiction,  the  district  courts  shall  have  supplemental
jurisdiction over all other claims that are so related to claims in the
action  within  such  original  jurisdiction  that  they  form  part  of  the
same  case  or  controversy  under  Article  III  of  the  United  States
Constitution. Such supplemental jurisdiction shall include claims that
involve  the  joinder  or  intervention  of  additional  parties.”  So  if  the
original  claim  by  the  plaintiff  against  the  defendant  falls  within  the
district  court's  “original  jurisdiction,”  then  a  third-party  claim  falls
within supplemental jurisdiction as long as that third-party claim is “so
related  to”  the  original  claim(s)  that  the  original  claim  and  the  third-
party claim can be said to be “part of the same case or controversy” for
Article III constitutional purposes. And because of the derivative nature
of  a  valid  third-party  claim  (i.e.,  the  fact  that  by  definition  it  derives
from  the  defendant's  liability  to  the  original  plaintiff),  the  third-party
claim  will  virtually  always  be  “so  related”  to  the  main  claim  as  to
make  them  part  of  the  “same  case  or  controversy,”  as  §  1367(a)
requires. In other words, as a practical matter a valid Rule 14 third-
party  claim  will  virtually  always 
the  court's
supplemental  jurisdiction.  See  W,M,C&F  (3d  Ed.),  Vol.  13D,  §
3567.1,  p.  347:  “[I]mpleader  claims  routinely  satisfy  §  1367(a)
because they concern the ultimate liability for the very transaction that
is the basis of the underlying suit.” Therefore, if the electrician's claim
against  the  plumber  were  a  valid  third-party  claim  under  Rule  14

fall  within 

214

(which it isn't), the applicability of supplemental jurisdiction under 28
U.S.C.  §  1367(a)  would  mean  that  the  fact  that  the  electrician  and  the
plumber are not diverse to each other would be irrelevant. That makes
Choice (A) incorrect as an argument for why the court should dismiss
the third-party complaint.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  “100-mile  bulge”  provision  of  Rule  4(k)(1)(B)  gives  the
court personal jurisdiction over the plumber.

Rule  4(k)(1)  says  that  “Serving  a  summons  or  filing  a  waiver  of
service establishes personal jurisdiction over a defendant: . . . (B) who
is a party joined under Rule 14 or 19 and is served within a judicial
district  of  the  United  States  and  not  more  than  100  miles  from
where  the  summons  was  issued[.]”  This  is  the  so-called  “100-mile
bulge”  provision,  which  grants  a  federal  court  personal  jurisdiction
over a third-party defendant if that party can be found and served within
a 100-mile radius of the courthouse in which the federal court hearing
the case sits. And that's true even if the third-party defendant does not
have minimum contacts (or, indeed, any contacts whatsoever) with the
state where the action is pending, as long as that third-party defendant
has minimum contacts with the state where he was served. The service
on the plumber here meets this requirement, because: (1) the underlying
case is pending at the federal courthouse located in State A; (2) service
of  the  third-party  complaint  was  made  in  person  on  the  plumber  at  a
place  in  State  C  less  than  100  miles  from  the  State  A  federal
courthouse; and (3) the facts tell you that the plumber was performing a
multi-week project at the site in State C where he was served, enough
of  a  contact  with  State  C  to  constitute  the  constitutionally-required
minimum contacts with State C. So if the complaint were a valid third-
party  complaint  as  defined  in  Rule  14,  the  10-mile  bulge  provision
would  apply,  furnishing  the  State  A  federal  court  with  personal
jurisdiction  over  the  plumber  and  making  this  choice  an  incorrect
argument for why the claim against the plumber should be dismissed.

 (C) is not the best response,

because service of the complaint on plumber was quick enough to meet
the “of right” requirements.

FRCP  14,  in  addition  to  specifying  what  types  of  claims  may  be
made  by  impleader,  specifies  the  time  limits  for  making  service  of  a

215

Rule14 impleader claim. Rule 14(a)(1) starts by articulating the general
principle that “A defending party may, as third-party plaintiff, serve a
summons and complaint on a nonparty who is or may be liable to it for
all or part of the claim against [the third-party plaintiff].” Then, the next
sentence of 14(a)(1) says, “But the third-party plaintiff must, by motion,
obtain the court's leave if it files the third-party complaint more than
14 days after serving its original answer[.]” Reading these first two
sentences  of  Rule  14(a)(1)  together,  the  scheme  is  that  as  long  as  the
defending  party  serves  the  third-party  complaint  within  14  or  fewer
days after that defending party served its “original answer,” no leave of
court is required (i.e., the third-party claim can be served “of right”).
The  facts  here  tell  you  that  the  electrician  served  his  purported  third-
party  complaint  against  the  plumber  11  days  after  the  electrician  had
served his original answer to the messenger's complaint. So the service
of the third-party complaint occurred less than 14 days after service of
the  original  answer,  obviating  the  need  for  the  electrician  to  obtain
leave of court. That means that the electrician's failure to get leave of
court is not a reason for dismissing the third-party claim.

Answer 20

 (B) is the best response,

because where the defendant being served is an individual, the papers
may not be left at the person's usual place of business.

This  question  is  mildly  tricky  because  it  involves  service  of
process on an individual who is in business, so in a sense it falls half-
way between the situation of service on an individual arising out of a
non-business matter (e.g., an auto accident) and the situation of service
on a corporation arising out of a business matter. The key insight is to
know  that  when  an  individual  is  being  served,  even  if  the  individual
operates a business, he or she cannot be served by leaving the papers
with a third person found at the individual's usual place of business (at
least assuming that there is no special provision of state law that allows
this).

Let's  review  the  FRCP  provisions  governing  service  on  an
individual found within the United States. These provisions are given in
Rule  4(e).  Since  we  can't  conclude  that  a  particular  form  of  service
was invalid unless we look at all  the  allowable  methods,  we  have  to
look at the full text of this provision:

216

“Unless federal law provides otherwise, an individual—other than
a  minor,  an  incompetent  person,  or  a  person  whose  waiver  has  been
filed—may be served in a judicial district of the United States by:

(1)  following  state  law  for  serving  a  summons  in  an  action
brought  in  courts  of  general  jurisdiction  in  the  state  where  the
district court is located or where service is made; or

(2) doing any of the following:

(A) delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint to

the individual personally;

(B)  leaving  a  copy  of  each  at  the  individual's  dwelling  or
usual  place  of  abode  with  someone  of  suitable  age  and
discretion who resides there; or

(C)  delivering  a  copy  of  each  to  an  agent  authorized  by

appointment or by law to receive service of process.”
So, putting aside for the moment the possibility that state law may
supply  an  additional  method,  if  the  plaintiff  is  relying  only  on  the
federal methods specified in Rule 4(e)(2), then other than handing the
papers to the “individual personally” (4(e)(2)(A)) or to an authorized
“agent” (4(e)(2)(C)), the only way service can be made by leaving the
papers  with  someone  other  than  the  individual  being  served  is  by
leaving  them  at  the  individual's  “dwelling  or  usual  place  of  abode
with someone of suitable age and discretion who resides there.” In
other  words,  there's  no  way  to  make  service  by  showing  up  at  the
individual's usual place of business and leaving the papers with a co-
worker or employee of the individual defendant. So on our facts, even
if the accountant still worked at the 123 Main Street address, and even
if the receptionist who took the papers was the accountant's employee,
the service would still have been improper under Rule 4(e)(2).

Notice  that  4(e)(2)(C)  allows  service  on  an  individual  without
regard to the location (and thus possibly allows service at the person's
place of business) if the papers are left with “an agent  authorized  by
appointment  or  by  law  to  receive  service  of  process.”  But  this
provision  is  interpreted  pretty  narrowly;  unless  the  defendant  has,
according  to  common-law  “agency”  principles,  conferred  on  the  third
person the power to accept service (and merely conferring the general
power  to  “act  as  my  assistant  when  I'm  not  around”  would  not  be
sufficient), a co-worker or employee of the individual would not count
as  an  agent.  Here,  where  the  defendant  doesn't  even  work  at  those
premises any more, and there's nothing to suggest that he has authorized

217

the receptionist to act on his behalf to receive papers, the receptionist
would certainly not be an “agent authorized by appointment or by law
to receive service of process.”

There's one last possibility that you have to rule out before you can
be  confident  that  the  service  method  here  was  improper.  Under  Rule
4(e)(1), if either State A (the “state where the district court [in which
the suit is pending] is located”) or State B (the state “where service is
made”)  had  passed  a  statute  allowing  service  on  an  individual  by
leaving  the  papers  with  a  third  person  at  the  individual's  place  of
business, that state provision would have made the service here valid.
But  the  facts  tell  you  that  States  A  and  B  have  no  method-of-service
provisions  beyond  those  provided  directly  by  the  FRCP  (i.e.,  those
listed  in  4(e)(2)),  so  this  escape-hatch  allowing  the  use  of  state-law
service methods is not available to save the method used here.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it reaches the right result but on incorrect legal reasoning.

This choice suggests that the only reason service was invalid was
that the accountant was no longer using 123 Main St. as his usual place
of  business  at  the  time  the  service  occurred.  But  as  the  analysis  of
choice (B) above demonstrates, federal law does not allow service on
an individual by leaving papers with a third person at the individual's
place  of  business  (or,  indeed,  any  location  other  than  the  individual's
“dwelling or usual place of abode”), even if that place of business is
current. So even if the accountant customarily showed up at 123 Main
St.  as  his  place  of  business  every  day,  service  would  still  have  been
improper, making this choice a much less good explanation of the result
than Choice (B).

 (C) is not the best response,

both because it reaches the incorrect result and because it does so

by an incorrect legal analysis.

As the analysis of choice (B) above demonstrates, federal law does
not  allow  service  on  an  individual  by  leaving  papers  with  a  third
person at the individual's place of business. So even if the 123 Main St.
address  were  the  accountant's  actual  place  of  business  (rather  than
merely being a place he falsely identified on his website as being his
place of business), the service here would still have been improper.

218

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is based on an incorrect legal rule about when a waiver of
the right to object to improper service occurs.

It's certainly true that under federal law, a defendant can easily be
found to have waived, by mere inaction, his right to object to improper
service. The relevant provisions are found in FRCP 12. Rule 12(b)(5)
effectively  gives  a  defendant  a  choice  of  two  ways  of  raising  the
defense of “insufficient service of process”: (1) by raising the defense
in  that  defendant's  “responsive  pleading”  (which  is  of  course  the
answer)  or  (2)  by  motion.  And  Rule  12(h)(1)  says  that  the  defenses
listed  in  Rule  12(b)(2)-(5)  (which  as  just  noted  include  the  12(b)(5)
“insufficient service of process” defense) are waived if made in neither
a pre-answer Rule 12 motion nor in the answer itself. But the facts here
tell  you  that  after  receiving  the  papers  from  the  receptionist,  the
accountant “immediately” filed an answer that included the insufficient-
service defense. “Immediately” implies that the accountant did not file
a  Rule  12(b)  motion  prior  to  the  answer  (which,  if  he  had  so  filed
without  raising  the  insufficient-service  defense  as  part  of  the  motion,
would have been an automatic waiver), so by raising the defense in his
answer the accountant properly and timely asserted it. In other words,
this choice, by suggesting that the insufficient-service defense must be
made by a pre-answer motion rather than in the answer itself, is making
an incorrect statement of law. (But keep in mind that if the accountant
had  made  a  Rule  12(b)  motion  for  any  other  reason—such  as,  say,  a
12(b)(6)  motion  for  failure  to  state  a  claim  on  which  relief  can  be
granted—his failure to assert the insufficient-service objection as part
of that 12(b) motion would have resulted under Rule 12(h)(1)(A) in a
waiver of the objection, so that it could no longer later be asserted as
part of even a timely-filed answer.)

Answer 21

 (B) is correct,

because  the  Erie  doctrine  requires  the  federal  court  to  follow  the
substantive policy embedded in the additur technique.

The principle embodied by Erie v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938) is
that  when  a  federal  court  is  sitting  in  diversity,  the  court  must  apply
state—not federal—substantive law. So the issue here is whether State
A's  common-law  rule  allowing  a  trial  judge  to  use  the  “additur”

219

conditional-new-trial  technique  if  the  judge  believes  a  jury  verdict  to
be  manifestly  and  excessively  low  is  a  “substantive”  principle  that  is
binding  on  the  federal  judge.  It's  very  likely  that  the  Supreme  Court
would  hold  that  State  A's  endorsement  of  the  additur  technique
represents  an  attempt  by  the  state  to  achieve  the  substantive  goal  of
ensuring  that  jury  verdicts  are  not  unreasonably  low.  The  Supreme
Court  has  never  expressly  decided  whether  Erie  doctrine  applies  to
additur, but the Court has decided a case involving a closely analogous
state-law  technique  for  controlling  the  size  of  jury  verdicts.  In
Gasperini  v.  Center  For  Humanities,  Inc.,  518  U.S.  415  (1996),  the
Court  had  to  decide  whether  a  federal  judge  sitting  in  diversity  must
apply  a  New  York  statute  under  which  the  trial  judge  should  order  a
new trial if the jury's award “deviates materially from what would be
reasonable  compensation.”  The  Court  held  that  the  answer  was  yes:
Although  the  statute  may  have  had  a  procedural  aspect,  the  state  was
pursuing  the  obviously  substantive  goal  of  controlling  the  size  of  jury
verdicts, so the federal court was required to follow a similar policy of
ordering  a  new  trial  if  the  jury  verdict  was  a  material  deviation  from
compensation that would be reasonable. Here, by recognizing additur,
State  A  is,  similarly,  pursuing  the  substantive  objective  of  using
conditional new trial orders to make sure that a clearly-inadequate jury
verdict does not stand; therefore, the federal court should (and indeed
under Erie must) pursue the same objective.

There  is  an  additional  complication  in  this  case:  The  Seventh
Amendment guarantees a litigant in a federal trial a right to a jury trial,
and there is some older Supreme Court precedent suggesting that use of
additur  may  violate  the  Seventh  Amendment  by  leading  the  judge  to
award a damage amount greater than was ever awarded by the jury. But
as is discussed more fully in the treatment of choice (D) below, use of
additur in the circumstances here would be very unlikely to be found to
be  a  violation  of  the  Seventh  Amendment,  because  the  $200,000
hospital-bill payment was not genuinely in dispute.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  movant  must,  as  a  pre-condition  to  a  post-verdict  motion
for  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law,  make  the  motion  at  the  close  of
evidence.

The making of a motion for judgment as a matter of law or “JML”
(the  federal  equivalent  of  the  common-law  motion  for  “JNOV,”  or
“judgment  notwithstanding  the  verdict”)  is  governed  by  FRCP  50(a).

220

Rule 50(a)(2) says that “A motion for judgment as a matter of law may
be made at any time before the case is submitted to the jury.” In other
words,  by  negative  implication  once  the  case  is  submitted  to  the  jury,
the  motion  is  no  longer  timely.  Assuming  that  the  motion  was  timely
made, then after the jury hands down a verdict with which the movant is
unhappy, Rule 50(b) says that “No later than 28 days after the entry of
judgment . . . The movant may file a renewed motion for judgment as a
matter of law[.]” Here, the facts tell you that the case was submitted to
the  jury  “without  any  motion  having  been  made  by  either  side”—
therefore, you know that the skydiver did not move for JML before the
case was sent to the jury and that he therefore lost the right to make (or
renew) such a motion after the verdict. (But if the skydiver had moved
for JML before the case went to the jury, this choice would be correct:
The  skydiver  would  have  had  28  days  after  entry  of  the  judgment  in
which  to  renew  his  JML  motion,  and  the  court  would  have  been
justified in granting the motion—i.e., awarding judgment for $200,000
—since  that  amount  would  be  correct  as  a  matter  of  law  in  the  sense
that  there  would  have  been  uncontested  proof  of  the  $200,000  in
hospital-bill damages.)

 (C) is not the best choice,

because it states a legally-incorrect rule.

The  case  for  using  additur  is  actually  weaker  in  federal-question
cases than in diversity cases. That's because in a federal question case,
Erie  doctrine  is  irrelevant,  so  there's  no  state-law  substantive  policy
that  the  federal  court  might  be  required  to  implement,  as  would
arguably  be  the  situation  in  a  diversity  case  where  the  relevant  state
law  encourages  the  use  of  additur  to  prevent  unreasonably  low  jury
verdicts. But in any event, this choice is wrong in asserting that additur
may not be applied in diversity cases, as is explained in the discussion
of Choice (B).

 (D) is not the best choice,

because  the  use  of  additur  here  would  be  the  equivalent  of  a  grant  of
summary  judgment  on  damages  and  would  therefore  not  invade  the
province of the jury.

It's true that in an old case, the Supreme Court seemed to hold that
the use of additur violated the plaintiff's Seventh Amendment right to a
jury  trial.  That  case  was  Dimick  v.  Schiedt,  293  U.S.  474,  486-87

221

(1935), in which the majority said that “where the verdict is too small,
an  increase  by  the  court  [by  use  of  additur]  is  a  bald  addition  of
something which in no sense can be said to be included in the verdict,”
thereby violating the right of the plaintiff (not the defendant) to have a
jury  determine  the  correct  damage  amount.  It's  not  at  all  clear  that
Dimick  would  turn  out  the  same  way  today,  i.e.,  that  the  present
Supreme Court would find any  use  of  additur  to  be  a  violation  of  the
Seventh  Amendment.  But  in  any  event,  the  lower  federal  courts  have,
post-Dimick,  always  recognized  that  there  is  no  Seventh  Amendment
problem with the use of additur in one particular situation: that in which
the trial demonstrates that if the defendant is liable at all, he is liable
for  at  least  some  particular  amount  as  proven  by  the  uncontested
evidence. See, e.g., Roman v. Western Manufacturing, Inc.,  691  F.3d
686,  702  (5th  Cir.  2012):  “[T]he  constitutional  rule  against  additur  is
not violated in a case where the jury ha[s] properly determined liability
and there is no valid dispute as to the amount of damages. In such a
case the court is in effect simply granting summary judgment on the
question  of  damages.”  That's  the  situation  here:  The  jury  has  found
liability  (a  defective  product  that  caused  the  injury),  and  the
manufacturer  never  contested  the  skydiver's  evidence  that  the  hospital
bill for the resulting injuries totaled $200,000 and was paid. Therefore,
the  trial  judge's  use  of  additur—i.e.,  the  judge's  grant  of  a  new  trial
conditioned upon the manufacturer's refusal to agree to pay $200,000—
was  functionally  no  different  from  the  judge's  granting  post-trial
summary judgment of $200,000 as the amount of damages about which
there was no genuine issue of law or fact; and no court would consider
a  grant  of  summary  judgment  to  be  a  violation  of  a  litigant's  Seventh
Amendment right to jury trial.

Answer 22

 (C) is the best response,

because in a diversity action, the federal court must follow the conflict-
of-laws principles of the state in which the federal court sits.

The underlying claim here is based on state law of product liability.
In that situation, there is no federal statute or rule that governs what test
is to be used in determining whether the product's design was defective
(and the product would have to be defective in order for the landscaper
to recover). Since there is no federal statute or rule on point, the case is

222

governed  by  the  basic  rule  of  Erie  v.  Tompkins,  304  U.S.  64  (1938),
that  the  federal  court  must  follow  the  state's  substantive  law.  The
question then becomes, which  state's  substantive  law  must  the  federal
court follow? The answer has always been, since soon after Erie itself
was decided, that the federal court must follow the substantive law of
whichever  state  the  state  court  where  the  federal  court  sits  would
follow had the case been filed in state court. In other words, the federal
court  must  follow  the  conflict  of  laws  principles  of  the  state  in
which the federal court sits. See Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Co., 313 U.S.
487, 496 (1941), a diversity case filed in Delaware federal court: “The
conflict  of  laws  rules  to  be  applied  by  the  federal  court  [sitting]  in
Delaware must conform to those prevailing in Delaware's state courts.”
(If  the  federal  court  were  free  to  make  its  own  conflict-of-laws
decision about which state's substantive law to apply, then the plaintiff
could “forum shop” between the state and federal courts in a particular
state, by picking whichever court she thought would use a conflicts rule
that would lead to use of the most favorable-to-the-plaintiff substantive
law, thereby defeating Erie's anti-forum-shopping purpose.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  leads  to  the  wrong  result  in  those  cases  where  State  C's
conflict principles would lead that state to apply another state's design-
defect test.

If State C's conflict principles would cause State C to use, say, the
design-defect test applied by the state where the product was designed
and manufactured (State B), then this choice would result in the federal
court's  using  a  different  substantive  rule  than  would  be  used  by  the
courts  of  the  state  where  the  federal  court  sits  (State  C).  And,  for  the
reasons  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (C)  above,  such  an
approach  would  encourage  plaintiffs  to  forum-shop.  The  correct
approach is for the federal court to use the conflict-of-law rules of the
state where the federal court sits, rather than necessarily the substantive
law of that state.

 (B) is not the best result,

because Erie  principles  require  a  federal  court  sitting  in  diversity  to
apply state, not federal, substantive law.

It is probably true that there are design-defect standards developed
by the federal courts for use in suits where the federal law supplies the

223

rule of decision (e.g., in a suit by a member of the Armed Forces who
is  injured  by  a  defective  product  purchased  by  the  military  from  the
company now being sued). But the basic principle behind Erie doctrine
is that where the right sued upon is created by a state, a federal court
hearing a suit on that right is required to consult state law, not federal
common-law  principles  developed  in  connection  with  analogous
federally-created rights.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  is  not  up  to  the  federal  court  to  select  what  it  thinks  is  the
best conflict-of-laws approach to the controversy.

Erie  requires  that  a  federal  court  sitting  in  diversity  apply  “state
substantive  law.”  The  object  of  Erie  doctrine  is  principally  to  ensure
that insofar as the outcome of a suit is dependent on substantive rules, a
diversity  suit  should  reach  the  same  outcome  as  a  suit  brought  in  the
courts of the state where the federal court sits, so as to reduce forum-
shopping.  The  Supreme  Court  has  interpreted  this  rationale  to  require
that the federal court apply the conflict-of-laws rule of the state where
the  federal  court  sits,  rather  than  permitting  the  federal  court  to  use
“federal  conflict-of-law  principles,”  which  might  include  the  federal
judge's  own  judgment  about  which  state  has  the  strongest  interest  in
having  its  substantive  law  apply.  This  “follow  state  conflict-of-laws
principles” approach was announced by the Supreme Court in Klaxon
Co.  v.  Stentor  Co.,  313  U.S.  487,  496  (1941)  (quoted  in  Choice  (C)
above), and has remained good law despite some criticisms.

Answer 23

 (D) is correct,

because it correctly applies the federal rule governing a request for a
waiver of service.

Under  the  waiver-of-service  procedure  laid  out  in  Federal  Rule
4(d)(1),  a  plaintiff  can  send  “by  first-class  mail  or  other  reliable
means”  notice  to  a  corporate  (or  for  that  matter  an  individual)
defendant  of  the  commencement  of  the  suit  and  request  that  the
defendant  “waive  service  of  a  summons.”  Then,  if  the  defendant
complies with the request by signing and returning the waiver form to
the  plaintiff,  the  plaintiff  can  file  the  waiver  with  the  court  and  avoid
having to make service. See Rule 4(d)(4), entitled “Results of Filing a

224

Waiver”:  “When  the  plaintiff  files  a  waiver,  proof  of  service  is  not
required and these rules apply as if a summons and complaint had
been  served  at  the  time  of  filing  the  waiver.”  But  the  request-for-
waiver process does not obviate the need for actual service unless and
until the plaintiff receives the signed waiver and files it with the court.
See the Advisory Committee Notes to the 1993 Amendments on Rule 4:
“[i]f  the  waiver  is  not  returned  and  filed,  .  .  .  the  action  will  not
otherwise  proceed  until  formal  service  of  process  is  effected.”  See
also Cambridge Holdings Group, Inc. v. Federal Insurance Company,
489 F.3d 1356 (D.C. Cir. 2007): “if the defendant does not waive, the
rule does not suggest that service is nonetheless effective.” So service
was not deemed complete until Plaintiff filed the signed return with the
court on August 22.

 (A) is incorrect,

because  it  misstates  the  requirements  for  the  waiver-of-service
procedure to be proper.

As is more fully described in the treatment of Choice (D) above, the
waiver  procedure  does  not  result  in  the  complaint's  being  deemed
served  unless  and  until  the  plaintiff  has  received  back  from  the
defendant the signed waiver and filed it with the court.

 (B) is incorrect,

because it misstates how the waiver-of-service procedure works.

It's  true  that  according  to  Rule  4(d)(1)(F),  the  plaintiff,  when  he
mails the defendant a request for waiver of service, is not required to
give  the  defendant  more  than  30  days  in  which  to  sign  and  return  the
form  to  the  plaintiff.  But  once  the  plaintiff  does  that,  the  fact  that  the
defendant does not comply with the request within the allotted 30 days
does  not  entitle  the  plaintiff  to  file  a  statement  with  the  court  or
otherwise  treat  the  requirement  of  service  as  having  been  satisfied.
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
Indeed, there is no period of time so lengthy that the defendant's failure
to return the requested signed form is deemed to be a waiver of service.
Unless and until the defendant returns the signed form and the plaintiff
files the form with the court, service is not deemed to have been carried
out—so by declining to sign, the defendant can effectively require the
plaintiff to make actual service. (The only “teeth” contained in the Rule
4(d)(1) request-for-waiver mechanism is that if the defendant does not
grant the waiver, the court is required to make the defendant pay for the

225

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

plaintiff's  expenses  in  making  service,  as  well  as  plaintiff's  attorney's
fees for any motion that plaintiff makes in order to collect the service
expenses.)

 (C) is incorrect,

because  it  misstates  the  point  at  which  the  waiver-of-process
mechanism substitutes for actual service.

Plaintiff's  receipt  of  the  signed  waiver  form  from  the  defendant  is
certainly  a  necessary  condition  to  Plaintiff's  ability  to  avoid  making
service, but that receipt is not also a sufficient condition for that ability
—the  need  for  actual  service  on  defendant  is  not  extinguished  unless
and  until  Plaintiff  files  the  signed  waiver  with  the  court.  See  the
explanation of Choice (D) for more about this process.

Answer 24

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  federal  court  must  follow  the  preclusion  rule  of  State  A,
and  that  rule  would  deny  issue  preclusion  because  the  issue  was  not
actually litigated.

To solve this problem, you first have to decide whether the federal
court is required to follow the relevant state law of “issue preclusion”
(also  called  “collateral  estoppel”).  The  answer  is  “yes,”  because  a
federal statute so specifies. 28 U.S.C. § 1738, partly entitled “full faith
and credit,” says that judgments rendered by any state court “shall have
the  same  full  faith  and  credit  in  every  [federal]  court”  as  the
judgment would have in the courts of the state that rendered it. And as
the Supreme Court has explained, § 1738 “has long been understood to
encompass  the  doctrines  of  res  judicata,  or  ‘claim  preclusion,'  and
collateral estoppel, or ‘issue preclusion.' ” San Remo Hotel, LP v. City
and County of San Francisco, 545 U.S. 323, 336 (2005). So whatever
issue-preclusive  effect  the  plea  bargain  would  have  in  the  State  A
courts in a later suit between the husband and a private adversary like
the insurer, the federal court must give that plea bargain the same issue-
preclusive  effect,  regardless  of  whether  the  federal  court  thinks  the
State A approach is correct.

Therefore, you next have to figure out what issue-preclusive effect,
if  any,  a  State  A  court  would  give  to  the  plea  bargain  here  if  the
question  arose  in  the  context  of  a  civil  suit  in  that  court  between  the

226

insurer  and  the  husband.  The  facts  tell  you  that  the  State  A  courts
“follow  the  prevailing  national  approach”  to  issue  preclusion.
Therefore,  you  have  to  decide  what  the  prevailing  national  approach
would be as to the use of issue preclusion here.

A good source of doctrine on the issue is the Second Restatement of
Judgments. § 27 of the Restatement gives the following “General Rule”
for when an issue of law or fact should be given issue-preclusive effect
in  a  subsequent  suit  between  the  same  parties  (which  is  not  the
situation  here,  but  in  a  minute  you'll  see  why  the  same-party  rule  is
relevant here): “When an issue of fact or law is actually litigated and
determined by a valid and final judgment, and the determination is
essential  to  the  judgment,  the  determination  is  conclusive  in  a
subsequent  action  between  the  parties,  whether  on  the  same  or  a
different claim.” Then, § 29 deals with the issue of when a person who
would be subject to issue preclusion under § 27 in a suit with the same
opponent as the first suit should also be subject to preclusion in a suit
with  a  different  opponent:  “A  party  precluded  from  relitigating  an
issue  with  an  opposing  party,  in  accordance  with  [§  27],  is  also
precluded from doing so with another person unless the fact that he
lacked  full  and  fair  opportunity  to  litigate  the  issue  in  the  first
action or other circumstances justify affording him an opportunity
to  relitigate  the  issue.”  (§  29  then  continues  on,  by  giving  a  list  of
various factors that might as a matter of policy justify not applying issue
preclusion  even  though  the  preclusion  doctrine  would  apply  if  the
second  case  involved  the  same  adversary.)  For  our  present  purposes,
all we need to take away from the combination of § 27 (rules for where
the parties are the same in the second as in the first suit) and § 29 (how
the rules are different if the party who lost on the issue in the first suit is
facing  a  different  adversary  in  the  second  suit)  is  this  simple  rule:  If
issue preclusion wouldn't apply even if the two parties were the same
in both suits, it cannot possibly apply where the party seeking to make
use  of  preclusion  was  not  a  party  to  the  first  suit.  So  if  we  can  find
some requirement for issue preclusion that because it wasn't met in the
first  suit  would  prevent  the  government  of  State  A  from  using  issue
preclusion  against  the  husband  in  a  later  civil  suit  between  the
government and the husband, we can be confident that that same unmet
requirement will prevent the insurer from using issue preclusion.

As you can see from the language of Rest. 2d § 27 quoted above, the
determination  on  an  issue  of  fact  or  law  is  “conclusive”  (i.e.,  issue-

227

preclusion  will  apply),  even  in  a  later  suit  between  the  same  parties,
only if three distinct requirements are all satisfied:
(1) the issue was “actually litigated”;
(2) the issue was “determined by a final judgment”; and
(3)  the  determination  of  the  issue  was  “essential  to  the

judgment.”
Here,  a  careful  reading  of  the  homicide  clause  shows  that  the
insurer can deny payment under that clause only if (a) the wife's death
was the result of a voluntary act by the wife or the husband; and (b) that
voluntary  act  was  committed  with  the  intent  of  causing  the  death.  The
husband's best chance of avoiding issue-preclusion as to issues (a) and
(b) (and he will avoid the bad effects of preclusion if he can avoid it as
to either (a) or (b), since the insurer has to prove both) is to show that
whether  or  not  the  plea-bargain  establishes  that  his  shot  was  a
“voluntary act,” the plea-bargain does not satisfy the three requirements
for  issue-preclusion  on  the  issue  of  whether  the  husband  by  firing  the
shot intended  to  cause  the  wife's  death.  (Since  it's  pretty  clear  that
requirements  for  issue-preclusion  are  not  met  as  to  intent-to-cause-
death, that's the only fact we'll focus on here.)

Well, can we say that the issue of whether the husband intended to
kill the wife when he fired the shot was “actually litigated” in the State
A  criminal  proceeding  that  ended  in  the  plea  bargain?  Clearly,  the
answer is “no”: The husband's precise state of mind in firing the shot
was  not  “actually  litigated”  in  the  proceeding  that  ended  in  the  guilty
plea. Indeed, the facts tell you that when the husband was required to
make  his  “allocution”  (oral  explanation  of  why  and  how  there  was  a
“factual basis” for the guilty plea), the husband expressly denied that he
intended  for  his  shot  to  strike  the  wife.  Where  the  defendant  is
permitted  to  plead  guilty  while  maintaining  his  innocence  of  some
aspect  of  the  crime—a  so-called  “Alford  plea”—the  vast  majority  of
courts have held that a fact denied by the defendant during the course of
the allocution should not be deemed to have been “actually litigated,”
and therefore not subject to later issue preclusion.

Furthermore,  recall  that  an  issue  can  be  subjected  to  issue
preclusion  only  if  determination  of  that  issue  was  “essential  to  the
judgment.”  Here,  the  facts  tell  you  that  in  State  A,  there  are  two
different  mental  states  that  can  suffice  for  voluntary  manslaughter:  an
intent to kill, or reckless behavior that leads to a killing. All we know
from  the  guilty  plea—even  if  we  treat  it  as  establishing  all  required
elements of the crime—is that the defendant had one of the two required

228

mental states, intent to kill or  recklessness.  But  the  insurance  policy's
homicide clause kicks in only if the killing by the spouse of the insured
was intentional—there is no mention of a reckless killing as sufficing.
Since the insurer isn't entitled to summary judgment unless it can show
that  the  husband  is  precluded  from  relitigating  every  factual  issue
needed  to  satisfy  the  homicide  clause,  it  cannot  be  said  that  a
determination  of  the  required  mental  state  was  “essential  to  the
judgment”  entered  by  the  State  A  court  under  the  plea  bargain.
Therefore,  we  can  be  confident  that  the  State  A  courts—following
prevailing  national  principles—would  not  preclude  the  husband  from
relitigating  all  issues  required  to  trigger  the  homicide  clause,  and  the
federal court must follow suit by declining issue preclusion and letting
the case go to trial (at least with respect to the husband's mental state
when he fired).

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  State  A  court  would  not  apply  issue  preclusion,  so  the
federal court cannot do so either.

Under the prevailing approach, an issue will not be subject to issue
preclusion unless it was both “actually litigated” in the prior case and
the  finding  on  that  issue  was  “essential  to  the  judgment.”  (See  the
discussion  of  Choice  (B)  above.)  Here,  the  handling  in  the  criminal
case of the issue of whether the husband intended for his shot to strike
the  wife  does  not  satisfy  either  of  these  requirements,  so  we  can  be
confident  that  the  State  A  courts  (which  we're  told  follow  the
“prevailing national approach” to the relevant issues) would not apply
issue  preclusion  here.  Therefore,  even  though  this  choice  correctly
states that the federal court must follow State A's approach, this choice
incorrectly states what that state-law approach would be.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it wrongly states that the federal court should follow the Court
of Appeals case law on when issue preclusion should apply.

As is described in the explanation of choice (B), the full-faith-and-
credit  principle  of  a  federal  statute,  28  U.S.C.  §  1738,  requires  a
federal  court  to  give  to  a  prior  state-court  judgment  the  same  res
judicata  effect  (including  the  same  issue-preclusion  or  collateral-
estoppel effect) as that judgment would have in the courts of the state
that rendered it, which in this case is State A. Therefore, even though

229

this choice is correct in stating that, because a federal court that follows
prevailing rules would not apply issue preclusion to an issue that was
not actually litigated, the court here should not apply issue preclusion.
This choice incorrectly states how the federal court here must reach its
decision; the federal court must apply whatever rule of issue preclusion
that the State A courts would apply and is not free to consult opinions
written  by  the  federal  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  circuit  in  which  the
federal court sits.

 (D) is not the best response,

for the same basic reason that choice (C) is incorrect: The federal court
is required to follow whatever approach to issue preclusion would be
applied by the State A courts and is not free to consult federal Court of
Appeals opinions. (The choice is also wrong for a second reason: The
“prevailing  national  approach”  that  you  are  told  is  applied  by  the
federal  Court  of  Appeals  would  not  regard  the  issue  of  the  husband's
intent in firing the shot as having been conclusively determined, due to
the  fact  that  the  husband's  intent  was  neither  “actually  litigated”  nor
decided in a way that was “essential to the judgment” of conviction.)

Answer 25

 (B) is the correct answer,

because  it  correctly  states  the  standard  that  governs  amendment  under
the  federal  rules  when  a  responsive  pleading  omits  an  affirmative
defense.

Under the fairly liberal amendment procedure of Federal Rule 15, a
party (call that party “A,” and the opposing party “B” for clarity) may
amend  his  pleading  once  as  a  matter  of  right  in  either  of  these  two
situations: (1) within 21 days of when A served his original pleading
(see  Rule  15(a)(1)(A))  or  (2)  if  A's  pleading  was  one  that  required  a
responsive pleading by B, within 21 days of when B either (i) served
that responsive pleading or (ii) made a motion under Rule 12(b), (e),
or (f) (with the 21 days starting on whichever of two events mentioned
in (i) and (ii) happened earlier) (see Rule 15(a)(1)(B)).

In  our  situation,  Defendant's  answer  did  not  assert  any
counterclaims. Therefore, the service of that answer did not require a
“responsive pleading” (the way, for instance, an answer that included a
counterclaim would have required that Plaintiff filed an answer to the

230

counterclaim). Since no responsive pleading was required, the scenario
covered  in  sub-section  (2)  in  the  prior  paragraph  (the  situation
governed by Rule 15(a)(1)(B)) does not apply. Consequently, the only
scenario in which defendant had a period in which to amend “of right”
was the scenario covered in sub-section (1) above, the garden-variety
scenario  in  which  Defendant  had  the  right  to  amend  once  if  he  acted
within  the  21  days  following  his  service  of  his  original  answer  (with
that  original  service  having  happened  on  March  15).  Therefore,  once
21  days  passed  after  March  15  (i.e.,  once  April  7  or  thereabouts
arrived), Defendant lost the right to amend even once as of right. So
by  April  20,  defendant  was  in  a  position  where  he  could  amend  only
“with the opposing party's written consent or the court's leave.” (Rule
15(a)(2).) Since we know from the facts that Defendant did not request
(and thus did not receive) Plaintiff's consent to the amendment, the only
route  left  to  Defendant  was  to  seek  the  court's  permission  to  amend.
(And, by the way, Rule 15(a)(2) says that “the court should freely give
leave  when  justice  so  requires”;  since  the  case  is  still  in  its  early
stages, and there is no apparent prejudice to Plaintiff that would result
from an amendment, the court is very likely to grant the leave to amend
if asked to do so.)

 (A) is not correct,

because  it  misstates  the  timing  requirement  of  the  federal  rule  with
respect to amendment.

A  party  has  an  automatic  right  to  amend  his  or  her  pleadings,
but only if 21 days have not elapsed since service of the paper. See
FRCP 15(a). Putting aside special provisions for the situation in which
that  party's  pleading  required  a  responsive  pleading  (not  applicable
here),  once  21  days  passed  from  when  Defendant  filed  his  original
answer  on  March  15,  Defendant  could  only  amend  by  successfully
requested  leave  of  court.  (See  more  about  this  in  the  discussion  of
Choice  (B)  above.)  It's  true  that  Defendant,  as  one  who  granted  a
requested  waiver  of  service,  was  originally  entitled  to  60  days  from
the  day  Plaintiff  sent  the  waiver  request  (i.e.,  until  about  May  3)  in
which  to  answer,  a  time  period  that  has  still  not  elapsed.  But  once
Defendant filed his first answer, the relevant time limit became 21 days
after that filing, not the originally available 60-days-following-service-
of-waiver-request; that's why a defendant should take care before filing
a first version of his or her answer.

231

 (C) is not correct,

because  the  doctrine  of  waiver  does  not  operate  in  the  automatic
manner described in this choice.

It's true that, generally, a defendant's failure to plead an affirmative
defense,  such  as  the  statute  of  limitations,  will  eventually  act  as  a
waiver  of  that  defense.  However,  a  party  that  fails  to  include  an
affirmative defense in its answer may amend the answer as of right if
21  days  have  not  passed  since  service  of  that  answer  (and  may  also
amend  on  consent  of  the  opposing  party  or  with  leave  of  court).  So
Choice (C), by saying that Defendant's failure to include the defense in
his answer constituted an “automatic” waiver that could not be cured by
amendment-of-right, is legally incorrect.

 (D) is incorrect,

as a matter of law.

There are  certain  defenses  that  may  be  asserted  by  motion  rather
than as part of the answer; they are the seven defenses specified in Rule
12(b)(1)-(7),  which  include  lack  of  subject-matter  or  personal
jurisdiction, failure to state a claim on which relief can be granted, etc.
But unless a defense is one of the seven special ones listed in 12(b)(1)-
(7),  the  defense  may  only  be  asserted  as  part  of  the  answer,  not  by
motion. The statute of limitations is not one of the seven, so it may not
be asserted by motion. (Indeed, statute of limitations is an “affirmative
defense,” and as such must, according to Rule 8(c)(1), be affirmatively
stated in the “responsive pleading” filed by the one asserting it, which
in this case is the answer.)

Answer 26

 (C) is correct,

because  it  correctly  recognizes  that  partial  summary  judgments  are
normally  not  final  and  that  the  judgment  here  does  not  fall  within  any
exception that would make the judgment here final.

Federal courts of appeal “have jurisdiction of appeal from all final
decisions  of  the  district  courts  of  the  United  States”  (28  U.S.C.  §
1291). But the appeals courts do not have jurisdiction to hear appeals
from non-final orders, except for a few special situations specified in
28 U.S.C. § 1292 (most importantly, cases involving injunctions), none

232

of  which  exists  here.  So  the  Court  of  Appeals  has  power  to  hear  the
appeal  only  if  the  district  court's  grant  of  partial  summary  judgment
(i.e.,  its  judgment  on  the  contract  claim)  is  deemed  to  be  a  final
judgment rather than an interlocutory order. FRCP 54(b) deals with the
finality of claims in actions that present more than one claim by stating
the general rule that “any order or other decision, however designated,
that adjudicates fewer than all the claims . . . does not end the action.”
However,  54(b)  recognizes  one  exception  to  this  “no  final  judgment”
rule: “[T]he [district] court may direct entry of a final judgment as to
one or more, but fewer than all, claims or parties only if the court
expressly determines that there is no just reason for delay[.]” Here,
the  facts  tell  you  that  the  district  court's  order  granting  the  partial
summary judgment was silent about “whether the judgment was deemed
final,  or  whether  there  was  any  reason  to  allow  an  immediate  appeal
from  it.”  From  this,  you  can  infer  that  the  district  court  did  not
“expressly determine that there [was] no just reason for delay,” the pre-
condition  for  the  partial  summary  judgment  to  be  deemed  final.  Since
the  partial  judgment  was  not  final  and  did  not  fall  within  any  special
exception  to  the  general  rule  stating  that  appeals  from  non-final
judgments are not allowed in federal practice, the court of appeals does
not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal even if it would like to do so.

 (A) is not correct,

because the  grant  of  partial  summary  judgment  is  normally  not  a
final judgment.

As is described more fully in the discussion of Choice (C) above,
under FRCP 54(b) an entry of judgment on fewer than all claims is not
deemed final unless the district court “expressly determines that there is
no just reason for delay” (which didn't happen here). Since Choice (A)
says that the grant of partial summary judgment is automatically a final
judgment,  this  choice  is  an  incorrect  statement  of  law  (and  also
incorrectly predicts the outcome).

 (B) is not correct,

because  immediate  appellate  review  is  not  available  on  the  facts
presented.

Federal  law  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1292(b)  allows  for  appeals  of
interlocutory  orders  only  in  limited  circumstances,  none  of  which
applies  on  the  present  facts.  Since  Choice  (B)  asserts  that  grants  of

233

partial summary judgment are immediately appealable at the discretion
of  the  appeals  court—and  implies  that  that's  true  whether  or  not  the
district  court  took  any  action  to  make  the  judgment  immediately
appealable—Choice (A) is wrong as a matter of law.

 (D) is not correct because,

although there is a rule which makes an appeal filed within 10 days a
relevant fact, the rule does not apply in the present situation.

Under  28  U.S.C.  §  1292(b),  if  a  district  court  includes  in  an
otherwise  non-appealable  order  a  statement  that  the  order  involves  a
“controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for
difference of opinion and that an immediate appeal from the order may
materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation,” the court
of  appeals  may,  “in  its  discretion”  permit  an  appeal.  In  that  special
circumstance, the appealing party must apply for leave to appeal within
10  days  of  when  the  district  court  entered  its  order.  28  U.S.C.  §
1292(b).  Here,  however,  the  facts  tell  you  that  the  District  Court  said
nothing about an immediate appeal, so the special situation referred to
in  the  prior  sentence  could  not  have  arisen,  making  the  presence  or
absence  of  a  consent  to  appeal  within  10  days  irrelevant  to  this
problem.

Answer 27

 (B) is the best response,

because full faith and credit principles do not require a court to apply
procedural rules of another court that has rendered a judgment.

When a state court has rendered a judgment, whatever obligation is
imposed on a federal court to honor and enforce that judgment derives
not  from  the  U.S.  Constitution's  “Full  Faith  &  Credit  Clause”  (which
only requires a state court to honor another state's judgments), but from
a federal statute. That statute, 28 U.S.C. § 1738, says that the “records
and judicial proceedings of any court of any . . . State . . . shall have the
same  full  faith  and  credit  in  every  [federal]  court  as  they  have  by
law  or  usage  in  the  courts  of  [the  rendering]  State[.]”  But  the  present
question doesn't involve enforcement of a typical out-of-state judgment
(say,  an  award  of  money  damages);  rather,  it  involves  an  issue  of
admissibility  of  evidence.  And  to  answer  the  question,  you  have  to
decide whether the federal full faith and credit statute requires the State

234

B federal court to refuse to allow the engineer's testimony if the State A
courts would so refuse on account of the injunction. The answer to that
question is not completely obvious just looking at the text of the federal
statute.

However,  precisely  this  issue  of  statutory  interpretation  has  come
before the U.S. Supreme Court, and the Court held unanimously that the
full faith and credit statute does not require the federal court to honor
any rule of evidence-admissibility imposed by such an injunction. The
facts  here  are  modeled  on  Baker  v.  General  Motors  Corp.,  522  U.S.
222  (1998),  in  which  all  nine  Justices  agreed  that  a  Missouri  federal
court hearing a consumer suit against G.M. was not required by the full
faith  and  credit  statute  to  exclude  evidence  from  the  former  G.M.
engineer  merely  because  a  Michigan  state  court  had  entered  an
injunction  against  the  engineer  barring  the  engineer  from  giving
testimony  against  G.M.  in  any  third-party  suit.  The  Court  in  Baker
agreed that the full faith and credit statute would require non-Michigan
courts to honor the true res judicata effects of the Michigan judgment
in the same way that the Michigan courts themselves would honor those
effects; so, for instance, since as the result of the Michigan settlement
and injunction G.M. and the engineer would be prevented from bringing
new  suits  against  each  other  for  the  claims  that  were  resolved  in  the
Michigan  settlement,  the  Missouri  federal  court  would  similarly  be
required not to hear such a suit brought by one of those parties against
the other. But full faith and credit principles did not allow Michigan to
preclude  other  states  from  hearing  suits  brought  by  strangers  to  the
Michigan litigation, or to tell these other states what procedural rules
they should follow in such “stranger” suits. Therefore, the Court held,
Michigan  “lacks  authority  to  control  courts  elsewhere  by  precluding
them,  in  actions  brought  by  strangers  to  the  Michigan  litigation,
from determining  for  themselves  what  witnesses  are  competent  to
testify and what  evidence  is  relevant  and  admissible  in  their  search
for  the  truth.”  That  principle  applies  here:  The  suit  in  State  B  federal
court was brought by a stranger to the State A litigation and injunction,
and the concept of full faith and credit does not require the federal court
(or indeed any state or federal court outside of the State A state-court
system) to apply a rule or policy of evidence admissibility or witness
competence  just  because  that  rule  would  be  followed  in  the  State  A
courts.

By the way, it's important to note that on our facts here (as in Baker,
supra),  the  “stranger”  to  the  first  litigation  (i.e.,  the  injured  consumer

235

who  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  earlier  suit)  is  the  one  trying  to  bring
about  the  engineer's  testimony,  by  means  of  a  subpoena.  If  instead  the
issue  arose  because  the  engineer  wanted  to  volunteer  to  testify  on
behalf of the stranger/consumer, then in all probability the federal court
would have to “honor” the State A injunction, by holding that the State
A  suit,  settlement,  and  injunction  had  definitively  foreclosed  the
engineer's own right to volunteer testimony.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the reason the federal court need not exclude the testimony has
nothing to do with the strength or existence of any policy interest on the
part of State B.

This choice correctly states the outcome (that the federal court does
not have to exclude the engineer's testimony even if the State A courts
would do so in a comparable suit). But the choice reaches this correct
result  by  incorrect  legal  reasoning.  As  is  discussed  more  fully  in  the
treatment of Choice (B), the full faith and credit statute simply does not
require  the  federal  courts  to  follow  the  evidence-admissibility  or
witness-competence rules of State A. And that's true whether the state
in  which  the  federal  court  sits  (here,  State  B)  has  a  countervailing
policy in favor of making testimony available, or not—in fact, even if
the State B courts would choose, for policy reasons, to honor the State
A  “no  testimony”  ruling,  the  federal  court  is  free  to  follow  federal
procedures  and  policies  for  determining  whether  to  enforce  the
subpoena and admit the engineer's testimony.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  full  faith  and  credit  statute  does  not  require  the  State  B
federal court to enforce the injunction in the way this choice asserts.

This  choice  articulates  the  argument  actually  made  by  G.M.  in  the
Baker  case  (see  Choice  (B)),  that  the  full  faith  and  credit  statute
requires the federal court to “enforce” the earlier state court injunction
by  refusing  to  hear  the  engineer's  testimony.  But  the  Supreme  Court
unanimously rejected this argument in Baker—the full faith and credit
principle, the Court said, does not extend to the point of requiring the
second  court  to  follow  the  first  court's  litigation  procedures,  such  as
matters of witness competency and evidence admissibility.

 (D) is not the best response,

236

because  the  likely  willingness  of  the  State  A  judge  who  originally
entered the injunction to modify it is irrelevant.

As  is  discussed  more  extensively  in  connection  with  Choice  (B),
the  full  faith  and  credit  statute  does  not  require  the  federal  court  to
support the policy embodied in the State A judge's decision to impose
an injunction on future testimony by the engineer. So even if the federal
judge is certain that the State A judge would not, in the event of a new
State A action brought by a stranger against the manufacturer, consent to
modify  the  injunction  to  allow  the  engineer's  testimony  to  be
subpoenaed by the stranger, the State A judge's unwillingness to compel
the  testimony  would  not  prevent  the  federal  judge  from  making  his  or
her  own  independent  decision  about  whether  to  enforce  the  subpoena
and allow the testimony.

Answer 28

 (C) is the best response,

because  Plaintiff's  claim  against  Distributor  is  not  within  the  court's
diversity  jurisdiction,  supplemental  jurisdiction  cannot  be  exercised
over  Distributor,  and  the  facts  do  not  suggest  that  any  other
jurisdictional basis is available.

When  faced  with  a  multi-party  and  multi-claim  action,  it  helps  to

diagram the action:

Plaintiff (State A) v. Defendant (State B)
↓ (third-party claim under FRCP 14)
Distributor (State A)

Here, Plaintiff is seeking to sue Distributor, who has been joined in
the action as a third-party defendant. See FRCP 14. However, in order
to bring a claim against a third-party defendant, the court must be able
to  exercise  subject-matter  jurisdiction.  One  form  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction  is  ordinary  diversity  jurisdiction  under  28  U.S.C.  §
1332(a),  by  which  the  court  can  hear  the  case  if  the  plaintiff  and  the
defendant  are  “citizens  of  different  States”  and  “the  matter  in
controversy exceeds the sum or value of $75,000 exclusive of interests
and costs.” 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a)(1). Since Plaintiff and Distributor are
citizens  of  the  same  state  (State  A),  ordinary  diversity  jurisdiction  is
not  present  as  between  them.  The  Plaintiff-vs-Distributor  claim  could
still  be  heard  if  that  claim  fell  within  a  second  type  of  jurisdiction,

237

 
supplemental jurisdiction. But the Plaintiff-vs-Distributor claim does
not  qualify  for  supplemental  jurisdiction.  That's  because  28  U.S.C.  §
1367(b) says that when the anchor claim (here, Plaintiff-vs-Defendant)
is  grounded  in  diversity  jurisdiction,  there  is  no  supplemental
jurisdiction over any claim “by plaintiffs against persons made parties
under  Rule  14,  19,  20,  or  24  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Civil
Procedure.  .  .  .  ”  28  U.S.C.  §  1367(b).  In  federal  actions,  third-party
claims are governed by Rule 14; the defendant's right to claim against
the  third-party-defendant  is  covered  by  14(a)(1),  and  the  original
plaintiff's right to claim against the third-party-defendant is covered by
14(a)(3).  In  other  words,  in  this  case  Distributor  is  a  “person  made
party  under  Rule  14,”  and  as  such,  §  1367(b)  says  that  there  is  no
supplemental jurisdiction over any claim “by [a] plaintiff against [that]
person  made  party  under  Rule  14.”  So  Plaintiff's  third-party  claim
against  Distributor  is  not  supported  by  either  basic  diversity  or
supplemental jurisdiction and must be dismissed.

On  the  other  hand,  the  court  has  subject  matter  jurisdiction  over
both  (1)  Plaintiff's  original  claim  against  Defendant;  and  (2)
Defendant's  third-party  claim  against  Distributor.  As  to  (1),  Plaintiff
and Defendant are citizens of different states, so that's an easy situation
for ordinary diversity. As to (2), since Plaintiff and Distributor are not
diverse (and “complete diversity” is ordinarily required), Distributor's
presence  in  the  case  (to  defend  against  Defendant's  third-party  claim
against  him)  might  be  viewed  as  destroying  the  required  complete
diversity.  But  the  Defendant-vs-Distributor  claim  does  fall  within  the
court's supplemental jurisdiction. That happens because of 28 U.S.C. §
1367(a), the main provision creating supplemental jurisdiction. Section
1367(a) says that in general, “[i]n any civil action of which the district
courts  have  original  jurisdiction,  the  district  courts  shall  have
supplemental jurisdiction over all  other  claims  that  are  so  related
to  claims  in  the  action  within  such  original  jurisdiction  that  they
form  part  of  the  same  case  or  controversy  under  Article  III  of  the
United  States  Constitution  .  .  .  .  Such  supplemental  jurisdiction  shall
include claims that involve the joinder or intervention of additional
parties.”  Since  the  court  started  by  having  jurisdiction  over  the
Plaintiff-vs-Defendant  “anchor”  claim,  supplemental 
jurisdiction
included any claim that was “so related” to the Plaintiff-vs-Defendant
claim as to be part of the “same case or controversy” as the Plaintiff-
vs-Defendant  claim.  And  since  Defendant's  third-party  claim  against
Distributor  (“If  I'm  liable  to  Plaintiff,  you  have  to  indemnify  me

238

third-party  claim 

(Plaintiff-vs-Defendant), 

because  you  caused  the  accident  by  leasing  defective  equipment”)
arose  out  of  the  same  accident  as  the  one  giving  rise  to  the  anchor
claim 
is  easily
the 
sufficiently  closely-related  to  the  anchor  claim  as  to  make  the  two
claims part of the same “case or controversy” (as that term is used in
Article  III  of  the  U.S.  Constitution).  Since  there  is  no  provision,  in  §
1367  or  elsewhere, 
that  specifically  withholds  supplemental
jurisdiction  as  to  a  third-party  claim  by  the  original  defendant  against
the  third-party  defendant,  that  third-party  claim  stays  in  the  case.
(Indeed,  this  type  of  claim—a  garden-variety  third-party  claim  by  the
third-party  defendant  claiming
original  defendant  against  a 
the
indemnification  or  contribution  as 
prototypical claim that Congress had in mind when it drafted the clause
of  §  1367(a)  allowing  supplemental  jurisdiction  over  “claims  that
involve the joinder or intervention of additional parties.”)

the  main  claim—is 

to 

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  of  the  three  claims  in  the  case,  the  only  claim  that  lacks
subject-matter  jurisdiction  is  Plaintiff's  claim  against  Distributor,  for
the reason described in the explanation to Choice (C).

Diversity jurisdiction exists over Plaintiff's claim against Defendant
because both parties are citizens of different states and the amount-in-
controversy requirement is met. And as is discussed more fully in the
explanation  of  Choice  (C),  supplemental  jurisdiction  exists  over
Defendant's  third-party  claim  against  Distributor.  So  the  fact  that
Distributor and Plaintiff are not diverse does not oust the district court
of  power  to  hear  the  anchor  claim  or  the  third-party  claim.  Since  the
court  will  grant  the  dismissal  motion  only  as  to  the  Plaintiff-v-
Distributor claim, this choice's statement that all three motions should
be granted is incorrect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  Distributor's  motion  to  dismiss  Defendant's  third-party  claim
for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction should not be granted.

When the anchor claim (here, Plaintiff's claim against Defendant) is
grounded in diversity jurisdiction, federal law permits the exercise of
supplemental jurisdiction over a third-party claim brought by Defendant
against  a  party  joined  by  FRCP  14,  as  is  more  fully  explained  as  to
Choice  (C).  So  Distributor's  motion  will  be  granted  only  as  to

239

Plaintiff's  claim  against  it,  not  as  to  Defendant's  “main”  third-party
claim against it.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  court  may  exercise  diversity  jurisdiction  over  Plaintiff's
claim against Defendant.

The complaint alleges that the parties to the main claim are citizens
of  different  states  (Plaintiff  is  a  citizen  of  State  A  and  Defendant  is  a
citizen of State B) and that the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000;
therefore, both conditions of diversity jurisdiction are present. See 28
U.S.C.  §  1332(a)(1).  Consequently,  Defendant's  motion  to  dismiss
Plaintiff's complaint will be denied. (Furthermore, the court will grant
Distributor's motion to dismiss Plaintiff's claim against it, making this
choice doubly wrong.)

Answer 29

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  is  the  only  one  of  the  choices  that  is  guaranteed  to  occur
early  enough  in  the  case  that  there  could  be  no  waiver  of  the  right  to
make the jury-trial demand.

The time for demanding a jury trial in federal actions is specified in
FRCP 38. Rule 38(b) says that a party may demand a jury trial on any
issue triable by right by a jury, if the demanding party does so by “(1)
serving  the  other  parties  with  a  written  demand—which  may  be
included  in  a  pleading—no  later  than  14  days  after  the  last  pleading
directed  to  the  issue  is  served[.]”  (The  party  must  also  then  file  the
demand with the court within “a reasonable time after service”; see the
combination of Rules 38(b)(2) and 5(d)(1).) Since Rule 38(b) allows
the demand to be “included in a pleading,” this choice states a method
and time for serving the demand that is guaranteed not to exceed the “no
later  than  14  days  after  the  last  pleading”  deadline.  And  this  method
also turns out to be the latest stage that's guaranteed to be timely, since
the other three choices may involve missing the deadline.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the time it specifies may fall after the appropriate deadline.

As  is  noted  in  the  explanation  of  Choice  (A),  a  party's  right  to
demand  a  jury  trial  on  an  issue  ends  unless  service  of  the  demand  is

240

made “no later than 14 days after the last pleading directed to the issue
is served.” This choice requires you to assume that the answer does not
contain a counterclaim, since on that assumption the answer is the “last
pleading  directed  to  the  issue  [of  infringement].”  On  that  assumption,
the screenwriter's time to serve the demand will end 14 days after the
studio serves its answer on him. Since Choice (B) purports to give the
screenwriter  60  days  after  service  of  the  answer,  it  overstates  the
amount of time available.

 (C) is not the best response,

for the same reason that (B) is not the best response.

The  parties  are  required  by  Rule  26(f)  to  hold  a  conference  at
which  they  discuss  the  claims,  possibilities  of  settlement,  initial
disclosure, etc. “as soon as practicable.” This conference may—and in
the majority of cases will—occur more than 14 days after service of the
last  pleading.  Therefore,  if  as  this  choice  suggests  the  screenwriter
waits until the conference to serve his demand for jury trial, he cannot
count on his demand still being timely.

 (D) is not the best response,

for the same reasons that (B) and (C) are incorrect.

Rule 16 sets out the procedures by which the judge will hold one or
more  pretrial  conferences.  Normally,  the  judge  will  not  even  issue  a
scheduling  order  until  after  he  or  she  has  received  a  report  by  the
parties outlining their discovery plan, which Rule 26(f) requires them
to  prepare.  And  the  discovery  plan  cannot  possibly  be  filed  with  the
court until sometime after the discovery conference between the parties,
referred  to  in  Choice  (C),  has  occurred.  Since  as  is  explained  in  the
discussion of Choice (C) the day of the discovery conference will itself
be too late for service of the jury trial demand, the date on which the
judge  holds  the  initial  pretrial  conference  is  guaranteed  to  fall  even
further past the deadline for filing of the jury-trial demand.

Answer 30

 (C) is the best response,

because the defendant has not made the showing required to overcome
the qualified work-product immunity that applies on these facts.

Rule  26  confers  a  limited  immunity  from  discovery  (colloquially

241

called “work-product immunity,” though that term is not used by the
FRCP)  for  materials  prepared  in  anticipation  of  litigation.  The  main
provision  that  does  this  is  the  first  sentence  of  Rule  26(b)(3)(A):
“Ordinarily, a party may not discover documents and tangible things
that are prepared in anticipation of litigation or for trial by or for
another  party  or  its  representative  (including  the  other  party's
attorney, consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent).” But the Rule
goes on to explain that this immunity is limited, in the sense that even
materials  that  are  prepared  in  anticipation  of  litigation  may  be
discovered  if  (i)  the  materials  otherwise  meet  the  requirements  for
discoverability  set  out  in  Rule  26(b)(1)  (i.e.,  they  are  “nonprivileged
matter that is relevant to any party's claim or defense and proportional
to the needs of the case”), and (ii) the party seeking discovery “shows
that  it  has  substantial need  for  the  materials  to  prepare  its  case  and
cannot, without undue hardship, obtain their substantial equivalent
by other means.”

Let's  see  how  these  work-product  provisions  apply  to  the
musician's statement here. First, the statement certainly falls within the
broad  definition  of  work-product  given  by  the  first  sentence  of  Rule
26(b)(3)(A),  in  that  it  is  a  “document  prepared  in  anticipation  of
litigation  or  for  trial  by  or  for  another  party  or  its  representative
(including  the  other  party's  attorney,  consultant,  surety,  indemnitor,
insurer, or agent).” This is so because: (1) the document was prepared
for  a  “representative”  of  “another  party,”  since  the  investigator  is  a
“consultant” to, or “agent of” (either of which statuses count as being a
“representative” of) the plaintiff; and (2) the investigator was hired to
find the musician and take her statement after the plaintiff had filed suit,
and it's clear from context that the plaintiff's lawyer's purpose in trying
to get the statement was to prepare for trial. Therefore, the plaintiff will
be entitled to keep the statement out of discovery unless the defendant
makes two showings: (i) “that it has substantial need for the materials
to  prepare  its  case”  and  (ii)  that  it  (the  defendant)  “cannot,  without
undue  hardship,  obtain  their  substantial  equivalent  by  other
means.” The courts have held that the party seeking discovery bears the
burden of production and persuasion as to both of these showings.

The  defendant  might  be  able  to  making  showing  (i),  that  he  has
“substantial  need”  for  the  statement  to  prepare  his  case;  he  can
plausibly  argue  that  by  the  plaintiff's  own  assertion,  the  statement
contains  something  the  musician  knows  about  the  case,  and  if  so,  the

242

defendant  will  be  materially  helped  by  learning  what  that  information
is,  so  he  can  counter  or  explain  it  at  trial.  (It's  not  clear  that  the
defendant  will  succeed  in  making  this  showing,  but  he's  at  least  got  a
plausible chance of doing so.) But it's very unlikely that the defendant
can  make  showing  (ii),  that  he  “cannot,  without  undue  hardship,
obtain their substantial equivalent by other means.” That's because
the  privilege  log  has  given  the  defendant  the  identity  of  the  musician,
and the defendant has not demonstrated why his legal team can't simply
approach the musician on its own and ask her to tell them the contents
of the statement. Nor has the defendant indicated that the defense team
has  already  tried  and  failed  to  get  this  information  from  the  musician.
The courts have generally held, in cases where a party tries to obtain
witness statements given to the other party, that unless the party seeking
discovery  shows  that  it  has  already  made  significant  efforts  to  get
equivalent  information  from  the  witness  and  failed,  that  party  has
failed to carry its burden of making the requisite showing of inability to
get the “substantial equivalent by other means.” (Later in the case, if the
defendant  shows  that  his  team  approached  the  musician  for  the
information, was rejected, tried to get the information by deposing the
musician  and  failed,  this  showing  might  now  be  enough  to  show  the
required inability to obtain equivalent materials.)

By  way  of  background,  keep  in  mind  that  Rule  26  effectively
recognizes two levels of work-product immunity, what might be called
“fact”  work  product  and  “opinion”  work  product.  “Fact”  work
product is “ordinary” work product, work product that represents real-
world  events;  “opinion”  work  product  reveals  a  lawyer's  mental
processes. Both types of work product receive at least some protection
under the FRCP, but “fact” work product receives much less. Fact work
product  is  the  ordinary  material  we've  already  talked  about  in  this
answer,  as  to  which  Rule  26(b)(3)  says  that  the  immunity  can  be
overcome if the party seeking discovery “shows that it has substantial
need for the materials to prepare its case and cannot, without undue
hardship,  obtain  their  substantial  equivalent  by  other  means.”  So
fact work product can be described as being protected by a “qualified
immunity” (though the Federal Rules don't use this phrase). By contrast,
“opinion”  work  product  is  given  virtually  absolute  immunity;  that's
done by Rule 23(b)(3)(A), which says that even where the court finds
that the qualified immunity for factual materials has been overcome and
orders  discovery  of  those  materials,  the  court  “must  protect  against

243

disclosure of the mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
theories of a party's attorney or other representative concerning the
litigation.” So if, for instance, in our case the investigator had written
out  the  substance  of  the  musician's  statement  and  added  his  own
comment that “the witness seems very credible, and we should consider
using  her  testimony  at  trial,”  this  narrative  of  “mental  impression”  or
“opinion” would not have to be disclosed to the defendant even if the
court ordered that the text of the musician's own statement be disclosed
because the defendant had substantial need of it and couldn't obtain the
substantial  equivalent  otherwise.  So  whenever  you  encounter  a  work-
product  immunity  question,  be  sure  to  distinguish  between  ordinary
factual matters in the work-product document (which get only qualified
immunity,  i.e.,  can  be  ordered  to  be  disclosed  if  the  other  party  has
substantial  need  and  can't  get  the  equivalent  otherwise)  and  mental
impressions,  conclusions,  opinions,  and  legal  theories  by  the  team  of
litigation  professionals  (which  are  absolutely  privileged  against
discovery).

 (A) is not the best response,

because the statement being sought here is not a copy of the defendant's
own prior admissions.

This  choice  is  referring  to  an  actual  provision  of  the  discovery
rules, but mis-applies that provision. Rule 26(b)(3)(C) says that “Any
party or other person may, on request and without the required showing,
obtain  the  person's  own  previous  statement  about  the  action  or  its
subject  matter.”  So  if  what  the  defendant  were  seeking  is  a  copy  of  a
statement he had directly made to the plaintiff's investigator about, say,
his sobriety at the time of the accident, the defendant would be entitled
to  that  disclosure.  But  the  sentence  just  quoted  does  not  apply  to  a
statement  made  by  someone  other  than  the  person  seeking  disclosure,
which  statement  in  turn  quotes  a  statement  made  by  the  seeking  party.
And  that's  what's  happening  here;  the  statement  being  sought  is  the
musician's  statement,  and  the  fact  that  the  musician  is  repeating
something said by the defendant is not enough to make the 26(b)(3)(C)
“own  previous  statement”  applicable  to  this  disclosure  request  by  the
defendant.  (If  it  were  the  musician  who  was  seeking  to  make  the
plaintiff's team give the musician a copy of her own signed statement,
the musician would be entitled to use 26(b)(3)(C), and she could then
pass  that  copy  on  to  the  defendant—but  the  defendant  does  not  have

244

standing to make the request on his own.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  it  cites  does  not  have  the  legal  consequence  that
the choice asserts it to have.

This  choice  correctly  draws  a  distinction  between  the  words
spoken  by  an  occurrence  witness  (in  this  case,  “the  musician's  own
words”),  and  what's  usually  called  “opinion  work  product”  (here,
“mental impressions or legal theories” of the plaintiff's legal team). As
is  more  fully  discussed  in  the  last  paragraph  of  the  explanation  of
choice  (C)  above,  “opinion  work  product”  is  indeed  absolutely
protected, whereas ordinary “factual” work product (like the musician's
own words) gets only qualified immunity, which can be overcome by a
suitable showing of need. But for the reasons explained in the treatment
of Choice (C), even the qualified immunity applicable to the musician's
own  statement  would  not  be  overcome  on  these  facts—so  the
distinction between qualified and absolute immunity that this choice is
referring to does not produce the outcome that the defendant would be
granted the requested discovery.

 (D) is not the best response,

because how the plaintiff intends to use the statement is irrelevant to the
outcome of the motion.

This  choice  in  effect  asserts  that  where  an  item  of  work  product
would  only  be  used  by  the  discovering  party  for  a  credibility-related
purpose,  that  fact  makes  a  difference  to  whether  the  item  is
discoverable. Actually, it's true that in some circumstances, the fact that
the  item  will  or  will  not  be  used  solely  for  its  effect  on  witness
credibility  is  relevant;  but  the  facts  here  do  not  involve  such  a
circumstance.  Two  provisions  of  Rule  26  say  that  an  item  that  would
otherwise be discoverable will not be discoverable if it is expected to
be used at trial “solely for impeachment.” For example, Rule 26(a)(3)
(A) requires one party to make automatic disclosure shortly before trial
to the other of certain types of materials (e.g., the names of witnesses
expected  to  be  called  at  trial,  or  the  contents  of  documents),  but  says
that the disclosure is not required where the evidence will be used at
trial  “solely  for  impeachment.”  So  if  the  only  way  in  which  the
plaintiff  were  planning  to  use  the  musician's  out-of-court  signed
statement (or, for that matter, the musician's live testimony repeating the

245

contents  of  the  statement)  were  as  a  method  of  impeaching  the
defendant's  anticipated  trial  testimony  that  “I  did  not  have  anything  to
drink,”  this  choice  would  correctly  articulate  a  reason  the  plaintiff
could  decline  to  release  the  statement.  But  here,  the  statement's  likely
use  by  plaintiff  is  not  just  for  impeachment—it  would  be  admissible
(and  the  plaintiff  would  probably  want  to  use  it)  as  substantive
evidence that the defendant was drunk, a use that would apply even if
the defendant never took the stand. So while this choice correctly states
the  outcome  of  the  motion—that  the  court  will  deny  the  motion  to
compel—it does so for a reason that would probably not apply under
these circumstances.

Answer 31

 (C) is correct,

because service on an in-state agent followed by mail notice meets due
process requirements.

Constructive  notice  to  an  out-of-state  defendant  made  through
service on a state official “appointed by law” to fulfill that function is
constitutionally  adequate  if  authorized  by  a  state  statute,  so  long  as
notice by mail is also required to be given to the defendant. See Hess v.
Pawloski,  274  U.S.  352  (1927).  The  Due  Process  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  requires  that  defendant  receive  notice  of  an
action  before  the  court  can  proceed.  The  requirement  of  notice  is  in
addition  to,  not  a  substitute  for,  the  requirement  that  a  court  have
personal  jurisdiction  over  defendant.  Although  personal  in-hand
service to defendant has traditionally been required in most situations,
alternative  forms  of  notice  will  satisfy  Due  Process  if  they  are
“reasonably  calculated,  under  all  the  circumstances,  to  apprise
interested  parties  of  the  pendency  of  the  action  and  afford  them  an
opportunity  to  present  their  objections.”  Mullane  v.  Central  Hanover
Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306 (1950).

The Supreme Court has implicitly held on various occasions that a
scheme  in  which  an  out-of-state  individual  or  business  is  deemed  to
appoint  an  in-state  official  as  agent  for  service  of  process  meets  due
process  requirements,  provided  that  the  state  official  is  required  to
notify the defendant that the action has commenced. See, e.g., Wuchter
v.  Pizzutti,  276  U.S.  13,  18-19  (1928),  in  which  the  Supreme  Court
discussed the question “whether a statute, making the Secretary of State
the person to receive the process, must, in order to be valid, contain a

246

provision making it reasonably probable that notice of the service on
the  Secretary  will  be  communicated  to  the  non-resident  defendant
who  is  sued.”  The  Court  answered  “yes”  to  the  question,  but  in  so
doing  indicated  by  negative  implication  that  if  the  service-on-the-
Secretary-of-State  scheme  does  include  a  requirement  that  the  state
official in turn give notice of service to the non-resident defendant, the
scheme is constitutionally adequate. Since Choices (A) and (B)—each
of  which  mentions  steps  less  likely  than  mail  notice  to  give  the  non-
resident actual notice—are constitutionally insufficient for the reasons
discussed below as to those choices, Choice (C) is the “least effective”
method that still meets the requirements of due process.

 (A) is not the best response,

because mere service on the Secretary was not reasonably calculated to
result in the defendant's timely receipt of actual notice of the suit.

In  Wuchter  v.  Pizzutti,  276  U.S.  13,  18-19  (1928),  the  Supreme
Court asked itself “whether a statute, making the Secretary of State the
person  to  receive  the  process,  must,  in  order  to  be  valid,  contain  a
provision making it reasonably probable that notice of the service on
the  Secretary  will  be  communicated  to  the  non-resident  defendant
who is sued.” The Court then answered this question in the affirmative,
reasoning that “where the service of summons is limited to a service on
the Secretary of State or some officer of the state, without more, it will
be  entirely  possible  for  a  person  injured  to  sue  any  non-resident  he
chooses . . . [leaving] open . . . a clear opportunity for the commission
of  fraud[.]”  Therefore,  the  Court  concluded,  such  a  provision  not
calling  for  the  Secretary  to  notify  the  non-resident  defendant  “is  not  a
reasonable  provision,  and  .  .  .  would  certainly  be  depriving  a
defendant of his property without due process of law.”

 (B) is not the best response,

because newspaper publication does not satisfy the requirement that the
best reasonably-available notice method be used.

The Supreme Court has held that “[t]he means [of notice] employed
must be such as one desirous of actually informing the absentee might
reasonably adopt to accomplish it.” Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank
& Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 314-15 (1950). In the case of a defendant
whose  name  and  address  are  known  to  the  plaintiff,  or  can  be
determined with reasonable diligence, Mullane holds that publication

247

will  not  suffice,  and  that  nothing  less  than  notice  by  mail  to  that
address  will  be  adequate.  Cf.  F,K&M  (5th  Ed.)  §  3.20,  p.  176.  Since
Plaintiff has learned Defendant's street address, mere publication (even
together with service on the Secretary of State) will not suffice—either
Plaintiff or the Secretary must give at least mail notice to Defendant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  Choice  (C—calling  for  mail  notice—is  a  less-good  method
that will nonetheless be constitutionally sufficient.

The question asks you to choose the LEAST effective notice method
listed  that  will  nonetheless  be  constitutionally  adequate.  For  the
reasons discussed as to Choice (C), the mail notice listed in that choice
is  sufficient  to  satisfy  due  process.  Therefore,  Choice  (D)  is  not  the
least effective method that is nonetheless constitutionally sufficient.

Answer 32

 (C) is the best response,

because supplemental jurisdiction applies.

This  situation  illustrates  a  situation  in  which  (1)  the  district  court
has  power  to  exercise  supplemental jurisdiction  and  (2)  there  is  no
reason  for  the  court  to  use  its  discretion  to  decline  to  exercise  that
power. Supplemental jurisdiction is authorized under a federal statute,
28 U.S.C. § 1367. Under the key portion of that statute, § 1367(a), when
a  federal  court  has  original  jurisdiction  over  a  claim,  the  court  has
supplemental jurisdiction over “all other claims that are so related to
claims  in  the  action  within  such  original  jurisdiction  that  they  form
part  of  the  same  case  or controversy  under  Article  III  of  the  United
States Constitution.” Then, the last sentence of § 1367(a) goes on to say
that § 1367(a)'s grant of supplemental jurisdiction “shall include claims
that involve the joinder or intervention of additional parties.” In those
cases  where  §  1367(a)  gives  the  district  court  power  to  exercise
supplemental  jurisdiction,  the  court  then  has  the  power  to  “decline  to
exercise supplemental jurisdiction” if any of the special factors set out
in § 1367(c) is present.

Here, the court has original jurisdiction over the ABA claim against
Employer, since that claim “arises under” federal law, namely the ABA
statute. The breach-of-contract claim against Employer and Manager is
in  turn  related  to  the  ABA  claim,  because  both  claims  concern  the

248

conditions  of  Plaintiff's  firing.  §  1367(a)  therefore  gives  the  court
power  to  exercise  supplemental  jurisdiction  over  the  state-law  claim,
including  any  “additional”  party  added  on  account  of  that  state-law
claim.  But,  as  noted  above,  the  court  may  decline  to  exercise  that
supplemental  jurisdiction  if  any  of  the  special  factors  listed  in  §
1367(c)  is  present.  Factors  listed  in  §  1367(c)  include:  that  the  state-
law  claim  (against  Manager  and  Employer)  involves  a  novel  or
complex  state  law  issue;  that  the  state-law  claim  “substantially
predominates”  over  the  federal  claim;  that  the  federal  claim  has  been
dismissed;  or  that  there  are  some  “exceptional  circumstances”  that
present  a  compelling  reason  for  declining  jurisdiction.  Here,  none  of
the discretionary factors seems to tilt against the exercise of power: the
contract  claim  is  not  novel  or  complex;  that  claim  is  not  likely  to
predominate  over  the  federal  law  claim;  and,  so  far  the  federal  claim
has  not  been  dismissed.  Finally,  there  seem  to  be  no  exceptional
circumstances or compelling reasons to deny supplemental jurisdiction.
Therefore,  there  is  no  reason  for  the  court  to  decline  to  exercise  the
supplemental jurisdiction that it has over the state-law claim (and over
all parties to that claim).

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  claim  against  Manager  does  not  itself  arise  under  federal
law.

Plaintiff's claim against Manager does not arise under the ABA Act
or, indeed, under any  federal  statute,  preventing  jurisdiction  over  that
claim  from  being  present  under  the  statute  granting  federal-question
jurisdiction,  28  U.S.C.  §  1331.  Plaintiff's  claim  against  Manager  is  a
garden-variety state-law contract claim, and no federal issue is alleged
as  part  of  the  well-pleaded  complaint  relating  to  that  claim  (a
requirement for federal-question jurisdiction made clear by Louisville
& Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 211 U.S. 128 (1908), as well as by 28
U.S.C. § 1331). This choice reaches the right outcome (motion denied,
because  the  court  has  subject-matter  jurisdiction),  but  reaches  it  on
incorrect  reasoning  by  asserting  that  the  reason  the  court  has
jurisdiction  for  the  claim  against  Manager  is  “since  the  ABA  claim
arises  under  a  federal  statute.”  (The  correct  choice  would  have  to
somehow point to supplemental jurisdiction, which choice (C) does.)

 (B) is not the best response,

249

because it incorrectly applies the test for federal diversity jurisdiction.
Federal  courts  can  invoke  diversity  jurisdiction  to  adjudicate
claims alleged to be valued at more than $75,000 between citizens of
different states. See 28 U.S.C. § 1332. Both Plaintiff and Manager are
citizens  of  the  same  state,  State  A,  so  diversity  of  citizenship  is  not
present. Remember that for diversity jurisdiction, complete diversity is
required—no  plaintiff  may  be  a  citizen  of  the  same  state  as  any
defendant.  So  the  fact  that  there  is  diversity  as  between  the  sole
plaintiff and one of the defendants to the state-law claim (Employer) is
not  enough  to  give  the  court  diversity  jurisdiction  over  that  state-law
claim.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  court  can  exercise  jurisdiction  over  Manager,  based  on
supplemental  jurisdiction  and  the  power  to  add  additional  parties
pursuant to that jurisdiction.

Federal statute authorizing the exercise of supplemental jurisdiction
explicitly  provides  that  the  scope  of  such  jurisdiction  “shall  include
claims that involve the joinder or intervention of additional parties.”
(See  the  last  sentence  of  28  U.S.C.  §  1367(a).)  There  are  certain
exclusions  to  supplemental  jurisdiction  (specified  in  §  1367(b))  that
apply when the anchor claim is based solely on diversity jurisdiction.
But  the  anchor  claim  here  (the  ABA  claim)  is  based  on  a  federal
question, not solely diversity, so these exclusions don't apply.

Answer 33

 (B) is the best response,

because situations involving derivative liability represent an exception
to the general rule preventing a stranger to the first action from invoking
the benefits of claim preclusion.

“Claim  preclusion”  involves  twin  doctrines,  the  doctrine  of
“merger” and that of “bar.” Depending on whether the plaintiff wins or
loses the first suit, either merger or bar will prevent a second litigation
by  that  plaintiff  on  the  same  claim.  If  the  plaintiff  wins  the  first  suit
(i.e.,  gets  a  favorable  judgment  against  the  defendant),  “merger”
prevents  the  plaintiff  from  bringing  a  second  suit  on  the  claim  against
the  same  defendant;  if  the  plaintiff  loses  the  first  suit,  “bar”  prevents
her from bringing a second suit on the claim against the same defendant.

250

Obviously here, the two actions are not against the same defendant, so
neither “merger” nor “bar” would seem to apply, but as we'll soon see,
to analyze some scenarios we have to first figure out whether merger or
bar would apply had the second suit been against the same plaintiff as
the first suit.

Here, the judgment in the first suit by the plaintiff (the accountant)
was  against  her;  therefore,  she  would  be  “barred”  from  bringing
another  suit  on  the  “same  claim”  against  the  cab  driver.  See  Rest.  2d
Judgments,  §  19:  “A  valid  and  final  personal  judgment  rendered  in
favor of the defendant bars another action [against that defendant] by
the  plaintiff  on  the  same  claim.”  But  we  next  have  to  figure  out
whether  a  suit  by  the  accountant  against  that  same  defendant  (the  cab
driver) for her personal injuries would be deemed to be on the “same
claim” as the first suit for property damage. The answer is “yes.” That's
because  modern  courts  nearly  always  apply  a  “transactional”  test  for
determining  whether  two  suits  involve  a  single  claim,  and  the
transactional test would be satisfied here. Here's how the Restatement
of Judgments 2d defines the dimensions of a claim for purposes of the
doctrines of merger or bar:

“(1)  When  a  valid  and  final  judgment  rendered  in  an  action
extinguishes the plaintiff's claim pursuant to the rules of merger or bar
.  .  .  ,  the  claim  extinguished  includes  all  rights  of  the  plaintiff  to
remedies against the defendant with respect to all or any part of the
transaction,  or  series  of  connected  transactions,  out  of  which  the
action arose.

“(2)  What  factual  grouping  constitutes  a  ‘transaction,'  and  what
groupings  constitute  a  ‘series,'  are  to  be  determined  pragmatically,
giving weight to such considerations as whether the facts are related
in time, space, origin, or motivation, whether they form a convenient
trial  unit,  and  whether  their  treatment  as  a  unit  conforms  to  the
parties' expectations or business understanding or usage.”

Rest. 2d of Judgments § 24.
Where both suits involve a single physical accident, courts almost
universally  treat  property  damage  and  personal  injuries  from  that
accident  as  both  involving  a  single  claim.  Thus,  Rest.  2d  Judgments,
Illustration 1 to § 24, reaches exactly this conclusion: “A and B, driving
their respective cars, have a collision injuring A and damaging his car.
The occurrence is single, and so is A's claim. If A obtains a judgment
against B on the ground of negligence for the damage to the car, he is

251

prevented by the doctrine of merger from subsequently maintaining an
action for the harm to his person.” So in our question, the accountant
has  a  single  claim  covering  both  property  damage  to  her  painting  and
injuries  to  her  person,  and  the  judgment  against  her  in  the  property-
damage suit would cause her to be “barred” from bringing a personal-
injury suit against the same defendant, the cab driver.

Then, a separate rule of law provides that where one person (call
him A) is vicariously responsible for the conduct of another person (B),
then  if  an  injured  person  sues  B,  the  merger  or  bar  consequences  are
normally the same for purposes of a second suit by the injured person
against  A  as  they  would  be  for  a  second  suit  against  the  original
defendant B. Here's how Rest. Judgments 2d, § 51, expresses the rule:

“If  two  persons  have  a  relationship  such  that  one  of  them  is
vicariously responsible for the conduct of the other, and an action is
brought by the injured person against one of them, the judgment in the
action has the following preclusive effects against the injured person in
a subsequent action against the other.

(1)  A  judgment  against  the  injured  person  that  bars  him  from
reasserting  his  claim  against  the  defendant  in  the  first  action
extinguishes  any  claim  he  has  against 
the  other  person
responsible for the conduct unless:

(a)  The  claim  asserted  in  the  second  action  is  based  upon
grounds that could not have been asserted against the defendant in
the first action; or

(b)  The  judgment  in  the  first  action  was  based  on  a  defense

that was personal to the defendant in the first action.”
Here, under the common-law principle of respondeat superior, the
cab  company  was  vicariously  responsible  for  negligent  conduct  of  its
employee,  the  cab  driver,  that  occurred  during  the  course  of  the
employment. Therefore, unless one of the two exceptions mentioned in
(a) and (b) of Rest. 2d § 51 above applies, when the accountant sued
the driver and lost on the property claim her personal injury suit against
the  cab  company  would  be  barred  exactly  the  same  way  her  personal
injury  suit  against  the  driver  would  be  barred  (since  the  property
damage  and  personal  injury  suits  involved  a  single  claim,  as  we  saw
above).  And  neither  of  the  exceptions  applies  here;  the  claim  for
personal injuries could have been asserted as part of the initial suit in
city  court,  and  there  was  no  plausible  defense  that  could  have  been
asserted  by  the  cab  driver  in  the  first  suit  that  would  have  been
“personal”  to  him  and  inapplicable  to  the  company  as  vicariously

252

liable for the driver's negligence.

In sum, the accountant's personal injury suit against the company is
barred  by  the  judgment  against  her  in  the  property  suit,  just  as  any
personal  injury  suit  by  her  against  the  cab  driver  would  have  been
barred  by  that  same  judgment.  And  since  the  doctrine  of  “bar”  is  a
species of claim preclusion, Choice (B) is the correct explanation for
why the judge would dismiss the suit.

 (A) is not the best response,

because collateral estoppel would not apply since we cannot say what
issues were actually litigated and decided in the first suit.

“Issue preclusion” (a/k/a “collateral estoppel”) applies to prevent
relitigation of an issue only when the issue (whether of fact or law) is
“actually  litigated  and  determined  .  .  .  and  the  determination  is
essential to the judgment.”  Rest.  2d,  Judgments,  §  27.  Here,  the  cab
company might argue that the judgment against the accountant in the first
suit  demonstrates  that  the  cab  driver  must  not  have  been  negligent,
because  otherwise  judgment  would  have  been  for  the  accountant  in  at
least  some  amount.  But  that  argument  wouldn't  work:  collateral
estoppel applies only where we can say authoritatively that the issue
in  question  was  actually  litigated  and  that  that  determination  was
essential to the judgment—doubts about what happened in the first suit
get  resolved  against  the  use  of  preclusion.  Here,  the  jury  might  have
issued  its  verdict  against  the  accountant  because  it  found  that  the
painting  wasn't  damaged  at  all,  or  that  the  damage  did  not  come  from
the collision but from some conduct by the accountant or a third-party—
in  other  words,  we  simply  don't  know  that  the  jury  in  fact  rested  its
verdict  on  a  finding  that  the  cab  driver  was  not  negligent.  Since  we
can't  say  that  the  first  judgment  rested  on  a  factual  finding  of  non-
negligence  by  the  driver,  the  court  will  not  use  collateral  estoppel  at
all.  So  this  choice  reaches  the  correct  result  (dismissal  granted),  but
based on incorrect legal reasoning (use of collateral estoppel instead of
claim preclusion).

 (C) is not the best result,

because the mutuality principle it implicitly refers to would not apply
in this situation of vicarious liability.

Traditionally, a party to the second suit who was a “stranger” to the
first  suit  was  prevented  from  gaining  the  benefit  of  either  claim

253

preclusion or issue preclusion on the theory that the stranger could not
have been bound by an favorable result in the first suit, so the concept
of  “mutuality”  dictated  that  the  stranger  not  be  given  the  benefit  of  a
favorable result either. Modern courts no longer have an absolute rule
against  non-mutual  use  of  either  claim  preclusion  or  issue  preclusion,
so  even  if  the  company  would  not  have  been  bound  by  any  judgment
against its employee in the first suit, this fact would not automatically
prevent the company from obtaining the benefit of claim preclusion or
issue preclusion if those doctrines otherwise applied. For the reasons
discussed in the analysis of Choice (B), the fact that the cab company
would  be  vicariously  liable  for  on-the-job  negligence  by  its  driver
means  that  the  cab  company  is  not  treated  as  a  “stranger”  to  the  first
action, and therefore will be able to get the benefit of claim preclusion
even  in  a  jurisdiction  that  would  otherwise  forbid  non-mutual  use  of
claim preclusion as a general matter.

 (D) is not the best result,

because  the  fact  that  the  first  court  was  of  limited  jurisdiction  is
irrelevant on these facts.

In  some  circumstances,  the  fact  that  the  first  suit  is  in  a  court  of
limited jurisdiction or whose procedures are significantly limited may
indeed make it unfair to bind the loser to the results of that first suit for
purposes  of  a  second  suit  in  a  court  that  does  not  have  the  limitation.
Thus, Rest. 2d of Judgments, § 26, says that the usual rules of merger
and bar do not apply where “(c) The plaintiff was unable to . . . seek a
certain remedy . . . in the first action because of the limitations on the
subject matter jurisdiction of the courts . . . and the plaintiff desires
in the second action to . . . seek that remedy or form of relief[.]” So, for
instance, if the “city court” had had a cap on available damages lower
than  the  combined  property  and  personal-injury  damages  that  the
accountant was seeking, that fact might have been enough to prevent the
accountant's  failure  to  add  the  personal-injury  claim  to  the  first  suit
from barring her second suit. But here, the two claims together sought
only $220,000 (i.e., less than the $250,000 limit on the city court's cap
on recovery), so this rationale would not apply to give the accountant a
“second bite at the apple.”

Answer 34

254

 
(C) is the best response,

because  the  State  A  notice-of-claim  rule  expresses  a  strong  state
substantive  policy  that  must  be  respected  by  the  federal  court  under
Erie principles.

When a federal court hears a claim based solely on state law (i.e., a
diversity case), the doctrine of Erie v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938),
requires the federal court to apply any state statutes, rules, or judicial
decisions  that  are  mostly  substantive,  but  not  state-law  principles  that
are  essentially  procedural.  However,  before  you  can  even  know
whether Erie doctrine applies to a particular set of facts, you have to
first  determine  whether  there  is  a  valid  federal  rule  or  statute
governing  the  matter  in  question,  which  if  applied  would  be
inconsistent  with  the  state  principle;  if  there  is,  the  federal  rule  or
statute must  be  applied,  and  Erie  never  even  gets  triggered.  (Notice
that  this  is  one  of  the  tricky  things  about  applying  Erie  doctrine—you
first  have  to  know  that  there  doesn't  exist  any  federal  rule  or  statute
conflicts  with  the  state  rule  in  question,  and  to  do  that  you  in  turn
theoretically have to know “everything” about which federal rules and
statutes  exist!  But  for  MBE  purposes,  you  can  usually  safely  assume
that  there  is  no  such  inconsistent  federal  principle  unless  you
specifically  recall  it  from  studying  the  FRCP  or  the  core  Civil
Procedure  provisions  of  Title  28  of  the  U.S.  Code,  or  the  examiners
call the conflict to your attention somehow.)

In this case, there is no federal statute or rule applicable to these
facts that would be inconsistent with having the federal court honor the
state notice-of-claim requirement. Therefore, this is indeed a situation
in which classic Erie analysis is required.

The  question  then  becomes,  does  the  state-law  requirement  of
notice-of-claim embody a sufficiently strong state substantive interest
that Erie  principles  require  the  federal  court  to  defer  to  state  law  by
applying  that  requirement?  The  extent  to  which  the  state  rule  is
outcome-determinative  is  an  important  part  of  the  analysis.  That's
because  “[W]here  a  federal  court  is  exercising  jurisdiction  solely
because of the diversity of citizenship of the parties, the outcome of the
litigation in the federal court should be substantially the same, so far
as legal rules determine the outcome of a litigation, as it would be if
tried  in  a  State  court.”  Guaranty  Trust  Co.  v.  York,  326  U.S.  99,  109
(1945).  Otherwise,  the  federal  courts  will  be  encouraging  “forum
shopping,” in which one party (sometimes the plaintiff, and sometimes

255

the  non-resident  defendant  deciding  whether  to  remove  a  state-filed
case  to  federal  court)  gets  the  chance  to  choose  between  having  the
case heard in state court or having it heard it a federal court located in
that  same  state,  based  on  which  one  will  give  him  better  odds  of
winning.

Here, the choice to apply or not apply the state notice-of-claim rule
is  quite  strongly  outcome-determinative:  If  the  rule  is  applied,  the
plumber  doesn't  even  get  a  chance  to  have  his  claim  heard  at  all;
without  the  rule,  the  plumber  may  well  win.  The  notice-of-claim
requirement  is  similar  to  a  state  statute  of  limitations  rule,  and  the
Supreme  Court  has  long  held  that  such  limitations  rules  are  highly
outcome-determinative  and  must  be  applied  by  courts  sitting  in
diversity.  Thus,  in  Guaranty  Trust  v.  York, supra,  the  Supreme  Court
held that a federal court sitting in diversity must apply the state statute
of  limitations  because  the  federal  court  “cannot  afford  recovery  if  the
right to recover is made unavailable by the State[.]”

But  the  fact  that  the  choice  between  state  and  federal  court  would
be somewhat outcome-determinative is not the sole factor the federal
court must consider. Beyond considering the degree to which following
the  state  law  (or  not  doing  so)  will  be  outcome-determinative,  the
federal court must perform a type of interest-balancing; the court must
weigh the strength of the state's interest in using its rule to affect the
substantive  rights  of  the  parties  against  the  strength  of  the  federal
judicial system's interest in applying uniform procedures nationally.
Here, that interest balancing cuts in favor of applying State A's notice-
of-claim rule. The facts tell you that the object of the notice-of-claim
requirement  was  to  reduce  malpractice  claims  and  thus  the  cost  of
malpractice  insurance;  this  is  a  strongly  substantive  goal,  one  tied  up
with parties' rights beyond how the actual litigation will be conducted.
So the state interest in having its policy applied by the federal courts is
quite  strong.  Conversely,  there  is  no  strong  federal  interest  in  having
nationally  uniform  procedures  that  would  be  jeopardized  by  applying
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
the notice-of-claim rule in just those states that have such a rule. So the
federal-versus-state  interest-balancing  analysis,  like  the  outcome-
determinative  analysis,  cuts  strongly  in  favor  of  requiring  the  federal
court  to  apply  the  state's  notice-of-claim  rule.  Therefore,  Erie
principles almost certainly require the federal court to dismiss the suit
because that's what the State A courts would do.

 (A) is not the best response,

256

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

because the notice-of-claim provision is not a mere procedural rule and
is therefore binding on the federal court.

While the notice provision is in a sense “procedural” (it deals with
the “procedures” for bringing a malpractice claim against the hospital),
that label is not dispositive when the federal court is deciding whether
Erie principles require that the state rule be followed. As is more fully
described in the discussion of choice (C) above, the decision whether
to  apply  the  state  rule  is  heavily  outcome-determinative,  and  the  state
has  manifested  a  strong  interest  in  using  its  rule  to  pursue  the
substantive  state  interest  in  reducing  malpractice  insurance  rates.
Therefore, the court must apply the state notice rule, making this choice
legally  incorrect.  (And  given  that  fact,  the  issue  of  whether  diversity
exists is irrelevant.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the time as of which a party's state citizenship is to
be determined for diversity purposes.

It's true that if the plumber and the hospital had both been citizens of
State A at the relevant time, there would be no diversity. But the time as
of which each party's citizenship is to be determined is the moment the
suit is filed, not the moment the cause of action arose. See Freeport-
McMoRan,  Inc.  v.  K.  N.  Energy,  Inc.,  498  U.S.  426,  428  (1991),
referring  to  “the  well-established  rule  that  diversity  of  citizenship  is
assessed  at  the  time  the  action  is  filed.”  Here,  the  plumber's  state  of
citizenship  (i.e.,  his  state  of  “domicile”)  changed  when  he  moved
permanently  from  State  A  to  State  B.  Once  that  happened,  he  became
diverse  with  the  hospital,  and  remained  so  at  the  moment  he  filed  the
suit, which is what counts for jurisdiction purposes. (Also, as long as
his move was intended to be permanent, the fact that it may have been
motivated in part by a desire to be able to sue the hospital in diversity
is irrelevant.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  gives  an  unduly  simplistic  explanation  of  why  the  federal
court must follow the state notice-of-claim rule.

It's  true  that  the  degree  to  which  the  federal  court's  decision  to
follow or not follow the state rule might affect the outcome of the suit is
one  of  the  factors  that  the  federal  court  must  consider  in  deciding
whether Erie principles require the court to apply the state rule. But it's

257

not  the  only  factor.  As  the  Court  said  in  Hanna  v.  Plumer,  380  U.S.
460,  466-67  (1965),  “  ‘Outcome-determination'  analysis  was  never
intended to serve as a talisman.” As  is  discussed  more  extensively  in
the analysis of choice (C) above, even where there is some chance that
the decision on whether to follow the state rule will affect the outcome,
the  federal  court  need  not  follow  the  state  rule  if  the  state's  choice  of
rule  does  not  manifest  a  strong  substantive  policy,  and  requiring  the
federal court to follow the state rule would significantly interfere with
a  strong  federal  interest  in  having  uniform  national  procedures.  So
while this choice correctly predicts the outcome (that the case must be
dismissed because the plumber did not follow the state notice rule), it
explains  the  reason  for  that  outcome  less  precisely  than  does  Choice
(C).

Answer 35

 (C) is correct,

because  the  fact  that  the  suit  arises  under  a  federal  statute  means  that
there  is  no  minimum  amount  in  controversy  and  that  the  presence  or
absence of diversity is irrelevant.

When you are told that the defendant has moved to dismiss for “lack
of  subject-matter  jurisdiction,”  you  know  that  the  motion  can  be
successful only if the defendant demonstrates one of two defects in the
suit:  (1)  that  there  was  neither  diversity  of  citizenship  nor  a  “federal
question  claim”;  or  (2)  that  there  was  an  amount  in  controversy
requirement  applicable  to  the  type  of  suit  in  question,  which  amount
was not satisfied. Here, neither of these potential defects exists, so the
motion will be denied.

As  to  (1),  start  with  the  basic  idea  that  the  federal  courts  have
original  jurisdiction  over  two  broad  categories  of  claims:  (a)  those
involving  “diversity  of  citizenship”  (or  its  close  cousin  “alienage”
jurisdiction,  which  we'll  ignore  here);  and  (b)  those  raising  what  is
loosely  referred  to  as  a  “federal  question.”  Here,  the  case  falls  into
category (b): 28 U.S.C. § 1331, entitled “Federal Question,” gives the
federal district courts “original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising
under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States.” Section
1331 means that if the plaintiff's claim is based upon a federal statute
(which is of course a “law . . . of the United States”), there is subject-
matter  jurisdiction  under  §  1331,  regardless  of  which  states  or
countries the parties are citizens of. Since the woman's suit is based on

258

a  federal  employment-discrimination  statute,  §  1331  gives  the  court
federal-question jurisdiction, and you can and should ignore entirely the
citizenship of the parties.

But  what  about  potential  defect  (2),  failure  to  meet  an  amount-in-
controversy  requirement?  The  very  modest  “trick”  in  this  question,  if
there  is  one,  is  that  there  is  no  minimum  amount-in-controversy
requirement  for  federal-question  suits.  So  while  the  “matter  in
controversy” in a suit based solely on diversity must exceed $75,000 in
value (see 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a)), a suit raising a federal question may
proceed even if the matter is worth, say, $1, or involves an intangible
stake with no specific financial value (e.g., a request for an injunction).
Therefore, when you analyze this question, as soon as you can see that
the complaint raises on its face an allegation that the defendant violated
a federal statute, you can be confident that the court has subject-matter
jurisdiction  over  the  claim  regardless  of  the  parties'  citizenship  and
regardless of the amount at stake.

 (A) is not the best response,

for  two  different  reasons:  (1)  As  explained  in  Choice  (C),  the
citizenship  of  the  parties  never  matters  at  all  for  purposes  of
determining  the  existence  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction  in  a  federal-
question suit; and (2) this choice incorrectly states the rule that would
apply if the parties' citizenship were relevant. A corporation is deemed
to be a citizen both of its state of incorporation and the state in which it
has  its  “principal  place  of  business,”  which  is  considered  to  be  the
location  from  which  the  company's  officers  direct  business  affairs
(generally, and in this case, the company's “headquarters”); it is not the
case  that  a  corporation  is  also  a  citizen  of  the  state  in  which  it  has  a
majority of its employees. Therefore, the defendant here is not a citizen
of  State  A  (just  of  States  B  and  C),  which  means  that  there  would  be
complete  diversity  between  plaintiff  and  defendant  if  the  case  were
based on diversity rather than the existence of a federal question.

 (B) is not the best response,

because,  as  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (C),  where  the
plaintiff's claim raises a federal question (as it does here), there is no
amount in controversy requirement, and the existence or non-existence
of diversity of citizenship is irrelevant.

259

 (D) is not the best response,

because an objection to lack of subject-matter jurisdiction can never be
waived.

It's  true  that  there  are  some  objections  to  matters  involving
jurisdiction,  service,  venue,  or  the  like  that  will  be  waived  if  the
defendant  fails  to  assert  them  in  either  a  pre-answer  motion  or  in  the
answer itself. See  FRCP  12(h),  saying  that  the  four  defenses  listed  in
Rule  12(b)(2)-(5)  (lack  of  personal  jurisdiction,  improper  venue,
insufficient process, and insufficient service of process) are waived if
the party fails to make them in either a “responsive pleading” (here, the
answer) or in a timely motion made before the responsive pleading. But
because  the  drafters  of  the  FRCP  feared  that  allowing  the  federal
district  courts  to  hear  a  case  for  which  there  was  no  subject-matter
jurisdiction  would  exceed  the  limited  powers  given  to  the  federal
judiciary by the Constitution, the FRCP provide that the defense of lack
of subject-matter jurisdiction is never waived. (Indeed, Rule 12(h)(3)
says that “if the court determines at any time that it lacks subject-matter
jurisdiction, the court must dismiss the action.”)

Answer 36

 (B) is the best response,

because Defendant's voluntary contacts with State A in connection with
the contract were sufficiently great as to constitute “minimum contacts”
and  to  render  it  not  unfair  to  require  Defendant  to  defend  an  action
related to the contract in that State.

For the forum state to have personal jurisdiction over the defendant
for purposes of a suit relating to activities occurring in the forum state,
it  must  as  a  general  rule  be  the  case  that  (a)  the  defendant  had
“minimum  contacts”  with  the  forum  state;  and  (b)  it  would  not  be
“fundamentally  unfair”  to  require  the  defendant  to  defend  suit  in  the
forum state. See Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462 (1985).
The facts of this problem are quite close to those of Burger King,
supra,  where  the  Supreme  Court  found  both  that  the  defendant  had
“minimum contacts” with the forum state (the plaintiff franchisor's home
state) and that it would not be unfair to make him defend a franchise-
agreement-related suit there. In Burger King, unlike here, the defendant
didn't  even  travel  to  the  franchisor's  forum-state  headquarters  state  to
receive training (or for anything else), but his prospective partner did

260

relationship  with 

so. Also in Burger King, the defendant understood (as Defendant here
understood) that much of the franchisor's contractually obligated work
to  support  the  defendant,  and  the  regulation  by  the  franchisor  of  the
defendant's  performance  under  the  franchise  agreement,  would  occur
from  the  franchisor's  forum-state  headquarters.  Finally,  as  is  the  case
here, the franchise agreement in Burger King specified that the law of
the forum state (the franchisor's home state) would apply. The Supreme
Court  therefore  held  that  the  defendant  had  “established  a  substantial
forum-state]
and  continuing 
headquarters, received fair notice from the contract documents and the
course  of  dealing  that  he  might  be  subject  to  suit  in  [the  forum  state],
and  .  .  .  failed  to  demonstrate  how  jurisdiction  in  that  forum  would
otherwise  be  fundamentally  unfair[.]”  Thus,  the  Supreme  Court
concluded,  it  did  not  “offend  due  process”  for  the  forum  state  to
exercise jurisdiction over him for an action on the franchise agreement.
Here, given that Defendant had the same basic forum-state contacts as
the defendant did in Burger King, but also traveled twice to the forum
state  before  signing  the  agreement,  a  court  would  almost  certainly
conclude  that  (1)  Defendant  had  minimum  contacts  with  State  A,  and
(2)  it  would  not  be  “fundamentally  unfair”  to  require  Defendant  to
defend a suit relating to the franchise agreement in State A.

franchisor's 

[the 

It's important to note, by the way, that the suit here was on a claim
that  arose  from  the  Defendant's  activities  connected  with  the  forum
state  (i.e.,  from  a  contract  whose  negotiation  included  the  trips  by
Defendant  to  the  forum  state,  and  the  performance  of  which  from
plaintiff's  side  would  be  done  mostly  in  the  forum  state).  In  other
words,  the  suit  here  was  based  on  “specific  jurisdiction,”  the  label
applied to suits on claims related to whatever in-forum-state activities
the  defendant  may  have  had.  That's  why  all  that  was  required  for
personal  jurisdiction  over  Defendant  was  minimum  contact  with  the
forum state and a lack of “unfairness” in requiring Defendant to come to
the forum state to defend an action. Suppose, however, that the suit had
involved  a  claim  having  nothing  to  do  with  whatever  connections
Defendant  had  with  the  forum  state—for  instance,  suppose  Plaintiff's
claim  in  State  A  federal  court  was  a  libel  action  claiming  that
Defendant had, in Canada, published a libel about some other business
owned  by  Plaintiff  in  Mexico,  having  nothing  to  do  with  the  brake-
repair  business  or  with  Defendant's  franchise  agreement.  In  this
hypothetical  example,  personal  jurisdiction  would  have  to  have  been
what is called “general jurisdiction”  (jurisdiction  not  relating  to  the

261

defendant's  forum-state-connected  activities).  And  the  Supreme  Court
has required much greater voluntary contacts between the defendant
and  the  forum  state  for  general  jurisdiction  than  for  specific
jurisdiction;  for  instance,  if  Defendant  had  been  a  corporation,  a  suit
based on general jurisdiction could have been brought against it only if
Defendant was “found in” State A, defined as being either incorporated
in State A or with its principal place of business in State A. So when
you  analyze  a  problem  requiring  you  to  decide  whether  the  defendant
can  be  required  to  defend  an  action  in  a  particular  jurisdiction,  first
check whether the suit relates to defendant's activities connected to the
forum  state,  so  that  you'll  know  whether  to  apply  the  easy-to-satisfy
minimum-contact standard for specific jurisdiction, or instead the hard-
to-satisfy “found in the forum state” standard for general jurisdiction.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  when  the  defendant  properly  seeks  dismissal  for  lack  of
jurisdiction  and  loses,  the  right  to  raise  the  issue  on  appeal  is
preserved.

A  defendant  is  permitted—indeed,  encouraged—to  assert  the
defense  of  lack  of  personal  jurisdiction  in  a  federal  court  case  by
making  a  motion  on  that  grounds  before  serving  an  answer.  See  Rule
12(b)(2). That's what the facts tell you that Defendant did here. Once a
defendant has raised the jurisdiction objection in this way and loses, he
does  not  forfeit  or  waive  the  right  to  argue  on  direct  appeal  that  the
district court was incorrect in denying the motion.

For  clarification,  though,  distinguish  the  situation  here  (where  the
defendant is trying in a direct appeal to contest the trial court's denial
of his lack-of-jurisdiction defense) from the quite different “collateral
attack”  scenario.  In  this  second  scenario,  the  defendant  raises  the
jurisdiction  defense  in  the  first  action,  loses,  and  then  either  tries  the
case and loses, or defaults immediately after losing on the jurisdiction
argument; then, we'll assume, because the defendant has no assets in the
state  where  the  initial  suit  took  place,  the  plaintiff  “sues  on  the
judgment,”  i.e.,  brings  a  second  suit  to  “enforce”  the  judgment  in  a
place  where  the  defendant  does  have  assets,  such  as  his  home  state.
Now, when the defendant argues in the second suit (the one brought to
enforce  the  earlier  judgment)  that  the  first  court  lacked  personal
jurisdiction,  this  is  called  a  “collateral  attack.”  And  in  the  collateral-
attack scenario, the defendant does have a fatal waiver problem; merely

262

by having raised the jurisdiction defense in the first action and losing,
the defendant will be found to have already had and used his chance to
litigate the jurisdiction issue, so the second court will not permit him to
re-litigate  this  issue  by  way  of  collateral  attack.  But  that's  not  a
problem in our question, since Defendant is re-raising the jurisdiction
issue in his direct appeal from the judgment.

 (C) is not the best response,

because requiring Defendant to defend the case in State A on these facts
would not violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.
This  choice  is  partially  correct,  in  the  sense  that  it  correctly
suggests that there may be cases in which the defendant has just enough
“minimum  contacts”  with  the  forum  state  to  make  it  not  a  violation  of
his due process rights to force him to defend in the forum state, but in
which these contacts are so attenuated, and the burden on the defendant
to having to defend in the forum state so great, that the court will decide
that  it  would  “offend  ‘traditional  notions  of  fair  play  and  substantial
justice'  ”  for  the  court  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  him.  See  Asahi
Metal  Indus.  Co.  v.  Superior  Court,  480  U.S.  102  (1987),  where  the
Court found that in the very unusual facts there (involving impleader of
a  foreign  corporation  as  a  third-party  defendant,  followed  by  a
settlement of the main claim between the original plaintiff and the third-
party  plaintiff),  it  would  be  unfair  for  the  forum-state  court  to  require
the third-party defendant to defend the case. But this choice is incorrect
in asserting that the case here is one of those unusual situations—here,
Defendant's  trips  to  the  forum  state,  his  understanding  that  the  other
party  to  the  contract  would  perform  extensive  services  from  its
headquarters  in  the  forum  state,  and  his  voluntary  agreement  to  a
contract that provided that forum-state law would apply, taken together,
meaning  that  it  would  not  “offend  traditional  notions  of  fair  play  and
substantial justice” to require Defendant to defend in the forum state.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  Defendant  did  voluntarily  avail  himself  of  the  privilege  of
doing business in State A.

It's true that after the signing of the contract, Defendant never took
any voluntary action directed at State A, beyond dealing with some of
Plaintiff's personnel based there. But that fact is not inconsistent with a
conclusion  that  Defendant  “voluntarily  avail[ed]  himself  of  the

263

the  forum  state—the  headquarters  state  of 

privilege  of  doing  business”  in  State  A.  On  facts  very  similar  to  the
ones here, the Supreme Court in Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (see
the discussion of Choice (B) above) found that the defendant's limited
the
contacts  with 
plaintiff/franchisor—were enough to constitute “purposeful availment”
of  the  privilege  of  doing  business  relating  to  the  forum  state.  (For
instance, the defendant in Burger King knew that the services provided
to  him  by  the  plaintiff  under  the  contract  would  be  rendered  from  the
forum state, and he agreed that the forum state's substantive laws would
govern  any  dispute  about  the  contract.)  So  on  our  facts,  it's  clear  that
Defendant  would  be  found  to  have  purposely  availed  himself  of  the
privilege  of  doing  business  connected  with  State  A  sufficient  to  give
him minimum contacts with that state.

Answer 37

 (D) is the correct answer,

because  the  federal  discovery  rules  recognize  only  one  situation  in
which a person may be permitted to conduct discovery before any suit
involving that person has been filed; that's the situation in which, under
Rule 27, a person may seek a court order to “perpetuate testimony.”
Under  the  Rule  27  procedure,  a  person  “who  wants  to  perpetuate
testimony  about  any  matter  cognizable  in  a  United  States  court”  may,
even before any suit has been filed, file a “verified petition” showing,
among other things:

“(A)  that  the  petitioner  expects  to  be  a  party  to  [a  federal-court

action] but cannot presently bring it or cause it to be brought;

(B) the subject matter of the expected action and the petitioner's

interest;

(C)  the  facts  that  the  petitioner  wants  to  establish  by  the

proposed testimony and the reasons to perpetuate it; . . .

(E) the name, address, and expected substance of the testimony

of each deponent.”
Rule  27(a)(1).  Courts  have  interpreted  Rule  27  as  applying  only
where a delay in discovery (e.g., a delay until the case is filed and the
usual post-filing discovery methods can be used) is likely to result in a
loss of evidence. See, e.g., Ash v. Cort, 512 F.2d 909 (3d Cir. 1975).
The facts here supply no reason to believe that if Company has to wait
until  Plaintiff  files  the  expected  suit  and  Company  can  use  ordinary

264

discovery methods, the state trooper's testimony is likely to become lost
or  unavailable.  (For  instance,  Company  does  not  allege  that  the  state
trooper is ill or planning soon to leave the country or that he plans to
destroy or conceal evidence.) Furthermore, Company has not specified
any  “facts  that  [it]  wants  to  establish  by  the  proposed  testimony”  (let
alone  any  “reasons  to  perpetuate”  that  testimony)  as  27(a)(1)(C)
requires;  it  simply  wishes  to  learn  more  about  the  accident.  So
Company  has  not  met  the  requirements  for  the  Rule  27  pre-filing
deposition  procedure,  and  there  is  no  other  procedure  in  the  federal
rules allowing for discovery before a case has been filed.

 (A) is not correct,

because it asserts a legal rule that is broader than the actual rule.

As  discussed  in  the  explanation  for  Choice  (D)  above,  FRCP  27
explicitly  allows  for  a  deposition  before  commencement  of  a  suit,  as
long as the party seeking discovery can show that it expects a suit to be
brought,  and  that  the  testimony  it  seeks  is  at  risk  of  being  lost  or
destroyed. So although Choice (A) reaches the right outcome (that the
request  should  be  denied),  the  choice  cites  an  absolute  ban  on  taking
discovery from nonparties before commencement of a suit, and no such
ban exists.

 (B) is not correct,

because is misstates the requirements of the relevant federal rule.

A  party  seeking  pre-complaint  discovery  must,  according  to  Rule
27, file a verified petition  with  the  district  court,  as  explained  in  the
discussion  of  Choice  (D).  But  Rule  27  does  not  require  that  a  draft
complaint be attached to the petition, only that the petitioner show that
it  expects  to  be  a  party  in  a  lawsuit.  Thus,  though  Company's  request
should be denied, it is not for this reason, but rather the reason given in
Choice (D).

 (C) is not correct,

because no rule of the sort cited exists.

If a suit had  already  been  filed,  this  choice  would  be  essentially
correct  in  stating  what  information  Company  could  obtain  via  a
deposition  of  the  non-party  state  trooper.  (Note,  however,  that  even
then, the formulation in Choice (C) is a little too broad; Rule 26(b)(1),

265

in  addition  to  requiring  that  the  information  be  relevant  to  a  claim  or
defense, also requires that the information be “proportional to the needs
of  the  case[.]”)  But  where,  as  here,  no  case  has  yet  been  filed,
discovery  is  narrowly  limited  to  the  situation  in  which  there  is  a
special need to “perpetuate testimony,” as covered in the discussion of
Choice (D).

Answer 38

 (C) is the correct answer,

because 
stakeholder in a statutory interpleader action.

it  recognizes 

the  special  requirements 

imposed  on  a

Interpleader  is  a  procedure  that  allows  a  party—called  the
stakeholder—to join in one lawsuit all claimants to whom he is or
might  be  liable.  Federal  law  recognizes  two  different  kinds  of
interpleader  actions:  “Rule  22”  interpleader  (see  FRCP  22)  and
“statutory”  interpleader  (see  28  U.S.C.  §  1335).  Although  the
procedures serve the same purpose—to enable a party to avoid the risk
of  multiple  and  conflicting  liability—statutory  and  rule  interpleader
differ in their procedural requirements. Statutory interpleader requires
that the plaintiff deposit the stake “into the registry of the court . . . or
[furnish  a]  bond  payable  to  the  clerk  of  the  court  in  such  amount  and
with  surety  as  the  court  or  judge  may  deem  proper.”  28  U.S.C.  §
1335(a)(2).  In  the  situation  in  which  the  stake  is  an  insurance  policy
sought by multiple claimants who assert claims that aggregate more than
the policy limit, the court will normally require that cash or a bond for
the full policy limit (here, $3 million) be deposited. If the court issues
such an order (as it will almost certainly do here) and Plaintiff declines
to  post  that  amount  in  cash  or  via  a  surety  bond,  the  court  will  lack
subject matter jurisdiction over the interpleader action and will have no
choice  but  to  dismiss  the  action.  See,  e.g.,  United  States  Fire
Insurance Co. v. Asbestospray, Inc., 182 F.3d 201, 210 (3d Cir. 1999)
(“A  proper  deposit  or  bond  is  a  jurisdictional  prerequisite  .  .  .  .  The
stakeholder  .  .  .  must  deposit  the  largest  amount  for  which  it  may  be
liable  in  view  of  the  subject  matter  of  the  controversy.”  (By  the  way,
Rule  22  interpleader  does  not  have  an  explicit  deposit  or  bond
requirement.)

 (A) is not correct,

266

because  it  misstates  the  subject-matter  jurisdiction  requirements  for  a
statutory interpleader action.

Statutory  interpleader  requires  only  diversity  of  citizenship
between  any  two  of  the  claimants—what  is  known  as  “minimal
diversity.”  The  statute  explicitly  provides  that  subject  to  a  special
amount-in-controversy  requirement,  “[t]he  district  court  shall  have
original jurisdiction of any action of interpleader . . . if [t]wo or more
adverse claimants, of diverse citizenship as defined in subsection (a)
or  (d)  of  section  1332  of  this  title,  are claiming  or  may  claim  to  be
entitled to such money or property . . . .” 28 U.S.C. § 1335(a)(1). The
U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  recognized  that  this  statutory  provision
requires  only  “  ‘minimal  diversity,'  that  is,  diversity  of  citizenship
between two or more claimants, without regard to the circumstance that
other rival claimants may be co-citizens.” State Farm Fire & Casualty
Co. v. Tashire, 386 U.S. 523, 530 (1967). Since the facts tell you that
there are at least two claimants of diverse citizenship (more precisely,
that  the  claimants  include  citizens  of  seven  different  states,  State  A
through State G), you know that the requirement of minimal diversity is
satisfied here. Contrary to the statement in Choice (A), the citizenship
of the stakeholder (here, Plaintiff) is irrelevant to this determination—
so  it  wouldn't  matter,  say,  if  every  claimant  but  one  was  a  citizen  of
State A, the same state of citizenship as Plaintiff.

 (B) is not correct,

because it misstates the special amount-in-controversy requirement that
applies to statutory interpleader in a diversity suit.

Statutory interpleader requires only that a claim of at least $500
be in controversy, as measured by the stake. See 28 U.S.C. § 1335(a)
(“The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil action
of interpleader . . . filed by any person . . . having in his . . . custody or
possession money or property of the value of $500 or more. . . . ”). By
contrast,  in  “Rule  22”  interpleader,  the  amount-in-controversy  must
exceed $75,000 if the suit is based solely on diversity.

 (D) is not correct,

because  it  misstates  the  federal  court's  power  to  issue  the  requested
injunction.

The  whole  purpose  of  statutory  interpleader  is  to  protect  the
stakeholder  from  multiple  and/or  inconsistent  judgments.  And  that

267

purpose would be defeated if the federal court hearing the interpleader
suit  couldn't  enjoin  the  claimants  from  trying  to  collect  the  stake  in
other  lawsuits,  whether  federal  or  state  ones.  Therefore,  28  U.S.C.  §
2361  provides  that  as  part  of  any  statutory  interpleader  action,  “a
district court may issue its process for all claimants and enter its order
restraining them from instituting or prosecuting any proceeding in
any  State  or  United  States  court  affecting  the  .  .  .  obligation
involved  in  the  interpleader  action[.]”  (But  this  language  does  not
authorize the federal court to enjoin the individual state-court suits from
continuing against Defendant. So the claimants can continue to litigate
in their state-court suits whether Defendant is liable, and for how much;
what the claimants can't  do  in  the  state-court  suits  is  to  try  to  collect
from  Plaintiff,  the  insurer,  insurance  proceeds  to  cover  any  judgment
against Defendant.)

Answer 39

 (A) is the best response,

because a partnership is deemed to be a citizen of the state or foreign
country of EACH of its partners, and the existence of diversity is to be
determined as of the time the suit is filed.

First,  let's  figure  out  the  citizenship  of  the  plaintiff,  a  limited
partnership. A limited partnership—like other artificial entities such as
general  partnerships,  labor  unions,  and  business  trusts  (but  not
corporations)—is considered an “unincorporated association.” And the
rule  has  always  been  that  an  unincorporated  association,  for  diversity
purposes, is deemed to be a citizen of every state or nation in which
any  member  of  the  association  is  a  citizen.  See  Carden  v.  Arkoma
Assocs.,  494  U.S.  185,  195-196  (U.S.  1990),  involving  exactly  our
present  question  of  the  citizenship  of  a  limited  partnership,  where  the
Supreme Court said that “[D]iversity jurisdiction in a suit by or against
the  [artificial]  entity  depends  on  the  citizenship  of  .  .  .  ‘each  of  its
members[.]'  ”  Therefore,  if  the  plaintiff  limited  partnership  as  of  a
particular  moment  had  as  its  partners  a  general  partner  that  was  a
citizen  of  Canada,  eight  individuals  as  limited  partners  who  were
citizens of Canada, and two individuals as limited partners who were
citizens  of  State  A,  the  limited  partnership  as  a  whole  would  be
deemed to have been a citizen of both Canada and State A at that time.
(The  only  type  of  artificial  entity  to  which  a  different  rule  for

268

determining  citizenship  applies  is  the  standard  “corporation,”  whose
place  of  incorporation  and  principal  place  of  business  are  the  only
sources of citizenship—in other words, the citizenship of the individual
stockholders  is  irrelevant.  And  that  different  rule  exists  only  because
Congress expressly so provided, in 28 U.S.C. 1332(c)(1).)

The second rule you need to know to solve this problem is that the
relevant  time  for  measuring  a  litigant's  citizenship  is  the  moment  the
complaint was filed, not some later moment such as the commencement
of  the  trial.  As  the  Supreme  Court  put  it  in  Grupo  Dataflux  v.  Atlas
Global Group, L.P., 541 U.S. 567, 570-571 (2004), “It has long been
the case that . . . ‘the jurisdiction of the court depends upon the state of
things at the time of the action brought.' . . . This time-of-filing rule . . .
measures  all  challenges  to  subject-matter  jurisdiction  premised  upon
diversity of citizenship against the state of facts that existed at the time
of filing—whether the challenge be brought shortly after filing, after the
trial, or even for the first time on appeal.” The Supreme Court in Grupo
Dataflux explicitly rejected even a modest proposed exception to this
general rule, under which if neither the parties nor the judge raised the
lack-of-diversity problem until after a jury verdict had been rendered,
and  due  to  intervening  developments  the  litigants  became  completely
diverse before the verdict was rendered, the court could treat subject-
matter  jurisdiction  as  existing  and  preserve  the  verdict.  So  in  Grupo
Dataflux, where the factual situation was virtually identical to the one
in  our  question  (the  only  two  limited  partners  who  had  the  same
citizenship  as  the  defendant  had  left  the  partnership  between  the
moment of filing and the start of trial), the Supreme Court nonetheless
concluded that the general rule—existence of diversity is determined at
the moment of filing, and changes in any litigants' citizenship post-filing
are  irrelevant—should  apply  and  required  that  the  case  and  the  jury
verdict be dismissed.

So  here,  these  two  rules  combine  to  make  it  be  the  case  that  the
federal court does not have subject-matter jurisdiction over the case. In
suits  in  which  one  of  the  parties  is  a  citizen  of  a  foreign  nation,
diversity  jurisdiction  would  have  to  be  of  the  “alienage”  variety,
specified  in  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(a)(2).  Section  1332(a)(1)  provides  for
jurisdiction in suits that are between “citizens of a State and citizens or
subjects of a foreign state” (as long as the citizen of the foreign state is
not  also  a  permanent  resident  in  the  same  U.S.  state  as  any  opposing
party).  Since  the  defendant  corporation  here  is  deemed  a  citizen  of
State  A  (remember,  a  corporation  is  a  citizen  of  any  state  in  which  it

269

was  incorporated,  plus  the  state  of  its  principal  place  of  business,
which  is  the  state  from  which  its  executives  direct  the  company's
business),  diversity  is  measured  as  of  the  moment  of  filing,  and  the
requisite  complete  diversity  could  exist  only  if  no  partner  in  the
plaintiff limited partnership was a citizen of State A. Thus, the fact that
two of the limited partners in the plaintiff, as of the moment the suit was
filed,  were  citizens  of  State  A  means  that  the  requisite  complete
diversity  between  the  plaintiff  limited  partnership  and  the  defendant
corporation  never  existed.  The  fact  that  the  citizenship  of  the  limited
partnership  changed  after  filing  and  before  commencement  of  the  suit
(by the exit of the two State A limited partners), making the partnership
a citizen solely of Canada, is irrelevant. It would also be irrelevant (if
it were true, which we don't know) that the defendant knew of the lack-
of-diversity  problem  at  all  times  and  purposely  tried  to  play  “heads  I
win, tails you lose” by waiting until after the verdict and deciding that
it would point out the diversity problem only if it lost at trial.

You should keep in mind one other rule about determining diversity
that  might  sound  inconsistent  with  the  above  “time  of  filing  controls”
rule,  but  that  the  Supreme  Court  has  found  to  be  distinguishable  from
the time-of-filing rule. If after filing of the suit and before judgment, the
lineup of the litigant parties changes, in that an existing plaintiff or
defendant leaves the suit, or a new party joins the suit, we do analyze
the existence of diversity immediately after the change. So, for instance,
suppose P (a citizen of State A) files suit against D1 (a citizen of State
A) and D2 (a citizen of State B), based solely on diversity. Then, after
both  Ds  object  to  the  lack  of  the  required  complete  diversity,  P
voluntarily dismisses her claim against D1, and continues only against
D2. In this situation, assuming that D1 is not an indispensable party, the
suit  may  continue,  because  the  change  of  party  “cures  the  lack  of
complete  diversity.”  But  the  Supreme  Court  has  decided  that  this
“change in the party lineup” situation is conceptually different from the
“change in the citizenship of a continuing party” scenario posed by our
problem—in the former, the change in citizenship due to the change in
the  party  lineup  dictates  a  re-evaluation  of  the  existence  of  diversity
post-change,  whereas  in  the  latter,  the  change  in  the  citizenship  of  a
continuing party does not dictate a re-evaluation. See Grupo Dataflux,
supra, making this distinction between the two situations.

 (B) is not the best response,

270

because the state of the defendant's knowledge or motive concerning the
diversity issue is irrelevant.

This  choice  asserts  that  the  critical  fact  is  whether  the  defendant
knew  (or  at  least  should  have  known)  that  there  was  a  lack  of  the
required  diversity  prior  to  the  start  of  trial.  But  the  state  of  the
defendant's knowledge is completely irrelevant here. As is more fully
discussed  in  the  analysis  of  choice  (A),  the  only  critical  issue  is
whether the requisite diversity existed at the moment the suit was filed;
if diversity was not present then, then even if the defendant knew about
the problem and remained silent in the hopes of getting a “free bite at
the  apple”  (i.e.,  planned  to  try  the  case  and  raise  the  diversity  issue
only if it lost at trial), no rule prevented the defendant from using this
tactic.

 (C) is not the best response,

because a lack of diversity as of the moment the suit was filed cannot
be cured by a later change to a party's citizenship.

As  is  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  choice  (A),  the  existence  of
diversity  is  determined  by  looking  at  the  parties'  citizenship  at  the
moment  the  suit  is  filed.  If  as  of  that  moment  there  is  an  overlap
between the state(s) of which any plaintiff is a citizen and the states of
which  any  defendant  is  a  citizen,  that  overlap  prevents  the  requisite
diversity  from  existing  no  matter  what  happens  post-filing.  But
distinguish this situation from one in which there are multiple parties on
one  side,  and  as  the  result  of  post-filing  changes  in  the  lineup  of  the
parties  (e.g.,  a  party  is  dismissed  from  the  case)  there  is  a  change  in
citizenship;  in  this  new  situation,  the  existence  of  diversity  is
determined by looking at the new lineup (though the citizenship of each
of the remaining parties is still measured as of the initial filing)—thus,
if P is diverse with D1 but not diverse with D2 as of filing, the problem
can  be  cured  by  dropping  D2.  (For  more  about  that  scenario,  see  the
last paragraph discussing Choice (A) above.) But the “change of party
lineup” scenario in the prior sentence is the only  situation  in  which  a
post-filing  change  relating  to  diversity  can  matter.  If  the  party  lineup
doesn't  change—and  the  only  thing  that  changes  post-lineup  is  the
citizenship  of  a  continuing  party—that  change  never  affects  the
diversity  analysis.  So  here,  where  the  suit  has  continued  to  be  solely
between  the  original  limited  partnership  plaintiff  and  the  original
corporate  defendant,  the  fact  that  two  limited  partners  of  the  plaintiff
departed  post-filing  (thereby  converting  the  partnership  from  being  a

271

citizen of both Canada and State A to a citizen only of Canada) does not
“cure”  the  lack  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction,  as  this  choice  says  it
does.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  is  an  incorrect  statement  of  the  rules  for  determining  the
citizenship of a partnership.

(as  well  as 

As is more fully discussed in the treatment of choice (A), the only
“artificial entity” whose citizenship is determined without reference to
the  citizenship  of  the  constituent  members  or  owners  is  a  true
corporation  (as  to  which  Congress  has  specially  provided  that  the
citizenship  of  the  stockholders  is  to  be  ignored).  For  a  limited
partnership 
types  of  “unincorporated
for  other 
associations,”  like  labor  unions,  general  partnerships,  business  trusts,
etc.),  the  judge-made  rule  is  and  has  always  been  that  the  entity  is
deemed  a  citizen  of  every  state  and/or  foreign  nation  of  which  any
constituent  member  is  a  citizen.  So  if,  as  is  the  case  here,  a  limited
partnership  has  as  its  partners  a  general  partner  and  multiple  limited
partners, it must be the case that none of this whole set of partners may
be a citizen of the same state or nation as any defendant.

Answer 40

 (A) is the best response,

because transfer based on convenience is allowed to any district where
the action might have originally been brought.

The  general  federal  change-of-venue  statute,  28  U.S.C.  §  1404(a),
permits  the  district  court  to  transfer  “any  civil  action  to  any  other
district  or  division  where  it  might  have  been  brought,”  on
consideration  of  “the  convenience  of  parties  and  witnesses,  in  the
interest of justice.” The statutory language “where it might have been
brought” has been interpreted to require, at the least, that transfer be to
a district in which venue would have been proper. (Some courts also
require that the transfer be to a district from which personal jurisdiction
over  the  defendant  could  be  asserted,  which  in  a  diversity  case  might
mean that transfer cannot be made to a district in a state with which the
defendant did not have minimum contacts.) In any event, you don't have
to interpret the precise meaning of the phrase “where it might have been
brought” to evaluate Choice (A), since that choice echoes the phrase by

272

adding  the  condition  that  plaintiff  “could  initially  have  brought  the
action” in W.D. State B. Since the facts tell you to assume that the court
has  found  that  litigation  in  W.D.  State  B  would  be  more  convenient
overall  than  litigation  in  State  A,  §  1404(a)'s  requirement  that  the
transferring judge consider the “convenience of parties and witnesses”
is also satisfied.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the governing law on the right to transfer an action.
A  plaintiff  may  move  to  transfer  an  action  despite  the  fact  that
plaintiff  chose  the  action's  initial  venue.  The  transfer  statute  “says
nothing about affording plaintiffs different treatment from defendants,”
Ferens  v.  John  Deere  Co.,  494  U.S.  516,  522  (1990),  and  transfer
under  the  general  federal  venue  statute  is  not  limited  to  defendants.
Thus,  Plaintiff  is  free  to  seek  to  change  the  venue  of  the  action  even
though he was the one who made the original choice of where to sue.

 (C) is not correct,

because it misstates the relationship of venue to state boundaries in the
federal system even when the federal court sits in diversity jurisdiction.
Although it is true that individual circuits and districts in the federal
system  generally  do  not  cross  state  boundaries,  there  is  nothing  in  the
federal change-of-venue provisions that prohibits a transfer across state
lines. And that is true whether the action is based solely on diversity or
involves a federal-question claim. (Notice, by the way, that a party who
seeks  to  transfer  an  action  from  one  district  to  another,  when  the
districts  are  in  different  states,  will  not  get  the  benefit  of  a  change  in
law; the transferee court must apply the law of the transferor court. See
Van Dusen v. Barack, 376 U.S. 612 (1964) and Ferens v. John Deere
Co., 494 U.S. 516 (1990).)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the fact that venue wasn't proper does not require the court to
dismiss the action.

The court in which the case was originally brought may transfer it
to  another  district,  even  if  venue  was  improper  in  the  original
(transferor) court. In that situation, the correct statutory procedure to
use  is  not  the  generally  used  §  1404(a)  (discussed  in  Choice  (A)

273

above), but a special provision for cases in which the original choice
of venue is improper, 28 U.S.C. § 1406. Section 1406 lets the original
court  make  the  transfer  (assuming  venue  in  the  transferee  district  is
proper  and  that  convenience  will  be  served),  even  though  because  of
the venue error that original court could not have heard the action over
the defendant's objection.