EVIDENCE

EVIDENCE Q&A BY TOPIC

All answers assume that the Federal Rules of Evidence (“FRE”) are in
force as to all issues. “ACN” refers to “Advisory Committee Notes” to a
particular Federal Rule of Evidence. “M&K” refers to Mueller &
Kirkpatrick, Evidence Hornbook (Aspen, 3d Ed., 2003).

CHAPTER 1
BASIC CONCEPTS

I.    CONDITIONS FOR ADMITTING EVIDENCE

A.  Relevant

1.  Definition

Question 1: In a prosecution for aggravated battery, a police

442

officer testified that when he arrested the defendant, he took a
knife  from  the  defendant  and  delivered  it  to  the  medical
examiner. The medical examiner testified that the knife blade
was consistent with the victim’s wound but admitted on cross-
examination that any number of other knives could also have
caused the wound.

Should  the  judge  grant  a  motion  to  strike  the  medical
examiner’s testimony?

(A)  No, because the probative worth of this evidence is for

the jury to assess.

(B)    Yes,  because  in  light  of  the  medical  examiner’s
admission,  his  testimony  has  insufficient  probative
value.

(C)    Yes,  because  the  medical  examiner  could  not  state  the
probability that the wound was caused by the defendant’s
knife.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  probative  value  is  substantially

outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

Answer  1:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  evidence  has  some
probative  value,  because  it  links  the  knife  in  defendant’s
possession  to  the  type  of  knife  that  could  have  caused  the
victim’s  wound.  The  evidence  is  not  very  strong,  because
other  knives  could  also  have  caused  the  wound.  But  how
much weight to give to the evidence is a decision for the jury.
FRE 401 requires only that evidence “(a) has any tendency to
make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without
the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in
determining  the  action.”  Thus  to  be  relevant,  evidence  need
only  have  some  probative  value  in  establishing  a  fact.  The
Advisory  Committee’s  Note  to  Rule  401  quotes  the  famous
statement  “A  brick  is  not  a  wall,”  making  the  point  that
evidence is admissible even if it is only a single brick that is
a part of a large wall of evidence establishing a party’s case.
the  relevancy
(B) 
requirement of FRE 401 if it “(a) has any tendency to make a
fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without  the
evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in  determining
the  action.”  The  medical  examiner’s  testimony  meets  this

is  wrong  because  evidence  meets 

443

minimal  standard  of  probativity.  And  it  is  probative  of  a
material fact — whether this knife was the crime weapon.

(C) is wrong because no statement of probability is required
for admissibility. The medical examiner’s testimony does not
have to establish that defendant’s knife caused the wound by
any particular standard of proof, such as beyond a reasonable
doubt,  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence,  or  by  a
preponderance of the evidence — it’s up to the jury to assess
the value of the evidence in determining guilt. The testimony
only  needs  to  have  some  unspecified-but-minimal  probative
value to be admissible.

That’s shown by FRE 401, under which evidence is deemed
to  have  probative  value,  and  to  be  admissible  (assuming  it
doesn’t violate some other specific prohibition), if it “(a) has
any  tendency  to  make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it
would  be  without  the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of
consequence in determining the action.”

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  mischaracterizes  the  evidence  here.
It’s true that FRE 403 requires a weighing of probative value
against  unfair  prejudice,  as  this  choice  suggests.  That  rule
establishes  what  might  be  described  as  a  presumption  of
admissibility:  Evidence  meeting  Rule  401’s  definition  of
relevance  is  admissible  unless  its  probative  value  is
“substantially outweighed” by the danger of unfair prejudice.
Here,  the  medical  examiner’s  testimony  does  not  appear  to
pose  any  significant  degree  of  unfair  prejudice,  let  alone
enough to “substantially outweigh” the probative value of that
testimony.

Question 2:  A  defendant’s  house  was  destroyed  by  fire  and
she was charged with arson. To prove that the defendant had a
motive  to  burn  down  her  house,  the  government  offered
evidence that the defendant had fully insured the house and its
contents.
Should the court admit this evidence?
(A)    No,  because  the  probative  value  of  the  evidence  of
insurance  upon  the  issue  of  whether  the  defendant
intentionally  burned  her  house  down  is  substantially
outweighed  by  the  dangers  of  unfair  prejudice  and

444

confusion of the jury.

(B)  No, because evidence of insurance is not admissible upon
the issue of whether the insured acted wrongfully.
(C)    Yes,  because  evidence  of  insurance  on  the  house  has  a
tendency to show that the defendant had a motive to burn
down the house.

(D)      Yes,  because  any  conduct  of  a  party  to  the  case  is

admissible when offered against the party.

Answer  2:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  is  a  relevance
problem.  The  main  issue  is  whether  the  evidence  meets  the
general  relevance  standard  of  FRE  401.  Under  that  rule,
evidence  is  relevant  as  long  as  it  “(a)  has  any  tendency  to
make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without
the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in
determining  the  action.”  Thus,  evidence  that  has  only  the
slightest  probative  value  can  be  admitted  under  this  rule.
While evidence that the property is insured is not conclusive
that the defendant committed arson (many people fully insure
their  houses),  it  is  relevant  to  the  issue  of  whether  the
defendant would have had a financial incentive or motive to
commit  the  arson — the  defendant  might  be  able  to  generate
cash more quickly by burning down the house and collecting
insurance proceeds than by attempting to sell the house. This
evidence meets the minimal probativity standard of FRE 401.

(There  is  a  special  rule  concerning  the  admissibility  of
evidence of insurance, but that rule doesn’t bar the evidence
here; see the discussion of Choice (B) for more about this.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  although  the  probative  value  of  this
evidence  on  the  issue  of  whether  defendant  intentionally
burned  her  house  down  is  not  particularly  strong,  it  is
somewhat  probative  of  the  issue  of  possible  motive,  so  it
meets  the  easy-to-satisfy  probativity  standard  of  FRE  401
(quoted  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (C)  above).  FRE  403
provides that relevant evidence should be admitted unless its
probative value is “substantially outweighed” by the dangers
of  unfair  prejudice,  confusion,  or  waste  of  time.  Here,  the
evidence  of  insurance  is  probably  not  unfairly  prejudicial  at
all  (in  the  sense  that  it  does  not  have  an  undue  tendency  to
produce  decision  on  an  improper  basis  such  as  emotion);  in

445

any  event,  whatever  small  prejudicial  tendency  the  evidence
might have is certainly not enough to “substantially outweigh”
the probative value of the evidence.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  is  true  that  FRE  411  bars
evidence  of  insurance  to  establish  that  the  insured  acted
is
negligently  or  otherwise  wrongfully,  such  evidence 
admissible for other purposes, and proof of motive is such a
purpose. (In this respect, Rule 411 is similar to Rule 404(b),
under  which  evidence  of  past  conduct  cannot  be  admitted  to
prove  a  propensity  to  engage  in  such  conduct  but  can  be
admitted for other purposes, such as to prove motive.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  is  no  such  broad  rule  that  any
conduct of a party may be admitted against that party.

Question 3:  The  bus  in  which  a  passenger  was  riding  was
struck from the rear by a taxi. He sued the taxi company for a
claimed  neck  injury.  The  taxi  company  claimed  the  impact
was  too  slight  to  have  caused  the  claimed  injury  and
introduced testimony that all passengers had refused medical
attention  at  the  time  of  the  accident.  The  passenger  called  a
doctor  from  a  local  hospital  to  testify  that  three  persons
(otherwise proved to have been on the bus) were admitted to
the hospital for treatment of severe neck pain within a week
after  the  accident.  The  trial  judge  should  rule  the  doctor’s
testimony

(A)  admissible, because a doctor is properly qualified as an

expert in medical matters.

(B)    admissible  if  other  testimony  established  a  causal
connection  between  the  other  passengers’  pain  and  the
accident.

(C)    inadmissible,  because  the  testimony  to  neck  pain  is

hearsay, not within any exception.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  the  testimony  is  not  the  best
the

the  other  passengers’  pain  and 

evidence  of 
passengers are not shown to be unavailable.

Answer  3:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
identifies  that,  if  a  causal  connection  is  provided,  the  other
instances  will  be  admissible.  The  passenger  is  offering
evidence of other injuries from the bus accident to prove that

446

his  own  injuries  were  caused  by  the  accident.  The  problem
posed  by  such  evidence  is  its  relevance.  In  order  for  such
evidence to be admissible, the material circumstances must be
substantially  identical,  and  the  proponent  of  the  evidence
(here, the passenger) must establish the similarity.

In this question, you’re told that it’s already been proven that
the  other  three  passengers  were  involved  in  the  same
accident. Thus, the only “missing link” that the passenger must
prove is that their injuries came from the same accident, since
this  will  provide  the  “substantial  similarity”  that  relevance
requires.  Choice  B  recognizes  and  resolves  this  issue,  by
the  other
focusing  on 
passengers’ injuries and the accident.

the  causal  connection  between 

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  doctor’s  expert  status  is  not
relevant  to  the  issue  of  admissibility  here.  The  passenger  is
offering  evidence  of  other  injuries  from  the  bus  accident  to
prove that his own injuries were caused by the accident. The
problem posed by such evidence is its relevance; in order for
such  evidence  to  be  admissible,  the  material  circumstances
must  be  “substantially  similar,”  and  the  proponent  of  the
evidence  (here,  the  passenger)  must  establish  the  similarity.
The only “missing link” that the passenger must prove is that
their  injuries  came  from  the  same  accident,  since  this  will
provide the “substantial similarity” that relevance requires.

The  doctor’s  expertise  matters  only  if  he  is  going  to  give
expert  testimony  about  medical  matters.  So  if  the  doctor’s
testimony  proposed  to  address,  say,  the  similarity  of  the
injuries between the passenger and the other three passengers,
the  doctor’s  expert  status  would  be  relevant.  But  that’s  not
what’s  been  asked  of  him  here:  Instead,  all  the  doctor  has
been  asked  is  whether  three  other  passengers  from  the  same
bus  accident  were  admitted  to  the  hospital  that  week  for
treatment  of  severe  neck  pain,  a  question  that  would  not
require expert testimony.
(C)  is  wrong,  because  the  testimony  here  does  not  involve
hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove
the  truth  of  its  assertion.  Here,  there’s  no  out-of-court
statement; the doctor is being asked whether or not three other
bus passengers were admitted to the hospital for treatment of

447

neck pain within a week of the accident. This doesn’t involve
recounting any out-of-court statement, and one quick way for
you to identify this is that there’s no out-of-court declarant.

(D) is wrong, because it misapplies the “best evidence” rule.
The  Best  Evidence  Rule  applies  only  when  the  terms  of  a
writing  (or  recording  or  photograph)  are  being  proven.  FRE
1002.  It  doesn’t  require  that  the  “best  evidence”  for  every
issue  be  offered.  Since  no  writing  (or  recording  or
photograph) is involved here, there’s no “best evidence” rule
issue.

2.  Exclusion

Question 4: Deeb was charged with stealing furs from a van.
At trial, Wallace testified she saw Deeb take the furs.

The jurisdiction in which Deeb is being tried does not allow
in  evidence  lie  detector  results.  On  cross-examination  by
Deeb’s attorney, Wallace was asked, “The light was too dim
to identify Deeb, wasn’t it?” She responded. “I’m sure enough
that it was Deeb that I passed a lie detector test administered
by  the  police.”  Deeb’s  attorney  immediately  objects  and
moves to strike.

The trial court should

(A)  grant the motion, because the question was leading.
(B)    grant  the  motion,  because  the  probative  value  of  the
unresponsive  testimony  is  substantially  outweighed  by
the danger of unfair prejudice.

(C)  deny the motion, because it is proper rehabilitation of an

impeached witness.

(D)    deny  the  motion,  because  Deeb’s  attorney  “opened  the

door” by asking the question.

Answer 4:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  FRE  403  provides:  “The
court may exclude relevant evidence if its probative value is
substantially  outweighed  by  a  danger  of  one  or  more  of  the
following: unfair prejudice, confusing the issues, misleading
the  jury,  undue  delay,  wasting  time,  or  needlessly  presenting
cumulative  evidence.”  The  fact  pattern  tells  us  that  the
lie  detector  results,
jurisdiction  excludes  evidence  of 
indicating that the jurisdiction questions the reliability of the

448

test  and  considers  evidence  of  the  test  results  to  be  of  low
probative  value.  “Unfair”  prejudice  means  “an  undue
tendency  to  suggest  decision  on  an  improper  basis  .  .  .  .”
Advisory  Committee  Note  to  FRE  403.  It  is  reasonable  to
assume that some members of a jury may regard the results of
a lie detector test as more scientific than they actually are, and
consequently give the test too much weight. Therefore, in this
jurisdiction, 
the  danger  of  unfair  prejudice  would
substantially  outweigh  the  (low)  probative  value  of  the  lie
detector test.

(A) is wrong because, although the motion would be granted,
it  would  not  be  for  the  stated  reason.  Leading  questions  are
generally permissible on cross examination. FRE 611(c).

that 

testimony 

(C) is wrong because, even apart from the FRE 403 problem
discussed in Choice (B), the reasoning supporting this answer
mischaracterizes  the  concept  of  “rehabilitation.”  Once  a
witness  has  been  impeached,  rehabilitation  is  brought  out
is  offered  by  counsel
through  separate 
representing  the  party  who  is  a  proponent  of  the  impeached
witness’s  testimony.  It  is  incorrect  to  characterize  the
witness’s  own  response  to  opposing  counsel’s  “impeaching”
question as “rehabilitation” of that witness’s credibility.
(D) is wrong because (1) the motion would be granted for the
reason  discussed  in  Choice  (B);  and  (2)  the  reasoning
supporting this answer misapplies the concept of “opening the
door.”  A  topic  which  is  otherwise  off-limits  to  an  opposing
party is considered “opened for questioning” once it has been
introduced  by  the  other  party — the  rationale  is  that  if  the
topic  has  been  “opened”  by  one  party  it  would  be  unfair  to
prohibit  the  opposing  party  from  addressing  it.  In  this  case,
the question “The light was too dim to identify Deeb, wasn’t
it?”  is  not  even  arguably  related  to  the  topic  of  Wallace’s
passing  a  lie  detector  test,  so  there  is  no  unfairness  in  not
allowing Wallace to talk about the lie detector test.

Question 5: A defendant is tried on a charge of driving while
intoxicated.  When  the  defendant  was  booked  at  the  police
station,  a  videotape  was  made  that  showed  him  unsteady,
abusive,  and  speaking  in  a  slurred  manner.  If  the  prosecutor
lays  a  foundation  properly  identifying  the  tape,  should  the

449

court  admit  it  in  evidence  and  permit  it  to  be  shown  to  the
jury?

(A)  Yes, because it is an admission.
(B)  Yes, because its value is not substantially outweighed by

unfair prejudice.

(C)    No,  because  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination  is

applicable.

(D)    No,  because  specific  instances  of  conduct  cannot  be

proved by extrinsic evidence.

Answer  5:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  To  answer  this  question,
you  have  to  deal  with  two  issues:  (1)  is  the  evidence
relevant?;  and  (2)  if  the  answer  to  (1)  is  “yes,”  does  any
principle prevent the admission of the evidence?

With respect to (1), FRE 401 says that “Evidence is relevant
if:  (a)  it  has  any  tendency  to  make  a  fact  more  or  less
probable than it would be without the evidence; and  (b) the
fact is of consequence in determining the action.” Whether the
defendant  was  intoxicated  is  certainly  a  “fact  .  .  .  of
consequence  in  determining  the  action,”  so  part  (b)  of  the
relevance  test  is  easily  satisfied.  And  the  fact  that  the
videotape shows the defendant being “unsteady, abusive, and
speaking  in  a  slurred  manner”  clearly  makes  it  more  likely
that the defendant was intoxicated than if the videotape were
not  presented,  so  part  (a)  is  satisfied,  making  the  evidence
relevant.

With respect to (2), there must not be any principle that makes
this piece of evidence inadmissible despite its relevance. The
only  plausible  candidate  for  such  a  principle  is  FRE  403,
which says that “The court may exclude relevant evidence if
its probative value is substantially outweighed  by  a  danger
of  one  or  more  of  the  following:  unfair  prejudice,  confusing
the issues, misleading the jury, undue delay, wasting time, or
needlessly  presenting  cumulative  evidence.”  Since  Choice
(B)  refers  to  the  balance  between  probative  value  and
negative consequences like unfair prejudice, FRE 403 has to
be analyzed. The defendant’s best argument would be that the
in  “unfair  prejudice”  substantially
tape  would 
outweighing  the  tape’s  probative  value.  But  the  court  would

result 

450

almost  certainly  conclude  that  any  such  prejudice  would  not
be  “unfair” — the  tape  accurately  depicts  the  defendant’s
state, and there is nothing unfair about the depiction.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  it  does  not  correctly  characterize  the
facts. This choice suggests that the defendant’s acts would be
considered  hearsay,  but  would  be  admissible  nonetheless
under the “admissions” hearsay exclusion. Hearsay is an out-
of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.
The  problem  here  is  that  the  videotape  does  not  contain  any
assertion the truth of which is being proven by the videotape.
While conduct can be considered an admission if, from it, one
can  reasonably  infer  that  the  actor  is  conscious  of  his  guilt,
this  is  not  the  case  here;  the  defendant’s  conduct  is  non-
assertive (i.e., not intended to communicate).

(C) is wrong, because the privilege against self-incrimination
would  not  apply  to  these  facts.  The  privilege  against  self-
incrimination  is  a  testimonial  privilege;  it  only  allows  a
person  the  right  not  to  be  compelled  to  testify  as  to  matters
that might tend to incriminate him. Here, there’s no testimony
involved — the  evidence  being  offered  is  an  out-of-court
videotape  of 
is  not
“testifying”  in  the  video  (nor  has  he  apparently  been
“compelled” to do anything). As a result, the videotape is not
covered by the privilege.

the  defendant,  but 

the  defendant 

(D) is wrong, because it both misstates the facts and misstates
the  law.  This  choice  states  an  ostensible  rule  of  law,  but
refers to two ideas, neither of which applies here.

The  “specific  instances  of  conduct”  part  suggests  that
character  evidence  is  involved  here — the  examiners  are
trying  to  make  you  think  of  the  rule  (FRE  405(a))  that
prohibits proving someone’s character trait by specific prior
instances  of  that  character  trait,  to  show  that  he  probably
acted  in  conformity  with  that  trait  on  the  present  occasion.
However,  the  evidence  here  suggests  that  the  defendant  was
drunk on this occasion, not another one, so it’s not character
evidence  of  the  sort  that’s  covered  by  the  no-specific-
instances rule.
The “extrinsic evidence” part is designed to make you think of

451

the  rule  that  even  in  those  situations  where  someone’s
character  trait  can  be  proven  by  specific  instances  of  prior
conduct,  that  proof  must  come  in  the  form  of  cross-
examination of an already-testifying witness, not by means of
a new witness or a new piece of documentary evidence. (This
is  a  common-law  rule,  carried  forward  by  negative
implication  in  FRE  405(a).)  But  since  no  character-trait
evidence is being offered here (see the prior paragraph), the
reference to extrinsic evidence is irrelevant.

B.  Offering testimonial evidence

1.  Testimony by trial judge

Question  6:  A  defendant  was  charged  with  murder.  While
walking down the hallway during a recess in the defendant’s
trial,  the  judge  overheard  the  defendant  say  to  his  attorney,
“So  what  if  I  did  it?  There’s  not  enough  proof  to  convict.”
Upon  the  judge’s  reporting  the  incident  to  counsel,  the
prosecutor called the judge as a witness in the trial.

Is  the  judge’s  testimony  regarding  the  defendant’s  statement
admissible?

(A)  Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.
(B) 

  Yes,  because 
the  defendant’s  statement,  although
otherwise  privileged,  was  made  without  reasonable
efforts to preserve confidentiality.

(C)    No,  because  the  statement  was  a  privileged  attorney-

client communication.

(D)    No,  because  a  judge  may  never  testify  in  a  trial  over

which he or she is presiding.

Answer 6: Choice (D) is correct. Although the judge is being
asked  to  recount  an  out-of-court  statement  made  by  a  party
that  is  offered  against  that  party,  admissibility  here  does  not
turn on the hearsay rule. Regardless of whether the evidence
is admissible under the hearsay rule, FRE 605 provides that
“The presiding judge may not testify as a witness at the trial.”
Thus,  the  judge  cannot  offer  any  testimony  of  any  kind,  no
matter how probative and important his testimony.
(A)  is  wrong  because  even  though  the  statement  is  the
admission  of  a  party-opponent  and  would  be  otherwise

452

admissible  non-hearsay  under  FRE  801(d)(2)(A),  FRE  605
says that the presiding judge cannot be called as a witness to
testify about anything.

that 

confidentiality, 

this  means  only 

(B)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  is  true  that  reasonable
efforts  were  not  made  by  the  defendant  and  his  attorney  to
the
preserve 
communication  was  not  privileged — it  does  not  mean  the
statement is necessarily admissible. The problem here is that
under  FRE  605,  the  statement  cannot  be  proven  through  the
testimony  of  the  presiding  judge  because  that  rule  bars  the
presiding judge from offering any testimony of any kind. The
defendant’s  lack  of  efforts  to  preserve  confidentiality  mean
that  the  statement  probably  would  be  admissible  if  someone
other than the presiding judge had heard it and been asked to
testify about it.

(C) is wrong because, although it reaches the right outcome, it
uses  incorrect  reasoning.  The  statement  would  not  be
privileged. That’s because reasonable efforts were not made
by the defendant and his attorney to preserve confidentiality,
since the statement was made in a hallway open to the public
in a voice loud enough to be overheard.

C.  Making and responding to objections

1.  Hearing outside of presence of jury

Question  7:  A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  burglary.  The
prosecutor  called  the  arresting  officer  to  testify  that  shortly
after the arrest the defendant had orally admitted her guilt to
him.  Before  the  officer  testified,  the  defendant  objected  that
no  Miranda  warning  had  been  given,  and  she  requested  a
hearing  outside  the  presence  of  the  jury  to  hear  evidence  on
that issue.
How should the court proceed?

(A)  The court should grant the request, because the hearing on
the  admissibility  of  the  confession  must  be  conducted
outside the presence of the jury.

(B)  The court may grant or deny the request, because the court
has  discretion  whether  to  conduct  preliminary  hearings
in the presence of the jury.

453

(C)  The court should deny the request and rule the confession
inadmissible,  because  only  signed  confessions  are
permitted in criminal cases.

(D)   The court should deny the request and rule the confession
admissible,  because  it  is  the  statement  of  a  party-
opponent.

Answer  7:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  admissibility  of  the
officer’s  testimony  turns  on  two  issues:  (1)  whether  a
Miranda warning had to be given to the defendant before her
confession  can  be  admitted;  and  (2)  whether  the  judge’s
determination of the first issue must be preceded by a hearing
conducted in front of or outside the hearing of the jury. With
respect to the first question, Miranda warnings must be given
before  a  confession  made  by  a  person  under  arrest  can  be
admitted.  Since  the  defendant  contends  that  no  Miranda
warnings were given, she is entitled to a hearing on the issue.
The  rule  resolving  the  second  question  is  contained  in  FRE
104(c),  which  says  that  a  “hearing  [that  involves]  the
admissibility of a confession” must be conducted “so that the
jury cannot hear it.” (Note that this provision goes on to say
that  hearings  on  all  other  preliminary  matters  shall  be
conducted  outside  the  presence  of  the  jury  only  when  either
justice requires or when a criminal defendant is a witness and
requests a hearing outside of the jury’s presence.) Thus under
FRE  104(c),  the  hearing  must  be  conducted  outside  the
presence of the jury.

(B)  is  wrong  because  FRE  104(c)  mandates  that  the
admissibility  of  confessions  “must”  be  conducted  out  of  the
hearing of the jury. So the trial court has no discretion in this
matter.

(C)  is  wrong  because  oral  confessions,  like  signed  written
confessions,  are  admissible  in  criminal  cases,  assuming  that
any required Miranda warnings were given.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  ignores  the  effect  of  Miranda.  It’s
true  that  a  confession  of  a  criminal  defendant  is  an  out-of-
court  statement  made  by  a  party-opponent,  which  makes  it
non-hearsay under FRE 801(d)(2)(A) and thus admissible — 
as a matter of evidence law — to prove the truth of the matter
asserted  within  that  statement.  But  the  rules  of  evidence

454

cannot  alter  the  constitutional  requirement  that  Miranda
warnings must be given before a confession made by a person
under arrest is admissible.

455

CHAPTER 2
CIRCUMSTANTIAL PROOF: SPECIAL
PROBLEMS

I.    CHARACTER EVIDENCE

A.  Character is essential element of case

1.  Other aspects of other-crimes evidence

a.  Rule 403 balancing

Question 8: Decker, charged with armed robbery of a store,
denied that he was the person who had robbed the store.

In  presenting  the  state’s  ease,  the  prosecutor  seeks  to
introduce  evidence  that  Decker  had  robbed  two  other  stores
in the past year.
This evidence is
(A)    admissible,  to  prove  a  pertinent  trait  of  Decker’s

character and Decker’s action in conformity therewith.

(B)  admissible, to prove Decker’s intent and identity.
(C)    inadmissible,  because  character  must  be  proved  by
reputation or opinion and may not be proved by specific
acts.

(D)  inadmissible, because its probative value is substantially

outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

Answer  8:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Although  evidence  of
Decker’s previous two robberies may arguably be relevant as
to  whether  Decker  robbed  the  store  in  the  present  case,  its
probative value is low and dwarfed by the prejudicial value
of the evidence. FRE 403 says that relevant evidence may be
excluded  “if  its  probative  value  is  substantially  outweighed
by  the  danger  of  one  or  more  of  the  following:  unfair
prejudice[.]” “Unfair” prejudice means “an undue tendency to
suggest  decision  on  an  improper  basis  .  .  .  .  ”  Advisory
Committee Note (ACN) to FRE 403. The probative value of
the evidence is pretty low, since the other acts don’t bear very
strongly on whether Decker is the robber in the present case

456

(there’s  no  indication  that  the  m.o.’s  are  all  that  similar,  for
instance — see  Choice  (B)  below).  Conversely,  there’s  a
large risk that if the evidence were admitted, some members
of  the  jury  would  likely  regard  it  as  more  probative  than  it
actually  is,  and  consequently  give  the  evidence  too  much
weight.

(A) is wrong because the general rule is that “Evidence of a
person’s  character  or  character  trait  is  not  admissible  to
prove  that  on  a  particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in
accordance with the character or trait.” FRE 404(a)(1). There
are  some  exceptions,  but  none  applies  here.  This  choice
asserts  a  rule — admissibility  of  character-trait  evidence  to
prove  action  in  conformity  with  the  trait  on  the  present
occasion — that  is  the  exact  opposite  of  the  real  rule  of
404(a).

(B)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons.  First,  the  previous  robberies
are probably not sufficiently probative of Decker’s identity or
his intent (the latter isn’t even an issue in this case). It’s true
that  evidence  of  other  acts  may  be  admissible  for  purposes
other  than  to  show  action  in  conformity  with  a  person’s
character,  and  that  two  of  these  acceptable  purposes  are  to
prove identity and intent. FRE 404(b)(2). But generally, when
other  acts  are  offered  to  prove  identity,  the  prosecution’s
theory  is  that  the  other  acts  by  the  accused  are  so  similar  in
method to the crime charged that all bear his “signature” (thus
justifying  the  inference  that  if  the  defendant  committed  the
prior  acts,  he  also  must  have  committed  the  present  one).
Here,  the  other  robberies  aren’t  similar  enough  to  meet  this
“signature” standard.

Secondly,  this  evidence  poses  an  extremely  high  risk  of
prejudice, far outweighing its limited probative value, and is
thus excludible under FRE 403 (see the discussion of Choice
(D) above).
(C) is wrong because (1) it at least slightly misstates the law;
and  (2)  more  importantly,  it  gives  an  explanation  that  is
inapplicable here. While it’s true that, in general, character or
a  trait  of  character  must  be  proved  by  reputation  or  opinion
evidence, not specific-acts evidence (FRE 405(a)), there are
some scenarios in which specific-acts evidence is admissible

457

(e.g.,  where  a  character  trait  is  an  “essential  element  of  a
charge, claim or defense” — see FRE 405(b)). But the bigger
problem  is  that  what  the  prosecution  is  offering  here  is  not,
strictly speaking, character evidence — the prosecution is not
offering the evidence to show that Decker has a character or
tendency  to  commit  robbery;  rather,  it’s  trying  to  qualify  for
one or more of the “other purposes than character” exceptions
mentioned by 404(b), e.g., identity.

II.   METHODS OF PROVING CHARACTER:
REPUTATION, OPINION, AND PROOF OF
SPECIFIC ACTS

A.  FRE

1.  D’s good-character evidence

a.  Rebuttal

Question 9: The defendant, who was charged with the crime
of assaulting a victim, admitted striking the victim. However,
the defendant claimed to have acted in self-defense when he
was  attacked  by  the  victim,  who  was  drunk  and  belligerent.
The  defendant  offered  testimony  of  his  employer,  who
proposes  to  testify  that  he  has  known  and  employed  the
defendant  for  10  years  and  knows  the  defendant’s  reputation
among the people with whom he lives and works to be that of
a peaceful, law-abiding, nonviolent person.

The trial judge should rule this testimony

(A) 

  admissible,  because  it  is  relevant  to  show  the
improbability  of  the  defendant’s  having  committed  an
unprovoked assault.

(B)    admissible,  because  it  is  relevant  to  a  determination  of
the extent of punishment if the defendant is convicted.
(C)    not  admissible,  because  whether  the  defendant  is
normally a person of good character is irrelevant to the
specific charge.

(D)  not admissible, because it is irrelevant without a showing
that  the  defendant’s  employer  was  one  of  the  persons
among whom the defendant lived and worked.

458

Answer  9:  The  best  choice  is  (A),  because  it  correctly
applies  the  “Mercy  Rule”  to  these  facts.  The  problem  under
these facts is that the evidence offered is character evidence,
which  is,  as  a  very  general  rule,  inadmissible.  However,
choice  A  correctly  identifies  that  the  “Mercy  Rule”  will
operate to make this evidence admissible. Under the “Mercy
Rule,”  in  criminal  cases  only,  the  defendant  may  offer
evidence (presumably favorable) of his own character in the
form  of  reputation  or  opinion,  if  the  evidence  is  pertinent  to
an issue in the case. See FRE 404(a): “Evidence of a person’s
character or character trait is not admissible to prove that on
a particular occasion the person acted in accordance with the
character or trait . . . [except that (2)] . . . in a criminal case:
(A)  a  defendant  may  offer  evidence  of  the  defendant’s
pertinent trait[.]”  The  character  evidence  here  is  in  the  form
of reputation, and, by tending to prove that the defendant is a
non-violent, peace-loving person, it is pertinent to an issue in
the case (whether the defendant is likely to have committed an
unprovoked assault).

the  evidence 

is  wrong,  because 

(B) 
is  substantively
admissible  on  the  issue  of  the  defendant’s  guilt  (see  the
discussion  of  Choice  (A)  above),  not  merely  on  the  issue  of
punishment.  In  fact,  evidence  offered  solely  for  purposes  of
sentencing  would  not  generally  not  be  admissible  during  the
guilt  phase  of  the  trial.  But  once  the  defendant  was  found
guilty, in the sentencing phase, the judge can rely on evidence
that  would  be  inadmissible  at  trial  (e.g.,  hearsay  not  within
any exception). Williams v. N.Y. (1949).

(C)  is  wrong,  because  it  doesn’t  recognize  that  the  “Mercy
Rule” will make the evidence admissible. As a general rule,
evidence of a person’s character, offered to prove he acted in
conformity  with  that  character  on  the  present  occasion,  is
inadmissible.  FRE  404(a)(1).  However,  under  the  “Mercy
Rule,”  in  criminal  cases  only,  the  defendant  may  offer
pertinent  evidence  of  his  own  character,  in  the  form  of
reputation or opinion. See the discussion of Choice (A) above
for more details.
(D)  is  wrong,  because  it  raises  a  threshold  issue  of
competency that is not at issue under these facts. Under FRE

459

the 

602  and  603,  a  witness  is  competent  to  testify  if  he  has
personal knowledge of the matter on which he will testify, and
he  declares  that  he  will  testify  truthfully,  by  oath  or
affirmation.  As  the  defendant’s  employer,  it  could  fairly  be
assumed  that  the  employer  is,  in  fact,  competent  to  testify
about 
peacefulness.
Furthermore,  since  reputation  testimony  by  definition  only
requires  that  the  witness  be  familiar  with  the  subject’s
reputation  (not,  for  instance,  familiar  with  specific  acts  by
the  defendant  demonstrating  the  character  trait  in  issue),  it
would  not  be  necessary  to  prove  that  the  witness  lived  or
worked with the defendant.

defendant’s 

reputation 

for 

Question 10:  The  defendant  was  charged  with  the  crime  of
assaulting  the  victim.  He  admitted  striking  the  victim,  but
claimed  to  have  acted  in  self-defense  when  he  was  attacked
by the victim, who was drunk and belligerent after a football
game.

The defendant offered testimony of defendant’s employer that
he  had  known  and  employed  the  defendant  for  twelve  years
and  knew  the  defendant’s  reputation  among  the  people  with
whom  he  lived  and  worked  to  be  that  of  a  peaceful,  law-
abiding,  nonviolent  person.  The  trial  judge  admitted  this
testimony.
On  cross-examination  of  the  employer,  the  state’s  attorney
asked  the  employer  if  he  had  heard  that  the  defendant  often
engaged in fights and brawls. The trial judge should rule the
question

(A)  admissible, because evidence of the defendant’s previous

fights and brawls may be used to prove his guilt.

(B)  admissible, because it tests the employer’s knowledge of

the defendant’s reputation.

(C)    inadmissible,  because  it  seeks  to  put  into  evidence

separate, unrelated offenses.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  no  specific  time  or  incidents  are

specified and inquired about.

Answer  10:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  question  will  be
admissible to impeach the employer as a reputation witness.
The  problem  here  is  that  the  evidence  the  prosecutor  is

460

seeking  is  character  evidence.  Choice  (B)  offers  a  way  to
overcome  this  problem.  Under  these  facts,  the  employer  is
testifying  as  a  reputation  witness  on  the  defendant’s  behalf;
that  is,  he’s  testifying  that  the  defendant  is  known  as  a
peaceful,  nonviolent  person.  This  evidence  is  admissible
under  FRE  404(1),  which  allows  an  accused  to  offer
evidence of his own “pertinent trait of character.” Then, FRE
405(a)  says  that  where  evidence  of  a  “person’s  character  or
character trait is admissible” (which the evidence here is, as
described in the prior sentence), “On cross-examination of the
character  witness,  the  court  may  allow  an  inquiry  into
relevant specific instances of the person’s conduct.” So once
the  employer  gave  the  testimony  favorable  to  the  defendant
about  the  defendant’s  peaceable  reputation,  the  prosecution
was entitled to make “inquiry into relevant specific instances
of  [the  defendant’s]  conduct.”  The  specific  instances  being
inquired  about  (frequent  engaging  in  fights  and  brawls)  are
“relevant,”  because  if  the  employer  didn’t  know  about  these
instances,  his  testimony  about  the  defendant’s  reputation  for
peaceability  would  be  of  questionable  accuracy.  (If  the
is  he  really
these 
employer  didn’t  know 
knowledgeable  about  the  defendant’s  reputation  on  this
subject?)

true  facts, 

(A) is wrong because it is unduly broad. Since the defendant
offered  favorable  reputation  evidence  of  his  peaceability  as
he was permitted to do under 404(a)(1), the prosecution was
permitted to rebut that evidence. The rebuttal evidence was in
fact substantively admissible to prove that the defendant was
not  peaceable,  and  therefore  probably  wasn’t  acting  in  self-
defense.  However,  this  choice  suggests  that  independent
(extrinsic) evidence of the fights would have been admissible.
In fact, only questioning of the defendant’s character witness
(the  employer)  was  permissible,  on  account  of  FRE  405(a) 
— the prosecution couldn’t have introduced extrinsic proof of
the  defendant’s  previous  fights  (e.g.,  by  testimony  from  a
different witness who observed them), and his choice falsely
implies that such evidence could have been admitted.
(C) is wrong because it fails to identify that the evidence can
be  brought  out  on  the  cross  of  the  employer,  as  further

461

discussed in Choice (B).

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  impeachment  of  a  reputation
witness  with  specific  instances  is  possible,  the  specific
instances need not be identified as precisely as (D) suggests.
Under  FRE  404(a),  a  reputation  witness  (of  which  the
employer is one) may be questioned about specific instances
bearing on the reputation, since not knowing such information
reflects  on  the  witness’s  competence  to  testify  as  to  the
person’s reputation in the community. However, the testimony
here  is  specific  enough  to  constitute  specific  acts;  it  clearly
does not amount to opinion or reputation testimony.

III.  LIABILITY INSURANCE

A.  General rule

1.  Other purposes

Question  11:  A  passenger  is  suing  a  defendant  for  injuries
suffered  in  the  crash  of  a  small  airplane,  alleging  that  the
defendant had owned the plane and negligently failed to have
it properly maintained. The defendant has asserted in defense
that  he  never  owned  the  plane  or  had  any  responsibility  to
maintain  it.  At  trial,  the  passenger  calls  a  witness  to  testify
that the witness had sold to the defendant a liability insurance
policy on the plane.

The testimony of the witness is

(A)  inadmissible, because the policy itself is required under

the original document rule.

(B)    inadmissible,  because  of  the  rule  against  proof  of

insurance where insurance is not itself at issue.

(C)    admissible  to  show  that  the  defendant  had  little
motivation  to  invest  money  in  maintenance  of  the
airplane.
  admissible  as  some  evidence  of  the  defendant’s
ownership of or responsibility for the airplane.

(D) 

Answer  11:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  FRE  (like  the
common law) provide that evidence that a person carried or
did not carry liability insurance is not admissible on the issue

462

of whether that person acted negligently. (See FRE 411, first
sentence.) This rule bars such evidence when it is offered by
a plaintiff to suggest that because the defendant was insured,
the defendant was probably careless. However, the rule does
not  apply  where  the  evidence  is  offered  for  some  other
purpose, “such as proving . . . agency, ownership, or control.”
(FRE  411,  second  sentence.)  That’s  what’s  happening  here 
— the  evidence  is  being  used  to  show  that  because  the
defendant  bought  a  liability  policy  on  the  plane,  he  had
ownership or control of it.

(A) is wrong because the terms of the policy are not at issue,
only  the  policy’s  existence.  It’s  true  that  FRE  1002,  entitled
“Requirement of the original” (and commonly called the Best
Evidence Rule) says that in proving the terms of a writing or a
recording, the original must normally be produced. Here, the
BER would apply if the terms of the insurance policy were in
question.  But  the  terms  are  not  in  question  here — the
witness’s testimony involves only the existence of the policy,
not its terms, so the BER does not apply.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  rule  about  proof  of
insurance. The rule against proof of liability insurance is not a
general  rule  against  “proof  of  insurance  where  insurance  is
not itself the issue” (as this choice asserts). Instead, the rule,
embodied in FRE 411, prohibits proof of a liability policy’s
existence  when  offered  to  prove  negligence.  (But  as  the
discussion  of  Choice  (D)  explains,  Rule  411  does  not  apply
here, because the proof of the policy’s existence is not being
offered to prove negligence.)

(C) is wrong because it inaccurately asserts that the evidence
is  being  offered  to  suggest  the  defendant  was  probably
careless,  an  assertion  that,  if  true,  would  result  in  the
evidence’s being inadmissible. FRE 411, first sentence, says
that  “Evidence  that  a  person  was  or  was  not  insured  against
liability is not admissible to prove whether the person acted
negligently  or  otherwise  wrongfully.”  Since  this  choice
suggests  that  the  evidence  is  being  offered  to  show  that  an
insured  plane  owner  would  be  less  likely  to  properly
maintain  the  plane,  it’s  treating  the  evidence  as  a  method  of
asserting  the  defendant’s  negligence,  a  use  that  would  fly

463

squarely in the face of FRE 411.

IV.  SETTLEMENTS AND PLEA BARGAINS

A.  Settlements

Question 12: Carr, a driver, ran into and injured Pedersen, a
pedestrian. Pedersen has sued Carr, alleging that Carr, while
drunk, struck Pedersen who was in a duly marked crosswalk.
Pedersen’s  counsel  wishes  to  prove  that  after  the  accident
Carr went to Pedersen and offered $1,000 to settle Pedersen’s
claim.

The trial judge should rule this evidence

(A)  admissible as an admission of a party.
(B)    admissible  as  an  admission  to  show  Carr’s  liability,
provided the court gives a cautionary instruction that the
statement  should  not  be  considered  as  bearing  on  the
issue of damages.

(C)  inadmissible since it is not relevant either to the question

of liability or the question of damages.

(D)    inadmissible  because  even  though  it  is  relevant  and  an
admission,  the  policy  of  the  law  is  to  encourage
settlement negotiations.

Answer  12:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  This  choice  correctly
characterizes the statement as relevant and an admission, and
correctly  concludes  that  the  evidence  will  be  inadmissible
due to public policy considerations. What’s being proffered is
a settlement offer by Carr. But under FRE 408, admissions in
conjunction  with  settlement  negotiations  are  inadmissible  to
prove negligence, liability, or a claim’s value. That’s the case
here.
(A)  is  wrong  because  FRE  408  says  that  statements  in
conjunction  with  settlement  offers  are  inadmissible  to  prove
negligence,  liability,  or  a  claim’s  value.  So  even  though
Carr’s  statement  would  otherwise  be  admissible  as  an
admission  by  a  party-opponent,  the  special  rule  of  FRE  408
makes it inadmissible.
(B)  is  wrong  because  a  limiting  instruction  would  not  make
the  evidence  here  admissible.  FRE  408  makes  the  statement

464

inadmissible  as  a  statement  in  connection  with  a  settlement
negotiation, and that’s true if it’s offered to prove liability, not
just  if  it’s  offered  to  prove  damages.  So  the  limiting
instruction wouldn’t get around the FRE 408 problem.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  facts — the  settlement
offer is relevant. The settlement offer could be taken to mean
that  Carr  acknowledges  his  own  guilt.  Thus,  it’s  relevant  to
the issue of fault. The problem is that the evidence is barred
by  the  special  settlement-offers  rule  of  FRE  408,  not  that  it
fails to be relevant to any issue in the case.

465

CHAPTER 3
EXAMINATION AND IMPEACHMENT OF
WITNESSES

I.    PRESENT RECOLLECTION REFRESHED

AND OTHER TECHNIQUES

A.  Not evidence

Question 13: A defendant is sued for hitting a pedestrian with
his  car.  On  the  evening  of  the  day  of  the  accident,  a  person
who had been a passenger in the defendant’s car wrote a letter
to the passenger’s sister in which he described the accident.
When  the  passenger  testified  at  trial,  he  stated  that  he  could
not  remember  some  details  of  the  accident.  The  pedestrian’s
counsel now seeks to show him the letter to assist him in his
testimony  on  direct  examination.  The  trial  judge  should  rule
this

(A)    permissible,  under  the  doctrine  of  present  recollection

refreshed.

(B)    permissible,  under  the  doctrine  of  past  recollection

recorded.

(C)    objectionable,  because  the  letter  was  not  a  spontaneous

utterance.

(D)    objectionable,  because  the  letter  is  a  self-serving
declaration insofar as the passenger is concerned.
Answer  13:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Under  the  doctrine  of
present  recollection  refreshed,  any  item  may  be  used  to
refresh  the  witness’s  memory,  including  leading  questions,
documents,  or  objects.  If  the  witness,  having  seen  the
refreshing  object,  can  testify  from  memory,  the  item  will  not
be  considered  evidence.  See  FRE  612,  implicitly  allowing
the present recollection refreshed technique, subject to certain
limitations  (which  don’t  affect  the  outcome  here).  (If  the
witness cannot testify from memory even after reviewing the
item,  then  the  item  may  be  admissible  as  a  past  recollection
recorded,  if  the  situation  meets  the  requirements  of  FRE

466

803(5),  which  the  situation  here  has  not  yet  been  shown  to
do).  Here,  all  you’re  told  is  that  the  pedestrian’s  counsel  is
seeking  to  show  the  letter  to  the  passenger  to  help  the
passenger  testify.  This  “refreshment”  is  valid  under  the
present recollection refreshed technique.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  doctrine  of  past  recollection
recorded  has  not  yet  been  shown  to  apply  to  these  facts.
Under  FRE  803(5),  a  document  is  only  admissible  as  a  past
recollection recorded if it meets these requirements: (A) it “is
on  a  matter  the  witness  once  knew  about  but  now  cannot
recall  well  enough  to  testify  fully  and  accurately”;  (B)  it
“was  made  or  adopted  by  the  witness  when  the  matter  was
fresh in the witness’s memory”; and (C) it “accurately reflects
the witness’s knowledge.”

At the point in time you’re asked about, the letter does not yet
qualify  for  the  doctrine.  The  proponent  wants  to  show  the
witness  the  letter  “to  assist  him  in  his  testimony  on  direct
examination.” That’s a classic use of the present recollection
refreshed technique, in which the document does not become
evidence.  So  applying  the  doctrine  of  past  recollection
recorded  here  would  be  “jumping  the  gun” — it  should  only
be used as a last resort if the revivifying document does not,
in  fact,  jog  the  witness’s  memory  (and  in  that  case,  the
document itself would be evidence, not merely used “to assist
[the  witness]  in  his  testimony,”  which  is  the  use  that  you’re
asked to evaluate.)

(C) is wrong, because it ignores the fact that the letter can be
used to refresh the passenger’s memory, and because there is
no “spontaneous utterance” exception to the hearsay rule.
Choice C implicitly recognizes that there’s a hearsay problem
with  the  letter  itself.  Hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement
offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.  Here,  the  out-of-
court  declarant  is  the  passenger  himself.  However,  the  letter
isn’t  being  offered  into  evidence  at  all — it’s  merely  being
used  to  refresh  the  passenger’s  memory.  As  a  result,  its  use
does not need to satisfy a hearsay objection — the letter may
be  used  as  non-evidence,  under  the  doctrine  of  present
recollection refreshed.

467

the 

“spontaneous 

is  not  a
the  phrase  “spontaneous  utterance” 
Further, 
recognized  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  under  the  FRE.
Situations  qualifying  for  what  the  common  law  might  have
are
called 
approximately  covered,  in  the  FRE,  under  either  the  present
sense  impression  or  the  excited  utterance  exceptions.  But
under the FRE, the letter would not qualify either as a present
sense  impression  or  an  excited  utterance,  due  to  its  lack  of
temporal  proximity  to  the  accident  (since  it  was  not  written
until the evening of the day of the accident).

utterance” 

exception 

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  self-serving  nature  of  the  letter
would  not  prevent  its  being  used  to  refresh  the  passenger’s
memory.  Choice  D  misses  the  mark  in  at  least  two  respects.
First,  it  suggests  that  the  letter  itself  is  being  offered  as
evidence.  In  fact,  it’s  not — all  that’s  happening  is  that  the
pedestrian’s  counsel  is  seeking  to  show  the  passenger  the
letter to help him with his testimony.

Second,  even  if  the  letter  were  being  offered  into  evidence,
the  self-serving  nature  of  the  letter  wouldn’t  be  a  problem,
because  the  self-serving  nature  of  any  evidence  affects  its
credibility,  not  its  admissibility.  Instead,  if  the  letter  itself
was  being  offered,  there’d  be  a  hearsay  problem,  since  it
would be an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth
of what it contains — namely, the passenger’s recollections of
the accident.

II.   IMPEACHMENT BY PRIOR BAD ACTS

A.  Federal Rule

1.  May bring out on cross

a.  Applies to any witness

Question 14:  In  an  automobile  negligence  action  by  Popkin
against  Dwyer,  Juilliard  testified  for  Popkin.  Dwyer  later
called  Watts,  who  testified  that  Juilliard’s  reputation  for
truthfulness was bad.
On cross-examination of Watts, Popkin’s counsel asks, “Isn’t
it  a  fact  that  when  you  bought  your  new  car  last  year,  you
made a false affidavit to escape paying the sales tax?”

468

This question is

(A)    proper,  because  it  will  indicate  Watts’s  standard  of

judgment as to reputation for truthfulness.
(B)  proper, because it bears on Watts’s credibility.
(C)  improper, because character cannot be proved by specific

instances of conduct.

(D)    improper,  because  one  cannot  impeach  an  impeaching

witness.

Answer  14:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  A  witness’s  credibility
may  be  impeached  by  evidence  of  specific  instances  of
conduct  reflecting  on  his  truthfulness,  but  only  by  the  cross-
examiner’s  making  “inquiry”  into  those  specific  instances
during  the  cross-examination  of  that  witness.  FRE  608(b).
Since  Watts  is  on  the  stand  and  being  cross-examined,  the
question  about  his  prior  act  of  dishonesty  meets  these
requirements  (it’s  probative  of  his  general  truthfulness,  and
what  Popkin’s  counsel  is  doing  is  merely  making  “inquiry”
into the act). The fact that Watts is a witness called solely to
give  impeachment  testimony,  as  opposed  to  substantive  or
occurrence-type testimony, doesn’t matter — any witness may
be  impeached  by  inquiry  into  specific  past  conduct  of  the
witness that is probative of untruthfulness.

(A)  is  wrong  because  Watts  is  not  being  asked  about  the
reputation  testimony,  but  is  instead  being  impeached  on
account  of  his  own  bad  acts.  So  what  Watts’  standard  is  for
judging reputation is not what the question is about.

(C) is wrong because there is an exception to the general rule
that,  for  the  purpose  of  attacking  a  witness’s  character  for
truthfulness, specific instances of conduct may not be proved
by extrinsic evidence. The judge may, in her discretion, allow
such evidence if it is brought out through cross examination of
the witness whose credibility is being attacked and if the bad
acts  are  probative  of  truthfulness  or  untruthfulness.  FRE
608(b).  Watts  is  being  cross-examined  with  evidence  of  his
falsifying an affidavit to avoid paying sales tax on the sale of
a new car. The act is probative of untruthfulness and is being
brought  out  on  cross-examination.  Therefore,  the  question  is
proper  even  though  it  involves  a  specific  instance  of  the

469

witness’s past conduct.

(D) is wrong because it states a non-existent rule: There is no
rule against “impeaching an impeaching witness.”

III.  IMPEACHMENT BY PRIOR INCONSISTENT

STATEMENT

A.  General rule

Question  15:  Davidson  and  Smythe  were  charged  with
burglary  of  a  warehouse.  They  were  tried  separately.  At
Davidson’s  trial,  Smythe  testified  that  he  saw  Davidson
commit the burglary. While Smythe is still subject to recall as
a  witness,  Davidson  calls  Smythe’s  cellmate,  Walton,  to
testify  that  Smythe  said,  “I  broke  into  the  warehouse  alone
because Davidson was too drunk to help.”
This evidence of Smythe’s statement is

(A)  admissible as a declaration against penal interest.
(B)  admissible as a prior inconsistent statement.
(C)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  the  statement  is  not  clearly

corroborated.

Answer 15: Choice (B) is correct. Under FRE 613(b), when
a  witness  testifies  at  trial,  evidence  of  his  prior  inconsistent
statement  is  admissible  to  impeach  his  credibility  (if  a
foundation  is  laid  either  before  or  after  the  impeachment
where  the  witness  has  an  opportunity  to  explain  or  deny  the
statement and where the opposite party has the opportunity to
interrogate  the  witness).  Since  Smythe  is  “still  subject  to
recall  as  a  witness,”  the  foundation  can  be  laid.  In  addition,
some types of prior inconsistent statements are not barred by
the hearsay rule and may be admitted as substantive proof of
the matters contained in the statement — i.e., those made in an
earlier  trial  or  proceeding,  where  the  declarant  spoke  under
oath  and  subject  to  perjury  penalties.  FRE  801(d)(1).  Since
Smythe’s statement was not under oath, it may not be admitted
substantively.  Therefore,  the  statement  is  admissible  as  a
prior  inconsistent  statement,  but  only  for  impeachment

470

purposes. (Note that this answer is correct because Smythe is
a  non-party  in  this  action.  If  Smythe  were  on  trial  here,  his
prior statement would be admissible for substantive purposes,
as an admission.)

(A) is wrong because the declarant is available. Under FRE
804(b)(3),  the  requirements  for  the  declaration-against-
interest exception are: (1) the declaration must be against the
declarant’s pecuniary or proprietary interest when made; (2)
the declarant must be unavailable; and (3) the declarant must
have  had  first-hand  knowledge  of  the  facts  asserted  in  the
declaration.  The  fact  pattern  indicates  that  Smythe  is  still
subject to recall as a witness when Walton is testifying about
Smythe’s prior statement, so he is available.

(C) is wrong because, although it is correct in identifying the
statement  as  hearsay  not  within  any  exception,  it  does  not
recognize  that  the  statement  would  still  be  admissible  for
impeachment purposes.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  is  admissible,  and  the
requirement of corroboration does not apply in the context of
a  prior  inconsistent  statement,  but  rather,  to  the  hearsay
exception  for  declarations  against  interest.  FRE  804(b)(3),
which  provides  for  the  hearsay  exception  for  declarations
against interest, denies the exception for a statement “offered
in a criminal case as one that tends to expose the declarant to
criminal  liability,”  unless  the  statement  “is  supported  by
its
corroborating  circumstances 
trustworthiness[.]” This is the source of the language in (D),
but  it  does  not  apply  here.  If  the  declarant  was  unavailable
and the exception was applied, then corroboration would  be
required.

that  clearly 

indicate 

B.  Special rules from FRE 613

1. 

  “Extrinsic  evidence,”  and  the  “explain  or  deny”  and
“interrogate” rules

Question 16: Perez sued Dawson for damages arising out of
an  automobile  collision.  At  trial,  Perez  called  Minter,  an
eyewitness  to  the  collision.  Perez  expected  Minter  to  testify
that she had observed Dawson’s automobile for five seconds
prior  to  the  collision  and  estimated  Dawson’s  speed  at  the

471

time of the collision to have been 50 miles per hour. Instead,
Minter  testified  that  she  estimated  Dawson’s  speed  to  have
been 25 miles per hour.

Without  finally  excusing  Minter  as  a  witness,  Perez  then
called Wallingford, a police officer, to testify that Minter had
told  him  during  his  investigation  at  the  accident  scene  that
Dawson “was doing at least 50.”

Wallingford’s testimony is

(A)  admissible as a present sense impression.
(B)  admissible to impeach Minter.
(C)    inadmissible,  because  Perez  may  not  impeach  his  own

witness.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

to 

is  admissible 

Answer 16: Choice (B) is correct. Under FRE 613(b), when
a  witness  testifies  at  trial,  extrinsic  evidence  of  his  prior
inconsistent  statement 
impeach  his
credibility,  so  long  as  the  witness  has  an  opportunity  to
explain  or  deny  the  statement  and  the  opposite  party  has  the
opportunity  to  interrogate  the  witness  about  it.  Wallingford’s
testimony  as  to  Minter’s  statement  at  the  accident  scene 
— “the  driver  (defendant)  was  doing  at  least  50” — is
inconsistent with Minter’s previous testimony at trial that the
defendant’s  speed  was  25  miles  per  hour.  The  fact  pattern
indicates  that  Minter  was  not  excused  as  a  witness  and  that
therefore  there  exists  the  opportunity  for  him  to  explain  or
deny the statement and to be interrogated on it by the opposite
party (Dawson).

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  was  not  made  close
enough to the time of the accident. FRE 803(1) provides for
the hearsay exception of a present sense impression, defined
as  a  statement  “describing  or  explaining  an  event  or
condition,  made  while  or  immediately  after  the  declarant
perceived  it.”  Minter’s  statement  was  made  to  the  police
officer during the investigation of the accident scene so it was
not made immediately after viewing the collision.
(C)  is  wrong  because  “Any  party,  including  the  party  that
called the witness, may attack the witness’s credibility.” FRE

472

607.

(D)  is  wrong  because  what  Minter  said  to  the  Officer  is  not
hearsay.  The  out-of-court  statement  at  issue  is  Minter’s
statement to the officer, “Dawson was doing at least 50.” But
the statement is not being offered to prove that Dawson really
was doing at least 50 — it’s merely being used to cast doubt
on the credibility of Minter’s in-court statement that Dawson
was  doing  25.  If  the  statement  to  the  officer  were  being
offered  as  substantive  evidence,  i.e.,  to  prove  that  Dawson
really was “doing at least 50,” then it would be inadmissible
hearsay.

a.  Application to hearsay declarants

Question  17:  A  defendant  is  charged  with  the  murder  of  a
victim.  The  prosecutor  introduces  testimony  of  a  police
officer  that  the  victim  told  a  priest,  administering  the  last
rites, “I was stabbed by [the defendant]. Since I am dying, tell
him I forgive him.” Thereafter, the defendant’s attorney offers
the testimony of a witness that the day before, when the victim
believed he would live, he stated that he had been stabbed by
a person other than the defendant.

The testimony of the witness is

(A)  admissible under an exception to the hearsay rule.
(B)  admissible to impeach the dead declarant.
(C)  inadmissible, because it goes to the ultimate issue in the

case.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  irrelevant  to  any  substantive

issue in the case.

Answer  17:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  victim’s  initial
statement about the defendant was hearsay, but was properly
admitted  under  FRE  804(b)(2)’s  “dying  declaration”
exception, because it was made by a person now unavailable
to testify, believing he was about to die, concerning personal
knowledge of the cause of death, and the statement is offered
at  either  a  criminal  homicide  trial  or  a  civil  wrongful  death
suit.  Since  that  statement  came  in,  the  victim’s  prior
inconsistent  statement  (about  the  stabber  being  a  different
person,  not  the  defendant)  can  be  used  to  impeach  his
credibility,  since  hearsay  declarants  can  be  impeached.  See

473

FRE 806: “When a hearsay statement . . . has been admitted in
evidence, the declarant’s credibility may be attacked, and then
supported,  by  any  evidence  that  would  be  admissible  for
those purposes if the declarant had testified as a witness.”

prior-inconsistent-statement 

Note that this impeaching evidence would not be admissible
substantively,  since  it  does  not  fulfill  the  requirements  of
hearsay
801(d)(1)(A)’s 
exclusion — the  prior 
is  only
admissible  substantively  if  the  statement  was  made  under
oath,  at  a  prior  proceeding,  subject  to  perjury,  with  the
declarant now being the testifying witness; here, the victim’s
statement about the third person was not made under oath or at
a proceeding, so it’s admissible only for impeachment.

inconsistent 

statement 

(A) is wrong, because the witness’s testimony does not fit an
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule;  it’s  inadmissible  hearsay.  In
particular,  the  statement  does  not  fit  the  most  obvious
exception,  the  “dying  declaration”  exception  to  the  hearsay
rule,  because  the  victim  did  not  have  an  impending  sense  of
death  when  he  made  the  statement.  FRE  804(b)(2).  The
rationale behind the exception is that no one wants to die with
a lie on his lips; where a person thinks he’s going to live, this
is not applicable. (Also, the statement will not be admissible
substantively as a prior inconsistent statement, for the reasons
discussed in Choice (B) above).

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  FRE  do  not  condition  the
admissibility  of  a  statement  on  whether  it  addresses  an
“ultimate issue.” See FRE 704(a).

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  testimony  is  relevant  to  a
substantive issue in the case. A piece of evidence is logically
relevant if it tends to prove or disprove a material fact. FRE
401.  If  the  victim’s  prior  statement  about  the  third  person
being the stabber is true, it will tend to prove that the victim
was lying about the defendant’s stabbing him, and thus make it
less likely that the defendant is guilty of murder. As a result,
it’s extremely relevant!

IV.  IMPEACHMENT BY CONTRADICTION; THE

“COLLATERAL ISSUE” RULE

474

A.  Collateral issue rule

1.  Disallowed

Question  18:  A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  injuries  the
plaintiff  received  in  an  automobile  accident  where  the
defendant was the driver. The plaintiff claimed the defendant
was negligent in exceeding the posted speed limit of 35 m.p.h.
A bystander who saw the accident testified as an eyewitness
for  the  plaintiff  and  stated  on  cross-examination  that  the
defendant  was  wearing  a  green  sweater  at  the  time  of  the
accident.  At  the  start  of  the  defendant’s  case,  the  defendant
testified that he was going 30 m.p.h. The defendant’s counsel
then called a second witness, who also observed the accident,
to  testify  solely  that  the  defendant’s  sweater  was  blue.  The
second witness’s testimony is
(A)  admissible as substantive evidence of a material fact.
(B)  admissible as bearing on the bystander’s truthfulness and

veracity.

(C)  inadmissible, because it has no bearing on the capacity of

the bystander to observe.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  extrinsic  evidence  of  a

collateral matter. 

Answer 18: Choice (D) is correct. The defendant’s counsel is
attempting to impeach the bystander with evidence that is not
from  the  bystander’s  own  mouth — in  other  words,  by
“extrinsic” evidence. Evidence that only discredits a witness,
without  bearing  on  any  substantive  issues  in  the  case,  is
called “collateral,” and in most instances is not admissible if
it  is  extrinsic.  Evidence  that  discredits  the  witness  by
showing  that  the  witness  gave  incorrect  testimony  in  the
present case about an immaterial issue falls into this category
of inadmissible extrinsic evidence on collateral matters. The
FRE do not specifically recite this rule, but it is a common-
law rule that is universally observed by courts following the
FRE.  Here,  the  issues  in  the  case  involve  only  the  driving
behavior  of  the  defendant.  The  color  of  his  sweater  is  not  a
material issue; all the second witness’s testimony will serve
to  do  is  slightly  discredit  the  bystander  by  contradiction.  So
it’s  a  classic  illustration  of  the  “no  extrinsic  evidence  on

475

collateral matters” rule.

(A) is wrong because it mischaracterizes the facts: The color
of  the  defendant’s  sweater  is  not  a  material  fact  (it  doesn’t
relate to any of the substantive issues in the case). It is instead
a  “collateral”  matter — relevant  only  to  discredit  a  witness,
the  bystander.  As  such,  it  will  not  be  admissible,  under  the
common-law  rule  against  extrinsic  evidence  on  collateral
matters, applicable as a “gap filler” to cases governed by the
FRE.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  testimony  here  could  not  be
admitted  on  the  subject  of  the  bystander’s  truthfulness  and
veracity.  It’s  true  that  the  testimony  has  some  bearing  on  the
bystander’s  truthfulness,  because  it  contradicts  his  testimony
(and  thus  raises  the  question,  “If  he  is  lying  or  mistaken  on
this point, isn’t he likely to be lying or mistaken about some
really  important  fact  in  his  testimony?”)  But  because  the
contradiction about the color of the sweater does not touch on
any substantive issue in the case, and does not bear on other
issues  considered  highly 
important  aspects  of  witness
veracity  (e.g.,  presence  of  bias),  its  impeachment  effect  is
considered  minor,  and  not  worth  the  trouble  of  calling  a
separate  witness.  Therefore,  it  falls  within  the  general
common-law  rule  that  extrinsic  impeachment  evidence  on  a
collateral matter is not allowed.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  facts — the  testimony
would  (or  at  least  might)  bear  on  the  bystander’s  ability  to
observe.  Any  contradiction  of  witness  1’s  testimony  by
witness  2  about  a  matter  that  witness  1  said  he  observed
would  or  might  bear  on  witness  1’s  ability  to  observe.  But
where  the  contradiction  is  on  a  point  that  does  not  matter
substantively,  and  is  not  on  some  other  kind  of  issue  that  is
considered  important  to  credibility  (e.g.,  bias  on  the  part  of
witness  1),  the  contradiction  is  excludable  based  on  the
common-law  rule  barring  extrinsic  evidence  (i.e.,  evidence
from a separate witness or document) on a collateral matter.

476

CHAPTER 4
HEARSAY

I.    DEFINITION

A.  Definition

1.  Hearsay may be by the present witness

a.  Statement about what declarant previously said

Question 19:  Pawn  sued  Dalton  for  injuries  received  when
she  fell  down  a  stairway  in  Dalton’s  apartment  building.
Pawn, a guest in the building, alleged that she caught the heel
of  her  shoe  in  a  tear  in  the  stair  carpet.  Pawn  calls  Witt,  a
tenant, to testify that Young, another tenant, had said to him a
week before Pawn’s fall: “When I paid my rent this morning, I
told the manager he had better fix that torn carpet.”

Young’s statement, reported by Witt, is

(A)  admissible, to prove that the carpet was defective.
(B)  admissible, to prove that Dalton had notice of the defect.
(C)    admissible,  to  prove  both  that  the  carpet  was  defective

and that Dalton had notice of the defect.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

Answer 19: Choice (D) is correct. Young’s statement, “I told
the manager he had better fix that torn carpet,” is an “out-of-
court statement” being offered to “prove the truth of the matter
asserted,”  that  Young  told  the  manager  about  the  needed
repair  and  that,  therefore,  the  manager  knew  of  the  ripped
carpet. In other words, Young’s out-of court-statement “I told
the  manager  X”  is  being  offered  to  show  that  Young,  the
declarant,  indeed  told  the  manager  X.  So  the  statement  is
inadmissible  hearsay  if  offered  for  that  purpose.  FRE  801.
(Notice that this would be hearsay whether or not X was itself
true.) And there is no other plausible purpose for which it is
being offered on these facts.
(A) is wrong because the statement is inadmissible to prove
that the carpet was defective, because it is hearsay not within

477

any  exception,  as  discussed  in  Choice  (D).  The  statement
can’t  tend  to  prove  that  the  carpet  was  defective  unless  the
trier  first  believes  that  Young  made  the  statement  about  a
defect to the manager; so the statement “Young told me he had
told  the  manager  X”  would  be  offered  to  prove  that  Young
indeed  told  the  manager  X,  and  that  would  be  an  offer  to
prove the truth of the matter asserted.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  is  inadmissible  hearsay,
as  explained  in  the  discussion  of  (D).  Young’s  statement  “I
told the manager thus-and-such” is being offered to prove that
Young, the declarant, indeed told the manager thus-and-such.
So  even  if  the  statement  is  not  being  offered  to  prove  that
Young’s  statement  to  the  manager  was  true  (and  instead
offered to merely prove “notice” to the manager of a fact that
might  or  might  not  be  true),  Young’s  statement  to  Witt  that
Young  had  previously  made  the  statement  to  the  manager  is
inadmissible hearsay.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  as  discussed  in  (D),  the  statement  is
inadmissible for both these purposes.

B.  Illustrations

Question 20: In a jurisdiction without a Dead Man’s Statute,
a  plaintiff’s  estate  sued  a  defendant  claiming  that  the
defendant  had  borrowed  from  the  plaintiff  $10,000,  which
had  not  been  repaid  as  of  the  plaintiff’s  death.  The  plaintiff
was  run  over  by  a  truck.  At  the  accident  scene,  while  dying
from  massive  injuries,  the  plaintiff  told  a  police  officer  to
“make  sure  my  estate  collects  the  $10,000  I  loaned  to  the
defendant.”

The officer’s testimony about the plaintiff’s statement is
(A)  inadmissible, because it is more unfairly prejudicial than

probative.

(B)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

(C)  admissible as an excited utterance.
(D)    admissible  as  a  statement  under  belief  of  impending

death.

Answer 20: Choice (B) is correct. First, let’s look at whether

478

the  statement  was  hearsay.  It’s  clearly  an  out-of-court
declaration.  And,  the  statement  includes  the  plaintiff’s
assertion that he’s owed $10,000 by the defendant, offered to
prove that the defendant does indeed owe this money. So the
statement easily fits within the definition of hearsay — out-of-
court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter
asserted.  Now,  does  some  exception  apply?  No.  The  two
most  plausible  ones  are  the  excited  utterance  exception  (not
applicable because the statement doesn’t relate to the exciting
event — see  the  discussion  of  Choice  (C)  below)  and  the
dying  declaration  exception  (not  applicable  because  the
statement  doesn’t  relate  to  the  cause  of  impending  death — 
see the discussion of Choice (D) below).

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  here  is  not  especially
prejudicial,  so  it’s  unlikely  that  the  statement’s  probative
value would be found to be “substantially outweighed” by its
prejudicial effect, as FRE 403’s balancing test requires as a
basis for exclusion.

(C) 
is  wrong  because  FRE  803(2)’s  excited-utterance
exception applies to “a statement relating to a startling event
or condition, made while the declarant was under the stress
of  excitement  that  it  caused.”  As  you  can  see  from  the
italicized  phrase,  the  statement  has  to  relate  to  the  startling
event. The plaintiff’s comment here relates solely to the debt,
not to the startling event (the truck accident).

(D) is wrong because the plaintiff’s comment did not concern
the  cause  or  circumstance  of  his  death.  FRE  804(b)(2)’s
dying-declaration  exception  applies  to  (in  a  civil  case  or
homicide  prosecution)  “a  statement  that  the  declarant,  while
believing the declarant’s death to be imminent, made about its
cause  or  circumstances.”  Since  the  plaintiff’s  statement
related  only  to  the  collection  of  the  debt,  not  to  the  truck
accident that was about to cause his death, it doesn’t qualify.

II.   SPECIAL ISSUES

A.  “Truth of matter asserted”

1.  Verbal acts

479

Question  21:  In  a  suit  based  on  a  will,  inheritance  of  $1
million  depended  upon  whether  the  wife  had  survived  her
husband when both died in the crash of a small airplane. An
applicable  statute  provided  that,  for  purposes  of  distributing
an  estate  after  a  common  disaster,  there  was  a  rebuttable
presumption  that  neither  spouse  had  survived  the  other.  A
witness was called to testify that as she approached the plane
she heard what she thought was a woman’s voice saying, “I’m
dying,” although by the time the two occupants were removed
from the wreckage they were both dead.

Is the witness’s testimony admissible?

(A)    No,  because  the  matter  is  governed  by  the  presumption

that neither spouse survived the other.

(B)  No, because the witness’s testimony is too speculative to

support a finding.

(C)  Yes, because the hearsay rule does not apply to statements
by decedents in actions to determine rights under a will.
(D)  Yes, because it is relevant and not otherwise prohibited.
Answer 21: Choice (D)  is  correct.  The  witness  is  testifying
as  to  what  she  heard  someone  say  outside  of  the  courtroom.
But  this  is  not  hearsay,  because  although  the  witness  is
recounting  an  out-of-court  statement,  that  statement  is  not
being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted therein,
i.e., that the declarant was, in fact, dying. Rather, the statement
is being offered to prove only that it was made, because that
fact  has  independent  legal  significance.  As  such,  it  is
classified as a verbal act, i.e., an operative fact that gives rise
to legal consequences. Thus, the statement does not constitute
hearsay  as  defined  by  FRE  801(c)  and,  therefore,  is  not
barred  by  FRE  802.  And  it  is  relevant  as  it  helps  establish
that the wife survived the husband.
(A)  is  wrong  because  under  the  majority  common  law
“bursting  bubble”  rule,  which  is  followed  by  FRE  301,  a
presumption  disappears  when  sufficient  counterproof  is
offered  about  the  presumed  fact.  Here  the  testimony  of  the
witness,  although  not  conclusive,  is  sufficient  to  rebut  the
presumption  that  neither  spouse  survived  the  other  and  to
support  a  jury  finding  that  the  wife  outlived  the  husband.

480

Therefore,  the  presumption  is  no  longer  controlling,  and  the
witness’s testimony is admissible.

In any event, regardless of how (or even whether) the bursting
bubble  rule  applies,  the  witness’s  testimony  would  be
admissible — in  all  jurisdictions,  the  party  who  does  not
benefit  from  a  presumption  is  always  entitled  to  submit
otherwise-competent  evidence  rebutting  the  existence  of  the
presumed fact.

(B) is wrong because the testimony is not “too speculative.”
A  witness  need  not  be  absolutely  certain  of  matters  about
which the witness testifies. Here the testimony is based on the
perception and memory of a lay witness, and thus satisfies the
FRE 701 standard that lay testimony be “(a) rationally based
on  the  witness’s  perception;  [and]  (b)  helpful  to  clearly
understanding the witness’s testimony or to determining a fact
in issue[.]”

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  presumes  that  the  statement  is
hearsay.  But  the  statement  is  not  hearsay  under  FRE  801(c),
because it is not being offered to prove the truth of the matter
asserted.  Instead,  the  statement  is  an  operative  fact  being
offered  to  prove  that  the  woman  was  alive  at  the  time  she
made  the  statement;  so  the  mere  existence  of  the  statement
(regardless  of  its  “truth  value”)  is  relevant  on  the  issue  of
whether the speaker survived her husband, even if by only a
few minutes.

481

CHAPTER 5
HEARSAY EXCEPTIONS AND
EXCLUSIONS

I.    ADMISSIONS

A.  Personal admissions

Question  22:  A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  injuries
plaintiff  received  in  an  automobile  accident.  The  plaintiff
claims  the  defendant  was  negligent  in  (a)  exceeding  the
posted speed limit of 35 m.p.h., (b) failing to keep a lookout,
and (c) crossing the center line. The defendant testified in his
own behalf that he was going 30 m.p.h. On cross-examination,
the  plaintiff’s  counsel  did  not  question  the  defendant  with
regard to his speed. Subsequently, the plaintiff’s counsel calls
an  officer  to  testify  that,  in  his  investigation  following  the
accident,  the  defendant  told  him  he  was  driving  40  m.p.h.  If
offered to prove that the defendant exceeded the posted speed
limit, the officer’s testimony is

(A)  admissible as a prior inconsistent statement.
(B)  admissible as an admission.
(C)  inadmissible, because it lacks a foundation.
(D)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

Answer  22:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
identifies  the  statement  as  an  admission,  and  declares  it
admissible  on  that  basis.  The  plaintiff  is  offering  the
defendant’s out-of-court statement to prove that the defendant
was  speeding.  Since  the  statement  is  being  offered  to  prove
the  truth  of  its  assertion,  the  statement  is  hearsay.  However,
the  statement  will  be  admissible  under  the  admission
exclusion to the hearsay rule. FRE 801(d)(2) gives a hearsay
exclusion for a statement that is “offered against an opposing
party and . . . (A) was made by the party in an individual or
representative  capacity[.]”  Since  the  statement  was  made  by
the defendant, and is being offered against him, it qualifies for
this 801(d)(2)(A) exclusion for personal admissions.

482

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  hearsay  exception  for  prior
inconsistent  statements  does  not  apply  on  these  facts.  We’re
told  that  the  statement  is  being  offered  for  the  substantive
purpose  of  proving  that  the  defendant  was  speeding  (not
merely for the statement’s impeachment value of showing that
the defendant told a different story previously and is therefore
not  worthy  of  having  his  trial  testimony  believed).  FRE
801(d)(1)  gives  a  hearsay  exclusion  for  certain  prior
inconsistent  statements  by  the  witness,  namely,  where  “The
declarant testifies and is subject to cross-examination about a
prior statement, and the statement: (A) is inconsistent with the
declarant’s testimony and was given under penalty of perjury
at  a 
in  a
trial,  hearing,  or  other  proceeding  or 
deposition[.]”  But  there  is  no  indication  that  the  defendant’s
prior  statement  being  recited  in  the  officer’s  testimony  was
given  at  a  “trial,  hearing,  or  other  proceeding  or  in  a
deposition[.]”  Therefore,  it  doesn’t  qualify  for  the  exclusion
for prior inconsistent statements by a witness. (Instead, it can
come  in  for  substantive  purposes  as  an  admission,  as
described in Choice (B).)

(C) is wrong, because it implicitly mischaracterizes the basis
on  which  the  officer’s  testimony  will  be  admissible.  The
central problem here addresses hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-
court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  assertion.
Since  the  officer’s  testimony  is  offered  to  prove  that  the
defendant  was  speeding,  it  is  being  offered  as  substantive
evidence.

This  choice  implicitly  (and  wrongly)  characterizes  the
officer’s testimony as being offered for its impeachment value
only.  The  choice  appears  to  be  referring  to  the  common-law
requirement  that  before  a  witness  could  be  impeached  by
showing  that  he  made  a  prior  inconsistent  statement,  a
foundation  had  to  be  laid  by  showing  the  witness  the
statement,  or  disclosing  its  contents  to  him.  But  FRE  613(a)
does  away  with  this  requirement  of  a  foundation  (“When
examining  a  witness  about  the  witness’s  prior  statement,  a
party  need  not  show  it  or  disclose  its  contents  to  the
witness.”) So the lack of a foundation here would not prevent
the  plaintiff  from  using  the  prior  statement  for  impeachment

483

only, if that was the plaintiff’s purpose (which the facts tell us
it  was  not — the  statement  was  offered  for  its  substantive
value).

(D) is wrong, because it fails to realize that the testimony will
be admissible as an admission. This choice correctly reflects
the  fact  that  the  defendant’s  statement  to  the  officer  is  being
offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  the
statement, and would thus normally be hearsay. What Choice
(D)  fails  to  realize  is  that  the  testimony  is  an  admission,
rendered non-hearsay by FRE 801(d)(2), as explained in the
discussion of Choice (B) above.

Question 23: A defendant ran into and injured the plaintiff, a
pedestrian.  The  plaintiff  alleges  that  the  defendant,  while
drunk,  struck  the  plaintiff,  who  was  in  a  duly  marked
crosswalk.  A  police  officer  investigated  the  accident,  and
plaintiff’s  counsel  wants  to  introduce  testimony  of  the
investigating police officer that the defendant told the officer,
“I think this was probably my fault.”

The trial judge should rule this testimony

(A)  admissible as a part of the res gestae.
(B)  admissible as an admission of a party.
(C)  inadmissible, because it includes a conclusion of law that

the declarant was not qualified to make.

(D)  inadmissible, because it constitutes an opinion rather than

an admission of specific facts.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Answer  23:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  This  choice  implicitly
recognizes  that  there’s  a  hearsay  problem  under  these  facts.
Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth
of  its  assertion.  Here,  the  out-of-court  declarant  is  the
defendant: “I think this was probably my fault.” The statement
is being offered to prove that the defendant was at fault, so it’s
hearsay,  and  it  will  only  be  admissible  if  it  fits  a  hearsay
exception or exclusion.
FRE  801(d)(2)  gives  a  hearsay  exclusion  for  a  “statement
[that] is offered against an opposing party and: (A) was made
by  the  party  in  an  individual  or  representative  capacity[.]”
Since  the  statement  was  made  by  the  defendant  in  an
individual  capacity,  and  is  being  offered  against  him,  it

484

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

qualifies for the admission exclusion.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  res  gestae  as  a  concept  is  not
recognized by the Federal Rules. At common law, res gestae
represented  the  group  of  spontaneous  hearsay  declarations
that were collectively considered admissible because of their
proximity to an act or event. What would be the res gestae at
common law is essentially covered, in the Federal Rules, by
the  categories  of  declarations  of  present  bodily  or  mental
state, excited utterances, and present sense impressions. Even
if  res  gestae  as  a  concept  were  recognized  by  the  Federal
Rules, it wouldn’t apply here, because the defendant made the
statement  at  the  police  station,  so  it  wouldn’t  be  sufficiently
proximate to the accident to be part of what the common law
would have called res gestae.

(C)  is  wrong,  because  it  misstates  the  law.  This  choice
suggests that the defendant’s statement will not be admissible
because it includes a conclusion of law, namely, that he’ll be
legally liable for causing the accident. However, admissions
by a party, introduced against that party, are not disqualified
from admissibility merely because they state a conclusion of
law.
(D) is wrong, because the fact that the statement included an
opinion is irrelevant. This choice suggests that the defendant’s
statement  will  not  be  admissible  because  it  includes  an
opinion  as  to  a  conclusion  of  law,  rather  than  a  statement
about  specific  facts.  However,  admissions  by  a  party,
introduced  against  that  party,  are  not  disqualified  from
admissibility merely because they state an opinion and do not
refer to specific facts.

1.  Question may not say “admission”

Question 24: A defendant was on trial for perjury for having
falsely testified in an earlier civil case that he knew nothing
about a business fraud. In the perjury trial, the defendant again
testified  that  he  knew  nothing  about  the  business  fraud.  In
rebuttal, the prosecutor called a witness to testify that after the
civil  trial  was  over,  the  defendant  admitted  to  the  witness
privately that he had known about the fraud.
Is the witness’s testimony in the perjury trial admissible?

485

(A)  Yes, but only to impeach the defendant’s testimony.
(B)    Yes,  both  to  impeach  the  defendant’s  testimony  and  as

substantive evidence of the perjury.

(C)  No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(D)  No, because it relates to the business fraud and not to the

commission of perjury.

Answer  24:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  First,  let’s  consider  the
statement’s  admissibility  as  substantive  evidence  of  the
perjury.  The  witness  is  testifying  about  an  out-of-court
statement.  If  the  statement  is  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its
contents,  i.e.,  that  the  declarant  knew  about  the  fraud,  this
would  meet  the  hearsay  definition  of  FRE  801(c).  But  the
declarant  is  the  defendant  in  this  case,  and  the  declarant’s
statement  is  being  offered  against  him.  Consequently,  the
statement is a party admission and, therefore, FRE 801(d)(2)
(A) says that it is deemed not hearsay. Since it is not hearsay,
it  is  admissible  to  prove  the  truth  of  its  contents  (i.e.,  as
substantive evidence of the perjury).

them 

generally 

The  statement  is  also  admissible  to  impeach  the  declarant’s
testimony, since it is a prior statement that is inconsistent with
the  declarant/defendant’s  testimony  at  the  present  (perjury)
trial.  Rule  613,  which  deals  with  prior 
inconsistent
for
statements,  makes 
impeachment, subject to some exceptions that are not relevant
here. In fact, where, as here, the prior inconsistent statement
was  made  by  one  who  is  a  party  opponent  in  the  present
proceeding,  Rule  613(b)  allows  use  of  “extrinsic  evidence”
(which is what the prosecutor’s witness’s statement is) of the
prior  inconsistent  statement  even  if  the  maker  of  the  prior
statement (here, the defendant) is not given an opportunity to
“explain or deny” the prior statement.

admissible 

(A)  is  wrong  because  although  the  testimony  is  certainly
admissible  to  impeach  the  defendant’s  testimony,  it  can  also
be  used  substantively  as  an  admission  by  a  party-opponent
under  FRE  801(d)(2)(A),  as  the  analysis  of  Choice  (B)
demonstrates.
(C)  is  wrong  because,  under  FRE  801(d)(2)(A),  a  statement
of  a  party-opponent  that  is  offered  against  that  party  is

486

deemed to be not hearsay.

(D)  is  wrong  because,  although  the  statement  made  to  the
witness does relate to the prior business fraud, it also relates
to  the  present  perjury  charge.  That’s  because  the  prior
statement  demonstrates  that  the  defendant  in  fact  did  know
about the fraud, despite his testimony in two trials that he did
not know of it. Thus the statement is relevant to prove that the
defendant’s  trial  testimony  was  knowingly  false  and  hence
constituted perjury.

Question  25:  The  defendant  was  prosecuted  for  homicide.
He testified that he shot in self- defense. In rebuttal, a police
officer  testified  that  he  came  to  the  scene  in  response  to  a
telephone call from the defendant. The officer offers to testify
that  he  asked,  “What  is  the  problem  here,  sir?”  and  the
defendant  replied.  “I  was  cleaning  my  gun  and  it  went  off
accidentally.”

The offered testimony is

(A)  admissible, as an excited utterance.
(B)  admissible, to impeach the defendant and as evidence that

he did not act in self-defense.

(C)  inadmissible, because of the defendant’s privilege against

self-incrimination.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  although  it  tends  to  expose  the
declarant  to  criminal  liability,  it  is  not  supported  by
corroborating circumstances.

Answer  25:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  First,  let’s  consider
whether  it’s  admissible  substantively,  i.e.,  to  prove  that  the
defendant  did  not  act  in  self-defense.  The  police  officer’s
testimony that the defendant had told him, “I was cleaning my
gun  and  it  went  off  accidentally,”  is  an  “out-of-court
statement” offered to “prove the truth of the matter asserted,”
so  it  would  on  its  face  be  hearsay  if  it’s  being  used  as
evidence  that  the  defendant  did  not  act  in  self-defense.
However, admissions of a party-opponent are treated as non-
hearsay  statements  and  are  admissible  under  FRE  801(d)(2)
(A). Next, once a statement is available substantively because
it’s  non-hearsay  (or  falls  within  a  hearsay  exception),  it  can
impeachment  purposes.  (A  separate
also  be  used  for 

487

provision,  FRE  613(b),  allows  for  impeachment  by  a  prior
inconsistent  statement,  but  use  of  this  provision  is  necessary
only when the witness is a non-party — if the witness that is
the target of impeachment is a party, as here, then it’s simpler
to  use  FRE  801(d)(2)(A)  to  get  the  statement  in  for  both
impeachment and substantive purposes.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  a  statement  is  an  excited
utterance  matters  only  if  the  statement  is  hearsay.  As
described in Choice (B), under the FRE admissions by a party
opponent  are  hearsay  “exclusions” — i.e.,  non-hearsay — so
the  statement  was  never  hearsay  in  the  first  place,  and  does
not  need  a  hearsay  exception  in  order  to  be  admitted.
Furthermore,  it’s  doubtful  that  the  defendant’s  statement
would  qualify  as  an  excited  utterance  even  if  offered  by,
rather than against, him (so that the statement was not a non-
hearsay  party-admission).  FRE  803(2)  defines  the  excited-
utterance hearsay exception this way: “a statement relating to
a startling event or condition made while  the  declarant  was
under the stress of excitement that it caused.” Here, there’s
no affirmative indication that the statement was being uttered
under  the  stress  of  excitement  from  the  shooting  (though  we
don’t know for sure).
(C)  is  wrong  because  application  of  the  Fifth  Amendment
privilege  of  self-incrimination  that  “no  person  .  .  .  shall  be
compelled  in  any  criminal  case  to  be  a  witness  against
himself  .  .  .”  applies  only  where  there  is  some  element  of
compulsion that brought about (or threatens to bring about) the
statement. So statements at a trial or other proceeding (e.g., a
grand  jury  hearing  or  deposition)  where  the  defendant  is
required to testify are covered. Similarly, statements made in
response  to  custodial  interrogation  are  covered  if  the
Miranda  warnings  weren’t  given,  because  Miranda  is  a
method  of  preventing  Fifth  Amendment  violations.  But  the
defendant’s out-of-court statement here did not fall into either
of these two categories. In particular, it is not covered by the
Miranda anti-self-incrimination policy, because the defendant
was not in custody at the time he made the statement, and no
other  element  of  compulsion  was  present.  (Also,  even  a
statement  by  a  defendant  that  was  given  in  custody  in

488

violation of Miranda may be used to impeach the defendant’s
contrary trial testimony; Harris v. N.Y. (1971).)

(D) is wrong because the principle cited does not apply in the
context  of  admissions,  but  rather,  to  the  declaration-against-
interest  hearsay  exception.  FRE  804(b)(3),  which  provides
for that exception, says that where a statement is “offered in a
criminal  case  as  one  that  tends  to  expose  the  declarant  to
criminal liability,” the exception applies only if the statement
“is  supported  by  corroborating  circumstances  that  clearly
indicate  its  trustworthiness.”  But  even  where  the  quoted
“corroboration”  language  applies  to  make  the  statement
the  declaration-against-interest  exception
ineligible 
(which  would  be  so  here),  that  ineligibility  doesn’t  prevent
the statement from being admissible as an admission against a
party-opponent, as described in the discussion of Choice B.

for 

II.   SPONTANEOUS, EXCITED, OR

CONTEMPORANEOUS UTTERANCES
(INCLUDING STATEMENTS ABOUT
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL CONDITION)

A.  Statements made for purposes of medical diagnosis or treatment

1.  Cause

a.  The statement may include references to the cause of the

bodily condition

Question  26:  A  plaintiff  sued  a  ladder  manufacturer  for
injuries  he  suffered  to  his  neck  and  back  when  a  rung  of  the
ladder  on  which  he  was  standing  gave  way.  When  the
plaintiff’s back and neck continued to be very sore after more
than  two  weeks,  his  treating  physician  sent  him  to  an
orthopedist for an evaluation. Though the orthopedist did not
treat  the  plaintiff,  he  diagnosed  an  acute  cervical  strain.  At
trial,  the  plaintiff  called  the  orthopedist  to  testify  that  in
response  to  the  orthopedist’s  inquiry  about  how  the  plaintiff
had  injured  his  back,  the  plaintiff  told  him,  “I  was  standing
near the top of a 15-foot ladder when I abruptly fell, landing
hard  on  my  back,  after  which  the  ladder  toppled  onto  my

489

neck.”

Should the statement be admitted?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  plaintiff  is  present  and  can  be  cross-

examined about it.

(B)    Yes,  because  it  was  made  for  the  purpose  of  medical

diagnosis or treatment.

(C)  No, because it was not made to a treating physician.
(D)  No, because it relates to the inception or the cause of the
injury rather than the plaintiff’s physical condition.
Answer 26: Choice (B) is correct. The witness orthopedist is
testifying about an out-of-court statement to prove the truth of
the  contents  of  that  statement.  So  the  statement  meets  the
definition  of  hearsay  under  FRE  801(c).  (Although  the
declarant is a party to the case, the statement is being offered
by that party, so is not a party admission within FRE 801(d)
(2)(A).)  But  this  hearsay  statement  fits  within  the  exception
codified  at  FRE  803(4)  for  statements  made  for  the  purpose
of  (and  reasonably  pertinent  to)  medical  diagnosis  or
treatment,  where  the  statement  describes  “medical  history;
past  or  present  symptoms  or  sensations;  their  inception;  or
their general cause.” Both of these requirements are met: The
plaintiff’s statement relates to the cause of his injury, and the
cause of his injury is relevant to the orthopedist’s diagnosis.
Moreover,  Rule  803(4)  allows  not  only  statements  made  to
treating physicians, but also statements made to other doctors
for  evaluation  or  diagnosis.  So  the  fact  that  the  orthopedist
never  treated  the  plaintiff  doesn’t  affect  admissibility  of  the
statement. And, by the way, this exception applies regardless
of  whether  or  not  the  declarant  is  unavailable  to  testify  at
trial.

(A) is wrong because the choice gives an incorrect reason for
the correct outcome. The statement is an admissible statement
for  purposes  of  medical  diagnosis  or  treatment  under  FRE
803(4).  While  it  is  true  that  the  plaintiff  is  present  and
presumably could be cross-examined about the statement, this
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  does  not  depend  on  the
statement  would  be
declarant’s  being  present — the 
admissible even if the plaintiff were not present to testify or

490

be cross-examined.

(C)  is  wrong  because  FRE  803(4)  does  not  require  that  the
statement  be  made  to  a  treating  physician — the  Rule  also
admits statements made to a non-treating doctor for purposes
of  diagnosis.  The  Rule  is  specifically  designed  to  admit
statements  such  as  this,  where  an  injured  party  is  seeking  a
diagnosis and opinion from a medical specialist.

(D)  is  wrong  because  FRE  803(4)  expressly  permits  the
introduction of statements concerning the cause of injury when
that information is pertinent to diagnosis or treatment. Thus it
is admissible under FRE 803(4).

(If  the  statement  related  to  fault — e.g.,  “I  fell  when  D
tripped  over  the  base  of  the  ladder” — then  the  part  of  the
statement relating to fault would likely not be covered by the
803(4) exception.)

Question  27:  In  a  civil  action  for  personal  injury,  Payne
alleges that he was beaten up by Dabney during an altercation
in  a  crowded  bar.  Dabney’s  defense  is  that  he  was  not  the
person who hit Payne. To corroborate his testimony about the
cause  of  his  injuries,  Payne  seeks  to  introduce,  through  the
hospital  records  custodian,  a  notation  in  a  regular  medical
record  made  by  an  emergency  room  doctor  at  the  hospital
where  Payne  was  treated  for  his  injuries.  The  notation  is:
“Patient says he was attacked by Dabney.”

The notation is

                    A) inadmissible, unless the doctor who made the
record  is  present  at  trial  and  available  for  cross-
examination.

(B)  inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(C)  admissible as hearsay within the exception for records of

regularly conducted activity.

(D)    admissible  as  a  statement  made  for  the  purpose  of

medical diagnosis or treatment.

Answer 27: Choice (B) is correct. The out-of-court statement
(the  note  in  the  file)  is  being  offered  to  prove  that  Payne
really was attacked by Dabney. That’s a hearsay use, since the
out-of-court statement about what “the Patient” said about the

491

cause of the injuries is being offered to prove that these really
were  the  causes.  No  hearsay  exception  applies — see  the
discussion  of  the  other  three  answers  for  why  some  of  the
possible exceptions don’t apply. In particular, notice that this
is a two-level hearsay problem; the outer level is an out-of-
court statement (the notation) by the E.R. doctor, and the inner
level is the oral statement by the patient that was supposedly
being  recorded.  Unless  each  of  the  levels  is  shown  to  fall
within  a  hearsay  exception,  the  entire  notation  must  be
excluded.  And  the  inner  level  does  not  fall  within  any
exception.

(A)  reaches  the  right  conclusion,  but  for  the  wrong  reasons.
There is no hearsay exception that applies merely because the
person  who  records  an  out-of-court  declaration  (here,  the
doctor  who  records  a  patient’s  out-of-court  declaration)  is
available for cross-examination.

(C)  is  wrong  because  this  is  a  two-level  hearsay  problem,
and this choice only deals with the outer level. If the notation
concerned  solely  a  fact  personally  observed  by  the  E.R.
doctor (e.g., “I measured Patient’s blood pressure and found it
to be 130/80”), the notation probably would be admissible as
a record of regularly conducted activity. But here, the notation
is  a  quotation  of  someone  else’s  statement  (Payne’s),  so
Payne’s  statement  is  the  “inner”  level  of  hearsay,  and  that
statement does not fall within any hearsay exception.

their  general  cause,”  are  admissible 

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  statement  does  not  fall  under  the
purpose-of-medical-diagnosis-or-treatment  exception,  since
the  identification  of  the  attacker  was  not  pertinent  to  the
diagnosis or treatment of Payne’s injuries. Under FRE 803(4),
statements  describing  “symptoms  or  sensations”  or  “their
inception  or 
if
.  medical  diagnosis  or
. 
“reasonably  pertinent  to 
treatment.”  Payne’s  statements  to  his  doctor  that  he  was
attacked and how  he  was  attacked  might  well  be  admissible
under  FRE  803(4)  on  the  theory  that  they  were  “reasonably
pertinent  to  medical  diagnosis  or  treatment.”  However,  a
statement identifying  his  attacker  will  not  help  in  treatment
or diagnosis in any way, and is therefore inadmissible under
this exception.

. 

492

B.  Declaration of present mental, emotional, or physical condition

1.  State of mind directly in issue

Question  28:  In  a  prosecution  of  Dale  for  murdering  Vera,
Dale  testified  that  the  killing  had  occurred  in  self  defense
when  Vera  tried  to  shoot  him.  In  rebuttal,  the  prosecution
seeks  to  call  Walter,  Vera’s  father,  to  testify  that  the  day
before  the  killing,  Vera  told  Walter  that  she  loved  Dale  so
much she could never hurt him.

Walter’s testimony is

(A)  admissible within the hearsay exception for statements of

the declarant’s then existing state of mind.

(B)  admissible, because Vera is unavailable as a witness.
(C)  inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(D)  inadmissible, because Vera’s character is not an issue.
Answer 28: Choice (A) is correct. When the mental state of a
declarant  is  directly  at  issue  in  a  case,  statements  of  the
declarant’s  then  existing  state  of  mind  are  admissible  under
FRE  803(3)  to  prove  the  declarant’s  mental  state  pre-dating
or  post-dating  the  statement.  Here,  Vera’s  statement,  that  she
loved Dale and she could never hurt him, is being offered to
prove the truth of the matter asserted, that she could not hurt
him,  and  that  therefore,  the  next  day,  it  is  unlikely  that  she
would  have  been  the  first  aggressor  in  the  encounter  with
Dale. This evidence would counter Dale’s claim that he acted
in self-defense.

is  wrong  because 

the  declarant’s  availability 

(B) 
is
immaterial  when  a  statement  is  being  offered  under  the
exception for a then existing state of mind under FRE 803(3).
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  is  admissible  under  the
then  existing  state  of  mind  hearsay  exception  provided  by
FRE 803(3), as explained in the discussion of Choice A.
(D) is wrong because (1) the statement is admissible and (2)
it does not reflect on Vera’s “character,” but rather, her state
of mind, as further discussed in (A).

2.  Proof of subsequent event

Question 29:  Prine  sued  Dover  for  an  assault  that  occurred

493

March 5 in California. To support his defense that he was in
Utah  on  that  date,  Dover  identifies  and  seeks  to  introduce  a
letter he wrote to his sister a week before the assault in which
he stated that he would see her in Utah on March 5.

The letter is

(A)    admissible,  within  the  state  of  mind  exception  to  the

hearsay rule.

(B)    admissible,  as  a  prior  consistent  statement  to  support

Dover’s credibility as a witness.

(C)  inadmissible, because it lacks sufficient probative value.
(D)  inadmissible, because it is a statement of belief to prove

the fact believed.

Answer 29: Choice (A) is correct. A statement is admissible
to prove that a plan, design, or intention of the declarant was
in  fact  carried  out  by  the  declarant,  under  the  hearsay
exception  for  a  statement  concerning  a  declarant’s  present
mental,  emotional  or  physical  condition.  FRE  803(3).  That
provision allows for the introduction of a statement showing
that  the  declarant  had  the  intent  to  take  a  certain  action,  in
order  to  prove  that  the  declarant  did  in  fact  eventually  take
that action where whether that act took place is an issue in the
case. Here, Dover’s stated intention to meet his sister in Utah
on March 5 is admissible to prove that he in fact was in Utah
on March 5; therefore, it is evidence that he did not commit an
assault in California on that same day.

(B) is wrong because the general rule is that evidence offered
to bolster the character of a witness is not admissible. Under
FRE 801(d)(1)(B), a statement consistent with the declarant’s
testimony may only be “offered to rebut an express or implied
charge that the declarant recently fabricated it or acted from a
recent improper influence or motive in so testifying.” The fact
pattern  does  not  indicate  that  those  circumstances  occurred
here.
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  letter  is  admissible  and  it,  in  fact,
has sufficient probative value. It makes the factual proposition
that Dover was not in California on March 5 more likely than
it would be without the evidence.
(D) is wrong because the letter is admissible and the concept

494

the  declarant’s 

stated does not apply. It’s true that FRE 803(3) provides for
an  exception  for 
then  existing  mental,
emotional  or  physical  condition,  “but  not  including  a
statement  of  memory  or  belief  to  prove  the  fact  remembered
or believed unless it relates to the . . . declarant’s will.” But,
here, the letter is not a statement of belief about past actions
or events. It is a stated intention to do something in the future,
as explained in the discussion of (A).

3.  Need for inference

Question 30: Daggett is prosecuted for the murder of Vales,
whose  body  was  found  one  morning  in  the  street  near
Daggett’s house. The state calls Witt, a neighbor, to testify that
during  the  night  before  the  body  was  found  he  heard  Vales’s
wife scream, “You killed him! You killed him!”

Witt’s testimony is

(A)  admissible as a report of a statement of belief.
(B)  admissible as a report of an excited utterance.
(C)    inadmissible,  because  it  reports  a  privileged  spousal

communication.

(D)  inadmissible on spousal immunity grounds, but only if the

wife objects.

Answer  30:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  wife’s  statement  is
hearsay,  an  “out-of-court  statement”  offered  to  “prove  the
truth  of  the  matter  asserted” — that  Daggett  was  the  killer.
FRE  801.  FRE  803(2)  provides  for  the  excited  utterance
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule — “a  statement  relating  to  a
startling  event  or  condition  made  while  the  declarant  was
under  the  stress  of  excitement  that  it  caused.”  The  screamed
exclamation,  “You  killed  him!  You  killed  him!”  would
qualify — the  fact  that  there  was  a  scream  strongly  suggests
that  Vale’s  wife  was  responding  to  some  event  that  (1)
startled  her,  (2)  convinced  her  that  her  husband  had  been
killed (the event), and (3) induced her to make the statement
(showing  causation  between  the  startling  event,  and  the
statement).

(A) is wrong because it relies on a concept that doesn’t exist.
There  is  no  hearsay  exception  provided  for  a  “statement  of
belief.” Indeed, FRE 803(3) indicates just the contrary, since

495

it  gives  a  hearsay  exception  for  “A  statement  of  the
declarant’s then existing state of mind . . . but not including a
statement  of  memory  or  belief  to  prove  the  fact  remembered
or believed[.]”

(C) is wrong because the evidence would not be barred by the
confidential  spousal  communications  privilege.  If  the  wife
thought  her  husband  was  dead,  she  could  not  have  been
intending  to  communicate  with  him  (barring  communications
with the other world, which are presumably not protected by
the privilege).

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  evidence  is  not  barred  by  the
adverse  testimony  privilege.  The  privilege  applies  only  to
testimony against the spouse of the declarant. So there are two
problems here: (1) the husband (the declarant’s spouse) is not
on trial; and (2) this out-of-court startled exclamation would
not  be  deemed  to  be  “testimonial”  for  purposes  of  the
adverse-testimony  privilege,  even  if  it  were  used  by  the
prosecution against the husband.

III.  PAST RECOLLECTION RECORDED

A.  Exception under the FRE

1.  Four requirements

Question 31: A plaintiff sued a defendant for wrongful death
arising  out  of  a  traffic  collision  between  the  plaintiff’s
decedent  and  the  defendant.  At  trial,  the  investigating  traffic
officer  authenticated  a  tape  recording  of  her  shift-end
dictation of comments used in preparing the written report of
her factual findings. She testified that the tape recording was
accurate  when  made  and  that  she  currently  had  no  clear
memory of the details of the investigation.
Is the tape recording admissible as evidence?
(A)  Yes, under the past recollection recorded exception to the

hearsay rule.

(B)    Yes,  under  the  public  records  exception  to  the  hearsay

rule.

(C)    No,  because  it  is  hearsay  and  is  a  police  report  being

offered against the defendant in a wrongful death case.

496

(D)  No, because the police report itself is the best evidence.
Answer  31:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  tape  recording  is
evidence  of  an  oral  out-of-court  statement  that  is  being
offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  contents  of  that  statement.
Thus it is hearsay under FRE 801(c). But it also satisfies the
requirements  of  FRE  803(5),  the  past  recollection  recorded
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule.  Under  that  rule,  a  record  is
admissible  if  it  “(A)  is  on  a  matter  the  witness  once  knew
about  but  now  cannot  recall  well  enough  to  testify  fully  and
accurately; (B) was made or adopted by the witness when the
matter was fresh in the witness’s memory; and (C) accurately
reflects the witness’s knowledge.”

So here all four of the requirements embedded in FRE 803(5)
are  met:  (1)  we  know  that  the  “witness  once  knew  about”
requirement  is  satisfied  because  we’re  told  that  she  was  the
investigating officer, and was dictating an account of what she
had  learned  first-hand;  (2)  we  know  she  “now  cannot  recall
[the  matter]  well  enough  to  testify  fully  and  accurately”
because  we’re  explicitly  told  in  the  facts  that  she  “currently
ha[s] no clear memory of the details”; (3) we know that she
“made  [the  record]  when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  [her]
memory” from the fact that she made the tape recording at the
end of the very shift in which she learned the underlying facts
to which the recording pertained; and (4) we know the record
“accurately  reflects  the  witness’s  knowledge”  because  the
facts tell us that the witness “testified that the tape recording
was  accurate  when  made.”  Accordingly,  under  FRE  803(5),
the recording is admissible evidence (in the sense that it can
be played for the jury, although not taken into the jury room as
an exhibit).
(B)  is  wrong  because  although  the  officer’s  formal  written
report  would  qualify  as  a  public  record  under  FRE  803(8),
the informal dictated comments she made to help her prepare
the  report  would  not.  To  be  admissible  under  803(8),  the
material must fall within one of clauses (A)(i), (A)(ii), or (A)
(iii) of 803(8). All of these apply to “a record or statement of
a public office.” Let’s see why none of these clauses applies:
Clause  (A)(i)  of  803(8)  covers  reports  of  “the  office’s
activities.” The clause is interpreted to refer to records of the

497

internal activities of the agency, not to its inquiries into events
occurring in the outside world. So the recording here does not
qualify,  since  it’s  not  about  the  police  department,  but  about
real-world non-police activities.

Clause  (A)(ii)  of  803(8)  covers  a  public  office’s  record  or
statement  setting  out  “a  matter  observed  while  under  a  legal
duty to report, but not including, in a criminal case, a matter
observed by law-enforcement personnel.” (A)(ii) is generally
interpreted to cover only material that is “more concrete and
simple than interpretive or evaluative” (see M&K, § 8.50, p.
862), so it would not apply to the dictated notes here, which
clearly  have  an  evaluative  component.  (Who  caused  the
accident, which the officer didn’t personally witness?)

its 

terms  covers  “factual 

Clause (A)(iii) of 803(8) covers public records or statements
offered  “in  a  civil  case  or  against  the  government  in  a
criminal case,” if the record or statement consists of “factual
findings from a legally authorized investigation.” The fact that
this  is  a  civil  action  does  not  bar  (A)(iii)  use  here.  But  (A)
(iii)  by 
the
preliminary,  informal  tape-recording  here  would  not  be
construed to have produced such “factual findings” (a phrase
that  has  the  connotation  of  final  and  formal  conclusions),
especially  given  that  the  traffic  officer  knew  that  she  would
later  use  her  recording  in  order  to  prepare  her  eventual
“written report of her factual findings.” (The written report is
a document that would satisfy clause (A)(iii).)

findings,”  and 

So none of the three clauses of 803(8) applies.

(C) is wrong because although the tape recording is hearsay,
it  fits  the  hearsay  exception  of  FRE  803(5)  as  a  past
recollection  recorded.  This  choice’s  reference  to  a  “police
report being offered against the defendant in a wrongful death
case”  is  an  attempt  to  trick  you  into  thinking  that  the
prohibition in 803(8), clause (A)(iii), applies. As is covered
in more detail in the analysis of Choice (B) above, 803(8)’s
public-records hearsay exception says, in clause (A)(iii), that
“factual  findings  resulting  from  an 
investigation  made
pursuant  to  authority  granted  by  law”  are  admissible  only  in
civil actions and against the government in criminal cases, not
against  the  accused  in  a  criminal  case.  And  there  is  some

498

(though  weak)  authority  that  where  factual  findings  by  law
enforcement  officials  are  prohibited  by  803(8)(A)(iii)  (i.e.,
where the findings are proposed to be used by the government
against the accused), not only can’t Rule 803(8) be used, but
neither can other exceptions, like past recollection recorded.
But  even  in  a  court  following  this  minority  authority,  the
803(8)(A)(iii)  prohibition  wouldn’t  apply  here,  since  the
prohibition doesn’t apply in a civil case, even one involving
wrongful death.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  tape  recording  was  made  prior  to
the  written  report  and  was  used  as  a  basis  for  the  written
report. The recording is not being offered to prove the content
of  the  written  report,  so  its  admission  does  not  violate  the
best  evidence/original  document  rule  of  FRE  1002.  (If  the
officer  gave  courtroom  testimony  that  the  previous  day,  she
had listened to the recording and here is what it said, then this
testimony  would  violate  the  original  document  rule  of  FRE
1002,  because  the  recording  itself  would  have  to  be  offered
as the best evidence of what the recording’s contents were.)

IV.  RECORDS OF REGULARLY CONDUCTED
ACTIVITY (a/k/a “BUSINESS RECORDS”)

A.  Person supplying info

1.  Consumer complaints or reports

Question  32:  Plaza  Hotel  sued  Plaza  House  Hotel  for
infringement  of  its  trade  name.  To  establish  a  likelihood  of
name  confusion,  Plaintiff  Plaza  Hotel  offers  a  series  of
memoranda which it had asked its employees to prepare at the
end  of  each  day  listing  instances  during  the  day  in  which
telephone  callers,  cab  drivers,  customers,  and  others  had
confused the two names.
The memoranda should be
(A)  excluded, because they are more unfairly prejudicial and

confusing than probative.

(B)    excluded,  because  they  are  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

(C)  admitted, because they are records of regularly conducted

499

business activity.

(D)  admitted, because they are past recollection recorded.
Answer 32:  The  correct  choice  is  (B) — this  is  hearsay  not
within any exception. Each memorandum contains a statement
of  the  form,  “Person  X  confused  Plaza  Hotel  with  Plaza
House Hotel,” offered to prove that the person indeed had this
confusion. So each memo is being offered to prove the truth of
the matter asserted in it (that confusion existed). Unless some
hearsay exception applies, the memos must be excluded under
the  hearsay  rule.  No  exception  applies,  including  the
exceptions mentioned in Choices (C) and (D).

(A) is wrong for two reasons. First, under FRE 403, evidence
is  excludable  based  on  the  relative  probative  value  and
prejudice  only  if  the  probative  value  is  “substantially
outweighed”  by  the  danger  of  unfair  prejudice  or  confusion,
and  the  formulation  here  omits  the  word  “substantially,”
incorrectly suggesting that if unfair prejudice and confusion is
slightly  greater  than  probative  value,  exclusion  must  occur.
Second,  the  court  would  never  even  get  to  the  issue  of
balancing  probative  value  against  prejudice,  because  the
evidence is hearsay not within any exception. (FRE 403 only
matters in the case of otherwise-admissible evidence.)

the  “business  records”  exception,  and 

(C) is wrong, because this choice refers to what is commonly
known  as 
the
requirements for that exception are not met here. FRE 803(6)
provides for the business record hearsay exception if “(A) the
record  was  made  at  or  near  the  time  by — or  from
information  transmitted  by — someone  with  knowledge;  (B)
the  record  was  kept  in  the  course  of  a  regularly  conducted
activity  of  a  business,  organization,  occupation,  or  calling,
whether or not for profit; (C) making the record was a regular
practice of that activity; (D) all these conditions are shown by
the testimony of the custodian or another qualified witness, or
by a certification that complies with Rule 902(11) or (12) or
with  a  statute  permitting  certification;  and  (E)  neither  the
source  of  information  nor  the  method  or  circumstances  of
preparation  indicate  a  lack  of  trustworthiness.”  The  memos
here  don’t  satisfy  clause  (E) — the  circumstances  of
preparation  (anticipation  of  litigation,  and  the  hotel’s  strong

500

self-interest) make the records untrustworthy.

(D) is wrong because several of the prerequisites laid out in
FRE  803(5)  for  past  recollection  recorded  have  not  been
satisfied. For instance, there is no sponsoring witness who is
testifying,  as  to  each  memorandum,  that  the  memo  is  “on  a
matter  the  witness  once  knew  about  but  cannot  now  recall
well  enough  to  testify  fully  and  accurately.”  (803(5)(A)).
Similarly, there is no sponsoring witness who is testifying that
the  memo  was  “made  or  adopted  by  the  witness  when  the
matter was fresh in the witness’s memory” (803(5)(B)).

V.   PUBLIC RECORDS AND REPORTS

A.  Public records and reports

1.  Federal Rule

a.  Matters observed under duty

Question 33: A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the
full  loss  of  his  banquet  hall  by  fire.  The  insurance  company
defended under a provision of the policy limiting liability to
50  percent  if  “flammable  materials  not  essential  to  the
operation  of  the  business  were  stored  on  the  premises  and
caused  a  fire.”  The  insurance  company  called  the  keeper  of
the  city  fire  inspection  records  to  identify  a  report  prepared
and  filed  by  the  fire  marshal  as  required  by  law,  indicating
that  shortly  before  the  fire,  the  fire  marshal  had  cited  the
plaintiff for storing gasoline at the banquet hall.

Is the report admissible?

(A)  No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B)  No, because the proceeding is civil, rather than criminal.
(C)  Yes, as a public record describing matters observed as to

which there was a duty to report.

(D)  Yes, as a record of regularly conducted activity, provided

the fire marshal is unavailable.

Answer 33:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  report  is  an  out-of-
court  written  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  its
contents,  so  it  meets  the  hearsay  definition  of  FRE  801(c).
Nevertheless,  it  is  admissible  because  it  falls  within  the

501

hearsay  exception  for  “public  records  and  reports”  codified
at  FRE  803(8).  Under  Clause  (A)(ii)  of  this  rule,  a  report
made  by  a  public  official  or  agency  concerning  “a  matter
observed while under a legal duty to report, but not including,
in  a  criminal  case,  a  matter  observed  by  law-enforcement
personnel”  is  admissible,  as  long  as  “neither  the  source  of
information  nor  other  circumstances  indicate  a  lack  of
trustworthiness”  (Clause  (B)).  All  of  the  requirements
embedded  in  Clauses  (A)(ii)  and  (B)  are  met:  (1)  The  fire
marshal  is  a  public  official;  (2)  we  know  that  the  report
concerned a matter that the marshal “observed,” since the fact
that he issued the citation indicates that he observed gasoline
being  stored  in  the  banquet  hall;  and  (3)  we  know  that  the
report  concerned  something  observed  “while  under  a  legal
duty  to  report,”  because  the  facts  tell  us  that  the  report  was
prepared  and  filed  “as  required  by  law.”  As  to  the  “lack  of
trustworthiness” proviso, there is no suggestion of any reason
to  believe  that  the  report’s  contents  are  untrustworthy.  Thus,
the  report  meets  the  requirements  of  the  FRE  803(8)  public
records exception to the hearsay rule, making it admissible.

(A)  is  wrong  because  this  report  is  admissible  as  a  public
record under FRE 803(8). See the analysis of Choice (C) for
why this is so.
(B) is wrong because the fact that this is a civil case does not
make  the  report  inadmissible.  Public  records  are  admissible
in both civil and criminal cases. In fact, they are more broadly
admissible in civil cases than in criminal cases, because law
enforcement  reports  are  generally  not  admissible  against
criminal  defendants.  See  the  analysis  of  Choice  (C)  for  why
the report here is admissible as a public record.
(D) is wrong because it incorrectly states how the regularly-
conducted-activity exception works. This choice is correct in
suggesting that the hearsay exception for records of regularly
conducted  activity  contained  in  FRE  803(6)  (commonly
called  the  “business  records”  exception)  would  likely  apply
to  this  report.  But  the  choice  is  incorrect  in  stating  that  the
exception will apply only if the fire marshal is unavailable to
testify.  The  803(6)  business-records  exception,  like  all  the
exceptions contained in FRE 803, does not require a showing

502

of the unavailability of the declarant (here, the fire marshal).

B.  Absence of public record

Question 34: In an arson prosecution the government seeks to
rebut the defendant’s alibi that he was in a jail in another state
at  the  time  of  the  fire.  The  government  calls  a  witness  to
testify that he diligently searched through all the records of the
jail  and  found  no  record  of  the  defendant’s  having  been
incarcerated there during the time the defendant specified.

The testimony of the witness is

(A)    admissible  as  evidence  of  absence  of  an  entry  from  a

public record.

(B)  admissible as a summary of voluminous documents.
(C)    inadmissible,  because  it  is  hearsay  not  within  any

exception.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  the  records  themselves  must  be

produced.

Answer 34:  The  correct  choice  is  (A),  because  this  type  of
“absence of a public record” evidence is admissible and falls
within a hearsay exception given by FRE 803(10).

The fact that the records are silent here is a form of hearsay:
The records are an out-of-court statement, and they’re offered
to  say,  in  essence,  “Because  the  records  don’t  say  that  the
defendant was incarcerated on a particular date, he was not in
fact  incarcerated  on  that  date.”  So  the  silence  would  not,
strictly  speaking,  be  admissible  unless  there  were  a  hearsay
exception to cover the situation.

But  there  is  such  an  exception.  FRE  803(10),  entitled
“Absence of a public record,” gives a hearsay exception for
“Testimony  .  .  .  that  a  diligent  search  failed  to  disclose  a
public  record  or  statement,”  if  the  testimony  is  admitted  to
prove  that  “(B)  a  matter  did  not  occur  or  exist,  if  a  public
office regularly kept a record or statement for a matter of that
kind.”  Here,  we  know  that  if  the  defendant  had  been
incarcerated  at  a  particular  jail  on  a  particular  date,  there
would  be  a  record  at  the  jail  to  that  effect.  So  the  proffered
testimony  that  a  search  of  the  jail’s  collected  attendance
records  showed  no  such  record  meets  the  requirements  of

503

FRE 803(10). (Notice, by the way, that the witness need not
be  an  employee  of  the  jail,  or  even  of  the  government — 
anyone who testifies that he conducted a diligent search of the
relevant  records  can  testify  to  the  absence  of  the  record  in
question.)

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  witness  was  testifying  about  only
the absence of a single record, not the contents of voluminous
records.  FRE  1006,  entitled  “Summaries  to  prove  content,”
says  that  “The  proponent  may  use  a  summary,  chart,  or
calculation  to  prove  the  content  of  voluminous  writings,
recordings,  or  photographs  that  cannot  be  conveniently
examined  in  court.”  Here,  however,  while  the  records  the
witness  searched  might  be  voluminous,  the  subject  of  his
search was a single record, which he didn’t find. The witness
was  therefore  not  summarizing  “the  content  of  voluminous
writings.”

(C)  is  wrong,  because  there  is  a  hearsay  exception  for  the
absence  of  official  records.  As  described  in  the  analysis  of
choice A above, FRE 803(10) gives a hearsay exception for
the absence of an official record. Consequently, the testimony
here is not hearsay.
(D)  is  wrong,  because  testimony  about  the  absence  of  an
official record receives a hearsay exception, and the records
containing the omission need not be produced. FRE 803(10),
allowing  testimony  that  a  particular  official  record  was  not
found after diligent search, does not include any requirement
that the records that were searched be produced.

It’s  true  that  apart  from  hearsay  issues,  when  the  affirmative
contents  of  a  document  are  offered  the  document  itself  must
normally be offered under the Best Evidence Rule (the FRE’s
general  formulation  of  which  occurs  in  Rule  1002).  But  the
BER  is  not  deemed  applicable  to  the  “absence  of  a  record”
situation — testimony that a diligent search has not turned up
the  record  is  all  that  is  required,  and  the  mass  of  searched
records need not be produced.

VI.  DECLARATIONS AGAINST INTEREST

A.  Generally

504

1.  Text of Federal Rule

Question 35:  The  defendant,  a  man,  has  been  charged  with
murdering  the  victim.  The  defendant  defends  on  the  grounds
that the murder was really committed by a particular woman,
who  has  since  died.  The  defendant  offers  a  properly
authenticated  photocopy  of  a  transcript  of  a  deposition  in  a
civil suit brought against the woman by the victim’s family for
the  victim’s  death,  in  which  the  woman  said,  “Yes,  I  killed
him because I hated him.” The civil suit was brought because
the  woman  was  known  to  have  quarreled  with  and  disliked
the  victim.  Upon  proper  objection  by  the  prosecution,  the
statement should be

(A) admitted as a declaration against interest.
(B) 

  admitted  as  former  testimony  by  a  person  now
unavailable.

(C)  inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.
(D) 

  inadmissible,  because  the  original  rather  than  a
photocopy must be offered.

Answer 35: Choice (A) is correct. First, this is hearsay: The
declarant’s statement “I killed him” is being offered to show
that  she  did  indeed  kill  him.  But  FRE  804(b)(3)  (one  of  the
declarant-unavailable  exceptions)  gives  a  hearsay  exception
for  a  statement  by  a  now-  unavailable  witness  which  “when
made,  .  .  .  was  so  contrary  to  the  declarant’s  proprietary  or
pecuniary interest or had so great a tendency to invalidate the
declarant’s  claim  against  someone  else  or  to  expose  the
declarant  to  civil  or  criminal  liability”  that  “a  reasonable
person  in  the  declarant’s  position  would  have  made  [the
statement] only if the person believed it to be true[.]” Where,
as here, the statement is “offered in a criminal case as one that
tends to expose the declarant to criminal liability,” 804(b)(3)
(B)  adds  the  further  requirement  that  the  statement  be
“supported  by  corroborating  circumstances 
that  clearly
indicate  its  trustworthiness.”  Here,  the  fact  that  the  woman
was  known  to  have  quarreled  with  and  disliked  the  victim,
and  the  fact  that  the  victim’s  family  chose  to  bring  civil  suit
the  required  corroborating
against 
circumstances to indicate the statement’s trustworthiness.

the  woman,  supply 

505

(B)  is  wrong  because,  although  there  is  indeed  an  exception
for  former  testimony  given  under  oath  at  a  trial  or  other
proceeding,  the  exception  applies  only  if  the  testimony  is
“now  offered  against  a  party  who  had — or,  in  a  civil  case,
whose  predecessor  in  interest  had — an  opportunity  and
similar  motive  to  develop  it  by  direct,  cross-,  or  redirect
examination.” See FRE 804(b)(1)(B). Since the party against
whom the testimony is now being offered is the government,
the  statement  could  qualify  only  if  the  government  had  the
opportunity and similar motive to “develop” (i.e., undermine)
the  woman’s  testimony  in  the  earlier  civil  suit;  because  the
prosecution  was  not  part  of  that  suit,  this  requirement  is  not
satisfied.

(C) is wrong because, while the statement is indeed hearsay,
as
the  declaration-against-interest 
described in Choice (A) above.

exception 

applies, 

(D) is wrong because, although the Best Evidence Rule does
indeed sometimes require an original, FRE 1003 says that “a
duplicate  is  admissible  to  the  same  extent  as  the  original
unless  a  genuine  question  is  raised  about  the  original’s
authenticity  or  the  circumstances  make  it  unfair  to  admit  the
duplicate.” There is no indication on these facts that either of
these problems is present.

Question 36: Pamela sued Driver for damages for the death
of  Pamela’s  husband  Ronald,  resulting  from  an  automobile
collision that had occurred a week before the death. At trial,
Driver calls Ronald’s doctor to testify that the day before his
death,  Ronald,  in  great  pain,  said,  “It  was  my  own  fault;
there’s nobody to blame but me.”
The doctor’s testimony should be admitted as
(A)  a statement against interest.
(B)  a dying declaration.
(C)  a statement of Ronald’s then existing state of mind.
(D)  an excited utterance.
Answer  36:  Choice  (A) 
three
requirements for the declaration-against-interest exception to
the hearsay rule: (1) the declarant must be unavailable; (2) the
declaration must have been against the declarant’s pecuniary

is  correct.  There  are 

506

or proprietary interest when made; and (3) the circumstances
must be such that declarant would not have made the statement
unless he believed it to be true. All of these requirements are
fulfilled  regarding  the  statement  made  by  the  now-deceased
Ronald:  (1)  he’s  dead  and  thus  unavailable;  (2)  he  exposed
himself  to  tort  liability  by  acknowledging  responsibility  for
the  accident;  and  (3)  there  is  no  apparent  reason  why  he’d
acknowledge responsibility if he didn’t think he was in fact at
fault.

(B) is wrong, because the dying declaration exception applies
only  where  the  declarant  believes  that  his  own  death  is
imminent. See FRE 804(b)(2). The statement here was made
by Ronald the day before he died, and there is no indication
that  at  the  time,  Ronald  believed  that  his  death  was
“imminent.”

(C)  is  wrong,  because  of  the  timing  element.  FRE  803(3)
gives a hearsay exception for “A statement of the declarant’s
then-existing state of mind,” but says that the exception does
not apply to “a statement of memory or belief to prove the fact
remembered  or  believed  unless  it  relates  to  the  validity  or
terms of the declarant’s will.” Here, Ronald’s statement is a
statement  about  a  fact  remembered  or  believed  (that  the
accident,  which  had  happened  nearly  a  week  before,  was
caused  by  Ronald’s  own  fault),  so  the  exception  doesn’t
apply.

(D)  is  wrong  because  FRE  803(2)’s  excited  utterance
exception  applies  only  to  “a  statement  relating  to  a  startling
event or condition, made while the declarant was under the
stress  of  excitement  that  it  caused.”  There  is  no  evidence
that  Ronald,  at  the  time  of  his  visit  to  the  doctor,  was  still
under the stress of excitement from the accident itself, which
had  happened  almost  a  week  before.  The  excited  utterance
exception  is  usually  held  to  apply  only  to  the  immediate
aftermath of the startling event.

507

CHAPTER 6
PRIVILEGES

I.    THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE

A.  Generally

1.  Client

Question  37:  Pace  sues  Def  Company  for  injuries  suffered
when  Pace’s  car  collided  with  Def  Company’s  truck.  Def’s
general  manager  prepared  a  report  of  the  accident  at  the
request of the company’s attorney in preparation for the trial,
and delivered the report to the attorney. Pace demands that the
report be produced.

Will production of the report be required?
(A) 

  Yes,  because  business  reports  are  not  generally
privileged.

(B)    No,  because  it  is  privileged  communication  from  the

client to the attorney.

the  scope  of 

(C)  No, because such reports contain hearsay.
(D)  No, because such reports are self-serving.
Answer  37:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  A  communication  is
subject  to  attorney-client  privilege  if  it  is  a  communication
from the client to the attorney, made in confidence, concerning
legal  representation.  A  corporation  is  subject  to  the  same
privilege as an individual, and the general manager would be
the  modern
within 
“performance  of  duties”  test,  under  which  the  privilege
extends to any employee’s communication if it was within his
duties, and it was offered to advance the legal interests of the
corporation.  So  the  communication  here  is  within  the
attorney-client  privilege.  A  companion  “work  product
immunity,” in force as a matter of common-law in nearly all
jurisdictions,  gives  an  immunity  from  discovery  or  other
“production” for materials that would be inadmissible at trial
due to the attorney-client privilege.
(A)  is  not  the  best  response  because  it  does  not  correctly

the  privilege  under 

508

characterize the facts and law. A communication of any kind,
business report or not, is subject to attorney-client privilege if
it is a communication from the client to the attorney, made in
confidence, concerning legal representation. Here, the report
fits  this  description — the  general  manager  made  the  report
about  the  accident,  intended  that  it  be  read  only  by  the
attorney, and it was made in preparation for trial. And apart
from  admissibility  at  trial,  the  “work  product  immunity”  for
direct client-attorney communication prevents the client (Def
Co.) from having to produce it in discovery.

(C) is not the best response because (1) it ignores the central
reason the report will be non- producible — it is covered by
the  work-product  immunity;  and  (2)  it  falsely  asserts  that
because the report is or might be inadmissible, it need not be
produced. As to (1), what makes the report non-producible is
the  attorney-client  privilege  and  companion  “work  product
immunity,”  not  the  presence  of  hearsay.  As  to  (2),  even
materials  that  would  not  be  admissible  at  trial  because  they
contain  hearsay  are  producible  in  discovery,  if  they  are
reasonably likely to lead to discoverable evidence. (And it’s
not so clear that the report wouldn’t be admissible if it were
not  for  the  attorney-client  work-product  immunity  problem;
for  instance,  the  report  and  the  statements  in  it  might  all  be
admissible as non-hearsay admissions by a party-opponent or
its agents.)

information  [or] 

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  self-serving  nature  of  the  report
won’t prevent the opposite party (the adversary of the report’s
author) from offering it. If Def Co. were offering the report as
a business record under FRE 803(6), the fact that the “source
of 
the  method  or  circumstances  of
preparation  indicate  a  lack  of  trustworthiness”  (803(6)(E))
would be fatal. But where the adversary of the preparer of the
record or report is offering it against the preparer, the report
can come in as an admission, and the document’s self-serving
nature won’t matter.

B.  Professional relationship

1.  Fee arrangements not covered by privilege

Question 38:  A  defendant  was  on  trial  for  tax  evasion.  The

509

IRS, seeking to establish the defendant’s income by showing
his  expenditures,  called  on  the  defendant’s  attorney  to
produce  records  showing  only  how  much  the  defendant  had
paid his attorney in fees.

Should the demand for the attorney’s fee records be upheld?

(A)  Yes, because it calls for relevant information not within

the attorney-client privilege.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  attorney-client  privilege  cannot  be

invoked to conceal evidence of a crime.

(C)    No,  because  the  records  are  protected  by  the  attorney-

client privilege.

(D)    No,  because  the  records  are  protected  by  the  attorney

work-product doctrine.

Answer  38:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  attorney-client
privilege  applies  only  to  confidential  communications  made
for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  legal  representation  of  the
client.  Courts  have  uniformly  held  that  the  details  of  fee
arrangements,  including  the  amount  paid  by  the  defendant  in
fees,  are  not  communications  made  for  the  purpose  of
facilitating  representation,  and  are  therefore  not  covered  by
the privilege. See M&K, § 5.19, p. 356.

(B) is wrong because it gives an incorrect explanation of the
correct outcome. The attorney-client privilege can be invoked
even  where  it  conceals  evidence  of  a  past  crime.  (The
examiners are trying to make you think of the “crime or fraud”
exception,  by  which  communications  are  not  covered  by  the
privilege if they are made for the purpose of accomplishing or
concealing a future crime or fraud.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  attorney-client  privilege  applies
only to confidential communications made for the purpose of
facilitating  legal  representation  of  the  client.  The  amount  the
defendant  paid  in  legal  fees  does  not  qualify  as  such  a
communication, as is described in the analysis of Choice (A).
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  work-product  doctrine  provides  a
qualified  immunity  for  only  those  materials  prepared  by  an
attorney or client in anticipation of litigation, such as witness
statements, 
trial  memoranda.
Documents showing the amount a client has paid or will pay

investigative 

reports,  or 

510

to  his  attorney  for  legal  representation  are  not  deemed  to  be
prepared “in anticipation of litigation,” so they are outside the
protection of the work-product doctrine.

II.   THE PRIVILEGE AGAINST SELF-

INCRIMINATION

A.  Negative inference allowed in civil cases

Question  39:  A  plaintiff  sued  an  individual  defendant  for
injuries suffered in a collision between the plaintiff’s car and
the  defendant’s  truck  while  the  defendant’s  employee  was
driving  the  truck.  The  plaintiff  sought  discovery  of  any
accident  report  the  employee  might  have  made  to  the
defendant,  but  the  defendant  responded  that  no  such  report
existed.  Before  trial,  the  defendant  moved  to  preclude  the
plaintiff from asking the defendant in the presence of the jury
whether  he  destroyed  such  a  report,  because  the  defendant
would then invoke his privilege against self-incrimination.
Should the court allow the plaintiff to ask the defendant about
the destruction of the report?

(A)   No, because a report that was prepared in anticipation of

litigation is not subject to discovery.

(B)    No,  because  no  inference  may  properly  be  drawn  from

invocation of a legitimate privilege.

(C)  Yes, because a party in a civil action may not invoke the

privilege against self-incrimination.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  defendant’s  destruction  of  the  report
would serve as the basis of an inference adverse to the
defendant.

Answer  39:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  If  a  party  destroys
evidence, it is proper for the jury to draw an inference that the
evidence was adverse to that party. It’s true that the Supreme
Court  has  held  that  in  a  criminal case,  neither  the  judge  nor
the prosecution can encourage a jury to draw an inference of
guilt  from  a  defendant’s  invocation  of  her  privilege  against
self-incrimination;  Griffin  v.  California  (1965).  But  it’s
proper  for  the  jury  to  draw  an  adverse  inference  in  a  civil
case  from  a  party’s  assertion  of  the  privilege  against  self-

511

incrimination. Thus, the court should allow the question to be
asked,  because  it  is  proper  regardless  of  how  the  defendant
responds.

(A) is wrong because although it is true that a report prepared
in anticipation of litigation may qualify as work product, the
work-product  immunity  is  not  absolute.  Documents  that  are
work product are still subject to discovery upon a showing of
substantial  need  and  the  inability  to  obtain  the  substantial
equivalent of the materials by other means. Moreover, a claim
of work-product immunity must be asserted before, and ruled
on by, the court — a party cannot simply destroy the material
and claim work-product protection. Finally, here the plaintiff
would  not  be  asking  the  defendant  to  produce  the  report  for
the  jury  to  see;  the  plaintiff  would  only  ask  whether  such  a
report had been destroyed.

(B)  is  wrong  because  although  the  Supreme  Court  has  held
that neither the judge nor the prosecution can encourage a jury
to draw an inference of guilt from a defendant’s invocation of
her  privilege  against  self-incrimination  in  a  criminal  case,
Griffin v. California (1965), it is proper for the jury to draw
an adverse inference in a civil case from a party’s assertion of
the privilege against self-incrimination.
(C) is wrong because the privilege against self-incrimination
may be asserted in both civil and criminal cases.

512

CHAPTER 7
REAL AND DEMONSTRATIVE EVIDENCE,
INCLUDING WRITINGS

I.    AUTHENTICATION

A.  Authentication of writings and recordings

1.  Signature or handwriting

a.  Non-expert

Question  40:  When  a  man  entered  a  bank  and  presented  a
check for payment, the bank teller recognized the signature on
the  check  as  a  forgery  because  the  check  was  drawn  on  the
account of a customer whose handwriting she knew. The bank
teller  called  the  police.  Before  the  police  arrived,  the  man
picked up the check from the counter and left.
The man was charged with attempting to cash a forged check.
At trial, the prosecutor called the bank teller to testify that the
signature on the check was forged.

Is the bank teller’s testimony admissible?

(A)  Yes, because a bank teller is by occupation an expert on

handwriting.

(B)    Yes,  because  it  is  rationally  based  on  the  bank  teller’s

perception and is helpful to the jury.

(C)  No, because the bank teller was at fault in allowing loss

of the original by failing to secure the check.

(D)    No,  because  it  is  not  possible  for  either  the  jury  or  an
expert  to  compare  the  signature  on  the  missing  check
with a signature established as genuine.

Answer 40:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  witness  teller,  who
has not been qualified as a handwriting expert, is offering her
lay opinion as to the genuineness of the signature on the check.
FRE  701  allows  lay  opinion  testimony  in  general  when  it  is
“rationally based on the witness’s perception” and is “helpful
to  clearly  understanding  the  witness’s  testimony  or  to
determining  a  fact  in  issue[.]”  These  requirements  are  met

513

that 

the
here.  Additionally,  FRE  901(b)(2)  provides 
authenticity  of  a  document  can  be  established  by  “a
nonexpert’s  opinion  that  handwriting  is  genuine,  based  on  a
familiarity  with  it  that  was  not  acquired  for  the  current
litigation.” This requirement is met here, since the facts tell us
that  the  witness/teller  already,  at  the  time  of  the  episode,
knew the signature of the bank customer on whose account the
check was drawn. This knowledge made it possible for her to
recognize the signature on the check as a forgery, and to testify
with  first-hand  knowlege  that  the  signature  on  the  check
presented was different from the signature of the owner of the
account. Thus, the testimony is permitted.

(A)  is  wrong  because  there  is  nothing  in  the  fact  pattern  to
suggest  that  the  bank  teller  is  an  expert  on  handwriting — 
merely working as a bank teller would not give a person such
expertise.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  application  of  the
original  document  rule.  This  choice  is  premised  on  a
plausible  idea:  that  because  what’s  being  proved  is  the
contents  of  a  writing  (namely,  the  signature  on  a  check),  the
original  of  that  writing  must  be  produced.  FRE  1002’s
implementation of the original documents rule (a/k/a the Best
Evidence  Rule)  indeed  says  that  “An  original  writing,
recording,  or  photograph  is  required  in  order  to  prove  its
content  unless  these  rules  or  a  federal  statute  provides
otherwise.” So if the original of the check had been available
to  the  prosecution,  the  prosecution’s  failure  to  present  that
original,  and  to  have  the  teller  testify  about  the  check’s
contents instead, would indeed have been a violation of FRE
1002.  But  FRE  1004(a)  grants  an  exception  to  the  original
documents rule where “all the originals are lost or destroyed,
and not by the proponent acting in bad faith[.]” The proponent
here  is  the  prosecution  (not  the  bank  teller),  so  even  if  the
teller had acted in bad faith in not securing the check, the FRE
1004(a) exception would still have applied. In any event, on
the facts here, there is no evidence that the teller behaved in
bad  faith  (or  was  even  at  fault)  by  not  securing  the  check
before the defendant could grab it and run away with it.
(D)  is  wrong  because  having  an  expert  (or  even  the  jury

514

members  themselves)  compare  an  exemplar  established  as
genuine  with  the  disputed  signature  is  not  the  only  way  to
establish  whether  a  signature  is  forged  or  authentic.  It’s  true
that FRE 901(b)(3) permits authentication of a document via
“a  comparison  with  an  authenticated  specimen  by  an  expert
witness  or  the  trier  of  fact.”  However,  this  is  not  the  only
method  authorized  by  FRE  901.  FRE  901(b)(2)  permits
authentication  by  “a  nonexpert’s  opinion  that  handwriting  is
genuine, based on a familiarity with it that was not acquired
for  the  current  litigation.”  The  testimony  here  satisfies  that
method,  since  the  teller  got  her  familiarity  with  the  real
account-holder’s  signature  in  a  way  that  pre-dated  the
litigation.

b.  Exemplars

Question 41: Parker sues Dix for breach of a promise made
in  a  letter  allegedly  written  by  Dix  to  Parker.  Dix  denies
writing the letter.

Which of the following would NOT be a sufficient basis for
admitting the letter into evidence?

(A)    Testimony  by  Parker  that  she  is  familiar  with  Dix’s

signature and recognizes it on the letter.

(B)    Comparison  by  the  trier  of  fact  of  the  letter  with  an

admitted signature of Dix.

(C)    Opinion  testimony  of  a  nonexpert  witness  based  upon
the

to  authenticate 

in  order 

familiarity  acquired 
signature.

(D)    Evidence  that  the  letter  was  written  in  response  to  one

written by Parker to Dix.

Answer 41: Choice (C) is correct (i.e., the choice is not an
acceptable  method  of  authentication).  FRE  901(b)(2)  allows
authentication  by  “a  nonexpert’s  opinion  that  handwriting  is
genuine, based on a familiarity with it that was not acquired
for  the  current  litigation.”  The  fact  pattern  indicates  that  the
nonexpert  acquired  familiarity  in  order  to  authenticate  the
signature; therefore, this would not serve as a sufficient basis
for admitting the letter into evidence.

(A)  is  wrong  because  a  nonexpert  who  is  already  familiar
with a signature may testify as to its genuineness as provided

515

by FRE 901(b)(2) and discussed in the explanation to (C). It
is irrelevant that the nonexpert is a party to the litigation.

(B) is wrong because handwriting may be authenticated by the
use of exemplars, in which case it is up to the jury to compare
the  exemplar  with  the  offered  writing  to  determine  its
genuineness.

(D) is wrong, because evidence that the letter (relying on its
contents  and  other  circumstances)  was  written  as  a  reply  to
one already authenticated is a method of authentication falling
under the category of “distinctive characteristics of the item,
taken together with all the circumstances.” FRE 901(b)(4).

2.  Phone conversation

a.  Incoming calls

Question  42:  In  a  narcotics  conspiracy  prosecution  against
Daly, the prosecutor offers in evidence a tape recording of a
telephone  call  allegedly  made  by  Daly.  A  lay  witness  is
called to testify that the voice on the recording is Daly’s. Her
testimony  to  which  of  the  following  would  be  the  LEAST
sufficient basis for admitting the recording?

(A)  She had heard the same voice on a similar tape recording

identified to her by Daly’s brother.

(B)  She had heard Daly speak many times, but never over the

telephone.

(C)    She  had,  specifically  for  the  purpose  of  preparing  to
testify,  talked  with  Daly  over  the  telephone  at  a  time
after the recording was made.

(D)  She had been present with Daly when he engaged in the
conversation in question but had heard only Daly’s side
of the conversation.

Answer 42: Choice (A)  is  the  best  response,  because  under
this  alternative,  the  lay  witness  is  not  personally  familiar
with  Daly’s  voice,  and  thus  the  recording  wouldn’t  be
admissible with this testimony alone. The rule is that a voice
can  be  authenticated  by  any  person  who  recognizes  it.  FRE
901(b)(5)  allows  authentication  by  means  of  “an  opinion
identifying  a  person’s  voice — whether  heard  firsthand  or
through mechanical or electronic transmission or recording 

516

— based on hearing the voice at any time under circumstances
that connect it with the alleged speaker.” Here, the only thing
linking  the  lay  witness  and  Daly’s  voice  is  an  assurance  by
Daly’s brother that a recorded voice was Daly’s; the witness
herself  has  no  personal  familiarity  with  it.  (Thus,  if  Daly’s
brother  were  lying  or  mistaken,  the  lay  witness’s  testimony
would  be  useless.)  Since  (A)  states  the  only  basis  on  which
the  lay  witness  couldn’t  authenticate  the  tape,  of  these  four
choices, it’s the best response.

(B) is wrong because the fact that the witness had never heard
Daly  speak  over  the  telephone  would  be  irrelevant.  FRE
901(b)(5)  allows  authentication  by  means  of  “an  opinion
identifying  a  person’s  voice — whether  heard  firsthand  or
through  mechanical  or  electronic  transmission  or  recording 
— based on hearing the voice at any time under circumstances
that connect it with the alleged speaker.” Here, the lay witness
satisfies  this  requirement  because  she  had  heard  the  voice
many  times.  The  rule  doesn’t  require  that  the  witness  be
familiar  with  the  voice  in  the  form  in  which  it  must  be
authenticated (here, a tape recording).

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  lay  witness  could  authenticate  the
recording  on  this  basis,  since  any  person  who  recognizes  a
voice can authenticate it. FRE 901(b)(5) (quoted in full in (A)
above)  allows  lay  testimony  identifying  a  voice  based  upon
“hearing  the  voice  at  any  time  under  circumstances  that
connect it with the alleged speaker.” This language means that
familiarity  acquired  in  anticipation  of  litigation  does  not
disqualify  the  witness.  (This  makes  the  situation  different
from handwriting, as to which 901(b)(2) allows lay testimony
only  if  “based  on  a  familiarity  with  it  that  was  not  acquired
for the current litigation.”)
(D) is wrong because it represents possibly the best basis on
which  the  lay  witness  could  authenticate  the  recording.  Not
only  would  she  be  able  to  recognize  the  voice,  but  she’d  be
familiar  with  the  very  conversation  that  was  recorded.
Nothing  in  901(b)(5)  would  come  close  to  ruling  out  an
identification  of  the  speaker  on  a  tape  as  having  been  the
person  whose  side  of  the  taped  conversation  the  witness
heard in person.

517

II.   THE “BEST EVIDENCE” RULE FOR
RECORDED COMMUNICATIONS

A.  Communications covered

1.  Other “real” evidence not covered

Question 43: Poole sued Darrel for unlawfully using Poole’s
idea  for  an  animal  robot  as  a  character  in  Darrel’s  science
fiction  movie.  Darrel  admitted  that  he  had  received  a  model
of an animal robot from Poole, but he denied that it had any
substantial similarity to the movie character. After the model
had been returned to Poole, Poole destroyed it.

In  order  for  Poole  to  testify  to  the  appearance  of  the  model,
Poole

(A)  must show that he did not destroy the model in bad faith.
(B)    must  give  advance  notice  of  his  intent  to  introduce  the

oral testimony.

(C)  must introduce a photograph of the model if one exists.
(D)    need  do  none  of  the  above,  because  the  “best  evidence
recordings,  and

to  writings, 

rule”  applies  only 
photographs.

Answer 43: Choice (D) is correct. Under FRE 1002, the Best
Evidence  Rule  applies  only  to  writings  recordings,  and
photographs.

Since  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  doesn’t  apply  to  models,  the
original model need not be produced, and Poole may testify to
its  appearance  without  adhering  to  any  of  the  requirements
laid out in Choices (A), (B), and (C).

Question  44:  A  plaintiff  sued  a  defendant  for  injuries
suffered in a car accident allegedly caused by brakes that had
been  negligently  repaired  by  the  defendant.  At  a  settlement
conference, the plaintiff exhibited the brake shoe that caused
the  accident  and  pointed  out  the  alleged  defect  to  an  expert,
whom  the  defendant  had  brought  to  the  conference.  No
settlement  was  reached.  At  trial,  the  brake  shoe  having
disappeared,  the  plaintiff  seeks  to  testify  concerning  the
condition of the shoe.
The plaintiff’s testimony is

518

(A)  admissible, because the defendant’s expert had been able

to examine the shoe carefully.

(B)  admissible, because the plaintiff had personal knowledge

of the shoe’s condition.

(C)  inadmissible, because the brake shoe was produced and

examined as a part of settlement negotiations.

(D)    inadmissible,  unless  the  plaintiff  establishes  that  the

disappearance was not his fault.

Answer  44:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Where  a  witness  has
personal  knowledge  about  a  fact,  the  witness  is  ordinarily
entitled  to  testify  about  that  fact.  Here,  the  plaintiff  has
personal  knowledge  about  the  condition  of  the  shoe,  and  is
therefore  entitled  to  testify  about  that  condition,  unless  some
other  rule  blocks  the  testimony.  There  is  no  such  other  rule
that applies here.

(A) is wrong because the fact that the defendant’s expert was
able  to  examine  the  shoe  carefully  is  irrelevant.  Even  if  the
defendant’s expert had not been able to examine the shoe, the
plaintiff  would  still  have  been  permitted  to  testify  about  his
personal knowledge of the condition.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  a  physical  object  was
present  during  settlement  negotiations  does  not  mean  that
testimony about the object’s condition becomes inadmissible.
It  is  true  that  FRE  408(a)  makes  inadmissible  settlement
offers,  as  well  as  “conduct  or  a  statement  made  during”
settlement  negotiations,  if  offered  to  “prove  or  disprove  the
validity  or  amount  of  a  disputed  claim.”  But  FRE  408(b)
carefully  states  that  the  court  may  admit  such  settlement-
related  conduct  or  statements  “for  another  purpose”  than
proving  or  disproving  the  validity  or  amount  of  the  disputed
claim.  The  fact  that  the  plaintiff  displayed  the  shoe  during  a
settlement  conference  doesn’t  mean 
the  plaintiff’s
testimony  about  the  shoe’s  condition  is  being  offered  to
“prove  or  disprove  the  validity  or  amount  of  a  disputed
claim”  as  prohibited  by  408(a);  therefore,  it’s  408(b)  that
controls, to make 408’s ban on settlement-related conduct or
statements inapplicable.
(D) is wrong because the plaintiff does not bear the burden of

that 

519

establishing  that  the  disappearance  was  not  his  fault.  If  the
item had been a document, and its “contents” were sought to
be  proved,  the  FRE’s  implementation  of  the  Best  Evidence
Rule would mean that the fact that the person seeking to testify
about  the  contents  was  responsible  in  bad  faith  for  the
document’s  disappearance  would  cause  the  testimony  to  be
excluded.  (See  FRE  1004:  “An  original  is  not  required,  and
other evidence of the contents of a writing . . . is admissible if
(a)  all  the  originals  are  lost  or  destroyed,  and  not  by  the
proponent acting in bad faith[.]”) But no such rule applies to
items of physical evidence that are not writings, recordings,
or photographs (i.e., to items that are not subject to the Best
Evidence Rule). The court probably has discretion to exclude
testimony  about  an 
real  evidence  whose
item  of 
disappearance has been shown to have been procured by the
intentional wrongdoing of the proponent of the testimony. But
even so, it certainly is not the case that the burden would be
placed  on  the  party  who  will  be  testifying  to  make  an
affirmative showing that that party was not responsible for the
disappearance.

B.  Proving the contents

to  answer  questions, 

Question  45:  A  defendant  was  charged  with  burglary.  At
trial,  a  police  officer  testified  that,  after  the  defendant  was
arrested  and  agreed 
the  officer
interrogated  him  with  a  stenographer  present,  but  that  the
officer could not now recall what the defendant had said. The
prosecutor  presented  the  officer  with  a  photocopy  of  the
stenographic transcript of the interrogation. The officer, after
looking at it, was prepared to testify that he recalled that the
defendant  admitted  to  being  in  the  area  of  the  burglary.  The
defendant  objected  to  the  officer’s  testimony  on  the  ground
that  it  violated  the  “original  document”  rule  (also  known  as
the “best evidence” rule).
Should  the  officer’s  testimony  concerning  the  defendant’s
recorded confession be admitted?
(A)    No,  because  a  photocopy  cannot  be  used  without  a

showing that the original is unavailable.

(B)    No,  because  the  stenographer  has  not  testified  to  the

520

accuracy of the transcript.

(C)  Yes, because a photocopy is a duplicate of the original.
(D)  Yes, because the prosecutor is not attempting to prove the

contents of the document.

Answer 45: Choice (D) is correct. The prosecutor is trying to
prove  what  the  defendant  said,  not  what  the  transcript  says.
Accordingly,  FRE  1003,  the  Best  Evidence  Rule,  is  not
relevant.  (It  would  be  different,  for  example,  if  this  was  a
contract and the parties differed over the wording of a clause
in the contract — then the BER would apply.) In this case, the
copy  of  the  transcript  is  properly  used  under  FRE  612  to
revive the officer’s recollection.

Notice, by the way, that neither this choice nor any part of the
question  uses  the  phrase  “present  recollection  refreshed,”
even though that’s the doctrine that controls the outcome. It’s
up  to  you  to  recognize  that  refreshment  of  recollection  is
what’s  occurring,  and  that  it’s  being  done  properly  here.
Under the doctrine of present recollection refreshed, any item
may  be  used  to  refresh  the  witness’s  memory,  including
leading  questions,  documents,  or  objects.  If  the  witness,
having seen the refreshing object, can testify from memory, the
item  will  not  be  considered  evidence.  See  FRE  612,
refreshed
the  present 
implicitly  allowing 
technique,  subject  to  certain  limitations  (which  don’t  affect
the  outcome  here).  Here,  the  officer  is  going  to  testify  (from
his  memory,  after  refreshing  it  from  the  transcript)  to  his
recollection  that  the  defendant  admitted  being  nearby,  so  the
recollection-refreshed doctrine applies.

recollection 

(A) is wrong because the prosecutor is trying to prove what
the defendant said, not what the transcript says. Accordingly,
the  Best  Evidence  Rule  is  not  relevant.  By  the  way,  even
assuming  that  the  BER  applied  here,  this  choice  is  not  an
accurate  statement  of  the  law.  Under  FRE  1003,  a  duplicate
can  be  admissible  without  any  showing  that  the  original  is
unavailable.  A  showing  of  unavailability  is  required  only  if
the  party  is  seeking  to  introduce  something  other  than  a
duplicate  (e.g.,  oral  testimony)  to  prove  the  contents  of  a
document. See FRE 1004.
(B)  is  wrong  because  this  is  not  a  case  of  past  recollection

521

recorded; if it were, the prosecutor would have to show that
the stenographer accurately recorded what the defendant said.
In  this  case,  the  officer  is  testifying  to  his  own  (present)
recollection  of  what  the  defendant  said,  that  recollection
having  been  revived  by  looking  at  the  transcript.  Therefore,
the relevant doctrine is “present recollection refreshed.” That
doctrine  is  embodied  in  FRE  612,  under  which  a  document
used  only  to  refresh  the  recollection  of  the  witness  does  not
have to be accurate or reliable, because the document is not
being  admitted  into  evidence.  So  here,  the  copy  of  the
transcript  is  being  properly  used  to  refresh  the  officer’s
recollection, and the officer’s testimony is the evidence.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  although  FRE  1003  supports  the
admission  of  photocopies  with  some  exceptions,  this  option
assumes  that  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  applies  here,  which  it
doesn’t. The prosecutor is trying to prove what the defendant
said, not what the transcript says. The transcript here is being
used to refresh the officer’s recollection under Federal Rule
of Evidence 612, so Rule 1003 (the FRE’s version of the Best
Evidence Rule) is not relevant.

III.  SUMMARIES OF VOLUMINOUS WRITINGS

A.  Summaries generally

Question 46: A lawyer worked steadily on a case for a client
over  a  five-year  period,  with  the  billing  agreed  to  be  on
particular  amount  charge  per  hour  worked.  The  lawyer  kept
regular timesheets showing, for any day on which he worked
on  the  matter,  how  long  he  worked  and  which  of  various
activities  (phone  calls,  letter-writing,  etc.)  he  performed  on
that  day.  In  the  lawyer’s  suit  against  the  client  for  non-
payment,  the  lawyer  did  not  offer  into  evidence  the  actual
timesheets.  Instead,  in  preparation  for  trial,  the  lawyer  used
the  timesheets  to  create  a  summary  showing,  for  each  week,
how much time the lawyer spent on each of the activity types.
Then,  at  trial,  the  lawyer  offered  these  weekly  summaries,
together with his testimony about how he had prepared them.
If  the  client  properly  objects,  the  judge  should  hold  that  the
summaries are

522

(A)    inadmissible  for  any  purpose,  because  the  underlying
timesheets  from  which  they  were  prepared  were  not
offered into evidence.

(B)  inadmissible as substantive evidence, but usable as non-
admitted  materials  to  refresh  the  lawyer’s  present
recollection.

(C)    admissible  as  substantive  evidence  of  hours  worked,  if
the  underlying  timesheets  were  made  available  to  the
client prior to trial.

individual 

(D)  admissible as substantive evidence only if the underlying
timesheets were lost through no fault of the lawyer.
Answer 46: Choice (C) is correct. FRE 1006 says that “The
proponent may use a summary, chart, or calculation to prove
recordings,  or
the  content  of  voluminous  writings, 
photographs  that  cannot  be  conveniently  examined  in  court.”
The 
the  “voluminous
timesheets  here  meet 
writings”  standard,  since  they  would  be  almost  daily  over  a
five-year timeframe, a stack that would be hard for the judge
or  jury  to  examine  in  court.  FRE  1006  also  says  that  “The
proponent must make the originals or duplicates available for
examination  or  copying,  or  both,  by  other  parties  at  a
reasonable  time  and  place.”  So  the  fact  that  the  underlying
timesheets were made available to the client prior to trial, as
specified  in  this  choice,  is  a  necessary  condition  for  the
summaries’  admission  under  FRE  1006.  By  the  way,  the
summaries:  (1)  become  evidence  (i.e.,  they’re  not  just  non-
evidentiary  testimonial  aids);  and  (2)  substitute  for  the
underlying originals, which means that those originals must be
independently admissible. Here, the underlying timesheets are
hearsay,  but  they  fall  within  FRE  803(6)’s  business  records
exception.
(A)  is  wrong  because  the  summary-of-voluminous-writings
provision  of  FRE  1006  applies  as  described  in  Choice  (C)
above, and that provision does not require that the underlying
writings being summarized be offered into evidence (although
they may be).
(B)  is  wrong  because,  under  FRE  1006,  the  summaries  can
come in as substantive evidence, as described in Choice (C)
above.

523

(D) is wrong because the summaries can come in under FRE
1006 even if the underlying timesheets have not been lost. If
you picked this choice, you may be thinking of FRE 1004(1),
under which the BER can be satisfied by something other than
the original writing or a duplicate thereof (e.g., a summary) if
“all the originals are lost or have been destroyed, and not by
the proponent acting in bad faith[.]” But FRE 1006 provides
an independent means of getting summaries into evidence (one
that  does  not  depend  on  loss  of  originals),  and  that  means
1006 is available here as discussed in Choice (C) above.

524

CHAPTER 8
OPINIONS, EXPERTS, AND SCIENTIFIC
EVIDENCE

I.    EXPERT WITNESSES

A.  Basis for expert’s opinion

1.  Inadmissible evidence

a.  Proponent and expert can’t disclose

Question 47: Phillips purchased a suit of thermal underwear
manufactured  by  Makorp  from  synthetic  materials.  While  he
was  attempting  to  stamp  out  a  fire,  Phillips’  thermal
underwear  caught  fire  and  burned  in  a  melting  fashion  up  to
his waist. He suffered a heart attack a half hour later. In a suit
against  Makorp,  Phillips  alleged  that  negligence  and  breach
of warranty caused both the burn and the heart attack. Phillips
testified to the foregoing.
Dr. Jones, a physician, having listened to Phillips’ testimony,
is called by Phillips and asked whether, assuming the truth of
such  testimony,  Phillips’  subsequent  heart  attack  could  have
resulted from the burns. His opinion is

(A)  admissible as a response to a hypothetical question.
(B)  admissible because the physician’s expertise enables him

to judge the credibility of Phillips’ testimony.

(C)  inadmissible, because a hypothetical question may not be

based on prior testimony.

(D)    inadmissible,  because  an  expert’s  opinion  may  not  be
based solely on information provided by lay persons.
Answer  47:  Choice  (A)  is  the  best  response  because  it
correctly identifies that the testimony here is admissible as a
response  to  a  hypothetical  question.  Expert  testimony  is
appropriate  where  the  court  determines  that  “the  expert’s
scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge will help
the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a
fact in issue[.]” FRE 702(a). Here, Dr. Jones’ testimony will
issue — whether  or  not  flaming
address 

the  causation 

525

underwear could cause a heart attack. Dr. Jones’ status as an
expert  entitles  him  to  offer  opinion  evidence  that  would  be
inadmissible  coming  from  a  lay  witness,  and  to  rely  on
information unavailable to a lay witness. The related issue is
whether Dr. Jones may rely on the testimony presented at trial.
The answer is yes: FRE 703 says that “an expert may base an
opinion on facts or data in the case that the expert has  been
made aware of or personally observed.” So data supplied at
the  hearing — whether  in  the  form  of  testimony  of  other
witnesses or a hypothetical posed by the questioner (here, it’s
a  combination  of  both) — may  be  the  basis  for  the  expert
opinion, since it’s data that the expert “has been made aware
of.”

(B) is wrong because Jones’s status as a physician wouldn’t
give  him  expert  status  in  determining  credibility.  As  a
threshold  matter,  credibility  itself  is  not  a  “fact,”  and  expert
testimony  is  only  available  to  assist  the  trier  of  fact  to
understand evidence or to determine a fact in issue. FRE 702.
Beyond  that,  a  physician’s  expertise  gives  him  the  ability  to
offer opinion testimony on medical matters; it’s irrelevant to
assessing the credibility of testimony, since one’s status as a
doctor doesn’t make him a better judge of witness credibility
than anyone else.
(C) is wrong because it states an incorrect rule. FRE 703 says
that  “an  expert  may  base  an  opinion  on  facts  or  data  in  the
case  that  the  expert  has  been  made  aware  of  or  personally
observed.”  This  language  allows  the  expert  to  offer  an
opinion  based  on  the  “data”  included  in  a  hypothetical
question.  And  the  hypothetical  question  for  this  purpose  can
be  based  on  prior  trial  testimony  and  on  the  assumption  that
that prior testimony is truthful. (That’s in fact a very common
way for a proponent of expert testimony to proceed.)
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  states  an  incorrect  rule.  An  expert
may  base  his  opinion  on  “facts  or  data  in  the  case  that  the
expert  has  been  made  aware  of.”  FRE  703.  Neither  this  nor
any  other  provision  prevents  the  expert  from  basing  his
opinion solely on information provided by lay persons.

B.  Opinion about defendant’s mental state

526

Question  48:  On  trial  for  murdering  her  husband,  the
defendant  testified  that  she  acted  in  self-defense.  The
defendant  calls  an  expert  psychologist  to  testify  that  under
hypnosis  the  defendant  had  described  the  killing,  and  that  in
the expert’s opinion the defendant had been in fear for her life
at the time of the killing.

Is the expert’s testimony admissible?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  expert  was  able  to  ascertain  that  the

defendant was speaking truthfully.

(B)  Yes, because it reports a prior consistent statement by a
to  examination

(the  defendant) 

subject 

witness 
concerning it.

(C)  No, because reliance on information tainted by hypnosis

is unconstitutional.

(D)    No,  because  it  expresses  an  opinion  concerning  the

defendant’s mental state at the time of the killing.

Answer 48: Choice (D) is correct. FRE 704(b) says that “In a
criminal  case,  an  expert  witness  must  not  state  an  opinion
about whether the defendant did or did not have a mental state
or condition that constitutes an element of the crime charged
or of a defense. Those matters are for the trier of fact alone.”
The  proposed  testimony  here — that  the  defendant  had  the
mental  state  required  for  a  defense  (the  defense  of  self-
defense) — falls squarely within this prohibition.

(A) is wrong because the statement is not admissible, whether
or  not  the  expert  believed  that  the  defendant  was  speaking
truthfully.  As  described  in  Choice  (D)  above,  FRE  704(b)
bars  the  proposed  testimony.  Additionally,  the  vast  majority
of  courts  have  rejected  the  admission  of  statements  made
under hypnosis. This is true whether the statement is offered
as substantive evidence or for its bearing on the credibility of
the witness’s live testimony at trial.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  as  described  in  Choice  (D),  the
statement  is  expressly  barred  by  FRE  704(b).  If  it  weren’t
barred  by  704(b),  it  might  well  be  admissible  under  FRE
801(d)(1)(B), which defines as non-hearsay, and thus allows,
a  prior  statement  if  “the  declarant  testifies  and  is  subject  to
the
cross-examination  about  [the]  prior  statement,  and 

527

implied  charge” 

statement . . . (B) is consistent with the declarant’s testimony
and is offered to rebut an express or implied charge that the
declarant  recently  fabricated  it  or  acted  from  a  recent
improper influence or motive in so testifying[.]” It’s not clear
from the facts here that the prosecution is making an “express
or 
the  defendant  has  “recently
fabricated” her assertion that she acted in fear for her life, but
if the court were convinced that there was such a charge (and
if the defendant was willing to testify after the expert did and
be cross-examined about the declaration), and if FRE 704(b)
didn’t  intervene,  the  statement  here  would  be  admissible
under 801(d)(1)(B).

that 

(C)  is  wrong  because  use  of  the  hypnosis-induced  out-of-
court  statement  by  the  defendant  would  not  violate  her
constitutional  rights.  If  hypnosis-induced  testimony  were
introduced  against  a  criminal  defendant,  this  usage  might
conceivably  violate  the  defendant’s  criminal  rights.  (If  the
statement  were  induced  from  a  third-party  witness  who  was
not available for cross-examination at trial, for instance, use
of  the  testimony  might  violate  the  defendant’s  Confrontation
Clause  rights.)  But  use  by  a  criminal  defendant  could  never
violate  the  Constitution — whose  rights  would  be  violated?
(The state itself, in the form of the prosecution, does not have
“constitutional rights” vis-à-vis the defendant.)

528

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

CHAPTER 9
BURDENS OF PROOF, PRESUMPTIONS,
AND OTHER PROCEDURAL ISSUES

I.    PRESUMPTIONS

A.  Effect of presumptions in federal civil cases

1.  How this works

a.  Instructions to jury

Question 49: In litigation on a federal claim, Plaintiff had the
burden of proving that Defendant received a notice. Plaintiff
relied on the presumption of receipt by offering evidence that
timely notice was addressed to Defendant, properly stamped,
and  mailed.  Defendant,  on  the  other  hand,  testified  that  she
never received the notice.
Which of the following is correct?
(A)  The jury must find that the notice was received.
(B)  The jury may find that the notice was received.
(C)    The  burden  shifts  to  Defendant  to  persuade  the  jury  of

nonreceipt.

(D)    The  jury  must  find  that  the  notice  was  not  received,
because  the  presumption  has  been  rebutted  and  there  is
uncontradicted evidence of nonreceipt.

Answer 49: Choice (B) is correct. Under FRE 301, once the
opponent of the presumption comes up with enough evidence
of  the  presumed  fact’s  non-existence  that  a  jury  could
reasonably  find  that  the  presumed  fact  does  not  exist,  the
presumption disappears from the case in the sense that there is
no effect on the burden of persuasion. When this happens, the
court may instruct the jury that it may infer the existence of the
presumed fact from proof of the basic fact, but the jury is not
required  to  so  infer.  In  this  case,  Defendant’s  testimony,  “I
never got the notice,” is enough to entitle a reasonable jury to
find that the presumed fact (receipt) does not exist. Therefore,
the  presumption  of  receipt  has  disappeared  and  the  plaintiff
still  has  the  burden  of  persuasion  regarding  the  issue  of

529

receipt  of  the  notice.  But  notwithstanding  the  disappearance
of  the  presumption,  the  jury  is  still  entitled  to  conclude  that
notice  was  received  from  proof  of  the  basic  fact  that  notice
was given. Therefore, this choice is accurate in saying that the
jury may infer, but is not required to infer, that the notice was
received.

(A) is wrong because, as noted in the explanation of (B), once
the  presumption  disappears  from  the  case,  the  court  may
instruct the jury that it may infer the existence of the presumed
fact  from  proof  of  the  basic  facts,  but  it  is  not required  that
the jury do so.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  as  explained  in  (B),  the  presumption
has no effect on the burden of persuasion; it “remains on the
party who had it originally” (FRE 301), which, in this case, is
the plaintiff.

(D) is wrong because, as discussed in (B), the jury may infer
the existence of the presumed fact from proof of the basic fact
(i.e., jury may find that the notice was received) even though
the presumption has disappeared from the case.

II.   JUDGE-JURY ALLOCATION

A.  Issues of fact

1.  Technical exclusionary rule

a.  Rules of evidence not binding

to 

letter  from 

Question  50:  In  a  prosecution  of  Drew  for  forgery,  the
defense objects to the testimony of West, a government expert,
on  the  ground  of  inadequate  qualifications.  The  government
the  expert’s  former
seeks 
introduce  a 
is  generally
criminology  professor,  stating 
acknowledged in his field as well qualified.
On  the  issue  of  the  expert’s  qualifications,  the  letter  may  be
considered by
(A)  the jury, without regard to the hearsay rule.
(B)  the judge, without regard to the hearsay rule.
(C)    neither  the  judge  nor  the  jury,  because  it  is  hearsay  not

that  West 

within any exception.

530

(D)    both  the  judge  and  the  jury,  because  the  letter  is  not

offered for a hearsay purpose.

Answer  50:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Questions  of  whether  a
person is qualified to be a witness (whether expert or lay) are
to  be  decided  by  the  judge.  In  doing  so,  the  judge  may  take
into  account  inadmissible  evidence  (except  with  respect  to
privileges). FRE 104(a).

(A), (C), and (D) are wrong because each is inconsistent with
the above explanation.

Question 51: In a prosecution of the defendant for murder, the
government  seeks  to  introduce  a  properly  authenticated  note
written  by  the  victim  that  reads:  “[the  defendant]  did  it.”  In
laying  the  foundation  for  admitting  the  note  as  a  dying
declaration,  the  prosecution  offered  an  affidavit  from  the
attending physician that the victim knew she was about to die
when she wrote the note.
The admissibility of the note as a dying declaration is
(A)    a  preliminary  fact  question  for  the  judge,  and  the  judge

must not consider the affidavit.

(B)    a  preliminary  fact  question  for  the  judge,  and  the  judge

may properly consider the affidavit.

(C)  a question of weight and credibility for the jury, and the

jury must not consider the affidavit.

(D)  a question of weight and credibility for the jury, and the

jury may properly consider the affidavit.

Answer 51: Choice (B) is correct. Both parts of this answer
are true. As to the first part, before a declaration can be found
to  be  an  admissible  “dying  declaration,”  some  preliminary
questions  of  fact  must  be  answered.  In  particular,  it  must  be
determined  whether  the  declarant  was  indeed  aware  of  her
impending death. Under the FRE, the jury decides issues like
this,  of  conditional  relevance,  but  it  is  the  judge  who  makes
the initial decision of admissibility, in determining whether a
reasonable  jury  could  find  that  the  preliminary  fact  exists:
“When  the  relevance  of  evidence  depends  on  whether  a  fact
exists,  proof  must  be  introduced  sufficient  to  support  a
finding that the fact does exist.” FRE 104(b). In other words,
if the judge decides that there is enough evidence that a jury

531

could  reasonably  find  (that’s  what  the  phrase  “sufficient  to
support  a  finding”  means)  that  there  was  an  awareness  of
impending  death,  he  will  let  the  jury  hear  the  declaration,
even  though  he  may  personally  believe  that  it  is  less  likely
than not that there was such awareness.

As  to  the  second  part,  the  judge’s  ability  to  consider  the
affidavit,  FRE  104(a)  says  that  “The  court  must  decide  any
preliminary  question  about  whether  a  witness  is  qualified,  a
privilege exists, or evidence is admissible. In so deciding, the
court  is  not  bound  by  evidence  rules,  except  those  on
privilege.”  The  affidavit  is  relevant  to  the  issue  of  whether
the declarant was aware of her impending death. It’s true that
the affidavit is hearsay (it’s an out-of-court statement offered
to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted,  i.e.,  that  the  victim
knew or believed she was dying). And this hearsay does not
fall  within  any  exception.  But  under  104(a),  the  judge  may
consider  this  inadmissible  hearsay  to  make  her  preliminary
ruling on the admissibility of the note.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  correctly  states  that  the
admissibility of the note is a preliminary fact question for the
judge, it incorrectly states that the judge must not consider the
affidavit. As described in the discussion of Choice (B) above,
the judge may consider inadmissible hearsay when resolving
a  preliminary  question  about  the  admissibility  of  other
evidence.

(C) is wrong because, although it is true that the jury must not
consider  the  affidavit,  the  admissibility  of  the  note  is  not  a
question  for  the  jury.  It  will  be  up  to  the  jury  to  determine
what  weight  and  credibility  to  give  the  evidence  of  the  note
once it has been admitted.
(D) is wrong because the jury cannot consider the affidavit (it
is  hearsay)  and  also  because  the  admissibility  of  the  note  is
not  a  question  for  the  jury.  It  will  be  up  to  the  jury  to
determine what weight and credibility to give the evidence of
the note once it has been admitted.

532

CHAPTER 10
JUDICIAL NOTICE

I.    ADJUDICATIVE FACTS

A.  Must take if requested, and may take without a request

1.  Discretionary notice 

Question 52: In state-court contract litigation between Pixley
and  Dill,  a  fact  of  consequence  to  the  determination  of  the
action is whether Pixley provided Dill with a required notice
at Dill’s branch office “in the capital” of the state where the
suit  is  taking  place.  Pixley  introduced  evidence  that  he  gave
notice at Dill’s office in the city of Capitan. Although Capitan
is the state’s capital, Pixley failed to offer proof of that fact.

Which of the following statements is most clearly correct with
respect  to  possible  judicial  notice  of  the  fact  that  Capitan  is
the state’s capital?
(A)    The  court  may  take  judicial  notice  even  though  Pixley

does not request it.

(B)  The court may take judicial notice only if Pixley provides
the  court  with  an  authenticated  copy  of  the  statute  that
designates Capitan as the capital.

(C)  If the court takes judicial notice, the burden of persuasion
on  the  issue  of  whether  Capitan  is  the  capital  shifts  to
Dill.

(D)  If the court takes judicial notice, it should instruct the jury
that  it  may,  but  is  not  required  to,  accept  as  conclusive
the fact that Capitan is the capital.

Answer 52: Choice (A)  is  correct.  First,  the  location  of  the
state capital is a fact that is “generally known within the trial
court’s  territorial  jurisdiction.”  FRE  201(b)(1).  So  the  fact
that  Capitan  is  the  capital  is  appropriate  for  judicial  notice.
Second,  FRE  201(c)(1)  provides  that  a  court  “may  take
judicial notice on its own.” So the court may take notice here
without a request from either party.
(B)  is  wrong  because  judicial  notice  of  an  appropriate  fact

533

may be taken without submission of formal evidence that the
fact is true.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  in  a  civil  case,  once  there  is  judicial
notice,  the  issue  is  decided  and  the  jury  is  not  permitted  to
weigh  the  evidence  in  order  to  come  to  its  own  conclusion.
See FRE 201(f): In a civil case, “the court must instruct the
jury to accept the noticed fact as conclusive.”

(D)  is  wrong  because  in  a  civil  case  the  jury  is  required  to
accept as conclusive the judicially noticed fact, as discussed
in (C).