TORTS Q&A BY TOPIC

“Rest. 2d” refers to the Second Restatement of Torts

653

CHAPTER 1
INTENTIONAL TORTS AGAINST THE
PERSON

I.    BATTERY

A.  Intent

1.  Intent to create apprehension of contact

a.  Prank gone bad

Question 1: A golfer was annoyed that his caddie was joking
about the golfer’s bad last shot. The golfer swung his newly-
purchased  golf  club  in  the  direction  of  the  caddie’s  head,
intending to frighten the caddie but not to hit him. The caddie
started  to  duck  to  avoid  the  blow.  The  golfer  stopped  his
swing so that the club would not have hit the caddie, except
that  due  to  the  club  manufacturer’s  negligence  the  club  head
flew  off  and  hit  the  caddie  in  the  top  of  the  head,  seriously
injuring him. The caddie will be able to recover for:
(A)  assault but not battery.
(B)  battery but not assault.
(C)  assault and battery.
(D)  neither battery nor assault.
Answer  1:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  is  both  assault  and
battery.  Here,  we’re  concerned  just  with  battery.  Battery
occurs when the defendant, with the intention of causing either
a harmful or offensive contact or an imminent apprehension of
such  a  contact,  causes  a  harmful  contact  with  the  plaintiff.
Rest. 2d, §13. The golfer had the requisite intention to induce
apprehension  of  an  imminent  harmful  or  offensive  contact,
even  though  the  golfer  did  not  in  fact  intend  to  make  such  a
contact.  Since  a  harmful  contact  with  the  caddie’s  person
resulted,  the  required  result  for  battery  also  occurred,  so  all
elements of battery have been satisfied. The fact that the club
manufacturer’s negligence was a but-for cause of the harmful
contact won’t act as a superseding cause; in intentional torts
(as  opposed  to  negligence,  for  instance),  an  intervening  act

654

caused  by  negligence  won’t  supersede  unless  it  is  totally
bizarre  and  unforeseeable,  and  a  clubhead  flying  off  is
unusual  but  not  unforeseeable  (especially  in  the  case  of  a
newly-purchased  club).  Cf.  Rest.  2d,  §16,  Illustr.  2.  Notice,
by  the  way,  that  if  what  had  resulted  was  merely  an
“offensive”  but  not  harmful  contact  (e.g.,  a  light  tap  on  the
caddie’s  head),  this  would  not  be  enough  for  battery — 
whereas 
to  create  an
intent  for  battery  can  be 
apprehension  of  either  a  harmful  or  offensive  contact,  the
result  required  for  battery  must  be  harmful,  not  merely
offensive. See Rest. 2d, §13(b).

the 

Choices  (A),  (B),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

Question 2:  Peter  and  Donald  were  in  the  habit  of  playing
practical jokes on each other on their respective birthdays. On
Peter’s  birthday,  Donald  sent  Peter  a  cake  containing  an
ingredient that he knew had, in the past, made Peter very ill.
After Peter had eaten a piece of the cake, he suffered severe
stomach  pains  and  had  to  be  taken  to  the  hospital  by
ambulance. On the way to the hospital, the ambulance driver
suffered a heart attack, which caused the ambulance to swerve
from the road and hit a tree. As a result of the collision, Peter
suffered a broken leg.
In  a  suit  by  Peter  against  Donald  to  recover  damages  for
Peter’s broken leg, Peter will

(A)    prevail,  because  Donald  knew  that  the  cake  would  be

harmful or offensive to Peter.

(B)  prevail, only if the ambulance driver was negligent.
(C)    not  prevail,  because  Donald  could  not  reasonably  be

expected to foresee injury to Peter’s leg.

(D)  not prevail, because the ambulance driver’s heart attack

was a superseding cause of Peter’s broken leg.

Answer  2:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Battery  is  the  intentional
infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily contact. Rest 2d §§
13,  18.  Once  it  is  established  that  the  defendant  intended  to
commit  a  harmful  or  offensive  touching  and  such  a  contact
occurred, the defendant is liable for any consequences which
ensue,  even  though  he  did  not  intend  them,  and  in  fact  could

655

not reasonably have foreseen them.

(B)      is  incorrect  because  the  issue  of  proximate  cause,  not
is  determinative  of  Donald’s
Driver’s  negligence, 
liability. Donald is liable if his tortious conduct was the
(or “a”) proximate cause of Peter’s injury, and that’s true
regardless  of  whether  the  ambulance  driver  was  also
negligent.

(C)      is  wrong  because  it  is  both  legally  and  factually
incorrect. Peter’s suit would have to be either for battery
or  negligence,  and  in  neither  of  these  cases  does
foreseeability supply a defense. In a suit for battery, the
tortfeasor  will  be  liable  for  virtually  every  result
stemming directly or even somewhat indirectly from his
conduct,  however  unlikely  it  might  have  seemed  at  the
time of his act that this result would follow. Rest. 2d, §
435B.  In  a  negligence  suit,  the  defendant  will  be  held
liable  only  for  those  consequences  that  were  at  least
somewhat foreseeable.

(D)      is  wrong  because  an  accident  in  the  ambulance  on  the
way to the hospital that would cause Peter injury was not
so unexpected that it would be a superseding cause. Only
an intervening cause that is so unlikely as to be bizarre
will  be  deemed  “superseding.”  Negligence  of  rescue
professionals  and  medical  professionals  is  sufficiently
foreseeable (even if unlikely) that it will almost never be
deemed superseding.

2.  D must intend contact

Question  3:  Plaintiff,  a  jockey,  was  seriously  injured  in  a
race when another jockey, Daring, cut too sharply in front of
her  without  adequate  clearance.  The  two  horses  collided,
causing  Plaintiff  to  fall  to  the  ground,  sustaining  injury.  The
State  Racetrack  Commission  ruled  that,  by  cutting  in  too
sharply,  Daring  committed  a  foul  in  violation  of  racetrack
lanes.
rules  requiring  adequate  clearance  for  crossing 
Plaintiff has brought an action against Daring for damages in
which one count is based on battery.
Will Plaintiff prevail on the battery claim?
(A)  Yes, if Daring was reckless in cutting across in front of

656

Plaintiff’s horse.

(B)  Yes, because the State Racetrack Commission determined
that  Daring  committed  a  foul  in  violation  of  rules
applicable to racing.

(C)    No,  unless  Daring  intended  to  cause  impermissible
contact between the two horses or apprehension of such
contact by Plaintiff.

(D)    No,  because  Plaintiff  assumed  the  risk  of  accidental
injury inherent in riding as a jockey in a horse race.
Answer  3:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Battery  is  the  intentional
infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily contact. An assault
is  the  intentional  causing  of  an  apprehension  of  harmful  or
offensive  contact.  The  intent  necessary  for  a  battery  is  the
intent to make contact with the plaintiff or the intent to commit
an  assault  with  a  resulting  accidental  “harmful  or  offensive
contact.”  A  battery  may  be  committed  not  only  by  a  contact
with the plaintiff’s body, but also by contact with anything that
is so closely identified with her body that contact with it is as
offensive  as  contact  with  the  body  would  be.  Rest  2d  §18,
Comment c. Therefore, Plaintiff will not prevail on the battery
claim unless Daring intended to cause either contact between
the horses or apprehension of such by Plaintiff.

(A)   is wrong because a reckless intent is not sufficient to be
liable  for  battery.  If  Daring  acted  recklessly  (i.e.,  in
deliberate disregard of a high probability that the result
would occur) this is a broader mental state than what is
required  in  a  case  of  battery — that  the  defendant  must
desire a certain outcome and also know with substantial
certainty that the result will occur.

(B)   is wrong because the fact that Daring violated the racing
rule  requiring  adequate  clearance  for  crossing  lanes  by
itself does not show that he had the requisite intent to be
liable for battery. Only if the intent as described in (C)
was present, may Daring be liable for battery.

(D)      is  wrong  because  the  doctrine  of  assumption  of  risk
would  not  apply  in  this  context,  where  the  injury  was
intentional. A plaintiff is said to have assumed the risk of
certain  harm  if  he  has  voluntarily  consented  to  take  his
chances  that  that  harm  will  occur.  Within  the  context  of

657

sports,  if  the  risk  of  the  sort  of  injury  that  occurred  is
inherent in the sport or activity, then the plaintiff will be
blocked  from  recovering  based  on  application  of  the
doctrine.  However,  courts  now  hold  that,  in  co-
participant  sports,  although  ordinary  carelessness  is
inherent  in  the  game,  a  defendant  who  intentionally
injures a participant will be held liable and the doctrine
will not apply.
3.  Must intend contact with a “person”

Question 4:  Peavey  was  walking  peacefully  along  a  public
street when he encountered Dorwin, whom he had never seen
before. Without provocation or warning, Dorwin picked up a
rock  and  struck  Peavey  with  it.  It  was  later  established  that
Dorwin  was  mentally 
recurrent
ill 
hallucinations.

suffered 

and 

If  Peavey  asserts  a  claim  against  Dorwin  based  on  battery,
which  of  the  following,  if  supported  by  evidence,  will  be
Dorwin’s best defense?
(A)  Dorwin did not understand that his act was wrongful.
(B)  Dorwin did not desire to cause harm to Peavey.
(C)  Dorwin did not know that he was striking a person.
(D)  Dorwin thought Peavey was about to attack him.
Answer  4:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Battery  is  the  intentional
infliction  of  a  harmful  or  offensive  bodily  contact.  Rest.  2d
§13. An insane person is capable of forming the intent to do a
harmful  act,  and  the  fact  that  the  insanity  may  have  been  the
cause of the intent is irrelevant. Rest. 2d § 895J. However, if
Dorwin didn’t know he was striking a person, then he in fact
did  not  have  the  requisite  intent  to  inflict  a  harmful  or
offensive bodily contact on Peavey. Therefore, this would be
his best defense in Peavey’s claim for battery.
(A)   is wrong because it is irrelevant whether or not Dorwin
understood that his act was wrongful; he only needed to
intend to cause an offensive bodily contact in order to be
liable for battery.

(B)   is wrong because it is not required that Dorwin wished
to  cause  harm  to  the  plaintiff,  only  that  he  wished  to
inflict  an  offensive  contact,  i.e.,  one  damaging  to  a

658

“reasonable sense of dignity.”

(D)      is  wrong  because  if  Dorwin  struck  Peavey  because  he
mistakenly  and  unreasonably  thought  Peavey  was  about
to attack him, he still had the requisite intent to inflict an
offensive  bodily  contact  on  Peavey.  And  although  a
reasonable mistake about the need for self-defense will
be a defense to battery, an unreasonable mistake will not.
Here, the facts indicate that if Dorwin believed Peavey
was  attacking  him,  that  belief  was  based  on  Dorwin’s
hallucinations,  which  would  make 
the  mistake
“unreasonable.” (Courts apply an objective standard for
reasonableness of mistake, i.e., a standard that does not
take  into  account  the  defendant’s  particular  mental
peculiarities or defects.)

B.  Harmful or offensive contact

1.  Contact beyond level consented to

Question 5:  A  professional  football  player  signed  a  written
consent for his team’s physician to perform a knee operation.
After the player was under a general anesthetic, the physician
asked  a  world-famous  orthopedic  surgeon  to  perform  the
operation.  The  surgeon’s  skills  were  superior 
the
physician’s, and the operation was successful.

to 

In an action for battery by the player against the surgeon, the
player will

(A)    prevail,  because  the  player  did  not  agree  to  allow  the

surgeon to perform the operation.

(B)  prevail, because the consent form was in writing.
(C)  not prevail, because the surgeon’s skills were superior to

the physician’s.

(D)  not prevail, because the operation was successful.
Answer 5: The correct Choice is (A). The essence of battery
is  lack  of  consent,  and  the  plaintiff  did  not  consent  to  the
surgeon’s performing the operation. Consent is a defense to a
tortious  interference  with  a  plaintiff’s  person  or  property.
Even  if  the  plaintiff  gives  actual  consent  to  some  type  of
invasion of his interests, the defendant will not be privileged
if  she  goes  substantially  beyond  the  scope  of  consent  and

659

invades  the  plaintiff’s  interests  in  a  way  that  is  substantially
different  than  what  was  consented  to.  Under  these  facts,  the
plaintiff  specifically  consented  in  writing  to  having  the
operation  performed  by  the  team  physician.  The  team
physician’s  decision  to  have  the  surgeon  perform  the
operation  exceeded  the  scope  of  the  plaintiff’s  original
consent. It doesn’t matter that the surgeon was a world famous
orthopedic  surgeon  with  skills  better 
team
physician’s,  or  that  he  successfully  performed  the  operation 
— the plaintiff’s consent applied to the team physician, not to
the surgeon.

than 

the 

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  written  consent  form  was  for  the
team physician, not for the surgeon, to perform the operation.
A  patient’s  consent  is  read  relatively  strictly,  and  for  the
reasons discussed in (A) above would not be found to apply
to  the  surgeon,  only  to  the  team  physician.  The  fact  that  the
consent form was in writing would not change the fact that the
operation here exceeded the scope of the consent.

(C) is wrong because even if the plaintiff gives actual consent
to  some  type  of  invasion  of  his  interests,  the  defendant  will
not be privileged if she goes substantially beyond the scope of
consent  and  invades  the  plaintiff’s  interests  in  a  way  that  is
substantially  different  than  what  was  consented  to.  Here,  the
plaintiff’s  consent  was  for  the  team  physician  personally  to
perform the surgery, not for the team physician or “anyone as
good  as  or  better  than  the  team  physician.”  Therefore,  the
surgeon’s performance of the operation exceeded the scope of
the consent, and the surgeon’s better skills didn’t change this
fact.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  success  of  the  surgery  is  not  a
defense. Here the plaintiff specifically consented in writing to
the  team  physician’s  performing  the  surgery.  The  surgeon’s
performance  of  that  surgery,  whatever  its  outcome,  went
substantially beyond the scope of the plaintiff’s consent. The
outcome of the surgery, successful or not, is not a defense to
the surgeon’s operating without consent.

C.  Extends to personal effects

1.  Indirect contact

660

Question  6:  A  customer  ordered  some  merchandise  from  a
retail store. After a dispute about payment, the store turned the
account  over  to  a  bill  collector.  The  bill  collector  called  at
the  customer’s  house  at  7  p.m.  on  a  summer  evening  while
many  of  the  customer’s  neighbors  were  seated  on  their
porches.  When  the  customer  opened  the  door,  the  bill
collector,  who  was  standing  just  outside  the  door,  raised  an
electrically  amplified  bullhorn  to  his  mouth.  In  a  voice  that
could  be  heard  a  block  away,  the  bill  collector  called  the
customer  a  “deadbeat”  and  asked  him  when  he  intended  to
pay  his  bill  to  the  store.  The  customer,  greatly  angered,
slammed  the  door  shut.  The  door  struck  the  bullhorn  and
jammed  it  forcibly  against  the  bill  collector’s  face.  As  a
consequence, the bill collector lost some of his front teeth.

If  the  bill  collector  asserts  a  claim  of  battery  against  the
customer, will the bill collector prevail?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  customer  had  not  first  asked  the  bill

collector to leave the property.

(B)  Yes, if the customer knew that the door was substantially

certain to strike the bullhorn.

(C)    No,  if  the  bill  collector’s  conduct  triggered  the

customer’s response.

(D)    No,  because  the  bill  collector  was  an  intruder  on  the

customer’s property.

Answer  6:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  A  prima  facie  claim  of
battery includes proof that defendant intended to bring about a
harmful  or  offensive  contact  with  plaintiff’s  person.  It’s  not
clear  from  these  facts  that  the  customer  intended  to  bring
about a harmful or offensive contact with the bill collector’s
person. Intent can take one of two forms: either a desire that a
certain  result  will  come  about,  or  the  substantial  certainty
that  it  will,  regardless  of  one’s  desire  that  it  do  so.  Thus,  if
the  customer  knew  that  the  door  was  substantially  certain  to
hit  the  bullhorn,  he  could  be  said  to  have  intended  that  the
contact with the bullhorn happen even if he didn’t desire that
contact.
By  the  way,  the  customer  need  not  have  intended  that  the
bullhorn in turn hit the bill collector’s teeth or some other part

661

of  his  body.  The  tort  of  battery  occurs  when  the  defendant
intends to bring about, and in fact brings about, a harmful or
offensive  touching  “of  another’s  person.”  The  “person”  of
another  includes  not  only  the  other’s  body,  but  any  item  so
connected  with  the  body  as  to  be  regarded  as  part  of  the
other’s  essence,  such  as  clothing  or  something  that  the  other
person is holding. Certainly where the bill collector was not
only  holding  the  bullhorn  but  placing  it  near  his  lips,  the
customer’s intent to create a contact that was merely with the
bullhorn would suffice even if the customer did not intend the
bullhorn  to  hit  or  harm  the  bill  collector’s  mouth.  (Also,  the
fact the contact was intended to be between the door and the
bullhorn  rather  than  between  the  customer’s  body  and  the
bullhorn would not matter — as long as the customer intended
to bring about a contact with the bill collector’s “person,” the
fact  that  there  was  some  intermediate  object,  the  door,  in
between the customer and the bill collector’s person wouldn’t
change things.)

(A)   is wrong because this might have been battery even if the
customer had first asked the bill collector to leave. This
choice  is  referring  to  the  defense  of  property,  which
requires  a  request  to  desist,  unless  it  would  be
dangerous  or  futile,  before  physical  force  is  used.  The
problem with applying this to these facts is that even if
the customer had  asked  the  bill  collector  to  leave  first,
the  physical  force 
the  customer  used  would  be
considered  excessive  and  thus  beyond  the  scope  of  his
privilege making him liable for battery.

(C)      is  wrong  because  it  does  not  offer  a  valid  defense  to
battery. This option suggests that verbal provocation is a
valid defense to battery. In fact, it’s not. If the facts were
different, and the bill collector’s taunts had prompted the
customer  to  kill  him,  the  conduct  may  be  enough  to
reduce murder to manslaughter (due to provocation), but
that’s  criminal  law.  Instead,  in  tort  law,  provocation
would have to rise to the level of justifying self defense
to  be  a  valid  defense.  And  mere  words — however
offensive — cannot  be  a  justification  for  what  would
otherwise be a battery.

662

(D)   is wrong because the fact it offers is not determinative of
the  bill  collector’s  recovery.  This  option  suggests  that
the  bill  collector’s  trespasser  status  gave  the  customer
the  privilege  to  use  the  force  he  used.  While  there  is  a
defense  based  on  defense  of  property,  there  are  two
principal  reasons  it  wouldn’t  apply  here.  First,  a  valid
defense on this basis requires a request to desist, unless
it would be dangerous or futile, before physical force is
used.  Under  these  facts  there’s  no  evidence  of  such  a
request.  Second,  the  privilege  would  only  entitle  the
customer to use reasonable force. Putting out a couple of
the  customer’s
teeth  would  exceed 
privilege,  and  constitute  a  battery  (if  the  act  were
intentional).

the  scope  of 

II.   ASSAULT

A.  Imminence

to  approve  certain 

Question 7:  Pocket,  a  bank  vice  president,  took  substantial
kickbacks 
later  proved
worthless.  Upon  learning  of  the  kickbacks,  Dudd,  the  bank’s
president, fired Pocket, telling him, “If you are not out of this
bank  in  ten  minutes,  I  will  have  the  guards  throw  you  out
bodily.” Pocket left at once.

loans 

that 

If Pocket asserts a claim against Dudd based on assault, will
Pocket prevail?

(A)  No, because the guards never touched Pocket.
(B)  No, because Dudd gave Pocket ten minutes to leave.
(C)  Yes, if Dudd intended to cause Pocket severe emotional

distress.

(D)    Yes,  because  Dudd  threatened  Pocket  with  a  harmful  or

offensive bodily contact.

Answer 7: Choice (B) is correct. An assault is the intentional
causing of an apprehension of harmful or offensive contact. It
must  appear  to  the  plaintiff  that  the  harm  being  threatened  is
imminent.  Threats  of  future  harm  cannot  constitute  assaults,
and the courts have taken a relatively strict view requiring a
short  period  between  the  making  of  the  threat  and  the  time

663

when, according to the threat, the harm will take place. Rest.
2d  §  29,  Comment  c.  A  threatened  harm  ten  minutes  later
would be considered a future harm, and not an assault.

(A)   is wrong because an assault results in an apprehension of
contact.  It  is  not  necessary  that  the  plaintiff  actually  be
touched.

(C)      is  wrong  because  the  intent  to  cause  severe  emotional
distress  is  not  an  element  of  the  crime  of  assault.  The
question asks if the plaintiff would “prevail” in a claim
for assault, and plaintiff would have been able to prevail
(i.e.,  recover  some  damages)  for  impairment  of  his
interest  in  “dignity,”  even  without  any  showing  of
emotional  distress,  if  the  “imminence”  requirement
discussed in (B) had been satisfied.

(D) is wrong because, as discussed in the explanation of (B),
threats of future harm are not actionable.

III.  INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL

DISTRESS (“IIED”)

A.  “Extreme and outrageous”

Question  8:  Poe  ordered  some  merchandise  from  Store.
When the merchandise was delivered, Poe decided that it was
not what he had ordered, and he returned it for credit. Store
refused  to  credit  Poe’s  account,  continued  to  bill  him,  and,
after  90  days,  turned  the  account  over  to  Kane,  a  bill
collector, for collection.

Kane  called  at  Poe’s  house  at  7  p.m.  on  a  summer  evening
while many of Poe’s neighbors were seated on their porches.
When  Poe  opened  the  door,  Kane,  who  was  standing  just
outside the door, raised an electrically amplified bullhorn to
his mouth. In a voice that could be heard a block away, Kane
called Poe a “deadbeat” and asked him when he intended to
pay his bill to Store. Poe, greatly angered, slammed the door
shut. Poe’s neighbors teased him on and off for several weeks
about being a deadbeat, causing him severe embarrassment.

If  Poe  asserts  a  claim  based  on  intentional  infliction  of
emotional distress against Kane, will Poe prevail?

664

(A) 

  Yes,  because  Kane’s  conduct  was  extreme  and
outrageous.

(B)  Yes, because Kane was intruding on Poe’s property.
(C)  No, unless Poe suffered physical harm.
(D)  No, if Poe still owed Store for the merchandise.
Answer 8: Choice (A) is correct. An intentional infliction of
emotional  distress  claim  has  four  elements:  (1)  extreme  and
outrageous  conduct  of  defendant;  (2)  defendant’s  intent  to
cause plaintiff to suffer emotional distress; (3) causation; and
(4)  severe  distress  on  the  plaintiff’s  part.  Thus,  the  element
Choice  (A)  states — the  extreme  and  outrageous  conduct — 
is the lynchpin of an emotional distress claim. In fact, where
creditors  are  concerned,  a  pattern  of  abuse,  hounding  and
extreme conduct can form the basis for an emotional distress
claim,  even  if  the  plaintiff  really  owes  the  money!  The
conduct  here — especially 
to
embarrass  Poe  in  front  of  his  neighbors — rises  to  the  level
of the required outrageousness.

the  bullhorn 

the  use  of 

(B)   is wrong because, while Kane’s invading Poe’s property
might  contribute  to  the  outrageousness  of  his  conduct,
it’s not a necessary element. If Kane had gone up to Poe
in  a  restaurant  and  undertaken  the  same  behavior,  it
would  have  constituted  emotional  distress.  Where
creditors  are  concerned,  severe  abuse,  hounding  and
otherwise-outrageous conduct will form the basis for an
emotional distress claim (whereas garden-variety phone
calls, even rude ones, won’t).

(C)      is  wrong  because,  while  plaintiff  must  show  that  he
suffered severe emotional distress, the distress need not
be accompanied by, or lead to, physical injury or bodily
instance,  plaintiff’s  embarrassment  and
harm.  For 
humiliation, if severe enough, can constitute the requisite
severe distress.

(D)   is wrong because it’s not relevant to Poe’s claim. Even if
Poe  actually  did  owe  the  store  money,  this  would  not
preclude his recovery on an emotional distress claim. If
you chose this response, you may have been thinking of a
defamation claim, where truth is a defense. Thus, if Poe
actually owed money and Kane called him a “deadbeat”

665

in  the  hearing  of  others,  even  if  Poe  proved  special
damages  Kane  would  have  a  valid  defense 
to
defamation — Poe’s 
a  deadbeat.
However,  the  claim  here  is  for  emotional  distress,  and
truth is not a defense to that tort.

actually  being 

B.  Actual severe distress

Question 9:  Dumont,  a  real  estate  developer,  was  trying  to
purchase  land  on  which  he  intended  to  build  a  large
commercial  development.  Perkins,  an  elderly  widow,  had
rejected  all  of  Dumont’s  offers  to  buy  her  ancestral  home,
where she had lived all her life and which was located in the
middle  of  Dumont’s  planned  development.  Finally,  Dumont
offered her $250,000. He told her that it was his last offer and
that  if  she  rejected  it,  state  law  authorized  him  to  have  her
property condemned.

Perkins  then  consulted  her  nephew,  a  law  student,  who
researched  the  question  and  advised  her  that  Dumont  had  no
power  of  condemnation  under  state  law.  Perkins  had  been
badly frightened by Dumont’s threat, and was outraged when
she learned that Dumont had lied to her.
If  Perkins  sues  Dumont  for  damages  for  emotional  distress,
will she prevail?
(A)  Yes, if Dumont’s action was extreme and outrageous.
(B)  Yes, because Perkins was frightened and outraged.
(C)  No, if Perkins did not suffer emotional distress that was

severe.

(D)    No,  if  it  was  not  Dumont’s  purpose  to  cause  emotional

distress.

Answer 9: Choice (C) is correct. In order to prevail in a case
of  intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress,  the  plaintiff
must  show  that  the  defendant’s  conduct  was  extreme  and
outrageous  and  that  she,  in  fact,  suffered  severe  emotional
distress. If Perkins did not suffer emotional distress that was
severe, she will not prevail.
(A)   is wrong because the plaintiff must not only show that the
defendant’s  conduct  was  extreme  and  outrageous,  but
also that she, in fact, suffered severe emotional distress.

666

The  facts  state  that  Perkins  was  badly  frightened  and
outraged;  however,  this  does  not  indicate  that  she
suffered severe emotional distress. Therefore, Perkins is
not  certain  to  prevail  merely  by  showing  “extreme  and
outrageous” conduct, as this choice suggests.

(B)      is  wrong  because,  as  discussed  in  the  explanation  of
Choice  (A),  the  fact  that  Perkins  was  frightened  and
outraged  does  not  indicate  that  she  suffered  severe
emotional distress, as required in a claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.

(D)      is  wrong  because  the  plaintiff  is  not  required  to  show
that  the  defendant’s  purpose  was  to  cause  emotional
distress. The plaintiff may recover if she can show that
the  defendant  either  intended  to  cause  severe  emotional
distress  or  acted  recklessly  with  respect  to  the  risk  of
plaintiff’s  emotional  distress 
in  deliberate
disregard  of  a  high  probability  that  the  distress  would
occur).

(i.e., 

Question 10:  Dayton  operates  a  collection  agency.  He  was
trying to collect a $400 bill for medical services rendered to
Pratt by Doctor.
Dayton  went  to  Pratt’s  house  and  when  Martina,  Pratt’s
mother, answered the door, Dayton told Martina he was there
to  collect  a  bill  owed  by  Pratt.  Martina  told  Dayton  that
because  of  her  illness,  Pratt  had  been  unemployed  for  six
months, that she was still ill and unable to work, and that she
would pay the bill as soon as she could.

Dayton, in a loud voice, demanded to see Pratt and said that if
he  did  not  receive  payment  immediately,  he  would  file  a
criminal complaint charging her with fraud. Pratt, hearing the
conversation,  came  to  the  door.  Dayton,  in  a  loud  voice,
repeated his demand for immediate payment and his threat to
use criminal process.
If Pratt asserts a claim against Dayton, based on infliction of
emotional distress, will Pratt prevail?
(A)  Yes, if Pratt suffered severe emotional distress as a result

of Dayton’s conduct.

(B)    Yes,  unless  the  bill  for  medical  services  was  valid  and

667

past due.

(C)    No,  unless  Pratt  suffered  physical  harm  as  a  result  of

Dayton’s conduct.

(D)  No, if Dayton’s conduct created no risk of physical harm

to Pratt.

Answer 10: The correct choice is (A). In order to prevail in a
case  of  intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress,  the
plaintiff must show that the defendant’s conduct was extreme
and outrageous and that she, in fact, suffered severe emotional
distress. The conduct must be “. . . so outrageous in character,
and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds
of  decency,  and  to  be  regarded  as  atrocious,  and  utterly
intolerable  in  a  civilized  community.”  Rest.  2d  §  46,
Comment d. In determining whether the defendant’s conduct is
sufficiently  outrageous,  the  court  will  take  into  account  the
particular  characteristics  of  the  plaintiff  and  the  relationship
between  her  and  the  defendant.  Pratt  has  been  ill  for  six
months and unable to work, apparently in a physically frail or
mentally frail condition. As a bill collector, Dayton’s conduct,
repeatedly  screaming  at  Pratt  (even  when  she  came  to  the
door)  and  threatening  to  file  criminal  fraud  charges  against
her, while aware of her poor state of health, would rise to the
level  of  extreme  and  outrageous.  Therefore,  if  Pratt  suffered
severe emotional distress, she would prevail.

(B)      is  wrong  because  Pratt  would  not  prevail  unless  she
showed that she suffered severe emotional distress as a
result  of  Dayton’s  extreme  and  outrageous  behavior,  an
element  missing  from  this  choice.  In  any  case,  it  is
irrelevant whether or not the $400 bill was indeed valid
and past due, since Dayton’s conduct would be deemed
extreme and outrageous regardless of the validity of the
debt.

(C)      is  wrong  because  whether  or  not  the  plaintiff  suffers
physical  harm  is  not  determinative.  As  long  as  the
conduct  is  extreme  and  outrageous,  plaintiff  is  not
required to show that she suffered physical harm in order
to recover for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
(D)   is wrong because whether or not the defendant’s conduct
created risk of physical harm is irrelevant in a case for

668

intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress.  In  order  to
prevail  in  a  case  of  intentional  infliction  of  emotional
distress,  the  plaintiff  must  show  that  the  defendant’s
conduct was extreme and outrageous and that she, in fact,
suffered severe emotional distress.

C.  Suits by public figures

Question  11:  Doe,  the  governor  of  State,  signed  a  death
warrant for Rend, a convicted murderer. Able and Baker are
active  opponents  of  the  death  penalty.  At  a  demonstration
protesting  the  execution  of  Rend,  Able  and  Baker  carried
large signs that stated, “Governor Doe, Murderer.” Television
station  XYZ  broadcast  news  coverage  of  the  demonstration,
including pictures of the signs carried by Able and Baker. If
Doe asserts against XYZ a claim for damages for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, will Doe prevail?

(A)    Yes,  if  the  broadcast  showing  the  signs  caused  Doe  to

suffer severe emotional distress.

(B)  Yes, because the assertion on the signs was extreme and

outrageous.

(C)  No, unless Doe suffered physical harm as a consequence

of the emotional distress caused by the signs.

(D)  No, because XYZ did not publish a false statement of fact

with “actual malice.”

Answer  11:  Choice  (D)  is  correct  in  its  emphasis  on  two
distinct, and important, points. First is the issue of defendant’s
mental  state.  In  the  case  of  a  defamation  suit,  the  media
defendant must have acted with knowledge of the statement’s
falsity  or  with  reckless  disregard  of  its  truth  (“actual
malice”).  New  York  Times  Co.  v.  Sulllivan  (1964).The
Supreme  Court  has  made  the  New  York  Times  standard  also
applicable  to  actions  against  public  figures  for  intentional
infliction  of  emotional  distress  (IIED):  The  defendant  must
have acted with “actual malice” (i.e., with intent or reckless
disregard)  with  respect  to  the  accuracy  of  the  statement.
Hustler Magazine v. Falwell (1988). Second, in an IIED case
involving  a  public  figure,  as  in  a  defamation  case,  the
defendant must have made a provably false statement of fact,
as opposed, for instance, to a statement of opinion. Here, any

669

reasonable  reader  of  the  sign  who  took  into  account  the
political  context  of  its  display  (death-penalty  protest)  would
have understood that Able and Baker were making statements
of  opinion,  not  provably-false  statements  of  fact.  Therefore,
XYZ  couldn’t  be  liable  for  either  defamation  or  IIED  for
repeating those non-factually-false statements.

(A)      is  wrong  because  the  plaintiff  must  show  a  provable
false statement made with actual malice (not merely that
plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress) as described
in (D).

(B)      is  wrong  because  the  plaintiff  must  show  a  provable
false statement made with actual malice (not merely that
defendant’s  conduct  was  extreme  and  outrageous)  as
described in (D).

(C)      is  wrong  because  whether  or  not  the  plaintiff  suffers
physical harm is not determinative. Most modern courts
do not require physical harm — merely severe emotional
distress — for  claims  of 
infliction  of
emotional distress. In any event, plaintiff won’t recover
for the reasons described in (D).

intentional 

670

CHAPTER 2
INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE WITH
PROPERTY

I.    TRESPASS TO LAND

A.  Intent

1.  Involuntary entry onto land of another

Question 12: A car driven by Dan entered land owned by and
in the possession of Peter, without Peter’s permission.

Which, if any, of the following allegations, without additional
facts,  would  provide  a  sufficient  basis  for  a  claim  by  Peter
against Dan?
                    I. Dan intentionally drove his car onto Peter’s

land.

                    II. Dan negligently drove his car onto Peter’s land
                    III. Dan’s car damaged Peter’s land.
(A)  I only.
(B)  III only.
(C)  I, II, or III.
(D)  Neither I, nor II, nor III.
Answer 12: Choice (A) is correct, because it recognizes that
only  Choice  I  contains  an  allegation  which  by  itself  would
provide the plaintiff with a sufficient basis for relief.

I. A trespass to land can occur when the defendant enters the
plaintiff’s land, or causes another person or an object to enter
the plaintiff’s land. If a defendant intentionally drives his car
onto  plaintiff’s  land,  he  has  committed  a  trespass,  and  the
plaintiff is entitled to nominal damages regardless of whether
any  harm  has  occurred.  Rest.  2d  §163.  This  answer  choice
contains an allegation that would provide the plaintiff with a
sufficient basis for relief.
II.  If  the  plaintiff  relies  on  a  negligence  theory  in  a  trespass
case,  he  must  prove  not  only  that  the  defendant  was  in  fact
negligent,  but  also  that  he  (the  plaintiff)  suffered  actual

671

damages.  Rest.  2d  §165.  The  facts  do  not  indicate  that  the
plaintiff suffered any harm; therefore, this answer choice does
not contain an allegation that would provide the plaintiff with
a sufficient basis for relief.

III. To be liable for trespass, entry on another’s land must be
intentional,  negligent,  or  pursuant  to  the  carrying  out  of  an
“abnormally dangerous activity.” Rest. 2d §166. Although the
facts  do  indicate  that  Dan’s  car  damaged  Peter’s  land,  he
would  not  be  liable  for  trespass  unless  one  of  those  three
conditions  applied.  Therefore,  the  allegation  by  itself  would
not provide the plaintiff with a sufficient basis for relief.

(B)    ,  (C),  and  (D)  are  all  wrong,  because  each  is  somehow

inconsistent with the above analysis.

2.  Effect of mistake

Question  13:  David  built  in  his  backyard  a  garage  that
encroached  two  feet  across  the  property  line  onto  property
owned by his neighbor, Prudence. Thereafter, David sold his
property  to  Drake.  Prudence  was  unaware,  prior  to  David’s
sale  to  Drake,  of  the  encroachment  of  the  garage  onto  her
property.  When  she  thereafter  learned  of  the  encroachment,
she sued David for damages for trespass.
In this action, will Prudence prevail?

(A)  No, unless David was aware of the encroachment when

the garage was built.

(B)    No,  because  David  no  longer  owns  or  possesses  the

garage.

(C)  Yes, because David knew where the garage was located,
whether or not he knew where the property line was.
(D)  Yes, unless Drake was aware of the encroachment when

he purchased the property.

Answer  13:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  A  trespass  to  land  can
occur when the defendant enters the plaintiff’s land, or causes
another  person  or  an  object  to  enter  the  plaintiff’s  land.  A
“continuing  trespass”  is  one  where  the  object  stays  on  the
land.  If  a  defendant  intentionally  enters  onto  the  plaintiff’s
land, the plaintiff is entitled to nominal damages regardless of
whether any harm has occurred. David built the garage, so his

672

intentional actions caused an object to enter onto Prudence’s
land  and  constituted  a  continuing  trespass.  The  fact  that  he
may not have known where the property line was and so was
unaware of the encroachment is irrelevant.

(A)   is wrong because it implies that there is no liability for
trespass  if  a  defendant  enters  onto  the  land  and  is
unaware  that  he  is  trespassing.  If  the  defendant  enters
onto  the  plaintiff’s  land  thinking  that  it  is  his  own,  or
thinking erroneously that he is entitled to be there, he has
still committed an intentional trespass.

(B)   is wrong because David committed the tort and is liable
for  it  regardless  of  whether  or  not  he  has  current
ownership of the trespassing object.

(D)      is  wrong  because  David  committed  an  act  that
constituted  trespass  and  he  is  liable  for  it.  That’s  true
even  if  the  new  owner  knew  of  the  encroachment — 
once  David  built  the  encroaching  structure  he  had
committed  trespass  (which  was  an  ongoing  tort  as  long
as he owned the structure), and nothing that happened at
or  after  the  time  of  sale  by  David  could  retroactively
change this fact.

II.   CONVERSION

A.  Forced sale

Question  14:  Dower,  an  inexperienced  driver,  borrowed  a
car  from  Puder,  a  casual  acquaintance,  for  the  express
purpose  of  driving  it  several  blocks  to  the  local  drug  store.
Instead, Dower drove the car, which then was worth $12,000,
100 miles to Other City. While Dower was driving in Other
City the next day, the car was hit by a negligently driven truck
and  sustained  damage  that  will  cost  $3,000  to  repair.  If
repaired, the car will be fully restored to its former condition.
If Puder asserts a claim against Dower based on conversion,
Puder should recover a judgment for

(A)  $12,000.
(B)  $3,000.
(C)    $3,000  plus  damages  for  the  loss  of  the  use  of  the  car

673

during its repair.

(D)  nothing, unless Dower was negligent and his negligence

was a substantial cause of the collision.

Answer 14: Choice (A) is correct. Conversion occurs when
the  defendant  so  substantially  interferes  with  the  plaintiff’s
possession or ownership of property that it is fair to require
the defendant to pay the property’s full value. Rest 2d § 222A.
One must consider the extent and duration of the defendant’s
exercise of control over the object, the defendant’s good faith,
the  harm  done  to  the  property,  and  the  inconvenience  and
expense caused to the plaintiff. The defendant had permission
to  drive  the  plaintiff’s  car  several  blocks  and  instead  drove
100 miles to Other City and continued to drive it in Other City
the following day. There does not appear to be any good faith
exhibited  by  the  defendant.  The  car  sustained  $3,000  in
damages (1/4 of its total value). Considering these facts, it is
fair to require that the defendant pay the full value of the car
as damages for conversion.

(B)      and  (C)  are  wrong  because  they  incorrectly  assert  that
plaintiff’s recovery would provide only for repair of the
car and loss of use of the car (as in a claim of trespass to
chattels).  The  suit  here  is  for  conversion,  and  in
conversion  plaintiff  recovers  the  full  value  of  the  item
(viewed as of the moment before the taking).

(D)   is wrong because in a claim of conversion, the issue of
who  was  at  fault  in  damaging  the  plaintiff’s  property
(once the defendant committed a substantial interference
with it) is irrelevant. In other words, if the car was the
subject of conversion, then the defendant is responsible
to  pay  for  its  full  value  regardless  of  whether  it  was
physically damaged (or by whom).

674

CHAPTER 3
DEFENSES TO INTENTIONAL TORTS

I.    SELF-DEFENSE

A.  Degree of force

Question 15: In a plaintiff’s action for battery, the evidence
established  that  the  plaintiff  was  bad-tempered  and,  the
defendant  knew,  carried  a  gun  and  used  it  often;  that  the
plaintiff struck the defendant first; that during the altercation,
the  plaintiff  repeatedly  tried  to  get  to  his  gun;  and  that  the
blows inflicted upon the plaintiff by the defendant resulted in
the plaintiff being hospitalized.

Which  finding  of  fact  would  be  most  likely  to  result  in  a
verdict for the defendant?
(A)    The  defendant  used  no  more  force  than  he  actually
believed was necessary to protect himself against death
or serious bodily harm.

(B)    The  defendant  used  no  more  force  than  he  reasonably
believed was necessary to protect himself against death
or serious bodily harm.

(C)    The  defendant,  in  fact,  feared  death  or  serious  bodily

harm.

(D)    The  defendant  was  justified  in  retaliating  against  the
plaintiff because the plaintiff struck the first blow.
Answer  15:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  facts  show  that  the
plaintiff hit the defendant and the defendant hit him back. So
the  defendant  committed  a  battery,  but  he  may  be  privileged
because  he  was  acting  in  self-defense.  The  question  is
whether the force used by the defendant was justified. Choice
(B) states the test correctly: The defendant is not liable if he
“used  no  more  force  than  he  reasonably  believed  was
necessary  to  protect  himself  against  death  or  serious  bodily
harm.”  The  most  important  point  about  this  answer  is  the
word “reasonably.” Claims of self-defense are not judged by
asking whether the defendant thought he was using necessary
force. The test is whether the amount of force was reasonable

675

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

under the circumstances. Only then does the defendant get the
benefit  of  the  self-defense  privilege.  See  Rest.  2d  §63  and
Comment i.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  focuses  on  whether  the  defendant
“actually” believed that the force he used was necessary. As
explained in the discussion of Choice (B) above, the legal test
is not whether the defendant acted in good faith, or according
to  “actual”  beliefs.  The  legal  test  is  whether  he  acted
reasonably — and  reasonableness  is  judged  by  the  trier  of
fact,  not  by  the  defendant.  If  the  defendant  did  not  act
reasonably, he loses the privilege no matter how strongly he
believed  that  the  force  he  used  was  necessary.  See  Rest.  2d
§63 and Comment i.

(C) is wrong because, like answer Choice (A), it focuses on
what  was  going  through  the  defendant’s  mind — on  whether
he  “in  fact”  feared  death  or  serious  bodily  harm.  But  an
authentic  fear  of  death  is  not  enough  to  support  the  self-
defense  privilege.  The  force  used  by  the  defendant  must  be
reasonable  under  the  circumstances.  The  reasonableness  of
the force used by the defendant is an objective judgment made
by the trier of fact. See Rest. 2d §63 and Comment i.
(D)  is  wrong  because  being  hit  first  does  not  necessarily
entitle  the  defendant  to  respond  with  force.  First,  note  the
suggestion in this choice that the defendant was “retaliating.”
The  privilege  of  self-defense  does  not  create  a  right  to
“retaliate”  or  “get  even.”  It  is  strictly  a  privilege  to  protect
oneself against present or future attack. In this case the facts
obviously  do  suggest  that  the  defendant  faced  an  ongoing
threat.  But  in  that  case  the  outcome  depends  on  the
reasonableness of the defendant’s use of force in reply to that
threat — it  does  not  depend  on  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  hit
him first. See Rest. 2d §63 and Comment g.

B.  Injury to third person

Question 16: In the course of a bank holdup, Robber fired a
gun at Guard. Guard drew his revolver and returned the fire.
One  of  the  bullets  fired  by  Guard  ricocheted,  striking
Plaintiff.
If Plaintiff asserts a claim against Guard based upon battery,

676

will Plaintiff prevail?

(A)  Yes, unless Plaintiff was Robber’s accomplice.
(B)  Yes, under the doctrine of transferred intent.
(C)  No, if Guard fired reasonably in his own defense.
(D)  No, if Guard did not intend to shoot Plaintiff.
Answer 16:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  In  a  situation  where  the
defendant  is  entitled  to  use  reasonable  force  in  his  self-
defense,  and  does  so,  the  fact  that  he  injures  an  innocent
bystander  does  not  prevent  the  use  of  force  from  being
privileged (as long as the defendant did not act negligently in
choosing  to  shoot,  and  in  how  he  shot).  That’s  what  this
choice says.

(A)      is  wrong  because  Plaintiff  will  not  prevail  if  the
defendant’s  actions  were  privileged,  which  they  would
be if the defense of self-defense applied. And that’s true
regardless  of  whether  Plaintiff  was  Robber’s
accomplice  or  was  instead  an  innocent  bystander  (as
discussed in the explanation of (C)).

(B)      is  wrong  because  Guard’s  actions  may  have  been
privileged,  and  if  so,  he  will  not  be  liable  for  battery
despite application of the transferred intent doctrine. The
doctrine of transferred intent provides that as long as the
defendant  held  the  necessary  intent  with  respect  to  one
person, he will be held to have committed an intentional
tort  against  any  other  person  who  he  happens  to  injure.
Ordinarily  this  would  mean  that  if  Guard  had  the
requisite  intent  to  commit  battery  against  Robber  he
would also be deemed to have had the requisite intent to
commit  battery  against  Plaintiff  who  was  injured  by
accident. However, if Guard was acting in self-defense,
his  actions  were  privileged,  in  which  case  Plaintiff
would  not  prevail,  as  discussed  in  the  explanation  of
Choice (C).

(D)      is  wrong  because  it  cites  a  fact  that  will  not  be
dispositive. According to the transferred intent doctrine,
as  explained  in  the  discussion  of  (B),  Guard  could  be
held liable for battery of Plaintiff even if he didn’t intend
to shoot Plaintiff, as long as he had the requisite intent to

677

shoot  Robber.  (Instead,  the  outcome  will  depend  on
whether Guard qualifies for the defense of self-defense.)

II.   DEFENSE OF OTHERS

A.  General rule

1.  Unreasonable mistake

Question 17: Karen was crossing Main Street at a crosswalk.
John,  who  was  on  the  sidewalk  nearby,  saw  a  speeding
automobile  heading  in  Karen’s  direction.  John  ran  into  the
street and pushed Karen out of the path of the car. Karen fell
to the ground and broke her leg.

In  an  action  for  battery  brought  by  Karen  against  John,  will
Karen prevail?

(A)  Yes, because John could have shouted a warning instead

of pushing Karen out of the way.

(B)  Yes, if Karen was not actually in danger and John should

have realized it.

(C)    No,  because  the  driver  of  the  car  was  responsible  for

Karen’s injury.

(D)  No, if John’s intent was to save Karen, not to harm her.
is  correct.  Since  John  has
Answer  17:  Choice  (B) 
intentionally  caused  a  harmful  or  offensive  contact  with
another,  he’s  liable  for  battery  unless  he  has  a  defense.  The
only  defense  that  plausibly  applies  here  is  “defense  of
others.”  That  is,  just  as  a  person  has  the  right  to  use  self-
defense  to  save  himself  from  harm,  he  has  that  right  with
respect to another person who is threatened with harm (even a
stranger,  under  the  modern  view).  However,  the  defense-of-
others  defense,  like  the  right  of  self-defense,  requires  that
both  the  actor’s  belief  that  danger  exists,  and  his  belief  that
the proposed conduct is a good way to deal with the danger,
be  reasonable.  If  John  should  have  realized  that  Karen  was
not  in  fact  in  danger,  this  requirement  for  the  defense-of-
others defense would not be satisfied.
(A)   is wrong because the fact that an alternative method of
dealing  with  the  danger  might  have  solved  the  problem

678

does  not  automatically  mean  that  John’s  method  was
unreasonable. As described in the analysis of Choice (B)
above,  John  was  entitled  to  the  defense  of  defense-of-
others unless either his choice of methods, or his belief
in  Karen’s  peril,  was  unreasonable.  The  mere  fact  that
the alternative method of shouting a warning might have
solved  the  problem  doesn’t  mean  that  John’s  approach
was  unreasonable.  (For  one  thing,  pushing  Karen  to  the
ground  merely  threatened  minor  injury,  whereas  if  she
were  hit  she  might  well  be  killed  or  seriously  injured.
For  another,  John  could  reasonably  have  believed  that
Karen  wouldn’t  hear  his  shout,  that  she  wouldn’t  know
that  she  was  the  one  being  shouted  at,  or  that  there
wasn’t time for her to react if she did hear.)

(C)      is  wrong  because  John  might  be  jointly-and-severally
liable  with  the  driver.  The  speeding  driver  would
clearly  be  a  cause  of  the  injury,  and  would  therefore
likely  be  jointly-and-severally  liable  with  John  if  John
was  liable.  But  this  fact  wouldn’t  save  John  from
liability, if John’s choice of methods (or his belief in the
danger)  was  unreasonable.  Always  remember  that  a
given injury can have multiple causes, and can thus lead
to  multiple  tortfeasors  (even  if  they  did  not  act  in
concert) being held jointly liable.

(D)   is wrong because John’s intent to save Karen wouldn’t
the  danger  was
if  his  belief 
immunize  him 
unreasonable. As is discussed in the analysis of Choice
(B),  John  only  qualifies  for  the  defense  of  defense-of-
others if his belief in the existence of the danger, and his
choice of methods, were reasonable.

in 

III.  NECESSITY

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

A.  Private necessity

1.  Actual damage

Question 18: Husband and Wife, walking on a country road,
were  frightened  by  a  bull  running  loose  on  the  road.  They
climbed over a fence to get onto the adjacent property, owned
by Grower. After climbing over the fence, Husband and Wife

679

damaged some of Grower’s plants which were near the fence.
The fence was posted with a large sign, “No Trespassing.”

Grower  saw  Husband  and  Wife  and  came  toward  them  with
his large watchdog on a long leash. The dog rushed at Wife.
Grower had intended only to frighten Husband and Wife, but
the leash broke, and before Grower could restrain the dog, the
dog bit Wife.

If  Grower  asserts  a  claim  against  Wife  and  Husband  for
damage to his plants, will Grower prevail?

(A)    Yes,  because  Wife  and  Husband  entered  on  his  land

without permission.

(B)  Yes, because Grower had posted his property with a “No

Trespassing” sign.

(C)    No,  because  Wife  and  Husband  were  confronted  by  an

emergency situation.

(D)    No,  because  Grower  used  excessive  force  toward  Wife

and Husband.

Answer  18:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  choice  correctly
identifies  the  basis  on  which  Husband  and  Wife  will  be
liable:  Although  their  entry  was  privileged,  it  was  not
authorized,  so  they’ll  be  liable  for  any  damage  they  cause.
The  charging  bull  created  the  necessity  that  created  the
privilege to enter Grower’s land. However, private necessity
is a qualified privilege, requiring that the entrant pay for any
damage  caused.  While  (A)  does  not  explicitly  mention
necessity,  it  does  identify  the  essential  reason  Husband  and
Wife will be liable, so it’s the best response.

(B)      is  wrong  because  it’s  not  relevant.  Without  a  “No
Trespassing”  sign,  Wife  and  Husband  would  still  be
liable  as  trespassers  if  their  entry  wasn’t  authorized  or
justified;  and  with  it,  they  wouldn’t  be  liable  if  their
entry  was  authorized  or  justified.  In  fact,  under  these
facts  Husband  and  Wife  were  privileged  to  enter
Grower’s property due to necessity: They were escaping
from a bull. The reason they’ll be liable for the damage
to  the  plants  is  because  necessity  is  only  a  qualified
privilege,  meaning 
caused  must  be
compensated. The existence of a “No Trespassing” sign

loss 

any 

680

is thus irrelevant to Husband and Wife’s liability.
(C)   is wrong because, although it correctly characterizes the
facts,  it  ignores  the  fact  that  Husband  and  Wife  will  be
liable  for  the  damage  to  the  plants.  Husband  and  Wife
entered  Grower’s  land  under  a  privilege  of  private
necessity: They were being chased by a bull. However,
the  defense  of  private  necessity  is  a  qualified  one,
requiring  that  any  loss  caused  be  compensated.  If  you
chose this response, it could be that you confused private
necessity with public necessity, which involves a threat
to  the  public  necessitating  entry  (e.g.,  burning  down  a
house to stop the spread of a fire). Most courts hold that
public  necessity  is  an  absolute  defense,  such  that  the
entrant will not be liable for damage caused. However,
that’s not the case here — the threat is only to Husband
and Wife. As a result, they’ll be liable for the damaged
plants.

(D)      is  wrong  because  it  cites  an  irrelevant  fact.  Even  if
Husband  and  Wife  have  a  viable  assault  claim  against
Grower  (which  is  doubtful — he  was  probably  using
reasonable measures to protect his property, and was not
negligent in failing to foresee that the leash might break),
the  assault  claim  wouldn’t  be  a  defense  against
Grower’s  claim  for  the  damage  to  the  plants.  The
damage  to  the  plants  had  already  occurred  by  the  time
the dog rushed at Wife, so the couple’s liability for that
damage  must  rise  or  fall  without  reference  to  the  dog’s
later actions or Grower’s role in enabling those actions.

681

CHAPTER 4
NEGLIGENCE GENERALLY

I.    THE REASONABLE PERSON

A.  Physical and mental characteristics

1.  Children

Question  19:  Dora,  who  was  eight  years  old,  went  to  the
grocery  store  with  her  mother.  Dora  pushed  the  grocery  cart
while  her  mother  put  items  into  it.  Dora’s  mother  remained
near Dora at all times. Peterson, another customer in the store,
noticed  Dora  pushing  the  cart  in  a  manner  that  caused
Peterson  no  concern.  A  short  time  later,  the  cart  Dora  was
pushing struck Peterson in the knee, inflicting serious injury.

If  Peterson  brings  an  action,  based  on  negligence,  against
Dora, Dora’s best argument in defense would be that
(A)    Dora  exercised  care  commensurate  with  her  age,

intelligence, and experience.
(B)  Dora is not subject to tort liability.
(C)  Dora was subject to parental supervision.
(D)    Peterson  assumed  the  risk  that  Dora  might  hit  Peterson

with the cart.

Answer 19: Choice (A)  is  correct.  Children  are  not  held  to
the level of care which would be exercised by a reasonable
adult.  A  child  must  merely  conform  to  the  conduct  of  a
“reasonably careful person of the same age, intelligence, and
experience.” Rest. 3d (Liab. For Phys. Harm), § 10(a).
(B)  is  wrong  because  children  are  subject  to  liability  for
intentional  torts  and  also  for  negligence.  Dora  is  eight  years
old — capable of negligence, and subject to liability using the
“reasonable person” standard discussed in (A). Traditionally,
children  under  seven  have  been  deemed  incapable  of
negligence;  under  modern  cases,  only  children  under  the  age
of five are usually deemed incapable of negligence. Rest. 3d
(Liab. For Phys. Harm, § 10(b)). Children are also subject to
liability for intentional torts if it can be proven that they had

682

the requisite intent. So there is no principle by which an eight-
year-old  would  get  immunity  from  tort  law,  as  this  choice
asserts.

(C) is wrong because a parent’s duty to supervise her child is
separate from the duty of the child to not cause intentional or
negligent  harm  to  others.  The  fact  that  Dora  was  supervised
(or  should  have  been  supervised)  would  not  relieve  her  of
tort liability for her actions.

(D) is wrong because the assumption-of-risk doctrine would
not apply in this context. Assumption of risk applies when a
plaintiff  has  voluntarily  consented  to  take  his  chances  that
harm  will  occur.  A  grocery  store  is  not  a  dangerous  place
where one expects to get struck in the knee and suffer serious
injury.  Nor  was  Peterson  alerted  to  a  possible  danger,
because Dora was not pushing the cart in a manner that caused
her concern.

B.  Anticipating conduct of others

1.  Negligence

a.  Parental supervision

i.  Direct liability

Question 20: An eight-year-old girl went to the grocery store
with  her  mother.  The  girl  pushed  the  grocery  cart  while  her
mother put items into it. The girl’s mother remained near the
girl  at  all  times.  The  plaintiff,  another  customer  in  the  store,
noticed  the  girl  pushing  the  cart  in  a  manner  that  caused  the
plaintiff  no  concern.  A  short  time  later,  the  cart  the  girl  was
pushing  struck  the  plaintiff  in  the  knee,  inflicting  serious
injury.
If the plaintiff brings an action, based on negligence, against
the girl’s mother, will the plaintiff prevail?
(A)  Yes, if the girl was negligent.
(B)  Yes, because the girl’s mother is responsible for any harm

caused by the girl.

(C)    Yes,  because  the  girl’s  mother  assumed  the  risk  of  her

child’s actions.

(D)  Yes, if the girl’s mother did not adequately supervise the

683

girl’s actions.

Answer 20: Choice (D) is correct. The issue is whether and
when  a  parent  has  a  duty  to  supervise  a  child.  The
Restatement  says:  “A  parent  is  under  a  duty  to  exercise
reasonable care so as to control his minor child as to prevent
it  from  intentionally  harming  others  or  from  so  conducting
itself as to create an unreasonable risk of bodily harm to them,
if the parent (a) knows or has reason to know that he has the
ability to control his child, and (b) knows or should know of
the  necessity  and  opportunity  for  exercising  such  control.”
Rest. 2d § 316. Since the girl’s mother was with her when she
was  pushing  the  cart  in  the  supermarket  the  mother  had  the
duty 
they  caused  an
unreasonable risk of harm to others.

the  girl’s  actions 

to  control 

if 

(A)   is wrong because the parent’s duty is independent and is
not affected by the fact that the child is or is not subject
to liability for her own actions. Rest. 2d § 316, Comment
c.  So  even  if  the  child  was  negligent,  the  mother
wouldn’t  be  liable  (e.g.,  vicariously  liable)  as  long  as
the mother didn’t fail to make reasonable supervision of
the child.

(B)   is wrong because it is too broad a statement. There is a
duty  to  exercise  reasonable  care  to  prevent  intentional
harm or an unreasonable risk of harm if and only if “the
parent  (a)  knows  or  has  reason  to  know  that  he  has  the
ability  to  control  his  child,  and  (b)  knows  or  should
know  of  the  necessity  and  opportunity  for  exercising
such  control.”  Rest.  2d  §  316.  And  a  parent  has  no
vicarious  liable  for  her  child’s  torts,  whether  that  tort
consists of negligence or an intentional tort.

(C)      is  wrong  because  it  misapplies  the  assumption-of-risk
concept. Assumption of risk applies when a plaintiff has
voluntarily consented to take her chances that harm will
occur  and  is  therefore  barred  from  recovery  under
traditional  common  law  principles.  Here,  whether  the
mother was or wasn’t tolerating a risk to a third person,
the  assumption-of-risk  concept  wouldn’t  apply  to  the
mother’s liability to the third person.

2.  Criminal or intentionally tortious acts

684

Question  21:  A  light  company  is  the  sole  distributor  of
electrical power in a city. The company owns and maintains
all  of  the  electric  poles  and  equipment  in  the  city.  The  light
company  has  complied  with  the  National  Electrical  Safety
Code,  which  establishes  minimum  requirements  for  the
installation  and  maintenance  of  power  poles.  The  Code  has
been approved by the federal and state governments.

The light company has had to replace insulators on its poles
repeatedly because unknown persons repeatedly shoot at and
destroy  them.  This  causes  the  power  lines  to  fall  to  the
ground.  On  one  of  these  occasions,  a  5-year-old  boy
wandered  out  of  his  parents’  yard,  intentionally  touched  a
downed wire, and was seriously burned.

If  a  claim  on  the  boy’s  behalf  is  asserted  against  the  light
company, the probable result is that the boy will

(A)  recover, if the light company could have taken reasonable
steps to prevent the lines from falling when the insulators
were destroyed.

(B)  recover, because a supplier of electricity is strictly liable

in tort.

(C)    not  recover,  unless  the  light  company  failed  to  exercise

reasonable care to stop the destruction of the insulators.

(D)  not recover, because the destruction of the insulators was

intentional.

Answer  21:  The  correct  choice  is  (A).  First,  although  the
question doesn’t mention it, Choice A suggests that the claim
is  for  negligence.  It  couldn’t  be  an  intentional  tort  since
there’s  clearly  no  intent;  however,  what  is  trickier  is  to
eliminate  the  possibility  of  strict  liability,  since  transmitting
electricity over ordinary electric lines might (though probably
wouldn’t  (see  the  discussion  of  Choice  (B)  below)  be
considered  ultrahazardous.  However,  even  in  the  unlikely
case  that  the  electric  transmission  here  did  qualify  for  strict
liability,  the  required  proximate  cause  element  for  strict
liability would be missing, since the result — people shooting
out  insulators,  causing  the  line  to  fall  to  the  ground  and
causing injury there — would be sufficiently outside the risk
inherent  in  electricity  transmission  to  prevent  strict  liability

685

from applying.

Once  you’ve  concluded  that  the  claim  is  one  for  negligence,
you need to see what the boy would have to prove in order to
succeed. He’d have to show that (1) the light company failed
to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  its  position
would  have  exercised,  (2)  this  was  a  breach  of  the  duty  to
prevent  the  foreseeable  risk  of  injury  to  anyone  in  the  boy’s
position;  and  (3)  this  breach  proximately  caused  the  boy’s
damages.  As  to  (2),  where  danger  from  the  negligence  or
intentional  wrongdoing  of  third  persons  is  reasonably
foreseeable  to  the  defendant,  the  defendant’s  failure  to  take
reasonable  steps  to  prevent  the  wrongdoing,  or  the  danger
from  the  wrongdoing,  will  constitute  a  breach  of  the  duty  of
care.

Element  (3),  causation,  is  also  a  serious  issue  in  this  case.
That  is,  if  the  boy  is  to  prevail,  he  must  show  what
specifically the light company failed to do that it reasonably
could have done, and that if done would likely have prevented
the  harm.  This  choice  asserts  liability  “if  the  light  company
could  have  taken  reasonable  steps  to  prevent  the  lines  from
falling  when  the  insulators  were  destroyed.”  That’s  a
conditional  but  true  statement — we  don’t  know  whether  the
company could in fact have taken reasonable (practical) steps
to prevent the lines from falling when the insulators were shot
out, but if such steps were practical, the company would have
breached  its  ordinary  duty  of  due  care,  proximately  causing
the boy’s harm. This choice also doesn’t assert that failure to
take  such  steps  to  prevent  falling  lines  was  the  only  way  to
prevent  the  harm.  Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  company  might
have  had  other  possible  methods  to  avoid  the  harm  (e.g.,
reinforcing  the  insulators  or  other  parts  of  the  lines  so  that
shooting  the  insulators  wouldn’t  cause  the  lines  to  fall)
doesn’t  prevent  this  choice  from  correctly  specifying  one
practical  way  of  handling  the  problem  the  absence  of  which
proximately caused the harm.
(B)  is  wrong,  because  for  the  company  to  be  strictly  liable,
that liability would have to be premised upon either product
liability  or  liability  for  conducting  an  abnormally  dangerous
activity,  and  neither  applies  here.  Strict  product  liability

686

applies only when a person “sells or otherwise distributes” a
defective  “product.”  Those  who  sell  “services”  as
distinguished from “products” are not subject to strict product
liability. Rest. 3d (Prod. Liab.), §19. While some courts have
held  that  electricity  becomes  a  “product”  when  it  passes
through the customer’s own electric meter, virtually none have
held that electricity constitutes a product rather than a service
when it is part of the high voltage transmission system on its
way to the customer. Id., §19, Comm. d. So when the accident
happened here, the light company was supplying a service not
a product, and has no strict product liability. With respect to
strict  liability  for  carrying  on  an  abnormally  dangerous
activity,  the  provision  of  electricity,  even  through  high-
powered  transmission  lines,  is  generally  not  considered
abnormally dangerous, because it can (and usually is) carried
on  with  considerable  safety  if  customary  precautions  are
taken. (Furthermore, even in the unlikely case that the electric
transmission  here  did  qualify  for  the  abnormally-dangerous
form of strict liability, the required scope-of-risk element for
strict  liability  would  be  missing,  as  described  in  the  last
sentence of the first paragraph of the discussion of Choice (A)
above.)

So  the  light  company  will  not  be  strictly  liable  on  either
theory.
(C) is wrong, because the word “unless” causes the choice to
ignore an additional potential source of liability for the light
company.  It’s  true  that  the  light  company’s  failure  to  take
reasonable  steps  to  stop  the  destruction  of  the  insulators
would  make  it  liable  in  negligence.  But  even  if  the  light
company  had  taken  all  reasonable  steps  to  stop  this
destruction,  if  those  steps  had  been  unsuccessful  and  the
company  failed  to  also  take  a  second  available  approach  to
the  problem — by  failing  to  use  reasonable  care  to  prevent
the  lines  from  falling  when  the  insulators  were  destroyed,
assuming  those  steps  would  likely  have  succeeded — this
failure  would  be  a  separate, 
legally-sufficient  act  of
negligence,  making  this  choice  wrong  in  stating  that  the
company  could  only  be  liable  if  it  failed  to  stop  the
destruction itself.

687

(D)  is  wrong  because  a  person  who  maintains  property  in  a
condition dangerous to the public can be liable for negligently
failing  to  secure  the  property  even  against  intentional
wrongdoing (not just negligence) by a third party.

a.  Premises liability

Question  22:  The  plaintiff  and  a  salesman,  who  were
strangers  to  each  other,  were  passengers  sitting  in  adjoining
seats on an airline flight. There were many empty seats on the
aircraft.

During  the  flight,  a  flight  attendant  served  the  salesman  nine
drinks.  As  the  salesman  became  more  and  more  obviously
intoxicated  and  attempted  to  engage  the  plaintiff  in  a
conversation, the plaintiff chose to ignore the salesman. This
angered the salesman, who suddenly struck the plaintiff in the
face, giving her a black eye. If the plaintiff asserts a claim for
damages against the airline based on negligence, the plaintiff
will

(A)  not recover, because a person is not required by law to
come to the assistance of another who is imperiled by a
third party.

(B)    not  recover,  if  the  plaintiff  could  easily  have  moved  to

another seat.

(C)    recover,  because  a  common  carrier  is  strictly  liable  for
injuries  suffered  by  a  passenger  while  aboard  the
carrier.

(D)  recover, if the flight attendants should have perceived the
salesman’s  condition  and  acted  to  protect  the  plaintiff
before the blow was struck.

Answer  22:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  A  business  operator
whose  premises  are  open  to  third  persons  owes  a  duty  of
reasonable care to those on the premises to make reasonable
efforts to control the behavior of others on the premises, so as
to  prevent  them  from  causing  bodily  harm.  Therefore,  if  the
flight  attendants  should  have  perceived  that  the  salesman
posed an unreasonable risk of bodily harm to the plaintiff, and
should  have  realized  that  they  could  or  might  be  able  to
protect the plaintiff, the airline (the business operator) will be
liable for negligence because its employees did not intervene.

688

The  defendant’s  employees  (the  flight  attendants)  seem  to
have had the power to intervene — even if only by cutting off
the  drinks,  or  moving  either  the  plaintiff  or  the  salesmen.
Therefore,  under  the  doctrine  of  respondeat  superior,  the
airline  would  be  vicariously  liable  for  this  failure  to
intervene if the attendants should have recognized the danger
and acted to avoid it.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  this  choice  correctly  states  the
general  rule,  there  is  an  exception  where  some  special
relationship  exists  between  the  defendant  and  the  plaintiff,
such as where the defendant operates business premises open
to  the  public  on  which  the  plaintiff  is  present  at  the
defendant’s  invitation  (in  which  case  the  defendant  owes  a
duty of care to make reasonable efforts to prevent harm to the
plaintiff).  This  “business  premises”  exception  applies  here,
as discussed in the explanation of Choice D.

(B)   is wrong, because whether or not the plaintiff could have
easily changed her seat does not change the fact that the
flight  attendants  had  a  duty  to  act  reasonably  to  protect
her  from  foreseeable  harm.  The  plaintiff’s  failure  to
change  seats  would  have  been  at  most  comparative
negligence,  which  would  have 
reduced  but  not
eliminated  the  plaintiff’s  recovery  (so  that  plaintiff
would still have “recovered,” though not the full amount
of her damages).

(C)   is wrong because breach of the duty of reasonable care
may  result  in  negligence  liability  of  a  common  carrier,
but a common carrier is not strictly liable for injuries to
its passengers, as this choice asserts.

C.  MBE tip

Question 23:  A  plaintiff  always  brought  her  lunch  to  eat  in
the office. One Saturday afternoon the plaintiff went to a local
self-service grocery, and bought a can of corned beef. The can
had  printed  on  its  label  ‘‘A  Product  of  Beef  Company.’’  The
company  was  a  reputable  supplier  of  beef  products.  On
Sunday  evening,  the  woman  prepared  a  sandwich  for  lunch
the next day, using the can of corned beef she had bought on
Saturday.  When  the  plaintiff  bit  into  her  sandwich  at  lunch
time  the  next  day,  a  large  sliver  of  bone  concealed  in  the

689

corned  beef  slice  pierced  between  her  teeth,  broke  one  off,
and came to rest deep in the roof of her mouth. This accident
caused  her  to  suffer  severe  pain  and  to  incur  medical
expenses of $700.

The plaintiff brought two claims for damages: one against the
local grocery and the other against Beef Company. The claims
were tried together. At the trial, the plaintiff proved all of the
above facts leading up to her injury as well as the elements of
her damage. Beef Company proved that it had not processed
and packed the corned beef, but that such had been done by its
regular  and  independent  supplier,  Meat  Packing  Company.
Beef Company further proved that it had never obtained from
Meat  Packing  Company  defective  meat  products,  and  that  it
had no way of knowing that the can contained any dangerous
material.  The  grocery  proved  that  it  had  no  way  of  knowing
the content of the can was likely to cause harm, and that it had
sold  the  products  of  Beef  Company  for  a  number  of  years
without ever having been told by a customer that the products
were defective. Both defendants agreed by stipulation in open
court  that  Meat  Packing  Company  had  been  guilty  of
negligence in packing the corned beef containing the sliver of
bone. The jurisdiction still follows common-law contributory
negligence.
If  the  plaintiff’s  claim  against  the  grocery  is  based  on  a
negligence theory, the plaintiff will

(A)    recover,  because  the  negligence  of  Meat  Packing
Company  follows  passage  of  title  of  the  product  to  the
grocery.

(B)  recover, because the grocery is liable for the negligence
of Meat Packing Company since they are joint venturers.
(C)    not  recover,  because  there  was  no  evidence  that  the
grocery  failed  to  exercise  due  care  in  selling  her  the
corned beef.

(D)    not  recover,  because  she  was  guilty  of  contributory
negligence  when  she  selected  the  can  containing  the
sliver of bone.

Answer 23:  The  correct  choice  is  (C),  because  it  correctly
identifies  why  the  grocery  won’t  be  liable:  It  wasn’t

690

negligent. As in any negligence claim, a product liability suit
predicated on negligence requires proof that (1) the defendant
failed  to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  his
position  would  have  exercised,  (2)  the  failure  was  a  breach
of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of harm to anyone
in  the  plaintiff’s  position,  and  (3)  this  breach  caused  the
plaintiff’s damages. The details of the duty vary depending on
whether  the  defendant  is  a  manufacturer,  wholesaler,  or
retailer. As a retailer, the grocery would be liable for its own
affirmative  negligence  in  handling  products.  For  instance,  a
retailer does have a responsibility to inspect for defects if it
has any reason to believe the product is likely to be defective
(e.g.,  a  broken  seal,  or  past  defective  products  from  the
source in question).

Here,  the  grocery  was  not  affirmatively  negligent,  and  since
the defect was inside the can, there was nothing to trigger the
grocery’s  duty  to  inspect.  Thus,  it  cannot  be  liable  for
negligence

(A) is wrong, because it misstates the law: Negligence does
not, in fact, follow passage of title. As a retailer, the grocery
would  only  be  liable  for  its  own  affirmative  negligence  in
handling  the  product.  For  instance,  a  retailer  does  have  a
responsibility  to  inspect  for  defects  if  it  has  any  reason  to
believe  the  product  is  likely  to  be  defective  (e.g.,  a  broken
seal, or past defective products from the source in question).
Here,  the  grocery  was  not  affirmatively  negligent,  and  since
the  can  itself  was  not  defective,  the  local  grocery  did  not
breach a duty by failing to inspect. Since negligence requires
a failure to exercise due care, the grocery can’t be liable for
negligence on these facts.
If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been  thinking  of
strict  liability,  although  the  reasoning  in  Choice  A  isn’t  an
accurate  statement  of  that  doctrine,  either.  However,  under
strict  liability,  the  defendant  is  liable  if  the  product  was
dangerously defective when it left his control, even if he had
nothing at all to do with its defective condition. Thus, under
strict  liability,  the  local  grocery  would  get  tagged  with
liability (since if the product was ever dangerously defective,
it had that status when it left the grocery). But the claim here

691

is for negligence, not strict liability.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  it  mischaracterizes  the  facts.  A  joint
venture is similar to a partnership, but generally it is entered
into  for  a  limited  time  and  purpose.  The  two  identifying
elements are a common purpose and a mutual right of control.
B is theoretically correct as an abstract statement of law: One
joint venturer is liable for the torts committed by the other if
the torts are committed in the scope of the venture (most joint
venture  cases  involve  automobile  trips).  Here,  there  was  no
mutual  right  of  control  between  the  Meat  Packing  Company
and  the  grocery,  so  the  grocery  can’t  be  liable  for  the  Meat
Packing Company’s negligence on a joint-venture theory.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  reasoning  does  not  support  a
contributory  negligence  defense.  Contributory  negligence,
where it still applies, is a defense to a negligence claim if it
meets this standard: A plaintiff’s conduct must fail to meet the
standard of care for his own protection, and that failure must
cause his harm. Here, there was nothing to trigger any alarm
in  the  plaintiff,  since  the  can  looked  fine.  So  the  plaintiff
could not have been contributorily negligent.

1.  Failure to supervise customers or others

Question  24:  Dora,  who  was  eight  years  old,  went  to  the
grocery  store  with  her  mother.  Dora  pushed  the  grocery  cart
while  her  mother  put  items  into  it.  Dora’s  mother  remained
near Dora at all times. Peterson, another customer in the store,
noticed  Dora  pushing  the  cart  in  a  manner  that  caused
Peterson  no  concern.  A  short  time  later,  the  cart  Dora  was
pushing struck Peterson in the knee, inflicting serious injury. If
Peterson  brings  an  action,  based  on  negligence,  against  the
grocery store, the store’s best defense will be that

(A)  a store owes no duty to its customers to control the use of

its shopping carts.

(B)    a  store  owes  no  duty  to  its  customers  to  control  the

conduct of other customers.

(C)  any negligence of the store was not the proximate cause of

Peterson’s injury.

(D)    a  supervised  child  pushing  a  cart  does  not  pose  an

unreasonable risk to other customers.

692

Answer  24:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Grocery  store  shoppers
are  invitees — members  of  the  public  who  come  onto  land
held  open  to  them  and  who  do  so  for  the  purpose  for  which
the land is held open. Such people reasonably expect that the
premises have been made safe for them, and the owner must
exercise  reasonable  care  for  the  safety  of  such  people.
Reasonable care by the owner may require that she exercise
control  over  third  persons  on  the  premises.  But  the  fact
pattern indicates that Dora’s mother was near her at all times
and  that  the  plaintiff  herself  was  not  concerned  by  Dora’s
pushing  of  the  grocery  cart.  Under  these  circumstances,  it
does not appear that Dora posed an unreasonable risk to the
grocery  shoppers.  Therefore,  the  store  acted  reasonably  and
should not be held responsible for her actions.

(A)      is  wrong  because,  as  discussed  in  Choice  (D),  a  store
does  owe  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  provide  for  the
safety  of  its  invitees — this  duty  would  likely  include
reasonable  attempts  to  protect  customers  from  various
harms that might foreseeably result from shopping carts.
(B)      is  wrong  because,  as  discussed  in  Choice  (D),  a  store
does  owe  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  provide  for  the
safety  of  its  invitees,  and  this  might  include  trying  to
protect  them  from  harm  posed  by  other  customers.  For
instance,  had  Dora  been  an  unsupervised  cart-pushing
menace about whom customers had complained, then the
store, under its duty of reasonable care, would have had
to  control  her  actions  for  the  safety  of  its  invitees.
However,  the  store  did  not  act  unreasonably  under  the
circumstances presented in the fact pattern, as discussed
in the explanation of Choice D.

(C)   is wrong because on the facts here, “lack of negligence”
than  “lack  of
is  more  convincing 
(Choice  (D)) 
proximate” cause. If Dora had posed a foreseeable risk
of injury to Peterson, while on the store’s premises and
using an instrument (the cart) belonging to the store, the
store’s failure to intervene would  be  a  proximate  cause
of  Peterson’s  injuries.  (By  using  the  phrase  “the
proximate  cause”  instead  of  “a  proximate  cause,”  this
choice  incorrectly  suggests  that  there  can  be  only  one

693

proximate  cause.  If  the  store  negligently  failed  to
supervise  Dora  or  intervene  to  take  the  cart  away  from
her, both the store’s failure and Dora’s conduct would be
proximate causes.)

Question  25:  Ohner  owns  the  Acme  Hotel.  When  the
International  Order  of  Badgers  came  to  town  for  its
convention, its members rented 400 of the 500 rooms, and the
hotel opened its convention facilities to them. Badgers are a
rowdy  group,  and  during  their  convention  they  littered  both
the inside and the outside of the hotel with debris and bottles.
The hotel manager knew that objects were being thrown out of
the  hotel  windows.  At  his  direction,  hotel  employees
patrolled the hallways telling the guests to refrain from such
conduct.  Ohner  was  out  of  town  and  was  not  aware  of  the
problems  which  were  occurring.  During  the  convention,  as
Smith  walked  past  the  Acme  Hotel  on  the  sidewalk,  he  was
hit  and  injured  by  an  ashtray  thrown  out  of  a  window  in  the
hotel. Smith sued Ohner for damages for his injuries.
Will Smith prevail in his claim against Ohner?
(A)  Yes, because a property owner is strictly liable for acts
on his premises if such acts cause harm to persons using
the adjacent public sidewalks.

(B)    Yes,  if  the  person  who  threw  the  ashtray  cannot  be

identified.

(C)    No,  because  Ohner  had  no  personal  knowledge  of  the

conduct of the hotel guests.

(D)  No, if the trier of fact determines that the hotel employees
had  taken  reasonable  precautions  to  prevent  such  an
injury.

Answer 25: Choice (D) is correct. The most likely basis on
which  Ohner  would  be  liable  is  vicarious  liability  for  the
negligence  of  his  employees  in  failing  to  take  reasonable
precautions for the safety of passersby. The facts here tell you
that hotel employees patrolled the hallways, telling the guests
to refrain from destructive conduct (of the type which injured
Smith). It’s clear that the employees couldn’t stop guests from
misbehaving,  so  it’s  possible  that  such  patrols  would  be
considered  reasonable  precautions  to  prevent  injuries  like

694

Smith’s. Negligence requires unreasonable conduct, so if the
employees were reasonable in their behavior, there could be
no basis for negligence, and Ohner would not be liable.

(A)   is not the best response, because it misstates the law, and
arrives  at  an  incorrect  result.  Without  more,  a  property
owner is not strictly liable for acts on his premises vis-
à-vis any adjacent property, public or private. Instead, in
order to be strictly liable, the owner (or his employees)
will have to engage in some activity that involves strict
liability — e.g., an ultrahazardous activity, like blasting.
(B)      is  wrong  because  it  assumes  the  applicability  of  a
doctrine  that  doesn’t  in  fact  apply  to  these  facts.  The
examiners  are  probably  trying  to  trick  you  into  thinking
that  res  ipsa  loquitur  applies — they  are  guessing  that
you’ll remember that the doctrine originated in a case in
which a barrel of flour fell from an upper-story window
and injured a passerby. But res ipsa applies only where
the accident is of a type that ordinarily would not occur
without  the  negligence  of  the  defendant.  That,  in  turn,
means  that  the  doctrine  usually  doesn’t  apply  where,
even though we don’t know exactly who was negligent,
we  have  reason  to  believe  that  the  tortfeasor  was
someone other than the defendant. Here, even if we don’t
know  who  threw  the  ashtray,  it’s  likely  that  it  was
thrown  by  a  Badger,  and  not  by  (or  in  the  face  of
negligence  by)  a  hotel  employee.  So  res  ipsa  wouldn’t
apply,  and  the  lack  of  precise  identification  of  the
thrower won’t matter.

(C)   is not the best response, because it turns on an irrelevant
fact.  If  Ohner’s  employees  were  negligent  within  the
scope  of  their  employment  and  Smith  was  injured  as  a
result, Ohner would be liable on the basis of respondeat
superior  regardless  of  whether  he  had  personal
knowledge of his guests’ behavior.

II.   VIOLATION OF STATUTE

A.   Statute must apply to facts

1.  Protection against particular type of risk

695

Question 26: A pedestrian started north across the street in a
clearly  marked  north-south  crosswalk  with  the  green  traffic
light  in  her  favor.  The  pedestrian  was  in  a  hurry,  and  so
before reaching the north curb on the street, she cut to her left
diagonally  across  the  street  to  the  east-west  crosswalk  and
started across it. Just after reaching the east-west crosswalk,
the traffic light turned green in her favor. She proceeded about
five  steps  further  across  the  street  to  the  west  in  the
crosswalk,  when  she  was  struck  by  a  car  approaching  from
her right that she thought would stop, but did not. The car was
driven by a driver, 81 years of age, who failed to stop his car
after  seeing  that  the  traffic  light  was  red  against  him.  As  a
result of the impact, the pedestrian suffered a broken leg.

The pedestrian has filed suit against the driver. The driver’s
attorney has alleged that the pedestrian violated a state statute
requiring  that  pedestrians  stay  in  crosswalks,  and  that  if  the
pedestrian had not violated the statute she would have had to
walk  25  feet  more  to  reach  the  impact  point  and  therefore
would not have been at a place where she could have been hit
by the driver. The pedestrian’s attorney ascertains that there is
a  statute  as  alleged  by  the  driver,  that  his  measurements  are
correct,  that  there  is  a  state  statute  requiring  observance  of
traffic lights, and that the driver’s license expired two years
jurisdiction  follows  pure
prior 
comparative negligence.

the  collision.  The 

to 

The  violation  of  the  crosswalk  statute  by  the  pedestrian
should not reduce her recovery in an action against the driver
because

(A)  the driver violated the traffic light statute at a later point

in time than the pedestrian’s violation.

(B)  pedestrians are entitled to assume that automobile drivers

will obey the law.

(C)  the pedestrian was hit while in the crosswalk.
(D)  the risks that the statute was designed to protect against
probably  did  not  include  an  earlier  arrival  at  another
point.

Answer 26:  The  correct  choice  is  (D),  because  it  identifies
the argument most likely to stop the statutory standard of care

696

from  constituting  comparative  fault  that  would  reduce  the
pedestrian’s claim against the driver.

The pedestrian’s violating the crosswalk statute could reduce
her recovery if it established comparative negligence per se.
Here  is  the  general  rule  on  negligence  per  se:  “an  actor  is
negligent if, without excuse, the actor violates a statute that is
designed to protect against the type of accident the actor’s
conduct causes, and if the accident victim is within the class
of persons the statute is designed to protect.” Rest. 3d (Liab.
For Phys. Harm) §14.

Where it is the defendant who is claiming that the plaintiff has
committed  “comparative  negligence  per  se,”  the  standard  is
still  the  one  quoted  above,  except  that  the  violator  of  the
statute  and  the  “accident  victim”  are  the  same  person.  Here,
the  crosswalk  statute  would  be  very  unlikely  to  be  found  to
have  been  “designed  to  protect  against  the  type  of  accident”
that  the  plaintiff’s  violation  caused.  Crosswalk  statutes  are
generally designed to avoid the risk of an immediate collision
occurring  in  the  non-crosswalk  portion  of  the  street,  where
drivers are not expecting a pedestrian to be walking. Such a
statute would be unlikely to be found to have been designed to
reduce the risk that a pedestrian might, by jaywalking, arrive
earlier at some other point where the accident then occurs but
wouldn’t have occurred had there been no jaywalking. To put
it in terms of scope of risk, jaywalking does not increase the
risk that the jaywalker will, after the jaywalking is complete,
be  hit  somewhere  else  by  a  car.  (To  see  this  principle  in  a
typical  defendant-negligence-per-se  setting,  suppose  D
drives over the speed limit at 1:00 PM, and therefore arrives
at a particular crosswalk at 1:25 PM instead of 1:30, where,
while  driving  carefully,  he  hits  the  pedestrian  P — the  fact
that  D’s  1:00  PM  speed-limit  violation  made  the  1:25  PM
accident  factually  possible  doesn’t  mean  that  D  will  be
negligent  per  se,  because  the  1:00  PM  speeding  did  not
increase  the  risk  of  a  later  non-speeding  collision  down  the
road.)

(A) is wrong, because the timing of the violations will not be
relevant  as  to  whether  the  pedestrian’s  violation  of  the
crosswalk  statute  should  count  against  her.  As  discussed  in

697

(D),  the  pedestrian  was  not  comparatively  negligent  per  se.
Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  driver’s  violation  occurred  later
than  the  pedestrian’s  legally-irrelevant  crosswalk  violation
does not make any difference.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  reasoning  it  states  would  not  be
sufficient  to  bar  application  of  the  statute  against  the
pedestrian. Even though one may assume that others will obey
the  law,  this  doesn’t  give  one  a  license  to  act  unreasonably
regarding  one’s  own  safety.  Looked  at  another  way,  the
pedestrian  had  no  more  right  to  rely  on  the  driver  than  the
driver had to rely on her. So if the pedestrian’s violation had
constituted  comparative  negligence  per  se,  her  abstract
entitlement  to  assume  that  the  driver  would  obey  the  traffic-
light  statute  wouldn’t  prevent  the  pedestrian  from  having  the
comparative-negligence-per-se doctrine reduce her recovery.
(Rather,  the  pedestrian  avoids  negligence  per  se  for  the
reason discussed in (D).)

(C)  is  wrong,  because  it  provides  an  insufficient  basis  on
which  to  prevent  application  of  the  crosswalk  statute  to
establish  the  pedestrian’s  comparative  negligence  per  se.  If
the earlier crosswalk violation had satisfied the requirements
for application of comparative negligence per se, the fact that
the  pedestrian  was  later,  at  the  time  of  the  accident,  in  the
crosswalk  wouldn’t  help  her.  (But  comparative  negligence
per  se  doesn’t  apply  against  the  pedestrian,  for  the  reason
discussed in (D).)

III.  RES IPSA LOQUITUR

A.  P’s failure to exclude other causes

1.  Object falling from window in multi-tenant building

Question 27: Landco owns and operates a 12-story apartment
building  containing  72  apartments,  70  of  which  are  rented.
Walker  has  brought  an  action  against  Landco  alleging  that
while  he  was  walking  along  a  public  sidewalk  adjacent  to
Landco’s apartment building a flower pot fell from above and
struck  him  on  the  shoulder,  causing  extensive  injuries.  The
action was to recover damages for those injuries.

698

If  Walker  proves  the  foregoing  facts  and  offers  no  other
evidence  explaining  the  accident,  will  his  claim  survive  a
motion for directed verdict offered by the defense?

(A)    Yes,  because  Walker  was  injured  by  an  artificial
condition of the premises while using an adjacent public
way.

(B)  Yes, because such an accident does not ordinarily happen

in the absence of negligence.

(C)    No,  if  Landco  is  in  no  better  position  than  Walker  to

explain the accident.

(D)  No, because there is no basis for a reasonable inference

that Landco was negligent.

Answer  27:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Walker’s  only  hope  of
prevailing would be res ipsa loquitur, since there’s no direct
proof of negligence by Landco or anyone for whose conduct
Landco  is  responsible.  The  doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur
allows the plaintiff to point to the fact of the accident, and to
create  an  inference  that,  even  without  a  precise  showing  of
how  the  defendant  behaved,  the  defendant  was  probably
negligent.  The  courts  generally  agree  on  four  requirements
before  the  doctrine  may  be  applied:  (1)  there  must  be  no
direct evidence of the defendant’s conduct; (2) the event must
be  of  a  kind  which  ordinarily  does  not  occur  except  through
negligence;  (3)  the  instrument  which  caused  the  injury  must
have been, at the relevant time, in the exclusive control of the
defendant; and (4) plaintiff must show that her injury was not
due to her own action. It is questionable whether at least two
of  these  requirements  are  fulfilled.  Requirement  (3)  would
require that the flower pot have been in the exclusive control
of  Landco,  which  is  not  the  case  (given  that  70  of  the  72
apartments  have  been  rented  to  third  persons  for  whose
liable).
behavior  Landco  would  not  be  vicariously 
Requirement (2) would require proof that a flower pot usually
does not fall without negligence, which is not true. Therefore,
the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur could not be applied here.
(A)   is wrong because: (1) a landowner is not strictly liable
for injuries from an artificial condition to persons on an
adjacent  public  way  (only  required  to  use  reasonable
care  to  prevent  such  injuries);  and  (2)  there’s  no

699

evidence here that Landco failed to use reasonable care
in trying to prevent such accidents (since flowerpots on
windowsills are not all that dangerous, and in any event
there’s  no  evidence  that  Landco  even  knew  of  the
particular  flowerpot,  or  had  any  practical  right  to  have
the pot taken off the sill by what was probably a tenant
who was not under Landco’s direct control).

(B)   is wrong because, as discussed in (D), it is possible for
a flower pot to fall and for it not to be due to negligence.
Furthermore,  even  if  the  falling  pot  was  due  to
someone’s  negligence,  that  someone  was  probably  not
Landco  (since  70  of  72  apartments  were  rented  to
outsiders), and was not someone for whose acts Landco
was  vicariously  responsible.  (A 
is  not
vicariously liable for torts committed by a tenant.) So the
statement  in  this  choice  is  both  probably  untrue  as  a
factual matter, and legally irrelevant.

landlord 

(C)   is wrong because this factor wouldn’t make a difference.
It’s  true  that  some  courts  (though  probably  no  longer  a
majority) will apply res ipsa loquitur only if the plaintiff
can  show  that  a  true  explanation  of  the  events  is  more
readily  accessible  to  the  defendant  than  to  the  plaintiff.
But apart from this factor, the plaintiff must show that the
type  of  accident  usually  doesn’t  happen  without
someone’s  negligence,  and  that  the  defendant  was
probably  in  exclusive  control  of  the  instrumentality  that
caused  the  accident.  As  is  further  discussed  in  (D),  the
plaintiff can’t meet either of these requirements.

B.  Rebuttal evidence

1.  Rebuttal shows some other explanation

a.  Frequent on MBE

Question 28: Defendant left her car parked on the side of a
hill. Two minutes later, the car rolled down the hill and struck
and injured Plaintiff.

In  Plaintiff’s  negligence  action  against  Defendant,  Plaintiff
introduced  into  evidence  the  facts  stated  above,  which  are
undisputed. Defendant testified that, when she parked her ear,
she  turned  the  front  wheels  into  the  curb  and  put  on  her

700

emergency  brakes,  which  were  in  good  working  order.  She
also  introduced  evidence  that,  in  the  weeks  before  this
incident,  juveniles  had  been  seen  tampering  with  cars  in  the
neighborhood.  The  jury  returned  a  verdict  in  favor  of
Defendant, 
judgment
notwithstanding the verdict.

and  Plaintiff  moved 

for 

a 

Plaintiff’s motion should be

(A)    granted,  because  it  is  more  likely  than  not  that
Defendant’s  negligent  conduct  was  the  legal  cause  of
Plaintiff’s injuries.

(B)    granted,  because  the  evidence  does  not  support  the

verdict.

(C)    denied,  because,  given  Defendant’s  evidence,  the  jury
was  not  required  to  draw  an  inference  of  negligence
from the circumstances of the accident.

(D)    denied,  if  Defendant  was  in  no  better  position  than

Plaintiff to explain the accident.

Answer 28: Choice (C)  is  correct.  The  doctrine  of  res  ipsa
loquitur allows the plaintiff to point to the fact of the accident,
and  to  create  an  inference  that,  even  without  a  precise
showing  of  how  the  defendant  behaved,  the  defendant  was
probably  negligent.  The  consequence  of  the  doctrine’s
application  is  that  the  plaintiff  has  met  her  burden  of
production.  The  defendant  may  counter  with  evidence  that
rebuts any or all of the elements required for res ipsa (e.g., by
showing  other  possible  causes  not  involving  the  defendant’s
negligence).  It  will  then  be  up  to  the  jury  to  decide  whether
the defendant’s evidence is enough to negate the inference of
negligence  stemming  from  application  of  res  ipsa.  Here,  the
defendant  provided  enough  evidence  (proper  use  of  the
emergency  brakes  and  evidence  of  juveniles  tampering  with
cars in the neighborhood) that a jury was not required to infer
negligence  of  the  defendant  from  the  fact  that  the  defendant
parked her car and two minutes later it rolled down the hill.
(A)  and  (B)  are  wrong  because,  as  discussed  in  the
explanation  of  (C),  there  was  enough  evidence  provided  by
the  defendant  to  entitle  a  reasonable  jury  to  conclude  that  it
should  not  apply  res  ipsa,  i.e.,  that  it  should  not  infer

701

negligence.  This  fact  will  be  dispositive,  since  the  verdict-
loser’s  motion  for  a  JNOV  should  be  granted  only  if  there
was not enough evidence to permit a reasonable jury to find
for the verdict-winner.

(D)      is  wrong  because  it  focuses  on  a  factor  that  won’t  be
dispositive.  It’s  true  that  some  courts  (though  probably
no longer a majority) hold that in order for the plaintiff
to benefit from res ipsa loquitur, the plaintiff must show
that  a  true  explanation  of  the  events  is  more  readily
accessible  to  the  defendant  than  to  the  plaintiff.  But  the
court  probably  wouldn’t  apply  this  rule,  and  even  if  it
did, the plaintiff will lose because the defendant came up
with  enough  evidence  that  a  reasonable  jury  could  find
that  the  inference  of  negligence  by  the  defendant  was
unjustified.

702

CHAPTER 5
ACTUAL AND PROXIMATE CAUSE

I.    CAUSATION IN FACT

A.  “But-for” test

1.  Must be tied to D’s negligence

a.  Rescue scenarios

Question  29:  Desmond  fell  while  attempting  to  climb  a
mountain,  and  lay  unconscious  and  critically  injured  on  a
ledge  that  was  difficult  to  reach.  Pearson,  an  experienced
mountain climber, was himself seriously injured while trying
to  rescue  Desmond.  Pearson’s  rescue  attempt  failed,  and
Desmond died of his injuries before he could be reached.

Pearson  brought  an  action  against  Desmond’s  estate  for
compensation  for  his  injuries.  In  this  jurisdiction,  the
traditional  common-law 
to  contributory
rules 
negligence and assumption of risk remain in effect.
Will Pearson prevail in his action against Desmond’s estate?
(A)  Yes, if his rescue attempt was reasonable.
(B)    Yes,  because  the  law  should  not  discourage  attempts  to

relating 

assist persons in helpless peril.

(C)  No, unless Desmond’s peril arose from his own failure to

exercise reasonable care.

(D)    No,  because  Pearson’s  rescue  attempt  failed  and

therefore did not benefit Desmond.

Answer  29:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  A  rescuer  who  sustains
injuries  can  recover  from  the  rescuee,  if  the  rescuee  acted
negligently  in  putting  himself  in  the  position  of  needing
rescue.  But  if  the  rescuee  did  not  act  negligently  (or  any
negligence  did  not  contribute  directly  to  the  arising  of  the
peril),  then  the  rescuer  would  not  be  permitted  to  recover,
even  though  the  peril  was  the  proximate  cause  and  cause  in
fact of the harm to the rescuer.
(A)   is wrong because, even if Pearson’s rescue attempt was
reasonable, if it was not in response to a danger caused

703

by  the  Desmond’s  negligence,  then  Pearson  would  not
prevail in an action against defendant for his injuries.
(B)      is  wrong  because,  even  if  rescue  attempts  should  be
encouraged,  if  Pearson’s  rescue  attempt  was  not  in
response 
the  Desmond’s
negligence, then Pearson would not prevail in an action
against defendant for his injuries.

to  a  danger  caused  by 

(D)      is  wrong  because,  even  though  Desmond  didn’t  benefit
from  the  rescue  attempt,  he  would  still  be  liable  to  the
rescuer  if  the  rescue  attempt  was  in  response  to
Desmond’s own negligence in putting himself in need of
rescue.

II.   PROXIMATE CAUSE — FORESEEABILITY

A.  How tested on the MBE

Question 30: Doe negligently caused a fire in his house, and
the house burned to the ground. As a result, the sun streamed
into  Peter’s  yard  next  door,  which  previously  had  been
shaded by Doe’s house. The sunshine destroyed some delicate
and valuable trees in Peter’s yard that could grow only in the
shade. Peter has brought a negligence action against Doe for
the  loss  of  Peter’s  trees.  Doe  has  moved  to  dismiss  the
complaint.

The best argument in support of this motion would be that

(A)  Doe’s negligence was not the active cause of the loss of

Peter’s trees.

(B)    Doe’s  duty  to  avoid  the  risks  created  by  a  fire  did  not
encompass  the  risk  that  sunshine  would  damage  Peter’s
trees.

(C)    the  loss  of  the  trees  was  not  a  natural  and  probable

consequence of Doe’s negligence.

(D)    Peter  suffered  a  purely  economic  loss,  which  is  not

compensable in a negligence action.

Answer 30: Choice (B) is correct. Doe’s liability extends to
foreseeable damages from a fire. It was not foreseeable that a
fire  would  damage  trees  by  depriving  them  of  the  structure
that  was  sustaining  them  by  providing  shade.  Had  the  trees

704

burned down, this would be a foreseeable consequence of the
fire, but that was not the case here.

(A)   is wrong because Doe’s negligence did in fact cause the

loss of the trees, albeit in an unexpected manner.

(C)      is  wrong  because  the  loss  of  trees  is  a  natural  and
probable  consequence  of  a  fire.  The  manner  in  which
Peter’s  trees  were  lost  was  not  foreseeable,  however,
which is why Choice (B) is the correct answer.

(D)   is wrong because Peter suffered property damage, which
is compensable in a negligence action. Examples of pure
economic  loss  are  loss  of  profits  or  wages.  Property
damage does not fall under this category.

III.  PROXIMATE CAUSE — INTERVENING

CAUSES

A.  Foreseeability rule

1.  Tested on the MBE

Question 31: A driver’s car sustained moderate damage in a
collision with a car driven by a sightseer. The accident was
caused solely by the sightseer’s negligence. The driver’s car
was  still  drivable  after  the  accident.  Examining  the  car  the
next morning, the driver could see that a rear fender had to be
replaced. He also noticed that gasoline had dripped onto the
garage  floor.  The  collision  had  caused  a  small  leak  in  the
gasoline tank.

The  driver  then  took  the  car  to  a  mechanic,  who  owns  and
operates  a  body  shop,  and  arranged  with  the  mechanic  to
repair  the  damage.  During  their  discussion  the  driver
neglected  to  mention  the  gasoline  leakage.  Thereafter,  while
the  mechanic  was  loosening  some  of  the  damaged  material
with a hammer, he caused a spark, igniting vapor and gasoline
that had leaked from the fuel tank. The mechanic was severely
burned.
The  mechanic  has  brought  an  action  to  recover  damages
against  the  driver  and  the  sightseer.  The  jurisdiction  has
adopted  a  pure  comparative  negligence  rule  in  place  of  the
traditional common-law rule of contributory negligence.

705

In this action, will the mechanic obtain a judgment against the
sightseer?

(A)  No, unless there is evidence that the sightseer was aware

of the gasoline leak.

(B)  No, if the mechanic would not have been harmed had the

driver warned him about the gasoline leak.

(C)  Yes, unless the mechanic was negligent in not discovering

(D) 

the gasoline leak himself.
  Yes,  if  the  mechanic’s  injury  was  a  proximate
consequence of the sightseer’s negligent driving.

Answer 31: Choice (D) is correct. Under the prevailing view
of  proximate  cause,  the  defendant’s  negligent  conduct  is  the
(or a) proximate cause of the plaintiff’s injury if (and only if)
the  general  type  of  harm  that  occurred  to  the  plaintiff  was  a
reasonably  foreseeable  consequence  of 
the  defendant’s
negligent  action.  Choice  (D)  articulates  this  standard.  We
cannot  definitively  say  on  these  facts  that  the  mechanic’s
injury was in fact a proximate consequence of the sightseer’s
negligent  driving — but  if  it  was  a  proximate  consequence,
the  mechanic  would  be  entitled  to  at  least  partial  recovery
from 
the  sightseer,  under  pure  comparative-negligence
principles.  By  the  way,  the  fact  that  the  accident  might  have
been  avoided  by  a  warning  from  the  driver  won’t  get  the
sightseer  off  the  hook  (see  the  discussion  of  Choice  (B)  for
why).  If  the  driver’s  failure  to  mention  the  leak  constituted
negligence by him, this would reduce the sightseer’s share of
the  judgment  under  comparative  negligence,  but  it  wouldn’t
eliminate the sightseer’s liability.

(A) is wrong because the sightseer’s liability arises out of his
negligent driving, not his awareness of the gasoline leak. If it
was  a  foreseeable  consequence  of  that  negligent  driving  that
some repairer of the other party’s car might be hurt as a result,
the  sightseer  will  be  liable  even  though  he  never  knew
precisely  in  what  way  his  negligence  created  the  special
danger to the repairer. In other words, liability depends on the
foreseeable consequences of the negligently-caused event (the
accident), not from whether the negligent actor was or wasn’t
aware of how the danger arose.

706

(B) is wrong because the lack of such a warning would not be
deemed to have broken the causal link between the sighseer’s
negligent driving and the injury to the mechanic. In general, a
third party’s failure to discover or warn of a danger caused by
the defendant will not insulate the defendant from negligence
liability, even if a warning would have eliminated the danger.
Especially  in  a  comparative-negligence  jurisdiction  such  as
the  one  here,  even  if  the  driver’s  failure  to  mention  the  leak
was negligence, a court would almost certainly conclude that
this  failure  was  not  a  “superseding  cause,”  and  was  merely
co-negligence  (which  would  serve  to  reduce  the  sightseer’s
liability to the mechanic but not eliminate it).

(C)  is  wrong  because  even  had  the  mechanic  negligently
failed  to  discover  the  danger,  he  would  still  be  entitled  to
recovery. In a pure comparative negligence jurisdiction such
as the one here, the plaintiff’s negligent failure to discover a
danger  caused  by  the  defendant  will  not  eliminate  the
defendant’s  liability,  merely  reduce  it.  Since  the  sightseer
would be otherwise liable to the mechanic if the accident was
a  proximate  consequence  of  the  sightseer’s  negligent  driving
(see Choice (D)), this result would still be true in the face of
the mechanic’s negligent failure to discover the danger.

B.  Foreseeable intervening causes

1.  “Second collision” scenarios

Question  32:  While  driving  at  a  speed  in  excess  of  the
statutory limit, Dant negligently collided with another car, and
the  disabled  vehicles  blocked  two  of  the  highway’s  three
northbound  lanes.  When  Page  approached  the  scene  two
minutes later, he slowed his car to see if he could help those
involved  in  the  collision.  As  he  slowed,  he  was  rear-ended
by a vehicle driven by Thomas. Page, who sustained damage
to his car and was seriously injured, brought an action against
Dant  to  recover  damages.  The  jurisdiction  adheres  to  the
traditional  common-law  rules  pertaining  to  contributory
negligence.

If Dant moves to dismiss the action for failure to state a claim
upon  which  relief  may  be  granted,  should  the  motion  be
granted?

707

(A)  Yes, because it was Thomas, not Dant, who collided with

Page’s car and caused Page’s injuries.

(B)    Yes,  if  Page  could  have  safely  passed  the  disabled

vehicles in the traffic lane that remained open.

(C)    No,  because  a  jury  could  find  that  Page’s  injury  arose
from a risk that was a continuing consequence of Dant’s
negligence.

(D)  No, because Dant was driving in excess of the statutory
limit when he negligently caused the first accident.
Answer 32: Choice (C)  is  correct.  Dant’s  initial  negligence
brought about the condition in which lanes were blocked, and
in  which  other  drivers  might  slow  down  to  rubberneck.  The
fact that other drivers might behave in this way (and that one
of the slowing drivers might in turn cause a second accident)
was  relatively  foreseeable.  At  the  least,  a  reasonable  jury
could find (even if it need not find) that the causal connection
between  Dant’s  initial  negligence  and  the  second  accident
was not so far-fetched or attenuated that the second accident
(and  Thomas’s  negligence)  should  be  regarded  as  a
superseding  cause.  Remember,  a  second  event  must  be  very,
very  bizarre  and  hard  to  foresee  before  it  will  be  deemed
superseding.

(A)      is  wrong  because,  although  Dant  did  not  collide  with
Page’s car, Dant’s negligence proximately caused Page’s
injuries, as discussed in Choice C.

(B)   is wrong because, even if Page could have safely passed
the disabled vehicles, it is probably not the case that his
not  doing  so  would  constitute  contributory  negligence.
This jurisdiction adheres to the traditional common-law
rules pertaining to contributory negligence, under which
the  plaintiff  will  be  barred  from  recovering  if  he  was
contributorily  negligent.  Page’s  action  in  slowing  down
his  car  when  he  saw  that  an  accident  had  blocked  two
lanes of traffic, and his intention to see if he could help,
were  probably  reasonable  under  the  circumstances.
Therefore, he was not contributorily negligent.

(D)   is wrong because it doesn’t address the key factor. Dant
was  clearly  negligent  in  causing  the  first  accident — 
that’s  not  disputed.  The  interesting  question  is  whether

708

the connection between the first accident and the second
one involving Page was so attenuated that the second (or
Page’s  negligence  in  bringing  about  the  second)  should
be  viewed  as  superseding.  Since  this  choice  doesn’t
refer to this key issue, it’s not the best answer.

C.  Responses to defendant’s actions

1.  Escape

Question  33:  While  Driver  was  taking  a  leisurely  spring
drive,  he  momentarily  took  his  eyes  off  the  road  to  look  at
some colorful trees in bloom. As a result, his car swerved a
few  feet  off  the  roadway,  directly  toward  Walker,  who  was
standing  on  the  shoulder  of  the  road  waiting  for  a  chance  to
cross.  When  Walker  saw  the  car  bearing  down  on  him,  he
jumped backwards, fell, and injured his knee.

Walker  sued  Driver  for  damages,  and  Driver  moved  for
summary judgment. The foregoing facts are undisputed.

Driver’s motion should be

(A) 

  denied,  because 
that  Walker
apprehended an imminent, harmful contact with Driver’s
car.

the  record  shows 

(B)  denied, because a jury could find that Driver negligently
caused Walker to suffer a legally compensable injury.
(C)  granted, because the proximate cause of Walker’s injury

was his own voluntary act.

(D)  granted, because it is not unreasonable for a person to be

distracted momentarily.

Answer 33:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  When  A  puts  B  in  peril,
it’s  typically  quite  foreseeable  that  B  will  try  to  escape  the
peril. Therefore, if A acted negligently in putting B in peril, A
will  be  liable  for  injury  to  B  that  occurs  during  B’s
foreseeable efforts to escape the peril. Here, it’s completely
foreseeable  that  one  in  Walker’s  position  might  jump
backwards  to  escape  the  oncoming  car,  and  thereby  be
injured. That’s all that this choice is asserting.
(A)      is  wrong  because  Driver’s  actions  were  negligent  and
apprehension  of  an  imminent  harmful  contact  is  the
definition of an assault, an intentional tort.

709

(C)      is  wrong  because,  when  A  is  put  in  peril  by  B’s
negligence, A’s efforts to escape the peril — unless they
are  truly  bizarre  and  unforeseeable — won’t  act  as
superseding causes. So while Walker’s injury may have
been  due  in  part  to  his  “voluntary  act”  of  jumping
backward, 
this  certainly  doesn’t  prevent  Driver’s
negligence  from  also  being  a  proximate  cause  of  the
injury.  (Remember  that  there  can  be,  and  often  are,
multiple proximate causes for a given event.) Given that
Walker’s behavior in jumping wasn’t even negligent, it’s
even  less  likely  that  his  behavior  would  let  Driver  off
the hook on proximate-cause grounds.

this  case 

(D)      is  wrong  because,  although  sometimes  it  may  not  be
unreasonable for a person to be distracted momentarily,
In  assessing
it  was  unreasonable. 
in 
reasonableness, courts do a cost-benefit analysis. Here,
a driver’s looking at “colorful trees in bloom” during a
“leisurely spring drive” is certainly not an event whose
social value outweighs the major risk to others.

D.  Third person’s failure to discover, warn about or avoid the danger

Question 34:  A  motorist  was  driving  north  on  an  interstate
highway at about 50 miles per hour when a tractor-trailer rig,
owned  and  driven  by  a  trucker,  passed  her.  The  tractor  was
pulling  a  refrigerated  meat  trailer  fully  loaded  with  beef
carcasses  hanging  freely  from  the  trailer  ceiling.  When  the
trucker cut back in front of the motorist, the shifting weight of
the  beef  caused  the  trailer  to  overturn.  The  motorist  was
unable  to  avoid  a  collision  with  the  overturned  trailer  and
was injured.

The  trailer  had  been  manufactured  by  a  trailer  company.  A
number of truckers had complained to the trailer company that
the  design  of  the  trailer,  which  allowed  the  load  to  swing
freely, was dangerous. An alternative design could have been
used, at little extra financial or functionality cost to the trailer
company, 
load-swinging
problem. The trucker knew of the dangerous propensity of the
trailer.  A  restraining  device  that  could  be  installed  in  the
trailer would prevent the load from shifting and was available
at  nominal  cost.  The  trucker  knew  of  the  restraining  device

that  would  have  avoided 

the 

710

but  had  not  installed  it.  The  jurisdiction  has  adopted  a  pure
comparative fault rule in strict liability cases.

If the motorist asserts a claim based on strict liability in tort
against the trailer company, she will

(A)  recover, unless the motorist was negligently driving when

(B) 

the truck overturned.
  recover,  because  the  trucker’s  knowledge  of  the
dangerous  propensity  of  the  trailer  does  not  relieve  the
trailer company of liability.

(C)    not  recover,  because  there  was  no  privity  of  contract

between the motorist and the trailer company.

(D)    not  recover  if  the  trucker  was  negligent  in  failing  to

install the restraining device in the trailer.

Answer  34:  The  correct  choice  is  (B).  First,  the  trucking
company’s  failure  to  use  a  reasonably  available  alternative
design  constituted  strict  product  liability  of  the  defective-
design  variety.  See  Rest.  3d  (Prod.  Liab.)  §2(b),  defining  a
product as being “defective in design” (and thus giving rise to
strict product liability) “when the foreseeable risks of harm
posed by the product could have been reduced or avoided by
the  adoption  of  a  reasonable  alternative  design  by  the
seller or other distributor, or a predecessor in the commercial
chain  of  distribution,  and  the  omission  of  the  alternative
design renders the product not reasonably safe.”

A sticky point here is the effect of the trucker’s realization that
the truck was dangerous, and his failure to buy and install the
restraining  device.  But  as  Choice  B  states,  this  will  not
relieve the trailer company of liability toward the motorist. If
a manufacturer produces a defectively dangerous product, the
manufacturer  will  virtually  never  be 
absolved  of
responsibility  merely  because  some  person  further  down  the
distributive  chain  (e.g.,  a  distributor  or  an  end-user)  either
negligently fails to discover the danger or does discover the
danger but fails to take available steps to remedy it (e.g., by
installing a readily-available and cheap safety device).
(A) is wrong, because it incorrectly suggests that the motorist
will  only  recover  if  she  wasn’t  driving  negligently.  First,
under  these  facts,  there’s  no  evidence  the  motorist  was

711

driving  negligently — you’re  told  that  the  motorist  was
driving 50 m.p.h. on an interstate, and that she was unable to
avoid colliding with the truck. But more importantly, even if
the  motorist  was  driving  negligently,  she  could  still  recover.
You’re told that the jurisdiction has adopted comparative fault
for strict liability cases. So the most that could happen is that
the motorist’s fault would cause her recovery to be reduced,
not  eliminated.  (You’re  asked  whether  the  motorist  can
“recover,”  and  a  recovery  reduced  by  comparative-fault
principles is still a recovery.)

(C) is wrong, because it imposes a privity requirement where,
in  fact,  there  isn’t  one.  There  is  no  privity  requirement  in
strict product liability cases, so a bystander who is injured by
a  defectively  dangerous  product  can  recover  against  the
manufacturer, even though the bystander and the manufacturer
have no contractual or other pre-existing relationship.

(D) is wrong, because even if the trucker was negligent, this
will not relieve the trailer company of strict product liability.
As  the  discussion  of  Choice  (B)  describes,  a  manufacturer
will  virtually  never  be  absolved  of  responsibility  merely
because some person further down the distributive chain (e.g.,
a  distributor  or  an  end-user)  either  negligently  fails  to
discover  the  danger  or  does  discover  the  danger  but  fails  to
take available steps to remedy it.

712

CHAPTER 6
JOINT TORTFEASORS

I.    JOINT LIABILITY

A.  Joint-and-several liability generally

1.  Meshing with P’s comparative negligence

Question  35:  Jones,  who  was  driving  his  car  at  night,
stopped the car and went into a nearby tavern for a drink. He
left  the  car  standing  at  the  side  of  the  road,  projecting  three
feet  into  the  traffic  lane.  The  lights  were  on  and  his  friend,
Peters, was asleep in the back seat. Peters awoke, discovered
the situation, and went back to sleep. Before Jones returned,
his  car  was  hit  by  an  automobile  approaching  from  the  rear
and driven by Davis. Peters was injured.
Peters sued Davis and Jones jointly to recover the damages he
suffered  resulting  from  the  accident.  The  jurisdiction  has  a
pure  comparative  negligence  rule  and  has  abolished  the
defense  of  assumption  of  risk.  In  respect  to  other  issues,  the
rules of the common law remain in effect.
Peters should recover

(A)  nothing, if Peters was more negligent than either Davis or

Jones.

(B)  nothing, unless the total of Davis’s and Jones’s negligence

was greater than Peters’s.

(C)  from Davis and Jones, jointly and severally, the amount of
damages Peters suffered reduced by the percentage of the
total negligence that is attributed to Peters.

(D)  from Davis and Jones, severally, a percentage of Peters’s
damages  equal  to  the  percentage  of  fault  attributed  to
each of the defendants.

Answer 35: Choice (C) is correct. If more than one person is
a  proximate  cause  of  the  plaintiff’s  harm,  and  the  harm  is
indivisible, then under the traditional common-law rule, each
defendant is liable for the entire harm. Davis and Jones would
be  jointly  and  severally  liable.  In  a  pure  comparative  fault

713

system, the plaintiff is allowed to recover even if his fault is
greater than that of the defendant. The plaintiff’s recovery is
reduced  by  a  proportion  equal  to  the  ratio  between  his  own
fault and the total fault contributing to the accident. Therefore,
Peter’s  recovery  would  be  the  amount  of  damages  suffered
reduced  by  the  percentage  of  the  total  negligence  that  is
attributed to him. And Peter can recover that entire amount of
“net” damages from either defendant.

(A)   and (B) are wrong because in a pure comparative fault
system,  the  plaintiff  is  allowed  to  recover  even  if  the
percentage  of  his  fault  is  greater  than  that  of  either
defendant  or  greater  than  the  fault  of  both  defendants
combined.

(D)   is wrong because the harm is indivisible; therefore, the
liable  (each

jointly  and  severally 

defendants  are 
defendant is liable for the entire harm).

II.   CONTRIBUTION

A.  Contribution generally

1.  Amount

Question  36:  While  driving  his  car,  Plaintiff  sustained
injuries  in  a  three-car  collision.  Plaintiff  sued  the  drivers  of
the  other  two  cars,  D-l  and  D-2,  and  each  defendant
for  contribution.  The
the  other 
crossclaimed  against 
jurisdiction  has  adopted  a  rule  of  pure  comparative
negligence and allows contribution based upon proportionate
fault. The rule of joint-and-several liability has been retained.

The  jury  has  found  that  Plaintiff  sustained  damages  in  the
amount of $100,000, and apportioned the causal negligence of
the parties as follows: Plaintiff 40%, D-l 30%, and D-2 30%.
How  much,  if  anything,  can  Plaintiff  collect  from  D-l,  and
how  much,  if  anything,  can  D-l  then  collect  from  D-2  in
contribution?
(A)  Nothing, and then D-l can collect nothing from D-2.
(B)  $30,000, and then D-l can collect nothing from D-2.
(C)  $40,000, and then D-l can collect $10,000 from D-2.

714

(D)  $60,000, and then D-l can collect $30,000 from D-2.
Answer  36:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  In  a  pure  comparative
negligence  jurisdiction,  the  plaintiff  is  allowed  to  recover
even  if  his  fault  is  greater  than  that  of  the  defendant.  The
plaintiff’s  recovery  is  reduced  by  a  proportion  equal  to  the
ratio  between  his  own  negligence  and  the  total  negligence
contributing  to  the  accident.  Under  the  rule  of  joint-and-
several  liability,  if  two  defendants  acted  separately  to
produce an indivisible harm to the plaintiff, then each can be
required to pay 100% of the plaintiff’s damages. (Of course,
plaintiff can recover only one satisfaction.) A defendant who
is  required  to  pay  more  than  her  fair  share  can  recover  the
balance from the other. So here, Plaintiff can collect the full
$60,000  (the  total  damage  for  which  Plaintiff  himself  is  not
responsible)  from  either  defendant;  the  defendant  who  pays
the  whole  $60,000  may  in  turn  collect  from  the  other  that
portion  representing  the  overpayment.  Since  D-1  has  paid
$60,000  when  his  fair  share  was  only  $30,000,  he  can
recover the $30,000 overpayment from D-2.
(A)      is  wrong  because,  in  a  pure  comparative  negligence
jurisdiction, the plaintiff is allowed to recover even if he
is at fault and even if his fault is greater than that of the
defendant.  (A)  incorrectly  supposes  that  Plaintiff  will
not be able to collect damages because of his own fault.

(B)   is wrong because it does not allow for Plaintiff to collect
the full amount of damages owed to him ($60,000) from
one 
defendant’s
proportional  share  of  the  damages  is  $30,000)  as
provided  under  the  rule  of  joint-and-several  liability.
See the discussion of Choice (D).

defendant 

though 

(even 

each 

(C)      is  wrong  because  it  limits  Plaintiff’s  recovery  to  the
amount  of  his  own  negligence  (40%  of  $100,000).  In  a
pure comparative negligence jurisdiction, the plaintiff is
allowed to recover even if his fault is greater than that of
the  defendant.  The  plaintiff’s  recovery  is  reduced  by  a
proportion equal to the ratio between his own negligence
and the total negligence contributing to the accident. (In
this case the computation produces $100,000 reduced by
40%, or a net of $60,000.)

715

Question  37:  The  plaintiff  sustained  personal  injuries  in  a
three-car collision caused by the concurrent negligence of the
three  drivers,  who  consisted  of  the  plaintiff,  Donald,  and
Drew. In the plaintiff’s action for damages against Donald and
Drew,  the  jury  apportioned  the  negligence  30%  to  the
plaintiff,  30%  to  Donald,  and  40%  to  Drew.  The  plaintiff’s
total  damages  were  $100,000.  Assume  that  a  state  statute
provides for a system of pure comparative negligence, joint-
and
liability  of 
and-several 
contribution based upon proportionate fault.

tortfeasors, 

concurrent 

If  the  plaintiff  chooses  to  execute  against  Donald  alone,  she
will be entitled to collect at most

(A)  $70,000 from Donald, and then Donald will be entitled to

collect $40,000 from Drew.

(B)  $30,000 from Donald, and then Donald will be entitled to

collect $10,000 from Drew.

(C)  $30,000 from Donald, and then Donald will be entitled to

collect nothing from Drew.

(D)    nothing  from  Donald,  because  Donald’s  percentage  of

fault is not greater than that of the plaintiff.

Answer 37:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Under  the  rule  of  joint-
and-several  liability,  if  two  or  more  defendants  are  joint
tortfeasors,  the  plaintiff  may  sue  and  collect  from  either  of
them  or  all  of  them.  In  a  comparative  fault  system,  the
plaintiff’s  recovery  is  reduced  by  a  proportion  equal  to  the
ratio between her own fault and the total fault contributing to
the  accident.  If  the  plaintiff’s  total  damages  were  $100,000,
her damages will be reduced by 30% (her percentage of fault)
for  a  total  of  $70,000.  Where  the  negligence  has  been
apportioned between the two defendants (at 30% for Donald
and  40%  for  Drew),  yet  they  were  joint  tortfeasors,  the
plaintiff  may  collect  the  total  amount  of  damages  from  one
defendant  and 
seek
reimbursement  (“contribution”)  from  the  other  defendant  for
his  share  of  the  damages  award.  So  the  plaintiff  can  collect
$70,000  from  Donald  (i.e.,  the  full  percentage  of  fault
represented  by  all  parties  other  than  plaintiff),  but  Donald
will  then  be  able  to  collect  $40,000  from  Drew  for  the
latter’s share of the damages.

that  defendant  may 

later 

then 

716

(B)   is wrong because it allows Donald to be liable for only
his proportion of the damages, which is not the case in a
jurisdiction  applying  joint-and-several  liability.  This
choice  also  allows  Donald  to  recover  $10,000  from
Drew;  however,  in  the  case  that  Donald  paid  only
$30,000, he would not be entitled to contribution, since
he  is  responsible  for  at  least  his  percentage  of  fault
($30,000). In other words, a defendant bringing a third-
party contribution action against another joint tortfeasor
is  entitled  to  contribution  only  if  he  pays  more  than  his
percentage of fault.

(C)   is wrong because it allows for Donald to be liable for
only his proportion of the damages, which is not the case
in a jurisdiction applying joint-and-several liability.
(D)   is wrong because, in a pure comparative fault system, the
plaintiff is allowed to recover even if his fault is greater
than that of the defendant (indeed, even if the plaintiff’s
fault is greater than that of all defendants put together).

III.  INDEMNITY

A.  Negligent vs. intentional tortfeasor

Question 38: David owned a shotgun that he used for hunting.
David  knew  that  his  old  friend,  Mark,  had  become  involved
with a violent gang that recently had a shoot-out with a rival
gang.  David,  who  was  going  to  a  farm  to  hunt  quail,  placed
his loaded shotgun on the back seat of his car. On his way to
the  farm,  David  picked  up  Mark  to  give  him  a  ride  to  a
friend’s house. After dropping off Mark at the friend’s house,
David  proceeded  to  the  farm,  where  he  discovered  that  his
shotgun was missing from his car. Mark had taken the shotgun
and, later in the day, Mark used it to shoot Paul, a member of
the rival gang. Paul was severely injured.
Paul recovered a judgment for his damages against David, as
well  as  Mark,  on  the  ground  that  David  was  negligent  in
allowing  Mark  to  obtain  possession  of  the  gun,  and  was
therefore  liable  jointly  and  severally  with  Mark  for  Paul’s
damages.  The 
that  allows
contribution based upon proportionate fault and adheres to the

jurisdiction  has  a  statute 

717

traditional common-law rules on indemnity.

If David fully satisfies the judgment, David then will have a
right to recover from Mark

(A)    indemnity  for  the  full  amount  of  the  judgment,  because

Mark was an intentional tortfeasor.

(B)    contribution  only,  based  on  comparative  fault,  because

David himself was negligent.

(C)  one-half of the amount of the judgment.
(D)    nothing,  because  David’s  negligence  was  a  substantial

proximate cause of the shooting.

Answer  38:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  If  there  is  a  great
difference  in  the  degree  of  culpability  of  the  defendants,  the
court will shift the financial responsibility for a tort from the
less-culpable  to  the  more-culpable  one,  by  the  use  of  the
doctrine  of  indemnity.  In  this  case,  where  Mark  was  an
intentional  tortfeasor  (causing  severe  injury  with  a  gun)  and
David  was  merely  a  negligent  one  (in  allowing  Mark  to
obtain  possession  of  the  gun),  David  will  have  the  right  to
indemnity, i.e., the right to recover from Mark the full amount
of the judgment that David paid.

(B)      is  wrong  because,  as  stated  in  (A),  David  will  be
indemnified  for  the  full  amount  of  damages  he  paid,
because  of  the  great  difference  in  the  degree  of
culpability of the defendants.

(C)      is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  implies  that  the  parties
are equally culpable and it does not recognize that David
will  be  indemnified  for  the  full  amount  of  damages
because  of  the  great  difference  in  the  degree  of
culpability of the defendants.

(D)      is  wrong  because,  despite  the  fact  that  David’s
negligence  was  a  proximate  cause  of  the  injury,  David
will  be  indemnified  by  Mark  for  the  full  amount  of
damages.

718

CHAPTER 7
DUTY

I.    EMOTIONAL DISTRESS

A.  Emotional distress without physical impact

1.  No bodily harm

a.  Exceptions

i.  Negligent handling of corpse

Question  39:  Ann’s  three-year-old  daughter,  Janet,  was
killed  in  an  automobile  accident.  At  Ann’s  direction,  Janet’s
body was taken to a mausoleum for interment. Normally, the
mausoleum’s  vaults  are  permanently  sealed  with  marble
plates secured by “tamper-proof” screws. After Janet’s body
was  placed  in  the  mausoleum,  however,  only  a  fiberglass
panel  secured  by  caulking  compound  covered  her  vault.
About  a  month  later,  Janet’s  body  was  discovered  in  a
cemetery located near the mausoleum. It had apparently been
left there by vandals who had taken it from the mausoleum.

As  a  result  of  this  experience,  Ann  suffered  great  emotional
distress.

If  Ann  sues  the  mausoleum  for  the  damages  arising  from  her
emotional distress, will she prevail?

(A)  No, because Ann experienced no threat to her own safety.
(B)    No,  unless  the  mausoleum’s  behavior  was  extreme  and

outrageous.

(C)    Yes,  if  the  mausoleum  failed  to  use  reasonable  care  to

safeguard the body.

(D)    Yes,  unless  Ann  suffered  no  physical  harm  as  a

consequence of her emotional distress.

Answer  39:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Most  courts  allow
recovery for pure emotional distress, even if unaccompanied
by bodily harm, where the defendant has negligently handled
the  corpse  of  the  plaintiff’s  relative.  This  answer  choice
correctly applies this rule.

719

(A)      is  wrong  because,  although  it  is  generally  true  that  a
plaintiff who does not suffer any physical impact or even
threat  to  her  own  safety  can’t  recover  in  negligence  for
emotional  distress,  there  are  exceptions.  One  exception
is where the plaintiff has suffered emotional distress due
to  the  defendant’s  mishandling  of  a  corpse  belonging  to
the plaintiff’s close relative.

(B)   is wrong because, although it is necessary to show that
the defendant’s behavior was extreme and outrageous in
a suit for intentional infliction of emotional distress, this
is  not  required  to  be  proven  in  a  case  of  negligent
infliction  of  emotional  distress.  And  by  inference,  what
Ann  is  alleging  here  is  negligent,  not  intentional,
infliction of emotional distress.

(D)   is wrong because a claim for negligent mishandling of a
corpse is one of the few special situations where courts
have  allowed  damages  for  pure  emotional  suffering
despite  the  fact  that  the  defendant  has  suffered  no
physical harm.

Question  40:  John’s  father,  Jeremiah,  died  in  Hospital.
Hospital  maintains  a  morgue  with  refrigerated  drawers  a  bit
larger than a human body. Jeremiah’s body was placed in such
a  drawer  awaiting  pickup  by  a  mortician.  Before  the
mortician called for the body, a Hospital orderly placed two
opaque plastic bags in the drawer with Jeremiah’s body. One
bag  contained  Jeremiah’s  personal  effects,  and  the  other
contained an amputated leg from some other Hospital patient.
It  is  stipulated  that  Hospital  was  negligent  to  allow  the
amputated  leg  to  get  into  Jeremiah’s  drawer.  The  mortician
delivered the two opaque plastic bags to John, assuming both
contained personal effects. John was shocked when he opened
the  bag  containing  the  amputated  leg.  John  sued  Hospital  to
recover for his emotional distress. At the trial, John testified
that the experience had been extremely upsetting, that he had
had  recurring  nightmares  about  it,  and  that  his  family  and
business  relationships  had  been  adversely  affected  for  a
period  of  several  months.  He  did  not  seek  medical  or
psychiatric treatment for his emotional distress.
Who should prevail?

720

(A)  John, because of the sensitivity people have regarding the

care of the bodies of deceased relatives.

(B)  John, because hospitals are strictly liable for mishandling

dead bodies.

(C)    Hospital,  because  John  did  not  require  medical  or

psychiatric treatment.

(D)  Hospital, because John suffered no bodily harm.
Answer  40:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Most  courts  allow
recovery  for  negligent  infliction  of  emotional  distress  when
there  has  been  a  negligent  mishandling  of  a  corpse.  The  fact
pattern indicates that the Hospital was negligent in its care of
the  body.  Where  the  facts  are  such  that  it  can  confidently  be
believed that there has been actual mental distress (i.e., where
mental distress would be the normal human reaction), courts
ignore the ban on recovery for purely mental harm in a claim
for negligent infliction of emotional distress.

(B)      is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law — neither
hospitals  nor  any  other  class  of  defendant  is  strictly
liable for mishandling dead bodies. What’s special about
they’re  negligently
that  when 
dead  bodies 
mishandled, a close relative of the body can recover for
emotional  distress  that’s  not  accompanied  by  bodily
harm (something that is not usually the case in negligence
actions).

is 

(C)      is  wrong  because,  in  the  case  of  a  claim  for  negligent
mishandling  of  a  corpse,  it  is  not  necessary  that  the
plaintiff  seek  treatment  for  his  distress.  Where  such
mishandling occurs, courts are confident in inferring that
a  close  relative  of  the  corpse  would  indeed  have
suffered actual mental distress from the mishandling.
(D)   is wrong because a claim for negligent mishandling of a
corpse is a situation where courts have allowed damages
for  pure  emotional  suffering  despite  the  fact  that  the
defendant has suffered no physical harm.

b.  The “at risk” plaintiff

i.  Where P suffers bodily harm

Question  41:  Palko  is  being  treated  by  a  physician  for
asbestosis,  an  abnormal  chest  condition  that  was  caused  by

721

his on-the-job handling of materials containing asbestos. His
physician  has  told  him  that  the  asbestosis  is  not  presently
cancerous,  but  that  it  considerably  increases  the  risk  that  he
will ultimately develop lung cancer.

Palko brought an action for damages, based on strict product
liability,  against  the  supplier  of  the  materials  that  contained
asbestos.  The  court  in  this  jurisdiction  has  ruled  against
recovery  of  damages  for  negligently  inflicted  emotional
distress in the absence of physical harm.

If  the  supplier  is  subject  to  liability  to  Palko  for  damages,
should  the  award  include  damage  for  emotional  distress  he
has suffered arising from his knowledge of the increased risk
that he will develop lung cancer?

(A)  No, because Palko’s emotional distress did not cause his

physical condition.

(B)  No, unless the court in this jurisdiction recognizes a cause

of action for an increased risk of cancer.

(C)    Yes,  because  the  supplier  of  a  dangerous  product  is

strictly liable for the harm it causes.

(D)    Yes,  because  Palko’s  emotional  distress  arises  from

bodily harm caused by his exposure to asbestos.

Answer  41:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Palko  is  an  at-risk
plaintiff,  one  who  by  virtue  of  his  exposure  to  a  particular
substance, has suffered an increased likelihood of a particular
disease.  Even  in  jurisdictions  disallowing  recovery  for  pure
emotional  distress  (unaccompanied  by  bodily  harm)  for
negligently-inflicted  harm  or  harm  caused  by  a  defective
product, a plaintiff may recover for emotional distress as an
“add on” if the plaintiff has also suffered bodily harm. That’s
true here — Palko’s asbestosis is bodily harm, so he can add
recovery  for  emotional  distress  due  to  the  increased  cancer
risk  on  top  of  it  to  his  recovery  from  the  already-existing
(though perhaps minor) bodily harm from asbestosis.
(A)      is  wrong  because,  in  a  suit  for  negligent  infliction  of
emotional  distress,  it  is  not  required  that  the  emotional
distress  be  the  cause  of  a  physical  condition;  it  is
possible  that  physical  harm  can  cause  compensable
emotional distress, as is the case here.

722

(B)   is wrong as a matter of law. If plaintiff had not already
suffered  bodily  harm  (the  abnormal  chest  condition
called asbestosis), this choice would be correct — many
courts  don’t  recognize  a  cause  of  action  for  “increased
risk of cancer” even against a tortfeasor who has brought
about that increased risk. But where plaintiff has already
been  injured — and  asbestosis  is  an  injury,  i.e.,  a  form
of  bodily  harm  regardless  of  whether  it  later  produces
cancer — virtually  all  courts  allow  the  injured  plaintiff
to “tack on” a recovery for emotional distress due to the
injury.  And  distress  at  the  knowledge  of  increased
cancer  risk  is  no  different,  for  this  purpose,  from  any
other distress.

(C)   is wrong because it misses the issue. True, a supplier of
a defectively dangerous product is strictly liable for the
“harm”  it  causes.  But  the  key  question  is,  what  is  the
harm that’s compensable? (D) is a better explanation of
why plaintiff will recover from harm that might seem to
be purely intangible.

II.   PURE ECONOMIC LOSS

A.  Traditional rule

1.  Rationale

Question 42:  Star,  who  played  the  lead  role  in  a  television
soap opera, was seriously injured in an automobile accident
caused  by  Danton’s  negligent  driving.  As  a  consequence  of
Star’s injury, the television series was canceled, and Penn, a
supporting actor, was laid off.
In an action against Danton, can Penn recover for his loss of
income attributable to the accident?

(A)  Yes, because Danton’s negligence was the cause in fact of

Penn’s loss.

(B)    Yes,  unless  Penn  failed  to  take  reasonable  measures  to

mitigate his loss.

(C)  No, unless Danton should have foreseen that by injuring

Star he would cause harm to Penn.

(D)    No,  because  Danton’s  liability  does  not  extend  to

723

economic  loss  to  Penn  that  arises  solely  from  physical
harm to Star.

Answer 42:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  general  rule  is  that
even if D negligently causes physical harm or property harm
to A, D will not be liable for pure economic harm to B, where
the  latter  harm  stems  from  the  harm  to  A.  There  is  an
exception  if  B  was  in  the  zone  of  physical  danger.  In  many
courts,  there  is  a  second  exception  if  B  watched  physical
harm  to  A,  at  least  where  B  and  A  are  close  relatives.  But
here,  neither  exception  applies.  So  the  default  rule  applies:
Since  Penn  was  never  placed  at  physical  risk,  and  didn’t
witness the physical risk or injury to Star, Penn can’t recover
for his pure economic loss. (The theory behind this principle
is  that  if  such  pure-economic-loss  recovery  were  allowed,
negligence  liability  would  extend  too  far,  and  lawsuit  costs
would go through the roof.)
(A)  and  (B)  are  wrong,  because  neither  recognizes  the  key
issue, which is discussed in (D).
(C)      is  wrong  because  it  cites  an  irrelevant  factor.  Even  if
Danton had been able to foresee that by injuring Star he
would  cause  harm  to  Penn,  Danton  would  still  not  be
liable,  because  the  harm  to  Penn  here  is  purely
economic. In other words, this choice, like (A) and (B),
fails  to  deal  with  the  key  issue,  liability  for  pure
economic harm.

724

CHAPTER 8
OWNERS AND OCCUPIERS OF LAND

I.    TRESPASSERS

A.  General rule

Question  43:  A  bright  nine-year-old  child  attended  a  day
care center after school. The day care center was located near
a  man-made  duck  pond  on  the  property  of  a  corporation.
During  the  winter,  the  pond  was  used  for  ice  skating  when
conditions were suitable. At a time when the pond was only
partially  frozen,  the  child  sneaked  away  from  the  center  and
walked out onto the ice covering the pond. The ice gave way,
and the child fell into the cold water. He suffered shock and
would have drowned had he not been rescued by a passerby.
At the time of the incident, the pond was clearly marked with
signs  that  stated,  “THIN  ICE — NO  SKATING.”  When  the
child  left  the  day  care  center,  the  center  was  staffed  with  a
reasonable  number  of  qualified  personnel,  and  the  center’s
employees were exercising reasonable care to ensure that the
children  in  their  charge  did  not  leave  the  premises.  The
jurisdiction follows a rule of pure comparative negligence.

In a suit brought on the child’s behalf against the corporation,
who is likely to prevail?

(A)   The child, because the corporation owes a duty to keep

its premises free of dangerous conditions.

(B)   The child, because the pond was an attractive nuisance.
(C)      The  corporation,  because  the  danger  of  thin  ice  may
reasonably be expected to be understood by a nine-year-
old child.

(D)   The corporation, because the day care center had a duty

to keep the child off the ice.

Answer  43:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  As  a  general  rule,  a
landowner owes no duty to a trespasser to make her land safe.
There  are  several  exceptions,  but  none  of  those  exceptions
applies here. The exception that comes closest to applying is
that  an  owner  may  have  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  a

725

trespassing  child,  if  the  owner  has  maintained  an  “attractive
nuisance.” But for reasons described in the analysis of Choice
(B) below, this exception does not apply here.

(A)   is wrong because the duty of a landowner to trespassers
to  keep  the  property  free  of  dangerous  artificial
conditions  exists  only  where  the  owner  has  reason  to
know  that  trespassers  are  in  dangerous  proximity  to  the
condition  and  that  they  are  unlikely  to  appreciate  the
risk.  Even  then,  the  duty  is  only  to  exercise  reasonable
care to warn trespassers of the danger, which was done
here.

(B)   is wrong because, while it is true that an owner may be
liable  to  a  trespasser  if  the  owner  has  maintained  an
“attractive  nuisance,”  the  condition  here  was  not  an
attractive  nuisance.  For  a  condition  on  land  to  be
considered  an  attractive  nuisance, 
there  must  be
evidence  that  the  possessor  had  reason  to  know  that
children were likely to trespass, as well as evidence that
the  plaintiff  did  not  appreciate  the  risk  involved.  No
such  evidence  is  mentioned  in  the  facts;  for  instance,
there  is  no  suggestion  that  children  often  stray  from  the
day  care  center,  and  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  the
child was not aware of the danger (since we’re told he
was  a  “bright  nine-year-old”  and  that  the  danger  was
well-marked).

(D)   is wrong because, while this answer correctly states that
the corporation will prevail, it misstates the legal basis
for  this  conclusion.  Even  if  the  day  care  center  had  a
duty to keep children from the ice, the corporation could
also  be  liable  if  it  was  negligent.  That  is,  if  A  is
negligent as to a risk, the fact that B was also negligent
as to the same risk is unlikely to save A from liability.

B.  Exceptions to general rule

1.  Discovered trespassers

Question  44:  Prad  entered  Drug  Store  to  make  some
purchases. As he was searching the aisles for various items,
he  noticed  a  display  card  containing  automatic  pencils.  The
display card was on a high shelf behind a cashier’s counter.

726

Prad  saw  a  sign  on  the  counter  that  read,  “No  Admittance,
Employees Only.” Seeing no clerks in the vicinity to help him,
Prad  went  behind  the  counter  to  get  a  pencil.  A  clerk  then
appeared  behind  the  counter  and  asked  whether  she  could
help  him.  He  said  he  just  wanted  a  pencil  and  that  he  could
reach the display card himself. The clerk said nothing further.
While  reaching  for  the  display  card,  Prad  stepped  sideways
into an open shaft and fell to the basement, ten feet below. The
clerk  knew  of  the  presence  of  the  open  shaft,  but  assumed
incorrectly that Prad had noticed it.

Prad sued Drug Store to recover damages for the injuries he
sustained  in  the  fall.  The  jurisdiction  has  adopted  a  rule  of
pure  comparative  negligence,  and  it  follows  traditional
common-law rules governing the duties of a land possessor.

Will Prad recover a judgment against Drug Store?

(A)  No, because Prad was a trespasser.
(B)    No,  unless  Prad’s  injuries  resulted  from  the  defendant’s

willful or wanton misconduct.

(C)  Yes, because the premises were defective with respect to

a public invitee.

(D)    Yes,  if  the  clerk  had  reason  to  believe  that  Prad  was

unaware of the open shaft.

Answer 44: Choice (D) is correct. Normally, a shopper in a
store  would  be  considered  an  invitee — a  member  of  the
public who comes onto land held open to him and who does
so  for  the  purpose  for  which  the  land  is  held  open.  Such
people  reasonably  expect  that  the  premises  have  been  made
safe for them. A visitor who is an invitee as to one part of the
premises may become a trespasser if he goes beyond the part
of  the  land  held  open  to  him.  When  Prad  went  behind  the
counter  despite  seeing  the  sign  “No  Admittance,  Employees
Only,” he might be found to have been a trespasser. But even
if that’s true, when the clerk saw him in that position, he was
a  “discovered  trespasser,”  and  as  such  the  store  had  an
obligation  to  warn  him  of  dangers  known  to  it  and  likely
unknown to Prad. Therefore, if the clerk had reason to believe
that  Prad  was  unaware  of  the  open  shaft  (and  given  that  the
facts tell us the clerk knew about the open shaft), Drug Store

727

will  be  liable  for  the  clerk’s  failure  to  warn  Prad  of  the
danger.

(A)      is  wrong  because  Prad  was  a  licensee  when  he  was
behind  the  cashier’s  counter,  as  explained  in  the
discussion of Choice D.

(B)      is  wrong  because  liability  arose  from  breach  of  the
owner’s  duty  to  warn  Prad  of  a  danger  that  it  should
reasonably anticipate that Prad may not discover. Willful
or wanton conduct is not required.

(C)   is wrong because this is not a claim for strict liability.
Premises are not “defective.” Liability arises here, if at
all,  from  negligence  principles,  not  from  strict  liability.
So  the  key  issue  is  whether  the  clerk  should  have
realized  that  Prad  didn’t  know  about  the  open  shaft  (as
discussed in (D)).

2.  Children

a.  Not usually the answer on the MBE

Question 45:  Davis  has  a  small  trampoline  in  his  backyard
which, as he knows, is commonly used by neighbor children
as  well  as  his  own.  The  trampoline  is  in  good  condition,  is
not defective in any way, and normally is surrounded by mats
to prevent injury if a user should fall off. Prior to leaving with
his family for the day, Davis leaned the trampoline up against
the side of the house and placed the mats in the garage.

While the Davis family was away, Philip, aged 11, a new boy
in the neighborhood, wandered into Davis’s yard and saw the
trampoline.  Philip  had  not  previously  been  aware  of  its
presence, but, having frequently used a trampoline before, he
decided to set it up, and started to jump. He lost his balance
on one jump and took a hard fall on the bare ground, suffering
a serious injury that would have been prevented by the mats.
An action has been brought against Davis on Philip’s behalf to
recover  damages  for  the  injuries  Philip  sustained  from  his
fall.  In  this  jurisdiction,  the  traditional  common-law  rules
pertaining to contributory negligence have been replaced by a
pure comparative negligence rule.
In his action against Davis, will Philip prevail?

728

(A)    No,  if  children  likely  to  be  attracted  by  the  trampoline
would normally realize the risk of using it without mats.
(B)    No,  if  Philip  failed  to  exercise  reasonable  care
commensurate with his age, intelligence, and experience.
(C)    No,  because  Philip  entered  Davis’s  yard  and  used  the

trampoline without Davis’s permission.

(D)    No,  because  Philip  did  not  know  about  the  trampoline
before  entering  Davis’s  yard  and  thus  was  not  “lured”
onto the premises.

Answer 45:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  A  trespassing  child  may
sue  for  harm  suffered  from  an  injurious  condition  on  the
defendant’s  land.  The  only  plausible  basis  for  Philip  to
recover  would  be  the  special  rule  under  which  a  landowner
will  be  liable  for  an  artificial  condition  that  is  highly
dangerous to trespassing children. The requirements set forth
in  Rest.  2d,  §  339  for  such  liability  are  that:  (1)  the  place
where the condition exists must be (as the owner knows) one
on  which  children  are  likely  to  trespass;  (2)  there  is,  as  the
owner knows, an unreasonable risk of death or serious bodily
harm  to  such  children  from  the  condition;  (3)  the  children
because of their youth do not discover the condition or don’t
recognize  the  risk  from  it;  (4)  the  utility  of  maintaining  the
condition  is  slight  compared  with  the  risks  to  the  children
involved; and (5) the owner fails to exercise reasonable care.
Choice  (A)  correctly  addresses  requirement  (3),  that  the
child,  because  of  his  youth,  either  did  not  discover  the
condition or did not realize the danger posed by it.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(B)   is wrong because, if Philip failed to exercise reasonable
care,  this  would  merely  reduce  his  recovery,  but  not
block it altogether. The facts indicate that the traditional
common-law rules pertaining to contributory negligence
(which  would  block  recovery  by  a  negligent  plaintiff)
have  been  replaced  by  a  pure  comparative  negligence
rule  (where  the  plaintiff’s  recovery  is  reduced  by  a
proportion equal to the ratio between his own fault and
the total fault contributing to the accident). Therefore, if
Philip was negligent, his recovery would be reduced, but
not eliminated as this choice implies.

(C)   is wrong because a duty is owed to child trespassers as

729

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

long as certain requirements are met, as discussed in the
explanation of Choice (A).

(D)      is  wrong  because  most  modern  courts  reject  the
requirement that the child must have been attracted by the
particular  condition  which  ends  up  injuring  him  (the
“attractive nuisance” doctrine).

II.   LICENSEES

A.  Social guests

Question 46: At the trial of an action against Grandmother on
behalf of Patrick, the following evidence has been introduced.
Grandson  and  his  friend,  Patrick,  both  aged  eight,  were
visiting  at  Grandmother’s  house  when,  while  exploring  the
premises,  they  discovered  a  hunting  rifle  in  an  unlocked  gun
cabinet.  They  removed  it  from  the  cabinet  and  were
examining  it  when  the  rifle,  while  in  Grandson’s  hands,
somehow  discharged.  The  bullet  struck  and  injured  Patrick.
The  gun  cabinet  was  normally  locked.  Grandmother  had
opened it for dusting several days before the boys’ visit, and
had then forgotten to relock it. She was not aware that it was
unlocked when the boys arrived.

If  the  defendant  moves  for  a  directed  verdict  in  her  favor  at
the end of the plaintiff’s case, that motion should be

(A)  granted, because Grandmother is not legally responsible

for the acts of Grandson.

(B)  granted, because Grandmother did not recall that the gun

cabinet was unlocked.

(C)    denied,  because  a  firearm  is  an  inherently  dangerous

instrumentality.

(D)    denied,  because  a  jury  could  find  that  Grandmother

breached a duty of care she owed to Patrick.

Answer 46: Choice (D) is correct. Patrick was a licensee, a
person  who  has  the  owner’s  consent  to  be  on  the  owner’s
property, but who does not have a business purpose for being
there, or anything else entitling him to be there apart from the
owner’s  consent.  When  the  plaintiff  is  a  licensee,  the
defendant does not have a “duty to inspect” for dangers. But if

730

the  defendant  knows  of  a  dangerous  condition,  the  defendant
has  a  duty  to  take  reasonable  precautions  to  make  the
premises safe. In this case, a reasonable jury could find that
since  Grandmother  knew  of  the  danger  from  guns,  she  had  a
duty to take reasonable care to keep the cabinet locked.

from 

arising 

(A)   is wrong because, even though there may not be a special
duty 
the  Grandmother-Grandson
relationship, a duty did arise for Grandmother, as owner
of  the  premises  and  the  gun  cabinet,  to  use  reasonable
care in safeguarding the guns. She is therefore liable for
the foreseeable consequences of her breach of this duty
regardless  of  whether  it  was  Grandson  or  some  other
child who got his hand on the gun.

(B)   is wrong because if Grandma did not recall that the gun
is  evidence  of  her
cabinet  was  unlocked, 
unreasonable  behavior.  Reasonable  care  would  require
that  an  owner  of  a  gun  cabinet  be  extremely  vigilant  in
making  sure  that  the  cabinet  is  locked,  especially  when
there are young children exploring the premises.

this 

(C)   is wrong because it relies on an inappropriate concept.
The concept of an “inherently dangerous instrumentality”
might apply to strict product liability, or to strict liability
for  conducting  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity.  But  it
would  not  apply  to  a  negligence  suit.  In  other  words,
plaintiff can’t win unless defendant was negligent — it’s
not  enough  that  defendant  possessed  an  inherently
dangerous  instrumentality  (if,  indeed,  a  gun  is  such).
Also, guns can themselves be locked (trigger guards), so
the  factual  accuracy  of  this  choice  is  questionable  as
well.

III.  INVITEES

A.  Duty of due care

1.  Effect of warning

a.  Torts by third persons

Question 47: Supermarket is in a section of town where there
are  sometimes  street  fights  and  where  pedestrians  are

731

occasionally  the  victims  of  pickpockets  and  muggers.  In
recognition of the unusual number of robberies in the area, the
supermarket posted signs in the store and in its parking lot that
read:

                              Warning: There are pickpockets and muggers at work in this part of the city. Supermarket is not

responsible for the acts of criminals.

One  evening,  Lorner  drove  to  Supermarket  to  see  about  a
special  on  turkeys  that  Supermarket  was  advertising.  She
decided  that  the  turkeys  were  too  large  and  left  the  store
without  purchasing  anything.  In  the  parking  lot,  she  was
attacked  by  an  unknown  man  who  raped  her  and  then  ran
away.

If Lorner sues Supermarket, the result should be for the

(A)  plaintiff, if Supermarket failed to take reasonable steps to
protect  customers  against  criminal  attack  in  its  parking
lot.

(B)    plaintiff,  because  Supermarket  is  liable  for  harm  to

business invitees on its premises.

(C)    defendant,  if  the  warning  signs  were  plainly  visible  to

Lorner.

(D)  defendant, because the rapist was the proximate cause of

Lorner’s injuries.

Answer  47:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Grocery  store  shoppers
are  invitees — members  of  the  public  who  come  onto  land
held  open  to  them  and  who  do  so  for  the  purpose  for  which
the land is held open. Such people reasonably expect that the
premises have been made safe for them, and the owner must
exercise  reasonable  care  for  the  safety  of  such  people.
Reasonable care by the owner will typically require that she
attempt  to  exercise  control  over  third  persons  on  the
premises.  A  storekeeper,  for  instance,  will  generally  be
required  to  take  reasonable  security  measures  to  prevent
attacks or thefts against her customers.
(B)   is wrong because Supermarket is liable for harm caused
to its invitee only if it has breached a duty of reasonable
care to that invitee. (B) asserts a blanket rule of liability,
and is therefore incorrect.

732

(C)   is wrong because Supermarket’s duty requires that it use
reasonable  efforts  to  control  third  persons  on  the
premises. Issuing a warning does not necessarily satisfy
this duty.

(D)      is  wrong  because  if  Supermarket  breached  its  duty  in
failing to protect Lorner against the rapist, it is liable for
injuries  inflicted  by  the  rapist  that  were  a  foreseeable
result of breach of that duty. Note that an event may have
multiple  proximate  causes;  so  here,  the  fact  that  the
rapist  was  a  proximate  cause  of  Lorner’s  injuries
doesn’t  prevent  Supermarket’s  negligence  (in  failing  to
use  adequate  security  measures)  from  also  being  a
proximate cause of those injuries.

733

CHAPTER 9
VICARIOUS LIABILITY

I.    EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP

A.  Torts by non-employees (e.g., guests and customers)

Question 48: Perkins and Morton were passengers sitting in
adjoining  seats  on  a  flight  on  Delval  Airline.  There  were
many empty seats on the aircraft.

During the flight, a flight attendant served Morton nine drinks.
As Morton became more and more obviously intoxicated and
attempted to engage Perkins in a conversation, Perkins chose
to ignore Morton. This angered Morton, who suddenly struck
Perkins in the face, giving her a black eye.
If Perkins asserts a claim for damages against Delval Airline
based on battery, she will

(A)    prevail,  because  she  suffered  an  intentionally  inflicted

harmful or offensive contact.

(B)    prevail,  if  the  flight  attendant  acted  recklessly  in

continuing to serve liquor to Morton.

(C)  not prevail, because Morton was not acting as an agent or

employee of Delval Airline.

(D)    not  prevail,  unless  she  can  establish  some  permanent

injury from the contact.

Answer 48: Choice (C) is correct. The doctrine of vicarious
liability  provides  that  in  some  special  relationships,  such  as
that  of  employer-employee,  the  tortious  act  of  an  employee
may be imputed to his employer. As a result, the latter will be
held  liable,  even  though  its  own  conduct  may  have  been
completely blameless. In order for Delval Airline to be liable
for the battery perpetrated by Morton, there would have to be
such a relationship between Morton and the airline. Since, as
(C)  correctly  recites,  Morton  was  not  acting  as  an  agent  or
employee of Delval, vicarious liability would not be applied.
(A)   is wrong because the fact that Perkins suffered a battery
by itself doesn’t justify imposing liability on Delval for

734

the battery.

(B)      is  wrong  because  the  airline  has  not  committed  battery
here.  Battery  is,  of  course,  an  intentional  tort,  so  the
airline can be liable for that intentional tort (as opposed
to liable in negligence) only if the airline or someone for
whom the airline is directly responsible had the requisite
intent  to  commit  a  harmful  or  offensive  contact.  Since
Morton  wasn’t  the  airline’s  agent  or  employee,  this
requirement  of  intent  isn’t  satisfied.  The  fact  that  the
airline  may  have  been  reckless  in  facilitating  Morton’s
intentional  tort  won’t  be  enough,  because  a  reckless
mental  state  on  the  part  of  the  airline  won’t  suffice  for
battery.  (Whereas  a  business  owner  can  be  liable  in
negligence  for  failing  to  stop  someone  else’s  negligent
or  intentional  tort,  there’s  no  comparable  principle
whereby a business owner becomes liable for intentional
tort  X  merely  for  recklessly  bringing  about  a  third
person’s commission of X.)

(D)   is wrong the because severity of the injury is irrelevant
in  determining  Delval’s  liability  for  the  conduct  of
another.

735

CHAPTER 10
STRICT LIABILITY

I.    ABNORMALLY DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES

A.  Examples

1.  Nuclear reactor

Question 49:  As  a  result  of  an  accident  at  the  NPP  nuclear
power plant, a quantity of radioactive vapor escaped from the
facility  and  two  members  of  the  public  were  exposed  to
excessive doses of radiation. According to qualified medical
opinion,  that  exposure  will  double  the  chance  that  these  two
persons will ultimately develop cancer. However, any cancer
that  might  be  caused  by  this  exposure  will  not  be  detectable
for at least ten years. If the two exposed persons do develop
cancer,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  determine  whether  it  was
caused  by  this  exposure  or  would  have  developed  in  any
event.
If  the  exposed  persons  assert  a  claim  for  damages  against
NPP  shortly  after  the  escape  of  the  radiation,  which  of  the
following questions will NOT present a substantial issue?
(A)  Will the court recognize that the plaintiffs have suffered a

present legal injury?

(B)  Can the plaintiffs prove the amount of their damages?
(C)  Can the plaintiffs prove that any harm they may suffer was

caused by this exposure?

(D)  Can the plaintiffs prevail without presenting evidence of

specific negligence on the part of NPP?

Answer  49:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Operation  of  a  nuclear
power plant is an ultrahazardous activity. Therefore, NPP can
be  strictly  liable  for  the  accident  without  any  proof  by  the
exposed plaintiff that NPP behaved negligently.
(A)   is incorrect because the question of whether doubling the
risk  of  contracting  cancer  ten  years  into  the  future
the
issue, 
presents  a  substantial 
plaintiff’s  have  already  suffered  a  present  compensable

is,  whether 

that 

736

legal injury.

(B)      is  incorrect  because  valuing  the  damages  suffered  by  a
plaintiff who is now healthy but is at an increased risk of
contracting a deadly disease, raises the substantial issue
of whether the damages are too speculative to calculate
at the present time.

(C)   is incorrect because causation is a real issue in the case.
Plaintiffs ordinarily have the burden of proving harm. At
present  they  have  not  contracted  cancer  and  have
suffered no present harm. So it’s a real issue whether any
cancer  they  suffer  in  the  future  (the  “present  value”  of
which  they’re  trying  to  recover  now)  will  have  been
caused by the radiation exposure.

2.  Construction activities

Question 50:  Innes  worked  as  a  secretary  in  an  office  in  a
building occupied partly by her employer and partly by Glass,
a  retail  store.  The  two  areas  were  separated  by  walls  and
were  in  no  way  connected,  except  that  the  air  conditioning
unit  served  both  areas  and  there  was  a  common  return-air
duct.
Glass  began  remodeling,  and  its  employees  did  the  work,
which  included  affixing  a  plastic  surfacing  material  to
counters. To fasten the plastic to the counters, the employees
purchased  glue,  with  the  brand  name  Stick,  that  was
manufactured  by  Steel,  packaged  in  a  sealed  container  by
Steel, and retailed by Paint Company.

In the course of the remodeling job, one of Glass’s employees
turned on the air conditioning and caused fumes from the glue
to travel from Glass through the air conditioning unit and into
Innes’s  office.  The  employees  did  not  know  that  there  was
common  ductwork  for  the  air  conditioners.  Innes  was
permanently blinded by the fumes from the glue.
The  label  on  the  container  of  glue  read,  “DANGER.  Do  not
smoke  near  this  product.  Extremely  flammable.  Contains
Butanone, Tuluol and Hexane. Use with adequate ventilation.
Keep out of the reach of children.”
The  three  chemicals  listed  on  the  label  are  very  toxic  and
harmful to human eyes. Steel had received no reports of eye

737

injuries  during  the  ten  years  that  the  product  had  been
manufactured and sold.

If Innes asserts a claim against Glass, the most likely result is
that she will

(A)  recover, because a user of a product is held to the same

standard as the manufacturer.

(B)    recover,  because  the  employees  of  Glass  caused  the

fumes to enter her area of the building.

(C)  not recover, because Glass used the glue for its intended

purposes.

(D)    not  recover,  because  the  employees  of  Glass  had  no

reason to know that the fumes could injure Innes.

Answer 50: Choice (D) is correct. What we care about here
is  whether  Glass  is  strictly  liable  for  having  carried  out  an
abnormally dangerous activity. The answer is, “no.” It’s very
unlikely  the  use  of  the  glue  here  would  be  considered
ultrahazardous,  as  you  can  see  by  considering  the  four
elements  that  generally  make  an  activity  ultrahazardous:  (1)
the activity involves a high risk of serious harm, (2) there’s no
way to perform the activity completely safely no matter how
much care is taken, (3) the activity is not commonly engaged
in  in  the  particular  community,  and  (4)  the  danger  of  the
activity  outweighs  its  utility  to  the  community.  At  least
element  (2)  is  missing  (it’s  possible  to  do  glueing  safely  by
venting  the  glue  fumes  to  the  outside),  and  it’s  doubtful
whether element (3) is satisfied either (since remodeling with
glue occurs all the time, even if this particular glue brand is
not widely used). So the activity isn’t ultrahazardous.

Nor  were  Glass’s  employees  negligent — it’s  clear  from  the
facts  that  they  did  not  know  about  the  danger  that  the  fumes
would  be  vented  over  to  Innes,  so  there’s  no  indication  of
negligence  on  their  part.  And  Glass  has  no  strict  product
liability,  because  as  is  further  discussed  in  (A)  below,  only
“sellers”  or  makers  of  defective  products,  not  users,  have
such liability.
(A)   is incorrect because it states incorrect law. It is not true
that  a  user  of  a  product  is  held  to  the  same  standard  as
the  manufacturer.  That’s  because  a  manufacturer  is

738

strictly liable for selling a defective product, whereas a
user is not. (Even if the use occurs in a business context,
and  even  if  the  use  directly  injures  a  third  person
because  the  product  being  used  is  “defective”  and
dangerous, the user will be liable only for negligence.)

liable.  Unless  either 

(B)      is  incorrect  because  even  if  the  employees  of  Glass
caused the fumes, this does not automatically make Glass
strictly 
the  activity  was
ultrahazardous,  or  Glass’s  employees  were  negligent,
Glass  would  not  be  liable  even  though  the  employees
caused the fumes to enter plaintiff’s area of the building.
(C)      is  incorrect  because  there  could  be  an  instance  where
using  a  product  for  its  intended  purposes  still  creates
liability. For instance, if Glass’s use of the product was
indeed  ultrahazardous,  as  discussed  in  the  explanation
for (D), Glass could have been liable.

B.  Requirement that D “carry out” the activity

1.  Use of independent contractor

Question  51:  Landco  purchased  a  large  tract  of  land
intending to construct residential housing on it. Landco hired
Poolco to build a large in-ground swimming pool on the tract.
The  contract  provided  that  Poolco  would  carry  out  blasting
operations that were necessary to create an excavation large
enough for the pool. The blasting caused cracks to form in the
residential
walls  of  Plaintiff’s  home 
neighborhood.

in  a  nearby 

In  Plaintiff’s  action  for  damages  against  Landco,  Plaintiff
should

(A)    prevail,  only  if  Landco  retained  the  right  to  direct  and

control Poolco’s construction of the pool.

(B)    prevail,  because  the  blasting  that  Poolco  was  hired  to

perform damaged Plaintiff’s home.

(C)  not prevail, if Poolco used reasonable care in conducting

the blasting operations.

(D)    not  prevail,  if  Landco  used  reasonable  care  to  hire  a

competent contractor.

Answer 51: Choice (B) is correct. Blasting is considered an

739

ultrahazardous  activity,  giving  rise  to  strict  liability.  Where
one  person  hires  an  independent  contractor  to  perform  an
untrahazardous activity, the hirer is strictly liable, just as the
contractor  is,  even  if  the  hirer  used  all  due  care  selecting  a
careful contractor.

(A)      is  wrong  because  Landco  is  responsible  for  damages
caused by Poolco regardless of whether or not Poolco is
Landco’s  employee.  The  doctrine  of  vicarious  liability
provides that in some special relationships, such as that
of  employer-employee,  the  tortious  act  of  an  employee
may  be  imputed  to  his  employer.  As  a  result,  the  latter
will  be  held  liable,  even  though  its  own  conduct  may
have  been  completely  blameless.  An  employee  is  one
who works subject to the control of the person who has
hired  him.  If  the  party  that  caused  the  damage  is  not  an
employee,  but  an  independent  contractor,  there  will
generally not be vicarious liability. However, there is an
exception — where the work is such that, unless special
precautions  are  taken,  there  will  be  a  high  degree  of
danger  to  others.  Rest.  2d,  §§  416,  427.  That’s  clearly
true  of  blasting  in  a  residential  neighborhood  (which  is
an  “ultrahazardous  activity”  for  which  the  person
carrying it out has strict liability). Therefore, Landco, the
hiring  party,  will  be  liable  for  the  damage  caused  by
Poolco,  despite  the  fact  that  Poolco  is  an  independent
contractor,  and  even  if  Landco  didn’t  retain  the  right  to
direct and control Poolco’s work.

(C)   is wrong because the use of reasonable care is irrelevant
in  a  claim  for  strict  liability  for  an  ultrahazardous
activity, as this is. (See the discussion of Choice (A) for
more about this.)

(D)      is  wrong  because,  as  the  hiring  party,  Landco  will  be
vicariously  liable  for  harm  caused  by  Poolco  based  on
the  abnormal  dangerousness  of  the  activity  in  which
Poolco was engaging. See the more extensive discussion
of why this is so, in the treatment of Choice (A).

740

CHAPTER 11
PRODUCTS LIABILITY

I.    NEGLIGENCE

A.  Classes of defendants

1.  Manufacturers

Question 52: A bicycle company manufactured a bicycle that
it  sold  to  a  retail  bicycle  dealer,  which  in  turn  sold  it  to  a
cyclist.  Shortly  thereafter,  while  the  cyclist  was  riding  the
bicycle  along  a  city  street,  he  saw  a  traffic  light  facing  him
turn  from  green  to  amber.  He  sped  up,  hoping  to  cross  the
intersection before the light turned red. However, the cyclist
quickly realized that he could not do so and applied the brake,
which  failed.  To  avoid  the  traffic  that  was  then  crossing  in
front of him, the cyclist turned sharply to his right and onto the
sidewalk,  where  he  struck  a  pedestrian.  Both  the  pedestrian
and  the  cyclist  sustained  injuries.  The  jurisdiction  has
retained common-law joint-and-several liability.
If the pedestrian asserts a claim based on negligence against
the  bicycle  company  and  it  is  found  that  the  brake  failure
resulted  from  a  manufacturing  defect  in  the  bicycle,  will  the
pedestrian prevail?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  bicycle  company  placed  a  defective

bicycle into the stream of commerce.

(B)  Yes, if the defect could have been discovered through the
exercise of reasonable care by the bicycle company.
(C)    No,  because  the  pedestrian  was  not  a  purchaser  of  the

bicycle.

(D)    No,  if  the  cyclist  was  negligent  in  turning  onto  the

sidewalk.

Answer 52: The correct choice is (B). As in any negligence
claim,  a  defendant  will  be  liable  for  product  liability  based
on  negligence  if  (1)  he  failed  to  exercise  such  care  as  a
reasonable  person  in  his  position  would  have  exercised;  (2)
this was a breach of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of
injury to anyone in the plaintiff’s position, and (3) this breach

741

must  have  caused  the  plaintiff’s  damages.  There  are  four
principal ways in which a manufacturer can be negligent: (1)
manufacturing  flaw,  (2)  negligent  failure  to  inspect,  (3)
negligent design, and (4) failure to warn.

Choice B is directed at scenario (2): If the bicycle company,
using  reasonable  care  in  the  inspection  process,  would  have
discovered  the  defect,  then  its  not  discovering  it  was
negligent.  This  would  satisfy  the  ‘‘breach’’  element  of
negligence,  and  the  other  three  elements — duty,  causation,
and  damages — are  not  at  issue  here.  Finally,  if  the  bicycle
company was negligent, it’ll be liable to the pedestrian, since
it is reasonably foreseeable that if a cyclist’s brakes fail, he
will hit a pedestrian.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  element  it  states  would  be
irrelevant  in  a  product  liability  claim  based  on  negligence,
and it ignores an element negligence requires: fault. As in any
negligence claim, a product liability suit based on negligence
requires,  among  other  things,  that  the  defendant  failed  to
exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable  person  in  his  position
would  have  exercised.  The  mere  fact  that  the  bicycle  was
defective  would  not  be  sufficient  to  establish  negligence  by
the  bicycle  company,  since  the  defect  might  have  occurred
despite the company’s total carefulness in design, manufacture
and inspection.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  of  a
product  liability  claim  based  on  strict  liability.  Under  that
theory,  a  defendant  will  be  liable  if  the  product  was
defectively dangerous when it left his control (in the parlance
of Choice A, when the product was ‘‘placed in the stream of
commerce’’). However, you’re told here that the basis of the
claim is negligence.
(C) is wrong, because the pedestrian needn’t be a purchaser
in  order  to  prevail.  Choice  C  suggests  that  the  pedestrian
should lose because, as a non-purchaser, he lacks privity with
the bicycle company. This is not the actual rule for a product
liability suit based on negligence; in fact, the defendant’s duty
extends to anyone foreseeably endangered by the product. The
scope  of  the  risk  posed  by  failing  bicycle  brakes  includes
injury  to  bystanders  whom  the  rider  tries  to  avoid  but  can’t

742

because  of  the  failure.  Thus,  as  long  as  the  pedestrian  can
prove  that  the  bicycle  company  was  negligent  and  this
proximately caused his damages, he’ll prevail.

(D) is wrong, because even if the cyclist was negligent, this
will not prevent the pedestrian from recovering. This choice
suggests  that  if  the  cyclist’s  turning  onto  the  sidewalk  was
negligent, this negligence will constitute a supervening cause,
breaking  the  chain  of  causation  from  the  bicycle  company  to
the  pedestrian.  Even  in  the  unlikely  case  that  the  cyclist’s
conduct  was  considered  unreasonable, 
this  negligence
wouldn’t  exonerate 
the  bicycle  company.  A  negligent
tortfeasor will only be relieved of liability due to intervening
forces  if  those  forces  were  extremely  hard  to  foresee  at  the
time of the defendant’s negligent conduct (here, the negligent
manufacture  of  the  bike).  Where  a  bicycle’s  brakes  fail,  it’s
perfectly  foreseeable  that  the  failure  might  combine  with
negligent riding by the cyclist, so as to cause an accident with
a bystander, so the negligent riding (even if it occurred) won’t
be  a  superseding  event.  Nor  will  the  cyclist’s  negligence
reduce  the  pedestrian’s  recovery  from  the  bicycle  company 
the  pedestrian  can
liability  means 
— joint-and-several 
recover the full amount of his damages from any co-tortfeasor;
it would be up to the bicycle company to recover contribution
(a  sharing  of  the  damages,  in  proportion  to  fault)  from  the
cyclist.

2. Retailers

a.  Consequence

Question  53:  Parents  purchased  a  new  mobile  home  from
Seller.  The  mobile  home  was  manufactured  by  Mobilco  and
had  a  ventilating  system  designed  by  Mobilco  with  both  a
heating  unit  and  an  air  conditioner.  Mobilco  installed  a
furnace  manufactured  by  Heatco  and  an  air  conditioning  unit
manufactured  by  Coolco.  Each  was  controlled  by  an
independent thermostat installed by Mobilco. Because of the
manner in which Mobilco designed the ventilating system, the
first time the ventilating system was operated by Parents, cold
air was vented into Parents’ bedroom to keep the temperature
at 68°F. The cold air then activated the heater thermostat, and
hot air was pumped into the bedroom of Child, the six-month-

743

old child of Parents. The temperature in Child’s room reached
more than 170°F before Child’s mother became aware of the
condition and shut the system off manually. As a result, Child
suffered permanent physical injury.

Child, through a duly appointed guardian, has asserted a claim
against Seller based solely on negligence. The minimum proof
necessary to establish Seller’s liability is that the ventilating
system

(A)  was defective.
(B)  was defective and had not been inspected by Seller.
(C)  was defective and had been inspected by Seller, and the

defect was not discovered.

(D)    was  defective,  and  the  defect  would  have  been
discovered  if  Seller  had  exercised  reasonable  care  in
inspecting the system.

Answer 53: Choice (D) is correct. As a retailer, Seller will
only  be  liable  in  negligence  due  to  its  own  affirmative
negligence. Retailers only have a duty to inspect if they have
reason  to  believe  the  product  is  likely  to  be  defective,  and
even if they do have a duty to inspect, they’ll only be liable if
an  inspection  undertaken  with  reasonable  care  would  have
uncovered the defect. This choice mirrors these requirements
by  comparing  Seller’s  conduct  to  what  a  retailer  in  the
exercise of due care would have done.

(A)   is wrong because, as a retailer defending a negligence
action,  Seller  will  only  be  liable  for  negligence  due  to
its  own  affirmative  negligence.  So  the  fact  that  the
product was defective isn’t close to enough. If you chose
this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  of  strict
product liability, under which proof of the defect would
be  the  lynchpin  of  Child’s  claim.  However,  you’re  told
the  suit  has  been  brought  only  in  negligence,  and
negligence  requires  some  proof  of  lack  of  due  care  on
defendant’s part.

(B)      is  wrong  because  it,  like  Choice  (A),  understates  the
proof  Child’s  negligence  claim  will  require.  Since  the
action is based solely on negligence, Seller will only be
liable  due  to  its  own  affirmative  negligence.  Retailers

744

only have a duty to inspect if they have reason to believe
the product is likely to be defective, and even if they do
have  a  duty  to  inspect,  they’ll  only  be  liable  if  an
inspection undertaken with reasonable care would have
uncovered the defect. Thus, merely proving a defect and
a  lack  of  inspection  would  be  insufficient  to  pin
negligence liability on Seller — Child would also have
to  prove  that  a  reasonable  inspection  would  have
uncovered the defect.

(C)      is  wrong  because  it,  too,  understates  the  proof  Child’s
negligence claim will require. Child must show both that
(1)  Seller  failed  to  follow  the  reasonable  standard  of
care  of  a  retailer,  and  (2)  this  failure  proximately  and
actually  caused  the  accident.  Seller’s  mere  failure  to
discover  the  defect  during  an  inspection  that  actually
occurred  would  not  make  Seller  negligent  unless  a
reasonable  inspection  would  have  uncovered  the  defect
(since  without  the  latter  showing,  Seller’s  failure  to
inspect  in  a  reasonable  manner  didn’t  change  the
outcome,  and  thus  wasn’t  the  proximate  cause  of  the
accident).

II.   WARRANTY

A.  Express warranties

1.  UCC

Question  54:  At  a  country  auction,  Powell  acquired  an
antique  cabinet  that  he  recognized  as  a  “Morenci,”  an
extremely  rare  and  valuable  collector’s  item.  Unfortunately,
Powell’s cabinet had several coats of varnish and paint over
the original finish. Its potential value could only be realized if
these layers could be removed without damaging the original
finish. Much of the value of Morenci furniture depends on the
condition of a unique oil finish, the secret of which died with
Morenci, its inventor.
A professional restorer of antique furniture recommended that
Powell use Restorall to remove the paint and varnish from the
cabinet. Powell obtained and read a sales brochure published
by  Restorall,  Inc.,  which  contained  the  following  statement:

745

“This  product  will  renew  all  antique  furniture.  Will  not
damage original oil finishes.”

Powell purchased some Restorall and used it on his cabinet,
being  very  careful  to  follow  the  accompanying  instructions
exactly.  Despite  Powell’s  care,  the  original  Morenci  finish
was  irreparably  damaged.  When  finally  refinished,  the
cabinet was worth less than 20% of what it would have been
worth if the Morenci finish had been preserved.

If  Powell  sues  Restorall,  Inc.,  to  recover  the  loss  he  has
suffered  as  a  result  of  the  destruction  of  the  Morenci  finish,
will Powell prevail?

(A)    Yes,  unless  no  other  known  removal  technique  would

have preserved the Morenci finish.

(B)  Yes, if the loss would not have occurred had the statement

in the brochure been true.

(C)    No,  unless  the  product  was  defective  when  sold  by

Restorall, Inc.

(D)  No, if the product was not dangerous to persons.
Answer  54:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  A  seller  may  expressly
represent  that  her  goods  have  certain  qualities.  If  the  goods
turn out not to have these qualities, the purchaser may sue for
breach of warranty. UCC Sec. 2-313. Had the statement “will
not  damage  original  oil  finishes”  been  true,  then  the  loss
suffered would not have occurred. In this case, the product is
not defective or dangerous to people (it only causes harm to a
particular  type  of  furniture).  Therefore,  a  warranty  claim  is
suitable for this kind of case.

(A)      is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  no  other  product  would
have  been  safer  for  use  on  the  furniture  is  irrelevant
when  the  claim  is  based  on  breach  of  an  express
warranty, i.e., a warranty stating that the product works
on all antique furniture and will not damage original oil
finishes. This answer sounds like it’s trying to conjure up
a  design  defect  claim,  where  it  is  relevant  that  the
adoption of a reasonable alternative design is available
or  not.  However,  the  availability  of  such  a  reasonable
alternative design is irrelevant here, given the warranty
claim.

746

(C)      is  wrong  because  suit  for  breach  of  warranty  does  not

require that the product be “defective.”

(D)      is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  product  is  not
dangerous to people is irrelevant in this case of breach
of warranty.

III.  STRICT PRODUCT LIABILITY

A.  Retailers and other non-manufacturers

1.  MBE tip on retailers

a.  Retailer’s fate linked to manufacturer’s fate

Question 55:  A  secretary  worked  in  an  office  in  a  building
occupied partly by her employer and partly by a retail glass
store. The two areas were separated by walls and were in no
way  connected,  except  that  the  air  conditioning  unit  served
both areas and there was a common return-air duct.

The glass store began remodeling, and its employees did the
work, which included affixing a plastic surfacing material to
counters. To fasten the plastic to the counters, the employees
purchased  glue,  with  the  brand  name  Stick,  that  was
manufactured  by  a  glue  manufacturer,  packaged  in  a  sealed
container  by  that  glue  manufacturer,  and  retailed  to  the  glass
store by a paint company.

In  the  course  of  the  remodeling  job,  one  of  the  glass  store’s
employees  turned  on  the  air  conditioning  and  caused  fumes
from  the  glue  to  travel  from  the  glass  store  through  the  air
conditioning  unit  and  into  the  secretary’s  office.  The  glass
store  employees  did  not  know  that  there  was  common
ductwork  for  the  air  conditioners.  The  secretary  was
permanently blinded by the fumes from the glue.

The label on the container of Stick glue read, “DANGER. Do
not  smoke  near  this  product.  Extremely  flammable.  Contains
Butanone, Tuluol, and Hexane. Use with adequate ventilation.
Keep out of the reach of children.”
The  three  chemicals  listed  on  the  label  are  very  toxic  and
harmful  to  human  eyes.  The  glue  manufacturer  had  received
no reports of eye injuries during the ten years that the product

747

had been manufactured and sold.

If the secretary asserts a claim against the paint company, the
most likely result is that she will

(A)  recover, if she can recover against the glue manufacturer.
(B)  recover, because the secretary was an invitee of a tenant

in the building.

(C)  not recover unless the paint company was negligent.
(D)  not recover, because the glue came in a sealed package.
Answer  55:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  choice  is  correct
because: (1) it correctly implies that the only basis on which
the  glue  manufacturer  could  be  liable  is  on  a  strict  product
liability  theory;  and  (2)  it  correctly  asserts  that  if  the  glue
manufacturer is strictly liable, then the paint company must be
as  well.  Let’s  take  these  steps  one  at  a  time.  As  to  (1),  the
glue  manufacturer  won’t  be  found  negligent,  since  it  had  no
reason  to  believe  that  the  product  posed  eye  dangers,  and
since it warned of any danger (e.g., from lack of ventilation)
of  which  it  was  aware.  So  if  the  glue  manufacturer  were
liable, it would have to be on a strict product liability basis.
As  to  (2),  if  the  glue  manufacturer  were  strictly  liable,  it
would  have  to  be  because  it  sold  a  defectively  dangerous
product.  If  the  product  was  defectively  dangerous,  then  the
paint  company,  as  a  “downstream”  re-seller,  would  have
exactly  the  same  liability,  since  anyone  who  sells  a
defectively  dangerous  product  is  strictly  liable  for  it.  So
there’s no way the glue manufacturer could be liable without
the paint company’s also being liable.

(B) is wrong because it doesn’t matter whether the secretary
was an invitee of a tenant in the building or not. The recovery
here would have to be on a strict product liability basis (see
the  analysis  of  Choice  (A)  for  why),  and  any  person  who  is
injured by a defect in a defective product can recover against
any seller of that product, whether the plaintiff was an invitee
at the time of the injury or not. (Indeed, even if the secretary
had  been  a  trespasser,  she  could  have  recovered  against  the
paint company in strict product liability.)
(C) is wrong because it ignores the possibility that the paint
company  is  strictly  liable  as  a  non-negligent  seller  of  a

748

dangerously defective product.

(D) is wrong because it ignores the possibility that the paint
company as a seller of a dangerously defective product would
be  strictly  liable  even  though  the  product  came  in  a  sealed
package.  Sellers  of  dangerously  defective  products  are
strictly  liable  for  the  harm  caused  by  the  defect,  and  that  is
true even though the seller behaved with all possible care. So
the  fact  that  the  product  came  in  a  sealed  package — thus
preventing the paint company from recognizing or altering the
danger  even  if  it  wanted  to — is  irrelevant  to  its  strict
liability.

B.  Bystanders and other non-user plaintiffs

Question  56:  In  preparation  for  a  mountain-climbing
the  necessary  climbing
expedition,  Alper  purchased 
equipment  from  Outfitters,  Inc.,  a  retail  dealer  in  sporting
goods.  A  week  later,  Alper  fell  from  a  rock  face  when  a
safety device he had purchased from Outfitters malfunctioned
because  of  a  defect  in  its  manufacture.  Thereafter,  Rollins
was  severely  injured  when  he  tried  to  reach  and  give
assistance  to  Alper  on  the  ledge  to  which  Alper  had  fallen.
Rollins’s injury was not caused by any fault on his own part.

If Rollins brings an action against Outfitters, Inc., to recover
damages for his injuries, will Rollins prevail?

(A)  No, unless Outfitters could have discovered the defect by

a reasonable inspection of the safety device.

(B)  No, because Rollins did not rely on the representation of
safety  implied  from  the  sale  of  the  safety  device  by
Outfitters.

(C)    Yes,  unless  Alper  was  negligent  in  failing  to  test  the

safety device.

(D)  Yes, because injury to a person in Rollins’s position was

foreseeable if the safety device failed.

Answer 56:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  This  is  a  strict  liability
claim for a manufacturing defect, i.e., a scenario in which the
product  has  departed  from  its  intended  design  in  a  way  that
makes  it  unsafe.  It  must  be  proven  that  (1)  the  product  was
defective, (2) at the time it left the defendant’s hands, and (3)
the  product  caused  harm.  The  causation  element  will  be

749

satisfied  in  this  case  if  it  was  foreseeable  that  the  failure  of
the safety device would invite rescue by a third party (and if
the rescue was not performed in a grossly careless manner).

(A)      is  wrong  because  the  retailer  will  be  subject  to  strict
product liability; and, therefore the reasonableness of his
conduct is irrelevant.

(B)   is wrong because reliance is irrelevant here. One who is
in the business of selling a product which turns out to be
dangerously  defective  has  strict  product  liability,  and
that’s  true  whether  the  retailer  made  any  implied  or
express representation of safety (and whether or not the
buyer relied on such a representation if one was made).

(C)      is  wrong  because,  in  the  ordinary  case,  the  product
user’s  failure  to  discover  the  defect  will  not  be
considered negligence. And even if the user’s failure to
discover the defect was negligence (which it isn’t), that
negligence  would  only  reduce  the  plaintiff’s  recovery,
not  eliminate  it.  (The  choice  asks  you  whether  plaintiff
would  “prevail,”  and  a  recovery  reduced  by  plaintiff’s
percentage of fault would still constitute “prevailing” in
everyday usage.)

IV.  DESIGN DEFECTS

A.  Negligence predominates

1.  Reasonable alternative design

Question 57: A 16-year-old student purchased an educational
chemistry set made by a manufacturer. The student invited his
classmate to assist him in a chemistry project. Referring to a
library  chemistry  book  on  explosives  and  finding  that  the
chemistry  set  contained  all  of  the  necessary  chemicals,  the
student and the classmate agreed to make a bomb. During the
course of the project, the student carelessly knocked a lighted
Bunsen  burner  into  a  bowl  of  chemicals  from  the  chemistry
set. The chemicals burst into flames, injuring the classmate.
In a suit by the classmate against the manufacturer, based on
strict liability, the classmate will
(A)  prevail, if the chemistry set did not contain a warning that

750

its  contents  could  be  combined  to  form  dangerous
explosives.

(B)    prevail,  because  manufacturers  of  chemistry  sets  are

engaged in an abnormally dangerous activity.

(C)    not  prevail,  because  the  student’s  negligence  was  the

cause in fact of the classmate’s injury.

(D)  not prevail, if the chemistry set was as safe as possible,
consistent with its educational purposes, and its benefits
exceeded its risks.

Answer 57: Choice (D) is correct. Products that conform to
their  design,  and  essentially  do  what  the  consumer  expects
them to do, yet are by their very nature inherently dangerous,
are products that are “unavoidably unsafe.” The chemistry set
is  such  a  product.  The  question  to  be  determined  is  whether
such  an  unavoidably-unsafe  product  is  “reasonably  safe”
(because if it isn’t, it gives rise to strict products liability, and
if  it  is,  it  doesn’t  trigger  such  liability).  The  Third
Restatement applies a risk-utility approach to such products,
finding them defective rather than reasonably safe “when the
foreseeable  risks  of  harm  posed  by  the  product  could  have
been  reduced  or  avoided  by  the  adoption  of  a  reasonable
alternative  design  by  the  seller  .  .  .  and  the  omission  of  the
alternative  design  renders  the  product  not  reasonably  safe.”
Rest. 3d (Prod. Liab.) § 2(b). (D) essentially applies this test.
That  is,  the  choice  turns  on  whether  the  set  was  as  safe  as
possible  and  its  benefits  exceeded  its  risks;  if  it  was,  the
choice correctly asserts that the classmate would not prevail.

(A)   is wrong because the outcome would not turn on whether
such a warning was given. The presence or absence of a
warning  will  only  determine  the  outcome  of  a  product-
liability  case  if  the  warning  would  have  altered  the
outcome.  Here,  even  if  there  had  been  a  warning,  this
would probably not have prevented the knocking over of
the  Bunsen  burner.  (Would  the  student  have  been  less
likely to knock over the burner if there had been such a
warning and he had read it? Probably not.)

(B)   is wrong because when a person manufactures and sells
a dangerous product that causes injury post-sale, the act
of manufacturing and selling it won’t be deemed to be an

751

abnormally  dangerous  activity.  If  the  explosion  had
occurred  during  manufacture, 
that  probably  would
qualify  for  the  abnormally-dangerous-activity  form  of
strict  liability  (also  known  as  strict  liability  for
“ultrahazardous”  activities).  But  post-manufacture  and
post-sale, the relevant doctrine is strict product liability.
(C)      is  wrong  because  it  falsely  suggests  that  the  student’s
negligence would bar the manufacturer’s liability to the
classmate.  There  can  be  multiple  causes  in  fact,  and  if
the chemistry set had been defectively designed (which it
wasn’t), that defect could (and likely would) have been a
cause in fact, just as the student’s negligence would also
have  been.  In  that  scenario,  the  student’s  negligence
wouldn’t  even  have  caused  the  classmate’s  recovery
let  alone
from 
eliminated,  because  the  student’s  negligence  wouldn’t
have been imputed to the classmate.

the  manufacturer 

to  be  reduced, 

2.  Component makers

Question  58:  A  married  couple  purchased  a  new  mobile
home  from  a  retailer  of  such  homes.  The  mobile  home  was
assembled  by  a  manufacturer  and  had  an  “HVAC”  (heating,
ventilating,  and  air  conditioning)  system  designed  by  that
manufacturer. The HVAC system contained both a furnace and
an  air  conditioner,  neither  of  which  was  made  by  the
manufacturer — the furnace was made by a heating company
and the air conditioner was made by a cooling company. The
manufacturer  selected  and  installed  the  furnace  and  the  air
conditioner  into  the  overall  HVAC  unit.  The  furnace  and  the
air  conditioner  were  each  controlled  by  an  independent
thermostat  installed  by  the  manufacturer.  Because  of  the
manner in which the manufacturer designed the HVAC system,
the first time the system was operated by the couple, cold air
was vented into the couple’s bedroom to keep the temperature
at 68°F. The cold air then activated the heater thermostat, and
hot  air  was  pumped  into  the  bedroom  of  the  couple’s  six-
month-old child. The temperature in the child’s room reached
more than 160°F before the child’s mother became aware of
the condition and shut the system off manually. As a result, the
child suffered permanent physical injury.

752

The  child,  through  a  duly  appointed  guardian,  has  asserted
claims against the manufacturer, the heating company, and the
cooling company (but not the retailer), all of which claims are
based  on  strict  liability  in  tort.  The  child  will  probably
recover against

(A)  the manufacturer only, because the ventilating system was

defectively designed by it.

(B)    the  heating  company  only,  because  it  was  the  excessive
heat from the furnace that caused the child’s injuries.
(C)    the  manufacturer  and  the  heating  company  only,  because
the  combination  of  the  manufacturer’s  design  and  the
heating company’s furnace caused the child’s injuries.
(D)    the  manufacturer,  the  heating  company,  and  the  cooling
company, because the combination of the manufacturer’s
design,  the  heating  company’s  furnace,  and  the  cooling
company’s  air  conditioning  unit  caused  the  child’s
injuries.

Answer 58:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  manufacturer  is  the
only one of the three potential defendants who can be liable in
strict  liability.  A  person  who  is  engaged  in  the  business  of
selling products, and who sells a defective product, is subject
to  liability  for  harm  to  persons  or  property  caused  by  the
defect.  Rest.  3d  (Prod.  Liab.)  §  1.  One  type  of  defect  is  a
“design  defect.”  A  design  defect  occurs  “when 
the
foreseeable  risks  of  harm  posed  by  the  product  could  have
been  reduced  or  avoided  by  the  adoption  of  a  reasonable
alternative  design  by  the  seller  or  other  distributor,  or  a
predecessor  in  the  commercial  chain  of  distribution,  and  the
omission  of  the  alternative  design  renders  the  product  not
reasonably  safe.”  Rest.  3d  (Prod.  Liab.)  §  2(b).  Here,  the
manufacturer  will  be  strictly  liable  because  it  satisfies  the
required elements for strict liability: (1) it was in the business
of  selling  products;  (2)  it  sold  the  product  that  caused  the
harm here (the HVAC system); and (3) the HVAC system was
“defectively  designed,”  since  a  better  HVAC  system  was  a
reasonably  available  alternative  design  that  could  have
reduced  or  avoided  the  harm,  making  the  omission  of  such
alternative something that rendered the product not reasonably
safe.

753

Neither  the  heating  company  nor  the  cooling  company  is
liable  under  this  test,  since  neither  sold  the  defectively-
designed product (the HVAC system). It’s true that the heating
company and the cooling company sold components that went
into  the  defective  HVAC  system.  But  their  components  were
not  themselves  defective  at  the  time  of  sale,  and  these
defendants  did  not  do  anything  that  contributed  to  the
“downstream”  design  defect  introduced  by  the  manufacturer
(e.g.,  they  didn’t  give  the  manufacturer  instructions  that
induced the manufacturer to design the ventilating system in a
defective  manner).  So  they  cannot  be  said  to  have  “sold”  a
“defectively-designed product).”

Since (B), (C), and (D) all treat either the heating company or
the  cooling  company  as  liable,  these  choices  are  wrong  for
the reasons described in the discussion of Choice (A) above.

V.   DUTY TO WARN

A.  Unknown and unknowable dangers

1.  Check adequacy of warning

Question 59: Peter, who was 20 years old, purchased a new,
high-powered sports car that was marketed with an intended
and  recognized  appeal  to  youthful  drivers.  The  car  was
designed with the capability to attain speeds in excess of 100
miles per hour. It was equipped with tires designed and tested
only  for  a  maximum  safe  speed  of  85  miles  per  hour.  The
owner’s manual that came with the car stated that “continuous
driving over 90 miles per hour requires high-speed-capability
tires,” but the manual did not describe the speed capability of
the tires sold with the car.
Peter  took  his  new  car  out  for  a  spin  on  a  straight,  smooth
country road where the posted speed limit was 55 miles per
hour.  Intending  to  test  the  car’s  power,  he  drove  for  a
considerable  distance  at  over  100  miles  per  hour.  While  he
was  doing  so,  the  tread  separated  from  the  left  rear  tire,
causing the car to leave the road and hit a tree. Peter sustained
severe injuries.
Peter  has  brought  a  strict  product  liability  action  in  tort

754

against  the  manufacturer  of  the  car.  You  should  assume  that
pure comparative fault principles apply to this case.

Will Peter prevail?

(A)    No,  because  Peter’s  driving  at  an  excessive  speed

constituted a misuse of the car.
(B)  No, because the car was not defective.
(C)  Yes, if the statement in the manual concerning the tires did
not adequately warn of the danger of high-speed driving
on the tires mounted on the car.

(D)    Yes,  unless  Peter’s  driving  at  a  speed  in  excess  of  the
posted speed limit was negligence per se that, by the law
of the jurisdiction, was not excusable.

Answer 59: Choice (C) is correct. In product liability cases,
the duty to warn is in effect an extra duty. That is, even if the
product  would  not  be  defectively  dangerous  if  accompanied
by  the  appropriate  warning,  absence  of  such  a  warning  may
convert  the  product  into  a  defectively  dangerous  product  for
which there is strict product liability. So here, even if a tire
tread that can separate at speeds of 85+ would not have been
the  car
defectively  dangerous 
manufacturer  (which  “sold”  the  tires  as  part  of  the  original
car equipment) would be strictly liable if the manual did not
contain  an  adequate  warning  of  the  risk.  And  it’s  quite
plausible that the manual’s failure to specify that the tires that
came with the car were not the sort of “high-speed-capability
tires”  that  were  required  for  high  speeds  would  be  an
actionable failure to warn (especially in light of the fact that
the car was designed and marketed based on its ability to go
100+ mph).

if  properly  warned  of, 

(A)      is  wrong  because  it  is  not  a  misuse  of  a  sports  car  to
drive it at a speed in excess of 100 miles per hour when
that  was  a  use  intended  by  the  manufacturer  who
designed  the  car  for  high-speed  driving  and  who
marketed the car with an intended and recognized appeal
to youthful drivers.

(B)   is wrong because, as discussed in (C), the car might well
be “defective” in light of inadequate warnings about the
capabilities of the tires sold with it.

755

(D)   is wrong because if Peter was found to be negligent he
could  still  prevail.  The  facts  state  that  the  jurisdiction
applies a pure comparative fault system in strict product
liability actions. In a pure comparative fault system, the
plaintiff is allowed to recover even if his fault is greater
than  that  of  the  defendant.  The  plaintiff’s  recovery  is
reduced  by  a  proportion  equal  to  the  ratio  between  his
own fault and the total fault contributing to the accident.
Therefore, Peter’s negligence would not bar recovery in
this case, but merely reduce his recovery.

756

CHAPTER 12
NUISANCE

I.    PRIVATE NUISANCE

A.  Interference with use

that  requires 

Question 60: Electco operates a factory that requires the use
of very high voltage electricity. Paul owns property adjacent
to  the  Electco  plant  where  he  has  attempted  to  carry  on  a
business 
the  use  of  sensitive  electronic
equipment.  The  effectiveness  of  Paul’s  electronic  equipment
is  impaired  by  electrical  interference  arising  from  the  high
voltage currents used in Electco’s plant. Paul has complained
to Electco several times, with no result. There is no way that
Electco,  by  taking  reasonable  precautions,  can  avoid  the
interference  with  Paul’s  operation  that  arises  from  the  high
voltage currents necessary to Electo’s operation.
In  Paul’s  action  against  Electco  to  recover  damages  for  the
economic  loss  caused  to  him  by  the  electrical  interference,
will Paul prevail?

(A)  Yes, because Electco’s activity is abnormally dangerous.
(B)    Yes,  for  loss  suffered  by  Paul  after  Electco  was  made
aware of the harm its activity was causing to Paul.
(C)  No, unless Electco caused a substantial and unreasonable

interference with Paul’s business.

(D)    No,  because  Paul’s  harm  was  purely  economic  and  did

not arise from physical harm to his person or property.
Answer 60:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Paul  can  win  only  on  a
nuisance  theory  (not  on  negligence  or  strict  liability  for
ultrahazardous activities, as to which see Choice (A) below).
So  let’s  analyze  whether  the  requirements  for  nuisance  are
satisfied  here.  A  private  nuisance  is  an  unreasonable
interference with the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his land.
In  order  to  recover  for  private  nuisance,  the  plaintiff  must
show (1) that his use and enjoyment of his land was interfered
with  in  a  “substantial”  way  and  (2)  that  the  defendant’s
conduct was negligent, abnormally dangerous, or intentional.

757

The  facts  state  that  the  effectiveness  of  Paul’s  electronic
equipment 
interference  from
Electo’s  plant.  But  unless  the  interference  with  Paul’s
business is substantial and unreasonable, Paul cannot prevail.

impaired  by  electrical 

is 

(A)   is wrong because Electo’s use of high voltage electricity
would  not  be  found  to  be  abnormally  dangerous,
especially  considering  the  fact  that  the  harm  it  caused
(interference  with  use  of  land)  was  not  dangerous.
Activities  considered  “abnormally  dangerous”  are
subject  to  strict  liability.  The  Second  Restatement  lists
factors to consider when determining whether an activity
is abnormally dangerous: (1) it creates a high degree of
risk; (2) it poses a risk of serious harm; (3) it cannot be
eliminated even by due care; (4) it is uncommon and (5)
it is inappropriate at the particular site. Liability is more
likely  to  be  imposed  where  the  activity’s  value  to  the
community  is  outweighed  by  its  dangerous  attributes.
Rest. 2d, § 520. Here, factors (3), (4), and (5) cut against
liability. Generally, electric utilities are found not to be
engaged in an ultrahazardous activity when they maintain
power lines.

(B)   is wrong because, if the interference with Paul’s business
was not substantial and unreasonable, then Electo would
not  be  responsible  in  nuisance  for  any  harm  caused  to
Paul, even that harm of which it was subsequently made
aware.

(D)   is wrong because there has been harm to Paul’s property.
There  has  been  physical  harm  to  equipment  located  on
his property, from Electo’s activity.

B.  Unreasonableness

1.  Test for unreasonableness

a.  Noise and unattractive sights

Question 61: Palmco owns and operates a beachfront hotel.
Under  a  contract  with  City  to  restore  a  public  beach,
Dredgeco  placed  a  large  and  unavoidably  dangerous  stone-
crushing  machine  on  City  land  near  Palmco’s  hotel.  The
machine  creates  a  continuous  and  intense  noise  that  is  so
disturbing  to  the  hotel  guests  that  they  have  canceled  their

758

hotel reservations in large numbers, resulting in a substantial
loss to Palmco.

Palmco’s  best  chance  to  recover  damages  for  its  financial
losses from Dredgeco is under the theory that the operation of
the stone-crushing machine constitutes

interference  with 

(A)  an abnormally dangerous activity.
(B)  a private nuisance.
(C)  negligence.
(D)  a trespass.
Answer 61: Choice (B)  is  correct.  A  private  nuisance  is  an
the  plaintiff’s  use  and
unreasonable 
enjoyment of his land. Rest. 2d, § 822. Whereas trespass is an
interference with the plaintiff’s right of exclusive possession
of  his  property,  nuisance  is  an  interference  with  his  right  to
use  and  enjoy  it.  A  condition,  such  as  noise,  near  the
plaintiff’s  property  that  interferes  with  his  peace  of  mind
would  be  a  nuisance,  but  not  a  trespass,  since  nothing
physically entered the property. Palmco might not win on its
nuisance theory (the court might hold that the social utility of
the  beach  restoration  project  outweighs  the  damage  to
Palmco’s  use  and  enjoyment),  but  of  the  theories  listed  it  is
the only one that is plausible.

(A)      is  wrong  because,  even  though  operating  a  stone-
crushing  machine  may  very  well  be  an  abnormally
dangerous  activity,  and  worthy  of  applying  strict
liability,  the  only  harm  caused  thus  far  is  noise.  And
noise  is  not  the  kind  of  harm  that  makes  using  a  stone-
crushing machine abnormally dangerous (if, indeed, use
of such a machine is abnormally dangerous).

(C)   is wrong because a plaintiff generally cannot recover in
negligence  for  pure  economic  loss,  in  the  absence  of
harm to the plaintiff’s person or property. No exception
to this general rule applies here.

(D)      is  wrong  because  trespass  liability  requires  physical
entry  by  the  defendant  (or  by  some  object  under  the
defendant’s control) onto the plaintiff’s property. Sound
waves are deemed insufficiently physical to give rise to
trespass liability.

759

CHAPTER 13
DEFAMATION

I.    DEFAMATORY COMMUNICATION

A.  Opinion

1.  Multiple possible interpretations 

a.  Applicable to statement of opinion

Question  62:  Doe,  the  governor  of  State,  signed  a  death
warrant for Rend, a convicted murderer. Able and Baker are
active  opponents  of  the  death  penalty.  At  a  demonstration
protesting  the  execution  of  Rend,  Able  and  Baker  carried
that  stated,  “Governor  Doe — Murderer.”
large  signs 
Television  station  XYZ  broadcast  news  coverage  of  the
demonstration, including pictures of the signs carried by Able
and  Baker.  If  Governor  Doe  asserts  a  defamation  claim
against XYZ, will Doe prevail?

(A)  Yes, because the signs would cause persons to hold Doe

in lower esteem.

(B)    Yes,  if  Doe  proves  that  XYZ  showed  the  signs  with
knowledge  of  falsity  or  reckless  disregard  of  the  truth
that Doe had not committed homicide.

(C)    No,  unless  Doe  proves  he  suffered  pecuniary  loss
resulting from harm to his reputation proximately caused
by the defendants’ signs.

the 

interpreted  only 

(D)  No, if the only reasonable interpretation of the signs was
intended  as  a
that 
term  “murderer”  was 
characterization of one who would sign a death warrant.
Answer  62:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  If  a  statement  could  be
reasonably 
that
interpretation  must  in  fact  be  defamatory  in  order  for  a
plaintiff to prevail in a case of defamation. Here, the answer
states  that  there  is  only  one  reasonable  interpretation,  that
“murderer”  means  one  who  would  sign  a  death  warrant.
Therefore, the statement was pure opinion (that one who signs
a  death  warrant  is  properly  classified  as  a  murderer),  not  a
provably false fact.

in  one  way, 

then 

760

(A)   is wrong because there must be an element of disgrace
connected  with  the  allegation,  not  a  mere  lowering  of
esteem,  in  order  for  the  statement  to  be  deemed
defamatory. Also, to be defamatory a statement must be a
provably  false  statement  of  fact,  and  this  isn’t  (for
reasons described in the analysis of (D) above).

(B)   is wrong because the foundation for the defamation claim
must  be  laid  before  the  constitutional  questions  are
addressed.  It  is  true  that  when  the  plaintiff  is  a  public
official  there  is  an  additional  requirement  that  the
defendant make the accusation with knowledge of falsity
or reckless disregard of the truth. New York Times Co. v.
Sulllivan (1964). However, the common law elements of
the  claim  must  be  satisfied  first.  To  be  defamatory  a
statement must be a provably false statement of fact, and
this  isn’t  (for  reasons  described  in  the  analysis  of  (D)
above).  Therefore  Governor  Doe  would  fail  in  setting
out a claim for defamation even before the constitutional
issues were addressed.

(C)   is wrong because if this is libel, then the plaintiff does
not have to show “special harm” of a pecuniary nature,
and  if  it  is  slander,  then  it  would  be  categorized  as
“slander per se.” It is unclear whether the sign broadcast
on  television  news  would  be  considered  libel  (written
or  printed  matter)  or  slander  (oral  and  all  other
statements).  “Special  harm”  of  a  pecuniary  nature  need
not  be  proven  for  libelous  statements.  A  statement
imputing  criminal  behavior  to  the  plaintiff  that  is
“punishable  by  imprisonment”  or  “regarded  by  public
opinion as involving moral turpitude” is “slander per se”
and  does  not  require  a  showing  of  special  harm  either.
Rest.  2d  §  571.  Therefore,  however  the  statement  is
categorized, pecuniary loss need not be proven in order
for the plaintiff to prevail.

II.   PUBLICATION

A.  Requirement of publication generally

1.  Must be intentional or negligent

761

a.  Frequent on MBE

Question 63:  Drew,  the  owner  of  a  truck  leasing  company,
asked Pat, one of Drew’s employees, to deliver $1,000 to the
dealership’s main office. The following week, as a result of a
dispute  over  whether  the  money  had  been  delivered,  Drew
instructed Pat to come to the office to submit to a lie detector
test.

When  Pat  reported  to  Drew’s  office  for  the  test,  it  was  not
administered.  Instead,  without  hearing  Pat’s  story,  Drew
shouted at him, “You’re a thief,” and fired him. Drew’s shout
was  overheard  by  several  other  employees  who  were  in
another office, which was separated from Drew’s office by a
thin  partition.  The  next  day,  Pat  accepted  another  job  at  a
higher salary. Several weeks later, upon discovering that the
money had not been stolen, Drew offered to rehire Pat.

In a suit for slander by Pat against Drew, Pat will

(A)  prevail, because Pat was fraudulently induced to go to the
office  for  a  lie  detector  test,  which  was  not,  in  fact,
given.

(B)  prevail, if Drew should have foreseen that the statement

would be overheard by other employees.

(C)    not  prevail,  if  Drew  made  the  charge  in  good  faith,

believing it to be true.

(D)  not prevail, because the statement was made to Pat alone

and intended for his ears only.

Answer  63:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  One  of  the  elements  of
defamation is “publication,” i.e., the fact that the defamatory
statement was communicated to at least one person other than
the  plaintiff.  Furthermore,  plaintiff  must  show  that  defendant
acted  either  negligently  or  intentionally  with  regard  to
publication.  So  if  defendant  neither  knew  nor  had  reason  to
know  that  the  statement  would  be  heard  and  understood  by
someone  other  than  the  plaintiff,  the  publication  requirement
has  not  been  satisfied,  but  if  defendant  did  have  reason  to
anticipate such an overhearing, then the requirement has been
satisfied.

(A)      is  wrong  because  whether  or  not  Pat  was  fraudulently
induced into the office is irrelevant to the determination

762

of his slander suit.

(C)   is wrong. Drew could have been negligent in believing in
the charge. If Drew was indeed negligent in not verifying
the  truth  of  the  theft  accusation,  his  “good  faith”  (i.e.,
honest  belief  in  the  statement’s  truth)  won’t  shield  him.
That  is,  where,  as  here,  the  plaintiff  is  not  a  public
figure,  plaintiff  may  recover  for  defamation  based  on  a
mere  showing  of  negligence  regarding  the  truth,  rather
than  knowledge  of  falsity  or  reckless  disregard  of  the
truth  (which  public-figure  plaintiffs  have  to  show,  as  a
constitutional  matter  under  N.Y.  Times  v.  Sullivan
(1964)).

(D)   is wrong because if Drew should have foreseen that his
statement  would  be  overheard  by  another  person,  then
the publication element was satisfied, as discussed in the
explanation of Choice (C).

2.  Must be understood

Question  64:  Able  and  Baker  are  students  in  an  advanced
high school Russian class. During an argument one day in the
high school cafeteria, in the presence of other students, Able,
in  Russian,  accused  Baker  of  taking  money  from  Able’s
locker.
In  a  suit  by  Baker  against  Able  based  on  defamation,  Baker
will

(A)    prevail,  because  Able’s  accusation  constituted  slander

per se.

(B)    prevail,  because  the  defamatory  statement  was  made  in

the presence of third persons.

(C)    not  prevail,  unless  Able  made  the  accusation  with
knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard of the truth.

(D)    not  prevail,  unless  one  or  more  of  the  other  students

understood Russian.

Answer 64:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  In  a  common  law  claim
for defamation, the plaintiff must show that a (1) defamatory
statement (2) regarding the plaintiff (3) was communicated to
at  least  one  other  person  (publication)  and  (4)  that  the
plaintiff’s reputation was damaged. In addition, some degree
of fault will usually have to be proven. The issue in this fact

763

pattern  is  whether  the  statement  was  published.  Able’s
statement  was  made  in  a  foreign  language,  so  although  there
were other students present, it is not clear whether or not the
statement  was  understood  (the  fact  pattern  does  not,  for
instance,  indicate  that  the  fellow  classmates  who  heard  the
statement  were  in  the  advanced  Russian  language  course).  It
is  therefore  unclear  whether  the  “publication”  element  has
been  satisfied,  and  Baker  cannot  prevail  unless  it  is
determined  that  at  least  one  of  the  other  students  understood
Able’s statement.

to  fulfill 

(A)      is  wrong  because  even  if  the  statement  could  be
categorized as “slander per se,” Baker would still have
to prove all the other elements of a defamation case; he
still  needs  to  show  that  the  statement  was  indeed
understood by at least one other student in the cafeteria
in  order 
the  “publication”  element.  To
ultimately prevail in a case of slander, the plaintiff must
usually  show  special  harm  of  a  pecuniary  nature  unless
the statement is categorized as “slander per se.” Rest. 2d
§  558.  A  statement  imputing  criminal  behavior  to  the
imprisonment”  or
plaintiff 
“regarded  by  public  opinion  as 
involving  moral
turpitude”  falls  under  this  category.  Rest.  2d  §  571.
However, even if Baker’s alleged crime of taking money
would  fall  under  the  category  of  slander  per  se,  Baker
would  still  need  to  overcome  the  hurdle  of  proving  the
publication  element,  as  discussed  in  the  explanation  of
(D).

is  “punishable  by 

that 

(B)   is wrong because the “publication” requirement not only
requires that the statement be made in the presence of at
least  one  other  person,  but  that  the  third  person
understand  it  and  perceive  its  defamatory  aspects.  The
fact  pattern  is  vague  on  this  matter.  Therefore,  in  order
for  Baker  to  prevail,  it  must  be  determined  that  the
statement was understood by a third person, as discussed
in the explanation of (D).

(C)   is wrong because the requirement that the defendant make
the  accusation  with  knowledge  of  falsity  or  reckless
disregard of the truth applies only when the plaintiff is a

764

public  official  or  public  figure.  New  York  Times  Co.  v.
Sulllivan  (1964).  Baker,  as  a  student,  clearly  doesn’t
qualify as a public figure or public official.

III.  FAULT

A.  Constitutional decisions

1.  Private figures

a.  P must prove at least negligence

i.  Serious doubts about statement’s truth

Question 65: Allen and Bradley were law school classmates
who  had  competed  for  the  position  of  editor  of  the  law
review. Allen had the higher grade point average, but Bradley
was  elected  editor,  largely  in  recognition  of  a  long  and
important note that had appeared in the review over her name.

During the following placement interview season, Allen was
interviewed by a representative of a nationally prominent law
firm. In response to the interviewer’s request for information
about the authorship of the law review note, Allen said that he
had  heard  that  the  note  attributed  to  Bradley  was  largely  the
work of another student.
The firm told Bradley that it would not interview her because
of  doubts  about  the  authorship  of  the  note.  This  greatly
distressed  Bradley.  In  fact  the  note  had  been  prepared  by
Bradley without assistance from anyone else.

If Bradley asserts a claim against Allen based on defamation,
Bradley will

(A)  recover, because Allen’s statement was false.
(B)    recover,  if  Allen  had  substantial  doubts  about  the
accuracy of the information he gave the interviewer.

(C)  not recover, unless Bradley proves pecuniary loss.
(D)    not  recover,  because  the  statement  was  made  by  Allen
only  after  the  interviewer  inquired  about  the  authorship
of the note.

Answer  65:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Even  under  Supreme
restrictions,  states  are
Court  First  Amendment-based 

765

permitted  to  give  a  private  (i.e.,  non-public-figure)  plaintiff
the  right  to  win  if  the  plaintiff  can  show  that  the  defendant
made a defamatory falsehood and behaved at least negligently
with  respect  to  the  statement’s  truth.  Since  Bradley  is  not  a
public  figure, 
the  defendant  entertained
that 
substantial doubts about the truth of the statement is more than
enough  to  prove  negligence.  (In  fact,  such  doubts  probably
even establish the “reckless disregard of the truth” variety of
“actual  malice,”  which  Bradley  would  have  to  show  if  he
were a public figure.)

the  fact 

(A)      is  wrong  because  it  is  not  enough  to  prove  that  the
statement was false. All states require that some degree
of fault be proven on the part of the defendant.

(C)   is wrong because special harm need not be proven in this
case. A plaintiff may generally establish slander only if
she  can  show  that  she  sustained  some  special  harm,
usually  required  to  be  of  a  pecuniary  nature.  However,
there  are  four  kinds  of  utterances,  categorized  as
“slander  per  se,”  which,  even  though  they  are  slander
rather  than  libel,  require  no  showing  of  special  harm.
One  of  these  is  an  allegation  that  adversely  reflects  on
the  plaintiff’s  fitness  to  conduct  her  business,  trade,
profession, or office. That kind of utterance occurred in
this case.

(D)   is wrong because it is irrelevant. A defamatory statement
is  actionable,  despite  the  fact  that  it  came  out  in  a
conversation  where 
the  subject  matter  was  being
inquired  into.  The  defendant  may  have  a  privilege  to
respond  to  a  reasonable  inquiry,  but  the  privilege  is  a
qualified one, which is lost if it is abused by defendant’s
negligence concerning the truth or falsity of the answer.
