CONTRACTS Q&A BY TOPIC
 References to “Rest. 2d” are to the Second Restatement of Contracts, to
 “Farnsworth” are to E.A. Farnsworth, Contracts (3d Ed. Aspen, 1999), and
 to “W&S” are to White & Summers, Uniform Commercial Code (5th Ed.
 West, 2000).

CHAPTER 1
OFFER AND ACCEPTANCE

I.    VALIDITY OF PARTICULAR KINDS OF OFFERS

A.  Public offers and advertisements

Question  1:  On  November  1,  the  following  notice  was
posted in a privately operated law school:

                              The faculty, seeking to encourage legal research, offers to any student at this school who wins the
current National Obscenity Law Competition the additional prize of $500. All competing papers
must be submitted to the Dean’s office before May 1.

(The national competition is conducted by an outside agency,
unconnected with any law school.) A student read this notice
on November 2, and thereupon intensified his effort to make
his  paper  on  obscenity  law,  which  he  started  in  October,  a
winner. The student also left on a counter in the dean’s office
a  signed  note  saying,  “I  accept  the  faculty’s  $500  Obscenity
Competition offer.” This note was inadvertently placed in the
student’s  file  and  never  reached  the  dean  or  any  faculty
member  personally.  On  the  following  April  1,  the  above
notice was removed and the following substituted therefore:

                              The faculty regrets that our offer regarding the National Obscenity Law Competition must be

withdrawn.

The  student’s  paper  was  submitted  through  the  dean’s  office
on April 15. On May 1, it was announced that the student had
won the National Obscenity Law Competition and the prize of

173

$1,000. The law faculty refused to pay anything.

Assuming that the faculty’s notice of November 1 was posted
on  a  bulletin  board  or  other  conspicuous  place  commonly
viewed  by  all  persons  in  the  law  school,  such  notice
constituted a

(A)    preliminary  invitation  to  deal,  analogous  to  newspaper
advertisements for the sale of goods by merchants.

(B)  contractual offer, creating a power of acceptance.
(C)    preliminary  invitation,  because  no  offeree  was  named

therein.

(D)  promise to make a conditional, future gift of money.
Answer 1: Choice (B) is correct, because it accurately states
that  the  notice  fulfills  the  requirements  of  a  public  offer.  A
public  offer  requires  sufficient  definiteness  to  qualify  as  an
offer  at  all.  The  key  factors  to  consider  are  whether  it
contains  the  language  of  an  offer,  and  a  quantity  term.  (If  it
doesn’t, it will be considered merely an invitation for offers.)
Here, the offer was specific as to quantity — only one student
could  win — and  it  contains  the  language  of  a  promise 
— “The  faculty  .  .  .  offers.”  As  such,  the  notice  creates  an
offer for a unilateral contract, which any student could accept
by  winning  the  competition,  having  completed  performance
with knowledge of the offer.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  notice  was  sufficiently  definite  to
constitute  an  offer.  The  key  here  is  distinguishing  a  public
offer  from  an  invitation  for  offers,  which  most  ads  are.  The
distinction  is  important  because  a  public  offer  creates  a
power  of  acceptance  in  offerees,  such  that  if  an  offeree
accepts, a binding contract will be formed. An invitation for
offers,  on  the  other  hand,  doesn’t  give  anyone  the  power  to
create a binding contract.
The thing that normally makes an ad an invitation instead of an
offer is that it is indefinite, specifically in terms of the lack of
language of a promise and quantity. That’s not the case here.
The  notice  is  specific  as  to  quantity  (only  one  student  could
win), price ($500), and is worded as a promise (“The faculty
.  .  .  offers”).  As  such,  it  creates  an  immediate  power  of
acceptance  in  any  student,  such  that  if  a  student  wins  the

174

competition,  having  completed  performance  with  knowledge
of the offer, the faculty will be bound. (Note that the offer is
for  a  unilateral  contract,  since  it  can  only  be  accepted  by
performance,  not  a  return  promise.)  Since  choice  A
mischaracterizes  the  notice  as  only  an  invitation  to  deal,  it’s
not the best response.

(C)  is  wrong,  because  failure  to  identify  the  offeree,  in  the
context of a public offer, would not destroy the offer. While a
typical offer must identify the offeree, a public offer (like the
offer  of  a  reward)  cannot,  by  dint  of  its  nature,  identify  the
offeree. However if the communication is sufficiently definite
(i.e., it contains the language of an offer, and a quantity term),
it’s  an  offer  nonetheless.  The  November  1  notice  satisfied
these requirements.

(D) is wrong because the promise made by the faculty in the
notice was a bargain promise, not a conditional  promise  to
make  a  gift.  This  is  an  important  distinction,  because  a
conditional  promise  to  make  a  gift  is  not  enforceable,
whereas a bargain promise, when it’s in the form of an offer
(as here), creates the power of acceptance in an offeree.
The  difference  between  the  two  turns  on  whether  the  parties
consider  fulfilling  the  condition  as  the  “price”  of  accepting
the promise; if they do, it’s an enforceable, bargain promise.
If not, it’s a conditional promise to make a gift. Say the facts
were  different,  and  there  had  been  no  November  1  notice;
instead, the first the student heard from the school was a note
he  received  from  the  law  school  dean  after  winning  the
contest,  saying,  “Congratulations  on  winning  the  obscenity
contest. I have a check from the school for $500 for you, and
I’ll give it to you if you come to my office at 2 p.m.” This is a
conditional promise, because the dean intended to make a gift,
and the student’s going to the office couldn’t be construed as a
bargained-for “price” of the promise to pay $500. Under the
facts as they are in the question, however, things are entirely
different.  It’s  clear  that  both  the  faculty  and  the  student
considered  the  condition  stated — winning  the  contest — as
the  bargained-for  performance  by  which  the  offer  of  $500
could be accepted. Thus, the promise was a bargain promise
for  a  unilateral  contract,  which  the  student  accepted  by

175

winning  the  contest  (having  completed  performance  with
knowledge  of  the  offer).  Since  D  mischaracterizes  the
promise, it’s not the best response.

II.   THE ACCEPTANCE

A.  Method of acceptance

1.  Offer invites either promise or performance

a.  Shipment of goods

i.  Acceptance by shipment of non-conforming goods

Question  2:  A  retailer  ordered  from  a  produce  wholesaler
500  bushels  of  No.  1  Royal  Fuzz  peaches,  at  a  specified
price,  “for  prompt  shipment.”  The  wholesaler  promptly
shipped  500  bushels,  but  by  mistake  shipped  No.  2  Royal
Fuzz  peaches  instead  of  No.  1.  The  error  in  shipment  was
caused by the negligence of the wholesaler’s shipping clerk.

Which  of  the  following  best  states  the  retailer’s  rights  and
duties upon delivery of the peaches?

(A)    The  wholesaler’s  shipment  of  the  peaches  was  a

counteroffer and the retailer can refuse to accept them.

(B)    The  wholesaler’s  shipment  of  the  peaches  was  a
counteroffer  but,  since  peaches  are  perishable,  the
retailer,  if  it  does  not  want  to  accept  them,  must  reship
the  peaches  to  the  wholesaler  in  order  to  mitigate  the
wholesaler’s losses.

(C)    The  retailer  must  accept  the  peaches  because  a  contract

was formed when the wholesaler shipped them.

(D)    Although  a  contract  was  formed  when  the  wholesaler
shipped the peaches, the retailer does not have to accept
them.

Answer 2: Choice (D) is correct. The retailer’s order was an
offer. The wholesaler’s shipment of goods in response to the
offer  was  an  acceptance,  even  though  what  the  wholesaler
shipped was non-conforming goods. That’s so because UCC §
2-206(1)(b) says that “an order or other offer to buy goods for
prompt  or  current  shipment  shall  be  construed  as  inviting
acceptance  .  .  .  by  the  prompt  or  current  shipment  of

176

conforming  or  non-conforming  goods[.]”  A  buyer  who
receives  non-conforming  goods  has  the  right  to  reject  those
goods, sending them back to the seller or holding them for the
seller’s  pickup.  That’s  because  UCC  §  2-601  says  that,
subject to some limitations not applicable here, “If the goods
or the tender of delivery fail in any respect to conform to the
contract, the buyer may (a) reject the whole; or (b) accept the
whole; or (c) accept any commercial unit or units and reject
the  rest.”  So  the  retailer  could  reject  all  or  some  of  the
bushels.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  wholesaler’s  shipment  was  not  a
counteroffer,  since  nothing  in  the  facts  surrounding  the
shipment  indicated  that  the  wholesaler  was  rejecting  the
retailer’s offer (its order). Instead, the wholesaler’s shipment
was an acceptance (as well as a breach).

(B) is wrong because: (1) the wholesaler’s shipment was not
a  counteroffer  (for  the  reason  described  in  the  analysis  of
Choice  (A));  and  (2)  under  UCC  §  2-602(2),  if  the  retailer
wants  to  reject  rather  than  accept  the  peaches,  it  is  merely
required “after rejection to hold [the goods] with reasonable
care at the seller’s disposition for a time sufficient to permit
the  seller  to  remove  them.”  So  despite  the  peaches’
perishability,  all  that  the  retailer  has  to  do  is  to  promptly
notify  the  wholesaler,  “We  don’t  want  the  peaches  because
they don’t conform; we’ll hold them for you to pick up.”

the  wholesaler  shipped 

(C) is wrong because, although a contract was indeed formed
when 
their  non-
conformity to the retailer’s order entitled the retailer to reject
the goods rather than accept them.

the  peaches, 

b.  Accommodation shipment

Question 3: A retailer faxed the following signed message to
his  long-time  widget  supplier:  “Urgently  need  blue  widgets.
Ship  immediately  three  gross  at  your  current  list  price  of
$600.”  Upon  receipt  of  the  fax,  the  supplier  shipped  three
gross of red widgets to the retailer, and faxed to the retailer
the following message: “Temporarily out of blue. In case red
will  help,  am  shipping  three  gross  at  the  same  price.  Hope
you can use them.”

177

Upon the retailer’s timely receipt of both the shipment and the
supplier’s  fax,  which  of  the  following  best  describes  the
rights and duties of the retailer and the wholesaler?

(A)    The  retailer  may  accept  the  shipment,  in  which  case  he
must pay the wholesaler the list price, or he must reject
the  shipment  and  recover  from  the  wholesaler  for  total
breach of contract.

(B)    The  retailer  may  accept  the  shipment,  in  which  case  he
must pay the wholesaler the list price, or he may reject
the  shipment,  in  which  case  he  has  no  further  rights
against the wholesaler.

(C)    The  retailer  may  accept  the  shipment,  in  which  case  he
must pay the wholesaler the list price, less any damages
sustained because of the nonconforming shipment, or he
may reject the shipment and recover from the wholesaler
for  total  breach  of  contract,  subject  to  the  wholesaler’s
right to cure.

(D)    The  retailer  may  accept  the  shipment,  in  which  case  he
must pay the wholesaler the list price, less any damages
sustained because of the nonconforming shipment, or he
may  reject  the  shipment  provided  that  he  promptly
covers  by  obtaining  conforming  widgets  from  another
supplier.

(B) 

that 

the  shipment 

Answer  3:  Choice 
is  correct.  This  was  an
accommodation shipment under UCC § 2-206(1)(b) —  in the
words of that section, the supplier “seasonably notifie[d] the
buyer 
[was]  offered  only  as  an
accommodation  to  the  buyer.”  Therefore,  the  supplier’s
shipment  did  not  constitute  an  acceptance.  Instead,  it  was  a
counteroffer to sell three gross of red widgets. At that point,
the  retailer  could  choose  between  accepting  the  red  and
paying  for  them,  or  rejecting  the  red,  in  which  case  there
would  be  no  contract  (because  there  never  was  an  accepted
offer).

(A) is wrong because when a seller makes an accommodation
shipment,  the  buyer  has  the  right  to  reject  the  shipment  but
does not have the right to recover for breach. That’s because
the  shipment  is  not  an  acceptance  but  instead  a  counteroffer,
and the buyer’s rejection of the goods constitutes a rejection

178

of the counteroffer, with the result that there is no breach by
the seller for which the buyer could recover.

(C)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  if  the  retailer  accepts  the
shipment,  he  cannot  deduct  any  damages  because  of  the
nonconformity  (since  this  type  of  accommodation  shipment
constitutes  a  counteroffer  rather  than  acceptance,  making  the
buyer’s decision to keep the goods an acceptance of the goods
as  shipped,  meaning  that  the  nonconformity  to  the  original
order  is  irrelevant);  and  (2)  if  the  retailer  rejects  the
shipment,  he  has  simply  rejected  the  supplier’s  counteroffer,
and there is no breach for which the retailer can deduct.

(D)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  if  the  retailer  accepts  the
shipment,  he  cannot  deduct  any  damages  because  of  the
nonconformity  (for  the  reasons  described  in  the  analysis  of
Choice (C) above); and (2) if the retailer rejects the shipment,
he  may  do  so  without  covering  by  obtaining  conforming
widgets from someone else. (He may, for instance, decide that
he doesn’t need widgets of any color after all.)

2.  Notice of acceptance of unilateral contract

a.  Suretyship contracts

Question  4:  A  hardware  distributor  located  on  the  West
Coast  gave  its  customer,  a  hardware  retailer  who  was
relocating  to  the  East  Coast,  the  following  signed  “letter  of
introduction”  to  a  hardware  manufacturer  based  on  the  East
coast:

This  will  introduce  you  to  my  good  friend  and  former
customer, who is a retailer and will be seeking to arrange the
purchase  of  hardware  inventory  from  you  on  credit.  If  you
will let him have the goods, I will make good any loss up to
$25,000 in the event of his default.

The retailer presented the letter to the manufacturer, who then
sold and delivered $20,000 worth of hardware to the retailer
on  credit.  The  manufacturer  promptly  notified  the  distributor
of this sale.
Which  of  the  following  is  NOT  an  accurate  statement
concerning  the  arrangement  between  the  distributor  and  the
manufacturer?

179

(A)    It  was  important  to  enforceability  of  the  distributor’s
promise  to  the  manufacturer  that  it  be  embodied  in  a
signed writing.

(B)    By  extending  the  credit  to  the  retailer,  the  manufacturer
the  distributor’s  offer  for  a

effectively  accepted 
unilateral contract.

(C)    Although  the  distributor  received  no  consideration  from
the  retailer,  the  distributor’s  promise  is  enforceable  by
the manufacturer.
  The  distributor’s  promise  is  enforceable  by  the
manufacturer  whether  or  not  the  manufacturer  gave  the
distributor seasonable notice of the extension of credit to
the retailer.

(D) 

Answer 4:  Choice  (D)  is  correct  (i.e.,  the  statement  in  this
choice is not accurate). When the distributor wrote the letter
and  induced  the  customer  to  present  the  letter  to  the
manufacturer,  the  distributor  was  making  an  offer  for  a
unilateral contract — that is, it’s clear that the distributor was
expecting the manufacturer to accept (if he accepted at all) by
extending the credit, rather than promising the distributor that
he  would  extend  the  credit.  When  the  manufacturer  extended
the credit, this was an acceptance of the distributor’s offer by
performance,  so  the  distributor’s  guarantee  of  repayment
came into effect. However, because of the requirement that an
offeree  who  accepts  an  offer  for  a  unilateral  contract  must
ordinarily give prompt notice of acceptance to the offeror, if
the  manufacturer  had  not  given  the  distributor  prompt  notice
of  the  sale  (which  the  facts  say  he  did),  the  distributor’s
guarantee  duty  would  have  been  discharged.  Notice  that  it
was  up  to  you  to  spot  the  fact  that  this  was  an  offer  for  a
unilateral contract — the facts don’t highlight this, and if you
hadn’t noticed it yourself, you would probably not have seen
why notice by the manufacturer was important.
is  correct:  The
(A) 
distributor’s promise would not have been enforceable had it
not  been  embodied  in  a  signed  writing.  That’s  because  the
distributor’s  offer  was  a  promise  to  “answer  for  the  debt  of
another.” As such, it fell within the suretyship provision of the
Statute  of  Frauds,  and  was  therefore  required  to  be  in  a

is  wrong  because 

the  statement 

180

writing signed by the party to be charged (the distributor).

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  statement  is  correct:  As  the
discussion  of  Choice  (D)  describes,  the  distributor’s  offer
was an offer for a unilateral contract (i.e., one to be accepted
by  performance  rather 
the
manufacturer  accepted  that  offer  by  doing  the  requested  act,
i.e., extending credit to the retailer.

than  return  promise),  and 

to  have 

(C) is wrong because the statement is correct. It’s true that the
distributor  received  no  consideration  from  the  customer.
However,  the  distributor  received  consideration  from  the
manufacturer — the  distributor  bargained 
the
manufacturer  give  credit  to  the  customer,  and  got  the
performance he bargained for. (The fact that the performance
ran  to  the  customer  rather  than  to  the  distributor  [the
promisor]  does  not  prevent  it  from  being  consideration  to
support the distributor’s promise.) The customer was a third-
party beneficiary of the distributor’s promise, and in a third-
party  beneficiary  arrangement  the  fact  that  the  third-party
beneficiary does not give consideration to the promisor does
not make any difference.

III.  ACCEPTANCE VARYING FROM OFFER

A.  UCC view

1.  “Additional” term in acceptance

a.  Both merchants

i.  Materiality

Question  5:  On  June  1,  a  wholesaler  received  a  purchase-
order  form  from  a  retailer  and  new  customer,  in  which  the
latter ordered 1,000 anti-recoil widgets for delivery no later
than  August  30  at  a  delivered  total  price  of  $10,000,  as
quoted  in  the  wholesaler’s  current  catalog.  Both  parties  are
merchants with respect to widgets of all types. On June 2, the
wholesaler mailed to the retailer its own form, across the top
of  which  the  wholesaler’s  president  had  written,  “We  are
pleased to accept your order.” This form contained the same
terms  as  the  retailer’s  form  except  for  an  additional  printed
clause in the wholesaler’s form that provided for a maximum

181

liability of $100 for any breach of contract by the retailer.

As  of  June  5,  when  the  retailer  received  the  wholesaler’s
acceptance  form,  which  of  the  following  is  an  accurate
statement  concerning  the  legal  relationship  between  the
wholesaler and the retailer?

(A)    There  is  no  contract,  because  the  liability-limitation
clause  in  the  wholesaler’s  form  is  a  material  alteration
of the retailer’s offer.

(B)  There is no contract, because the retailer did not consent
to  the  liability-limitation  clause  in  the  wholesaler’s
form.

(C)  There is an enforceable contract whose terms include the
liability-limitation  clause  in  the  wholesaler’s  form,
because  liquidation  of  damages  is  expressly  authorized
by the Uniform Commercial Code.

(D)    There  is  an  enforceable  contract  whose  terms  do  not
include the liability-limitation clause in the wholesaler’s
form.

Answer  5:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Under  the  UCC,  a
purported  acceptance  document  will  not  be  prevented  from
operating as a true acceptance even though it states terms that
are additional to or different from those in the offer. UCC § 2-
207(1).  Therefore,  the  wholesaler’s  form  with  the  “We  are
please  to  accept”  language  on  it  operated  as  an  acceptance
even though it contained an additional term (the liability cap).
On the other hand, the liability cap was an “additional” term
(i.e., a term dealing with a subject that was not covered in the
retailer’s  offer).  When  the  offeror  and  offeree  are  both
merchants,  §  2-207(2)  says  that  an  additional  term  is  to  be
construed  as  a  “proposal  for  addition  to  the  contract,”  and
becomes  part  of  the  contract  unless  (1)  “the  offer  expressly
limits  acceptance  to  the  terms  of  the  offer”  (which  didn’t
happen here), (2) the additional term “materially alter[s]” the
contract,  or  (3)  the  offeror  promptly  notifies  the  offeree  that
the offeror objects to the additional term. Here, event (2) has
occurred:  A 
liability  cap  would  almost  certainly  be
considered by a court to be a “material alteration” of an offer
that did not contain any cap. Therefore, a contract was formed
but it did not include the liability cap.

182

(A) is wrong because, as explained in more detail in Choice
(D) above, while the liability-limitation clause was indeed a
material  alteration  of  the  offer,  this  fact  did  not  prevent  the
wholesaler’s  form  from  constituting  an  acceptance.  (The
wholesaler’s  form  meshed  sufficiently  with  the  retailer’s
offer form, and contained sufficient words of acceptance, that
it was a “definite . . . expression of acceptance” under UCC §
2-207(1) even though it contained the additional term.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  a  contract  was  formed  as  soon  as  the
wholesaler  sent  its  form,  and  whether  the  retailer  eventually
did  or  did  not  expressly  consent  to  the  liability-limitation
clause wouldn’t matter to the issue of whether a contract was
formed.  (As  explained  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (D),  the
liability-limitation  clause,  since  it  was  a  material  alteration,
didn’t  become  part  of  the  contract  even  if  the  retailer
remained silent.)

(C) is wrong because, while it correctly says that a contract is
formed,  it  is  incorrect  in  stating  that  the  liability-limitation
clause  would  become  part  of  the  contract.  It’s  true  that  a
liquidation-of-damages  clause  can,  if  the  parties  agree  on  it
and it is reasonable, be enforced under the UCC. But such a
clause  won’t  enter  the  contract  unless  the  parties  somehow
agree  on  the  clause,  and  here,  because  the  proposed  clause
was  a  material  alteration,  the  retailer  won’t  be  presumed  to
have agreed from the mere fact that the clause was present on
the wholesaler’s acceptance and the retailer remained silent.

2.  Contract by parties’ conduct

a.  “Acceptance by conduct” can occur in non-UCC contracts

i.  Acts during course of extended negotiations

Question 6: A developer, needing a water well on one of his
projects,  met  several  times  about  the  matter  with  a  well
driller.  Subsequently,  the  driller  sent  the  developer  an
unsigned  typewritten  form  captioned  “WELL  DRILLING
PROPOSAL” and stating various terms the two had discussed
but not agreed upon, including a “proposed price of $5,000.”
The  form  concluded,  “This  proposal  will  not  become  a
contract until signed by you [the developer] and then returned
to and signed by me [the driller].”

183

The  developer  signed  the  form  and  returned  it  to  the  driller,
who neglected to sign it but promptly began drilling the well
at the proposed site on the developer’s project. After drilling
for two days, the driller told the developer during one of the
developer’s  daily  visits  that  he  would  not  finish  unless  the
developer  would  agree  to  pay  twice  the  price  recited  in  the
written proposal. The developer refused, the driller quit, and
the  developer  hired  a  substitute  driller  to  drill  the  well  to
completion for a price of $7,500.

In an action by the developer against the driller for damages,
which of the following is the probable decision?

(A)  The developer wins, because his signing of the driller’s
form constituted an acceptance of an offer by the driller.
(B)  The developer wins, because the driller’s commencement
of  performance  constituted  an  acceptance  by  the  driller
of an offer by the developer and an implied promise by
the driller to complete the well.

(C)  The driller wins, because he never signed the proposal as

(D) 

required by its terms.
  The  driller  wins,  because  his  commencement  of
performance  merely  prevented  the  developer  from
revoking  his  offer,  made  on  a  form  supplied  by  the
driller,  and  did  not  obligate  the  driller  to  complete  the
well.

Answer  6:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  driller’s  “proposal”
was  not  an  offer,  because  it  could  not  be  accepted  by  the
unilateral act of the recipient (since by its terms it could not
become  a  contract  until  it  was  not  only  signed  by  the
developer, the recipient, but also signed by the driller). When
the developer signed the form and returned it to the driller, the
developer was making an offer on the terms described in the
form. The driller could have accepted the offer by signing, but
didn’t  in  fact  sign.  However,  when  the  driller  started  work,
his  conduct  of  doing  the  work  described  in  the  form,  at  the
appropriate place, constituted an acceptance by conduct. This
acceptance-by-conduct included a promise (albeit an implied
one) to complete the work as described in the offer document
(the form that the driller didn’t sign).

184

(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  lists  the  correct  result,  it
explains  it  on  an  incorrect  legal  theory.  The  driller’s  form
could  not  be  an  offer,  because  the  provision  requiring  both
signatures  meant  that  the  unsigned  form  as  dispatched  by  the
driller  did  not  empower  the  recipient  (the  developer)  to
unilaterally  complete  the  deal  (i.e.,  accept)  by  signing.
Therefore,  the  developer’s  signature  created  an  offer,  not  an
acceptance.  (And  acceptance  did  not  occur  until  the  driller
accepted by conduct.)

(C) is wrong because, although the driller never accepted by
signature,  he  did  accept  by  his  conduct  of  starting  the  well
drilling.

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  effect  of  the  driller’s
commencement  of  performance.  That  commencement  of
performance  served  as  an  acceptance  of  the  contract,  and
thereby obligated the driller to complete his side of the deal.

IV.  DURATION OF THE POWER OF

ACCEPTANCE

A.  Irrevocable offers

1.  “Firm offers” under the UCC

Question  7:  On  December  15,  a  lawyer  received  from  a
stationer an offer consisting of its catalog and a signed letter
stating, “We will supply you with as many of the items in the
enclosed  catalog  as  you  order  during  the  next  calendar  year.
We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will
remain  firm  throughout  the  coming  year.”  On  January  15,
having  at  that  time  received  no  reply  from  the  lawyer,  the
stationer notified the lawyer that, effective February 1, it was
increasing the prices of certain specified items in its catalog.
Is the price increase effective with respect to catalog orders
the  stationer  receives  from  the  lawyer  during  the  month  of
February?
(A)    No,  because  the  stationer’s  original  offer,  including  the
price  term,  became  irrevocable  under  the  doctrine  of
promissory estoppel.

185

(B)    No,  because  the  stationer  is  a  merchant  with  respect  to
office supplies; and its original offer, including the price
term, was irrevocable throughout the month of February.
(C)    Yes,  because  the  stationer  received  no  consideration  to

support its assurance that it would not increase prices.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  period  for  which  the  stationer  gave
assurance that it would not raise prices was longer than
three months.

Answer 7: Choice (B) is correct. This was a firm offer that
met  the  requirements  of  UCC  §  2-205,  since  it  was  (1)  by  a
merchant;  (2)  in  a  letter  signed  by  the  offeror;  and  (3)  it
promised  that  the  offeror  would  sell  all  items  at  the  catalog
price  for  a  year  (a  promise  to  hold  the  offer  open).  It’s  true
that  this  promise  of  irrevocability  didn’t  legally  extend
beyond  three  months  (despite  what  it  said),  but  the  three
months was enough to cover February.
(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  doctrine  of  promissory
estoppel  says  that  detrimental  reliance  by  the  offeree  may
render  an  offer  temporarily  irrevocable,  here  there  is  no
indication  that  the  lawyer  detrimentally  relied  on  the
stationer’s offer.
(C) is wrong because the UCC does not require consideration
for an offer to be irrevocable. The whole point of § 2-205’s
firm-offer  provision  is  that  qualifying  offers  by  merchants
will  be 
though  not  supported  by
consideration.

irrevocable  even 

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  maximum  period  of
irrevocability  for  firm  orders  under  UCC  §  2-205  is  three
months,  when  an  offer  that  otherwise  meets  the  firm-offer
requirements promises more than three months’ irrevocability,
the offer will nonetheless be irrevocable for three months.

a.  Effect if not by a merchant

Question  8:  On  November  1,  Debbit,  an  accountant,  and
Barrister,  a  lawyer,  contracted  for  the  sale  by  Debbit  to
Barrister  of  the  law  books  Debbit  had  inherited  from  his
father. Barrister agreed to pay the purchase price of $10,000
when Debbit delivered the books on December 1.

186

On  November  10,  Barrister  received  a  signed  letter  from
Debbit  that  stated:  “I  have  decided  to  dispose  of  the  book
stacks containing the law books you have already purchased.
If you want the stacks, I will deliver them to you along with
the books on December 1 at no additional cost to you. Let me
know before November 15 whether you want them. I will not
sell  them  to  anyone  else  before  then.”  Debbit  was  not  a
merchant with respect to either law books or book stacks.

On November 12 Debbit told Banister that he had decided not
to part with the stacks. Will this communication operate as a
legally effective revocation of his offer to deliver the stacks?

(A)    Yes,  because  Barrister  had  a  pre-existing  obligation  to

pay $10,000 for the law books.

(B)  Yes, because Debbit was not a merchant with respect to

book stacks.

(C)  No, because Debbit had given a signed assurance that the

offer would be held open until November 15.

(D)  No, because by delaying his acceptance until November
14,  Barrister  detrimentally  relied  on  Debbit’s  promise
not to sell the stacks to anyone else in the meantime.
Answer  8:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  An  offer  is  revocable
unless  some  special  circumstance  makes  it  irrevocable.  The
contract here is covered by the UCC, making §2-205’s firm-
offer  provision  potentially  applicable.  However,  §2-205
applies  only  to  “an  offer  by  a  merchant.”  We  are  told  that
Debbit  is  not  a  merchant  with  respect  to  either  lawbooks  or
book  stacks.  Therefore,  his  offer  was  not  a  firm  offer  and
could be revoked at any time. Consequently, his statement on
November 12 that he had decided not to part with the stacks
was a legally operative revocation.

(A)  is  wrong  because  Barrister’s  pre-existing  obligation  to
pay  $10,000  for  the  law  books  is  irrelevant  on  the  issue  of
whether  Debbit’s  offer  about  the  stacks  was  irrevocable.
Debbit’s  offer  was  an  offer  to  modify  the  contract,  and  that
offer was not rendered irrevocable merely because Barrister
had  previously  given  consideration  (his  promise  to  pay
$10,000)  to  support  Debbit’s  prior  promise  to  sell  the  law
books.

187

(C)  is  wrong  because  an  offer  is  not  rendered  irrevocable
merely  because  the  offer  is  signed  and  states  that  it  is
irrevocable. Under the UCC, a signed offer that says it will be
irrevocable  will  be  so  under  some  circumstances,  but  as
explained  above  those  circumstances  include  a  requirement
that the offeror be a merchant.

(D)  is  wrong  because  Barrister  did  not  in  fact  detrimentally
rely. If Barrister had detrimentally relied on Debbit’s promise
not  to  sell  the  stacks  to  someone  else,  this  reliance  might
indeed  have  caused 
temporarily
the  offer 
irrevocable.  But  a  mere  delay  in  accepting  is  not  the  sort  of
temporary
detrimental 
irrevocability.

that  will  suffice 

to  become 

reliance 

for 

2.  Part performance or detrimental reliance

a.  Offer for unilateral contract

Question 9: While waiting in line to open an account with a
bank,  a  customer  read  a  poster  on  the  bank’s  wall  that  said,
“New Customers! $25 FOR 5 MINUTES. If you stand in line
for  more  than  five  minutes,  we  will  pay  you  $25!  We  like
happy customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)”
The customer started timing his wait and just as five minutes
was about to pass, the bank manager tore the poster down and
announced,  “The  $25  stand-in-line  promotion  is  over.”  The
customer  waited  in  line  for  10  more  minutes  before  being
served.

In  the  customer’s  action  against  the  bank  for  $25,  will  the
customer prevail?

(A)    No,  because  the  bank  withdrew  its  offer  before  the

customer completed the requested performance.

(B)    No,  because  the  bank’s  statement  was  a  nonbinding  gift

promise.

(C)  Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the

customer had commenced performance.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  customer’s  presence  in  line  served  as

notice to the bank that he had accepted.

Answer  9:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Where  an  offer  invites
acceptance  by  performance,  the  offeree’s  beginning  of

188

performance  creates  an  option  contract,  which  precludes  the
offeror from revoking its offer.

See Rest. 2d, § 45. The customer’s beginning to wait in line
created  the  option  contract,  which  couldn’t  be  revoked  as
long  as  the  customer  continued  to  wait.  Notice  that  this  fact
pattern  is  exactly  like  the  famous  law-school  hypothetical,
“I’ll  pay  you  $10  if  you  cross  the  Brooklyn  Bridge,”  where
once the offeree starts to cross, the offeror can’t revoke while
the  offeree  is  still  trying  to  finish.  You  might  think  that  the
“This  offer  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  time”  language  would
change  the  result;  but  a  court  would  likely  interpret  this  to
apply only to customers who hadn’t yet started to wait on line
at the moment the offer was withdrawn. See, e.g., Rest. 2d §
45,  Comment  b,  saying  that  the  “option  contract”  effect
“yields  to  a  manifestation  of  intention  which  makes  reliance
unjustified.  A  reservation  of  power 
to  revoke  after
performance has begun means that as yet there is no promise
and  no  offer”;  the  reservation  of  power  to  revoke  here  was
not  a  reservation  to  revoke  “after  performance  [i.e.,  waiting
on line] has begun,” so the right-to-withdraw language would
be interpreted to be inapplicable to the customer here.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  bank’s  offer  was  an  offer  for  a
unilateral contract (i.e., an offer that was to be accepted by a
performance  rather  than  by  a  promise),  and  an  offer  for  a
unilateral contract becomes temporarily irrevocable once the
offeree has begun to perform. See Choice (C).

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  consideration  required  for  an
enforceable contract is present. The bank’s promise to pay the
customer $25 and the customer’s standing in line constituted a
bargained-for exchange. See Rest. 2d, § 71: A performance is
consideration  if  it  is  “bargained  for,”  and  a  performance  is
bargained for if it is “sought by the promisor [here, the bank]
in exchange for his promise and is given by the promisee [the
customer] in exchange for that promise.”
(D) is wrong because it misstates the legal significance of the
customer’s presence in line. The offer here was an offer for a
unilateral contract, that is, an offer that was to be accepted by
performance  (waiting  in  line  for  more  than  5  minutes).
Therefore,  while  the  customer’s  mere  presence  in  line

189

constituted the beginning of performance, it did not constitute
full  performance  (i.e.,  standing  in  line  for  more  than  five
minutes), which was the only way the customer could accept.
It’s true that one who accepts an offer for a unilateral contract
must  sometimes  give  notice  of  acceptance-by-performance;
but  that’s  true  only  where  the  offeror  would  not  otherwise
know of the performance (which is not the case here). And in
any event, the required notice would be notice of completed
performance, not notice of the beginning of performance.

190

CHAPTER 2
CONSIDERATION

I.    THE BARGAIN ELEMENT

A.  Promises to make gifts

1.  Existence of condition

a.  Mixture of bargain and gift

Question  10:  Rollem,  an  automobile  retailer,  had  an  adult
daughter, Betsy, who needed a car in her employment but had
only  $3,000  with  which  to  buy  one.  Rollem  wrote  to  her,
“Give me your $3,000 and I’ll give you the car on our lot that
we  have  been  using  as  a  demonstrator.”  Betsy  thanked  her
father  and  paid  him  the  $3,000.  As  both  Rollem  and  Betsy
knew, the demonstrator was reasonably worth $10,000. After
Betsy  had  paid  the  $3,000,  but  before  the  car  had  been
delivered  to  her,  one  of  Rollem’s  sales  staff  sold  and
delivered the same car to a customer for $10,000. Neither the
salesperson  nor  the  customer  was  aware  of  the  transaction
between Rollem and Betsy.
Does Betsy, after rejecting a tendered return of the $3,000 by
Rollem, have an action against him for breach of contract?

(A)    Yes,  because  Rollem’s  promise  was  supported  by

bargained-for consideration.

(B)    Yes,  because  Rollem’s  promise  was  supported  by  the
moral  obligation  a  father  owes  his  child  as  to  the
necessities of modern life.

(C)    No,  because  the  payment  of  $3,000  was  inadequate

consideration to support Rollem’s promise.

(D)  No, because the salesperson’s delivery of the car to the
customer made it impossible for Rollem to perform.
Answer 10: Choice (A) is correct. Where a transaction is a
mixture of a bargain and a gift, the consideration requirement
is  satisfied.  That  is  the  case  where,  as  here,  one  party
promises  to  sell  the  other  an  item  at  a  deep  discount  from
market.  Since  Rollem  was  unquestionably  bargaining  for

191

Betsy’s  payment  of  $3,000,  the  fact  that  this  payment  was
much  less  than  the  market  price  does  not  prevent  Betsy’s
payment from being consideration for Rollem’s promise.

(B) is wrong as a matter of consideration doctrine, because a
promise  that  is  made  on  account  of  moral  obligation  is  not
supported  by  consideration.  Furthermore,  it  is  doubtful  that
contract  law  would  regard  a  father  as  having  any  sort  of
obligation,  even  a  moral  one,  to  supply  his  adult  daughter
with a car.

(C)  is  wrong  because  contract  law  does  not  consider  the
adequacy  of  consideration,  as  long  as  the  bargain  and
detriment  of  elements  are  satisfied.  So  here,  since  Rollem
clearly bargained for Betsy’s $3,000, the fact that this amount
was arguably “inadequate” won’t matter.

(D) is wrong because the defense of impossibility would not
apply on these facts. Where a seller, acting through his agent,
sells  the  contracted-for  goods  to  someone  else,  this  action
will  be  viewed  as  being  voluntary  on  the  seller’s  part,  and
therefore  not  the  sort  of  involuntary  event  to  which  the
impossibility doctrine applies.

II.   THE “DETRIMENT” ELEMENT

A.  Generally

1.  Motives irrelevant

Question 11: A small-business owner encourages “wellness”
on  the  part  of  his  employees  and  supports  various  physical-
fitness  programs  to  that  end.  Learning  that  one  of  his
employees  was  a  dedicated  jogger,  the  business  owner
promised  to  pay  the  jogger  a  special  award  of  $100  if  she
could and would run one mile in less than six minutes on the
following  Saturday.  The  jogger  thanked  him,  and  did  in  fact
run  a  mile  in  less  than  six  minutes  on  the  day  specified.
Shortly  thereafter,  however,  the  business  owner  discovered
that for more than a year the jogger had been running at least
one  mile  in  less  than  six  minutes  every  day  as  a  part  of  her
personal fitness program. He refused to pay the $100.

In  an  action  by  the  jogger  against  the  business  owner  for

192

breach  of  contract,  which  of  the  following  best  summarizes
the probable decision of the court?

(A)    The  business  owner  wins,  because  it  is  a  compelling
inference  that  the  business  owner’s  promise  did  not
induce the jogger to run the specified mile.

(E)  The business owner wins, because the jogger’s running of
the specified mile was beneficial, not detrimental, to her
in any event.

(F)  The jogger wins, because running a mile in less than six

minutes is a significantly demanding enterprise.

(G)    The  jogger  wins,  because  she  ran  the  specified  mile  as

requested, and her motives for doing so are irrelevant.
Answer 11: Choice (D) is correct. The only way the business
owner can conceivably win is if he can show that his promise
was  not  supported  by  consideration.  But  the  business  owner
bargained for the jogger’s act of running the six-minute mile.
Since  the  business  owner  received  the  bargained  act,  the
consideration  requirement  was  satisfied.  The 
jogger’s
motives  in  doing  the  act — including  the  fact  that  she  would
have  done  the  act  anyway  without  the  business  owner’s
request — are indeed irrelevant, as this choice states.

(A) is wrong because it would not matter even if the business
owner’s  promise  did  not  induce  the  jogger  to  run  the  mile.
The business owner bargained for a six-minute mile to be run
by the jogger, and got it; that’s all that matters. So the fact that
the  jogger  would  have  run  that  mile  on  that  day  anyway  is
irrelevant.

(B)  is  wrong  because  even  in  courts  still  interpreting  the
consideration  doctrine  to  include  a  requirement  that  the
promisee  undergo  a  “detriment,”  all  that  is  required  is  a
“legal  detriment.”  “Legal  detriment”  is  really  shorthand  for
“any act, forbearance or promise.” The fact that the requested
act,  forbearance  or  promise  would  be  of  “benefit”  to  the
promisee  is  irrelevant.  Since  the  jogger  performed  the
requested act, the fact that the doing of that act may have been
a benefit to her health therefore doesn’t matter.
(C)  is  wrong  because  it  explains  the  correct  result  with
incorrect reasoning. Since the jogger performed the requested

193

act, she satisfies the “act, forbearance or promise” aspect of
the consideration requirement whether or not the requested act
was “significantly demanding” for her.

B.  Pre-existing duty rule

1.  Modification

Question  12:  On  May  1,  a  landowner  telegraphed  an
investor,  “Will  sell  you  any  or  all  of  the  lots  in  Grove
subdivision  at  $5,000  each.  Details  follow  in  letter.”  The
letter contained all the necessary details concerning terms of
payment, insurance, mortgages, etc., and provided, “This offer
remains open until June 1.” On May 2, after the investor had
received  the  telegram  but  before  he  had  received  the  letter,
the  investor  telegraphed  the  landowner,  “Accept  your  offer
with respect to lot 101.” Both parties knew that there were 50
lots  in  the  Grove  subdivision  and  that  they  were  numbered
101 through 150.
On May 3, the landowner telephoned the investor, saying that
because  he  had  just  discovered  that  a  shopping  center  was
going  to  be  erected  adjacent  to  the  Grove  subdivision,  he
would “have to have $6,000 for each of the lots, including lot
101.”  During  the  telephone  call,  the  investor  agreed  to  pay
him $6,000 for lot 101. On May 6, the investor telegraphed,
“Accept  your  offer  with  respect  to  the  rest  of  the  lots.”
Assuming that the two contracts were formed and that there is
no  controlling  statute,  the  investor  will  most  likely  be
required to pay

(A)  only $5,000 for each of the 50 lots.
(B)  only $5,000 for lot 101, but $6,000 for the remaining 49

lots.

(C)  $6,000 for each of the 50 lots.
(D)  $6,000 for lot 101, but only $5,000 for the remaining 49

lots.

the  common 

law  rules  on 

Answer  12:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
applies 
irrevocability  and
modifications  to  these  facts.  First,  you  have  to  determine
whether the common law or the UCC will control. Since it’s
the sale of land that’s involved, not a transaction in goods, the
common law will control.

194

Second, you have to analyze what each communication does.
The first is the landowner’s May 1 telegram to the investor. It
is sufficiently definite to constitute an offer to sell any or all
lots in the subdivision for $5,000 each. The investor’s May 2
telegram to the landowner constituted an acceptance as to lot
101 at $5,000, and probably implicitly rejected the offer as to
the other 49 lots. As a result, the landowner’s offer as to all
the  other  lots  terminated,  because  his  original  offer  to  keep
the  offer  open  until  June  1  was  not  supported  by
consideration,  so  it  was  revocable.  Even  if  the  investor’s
acceptance  as  to  lot  101  didn’t  terminate  the  offer,  the
landowner’s  subsequently  raising  the  price  to  $6,000  did
revoke the original offer and created a new one, at $6,000.

Thus, the price on the latter 49 lots was $6,000. The original
lot, number 101, had a price of $5,000, because the investor
originally  accepted  at  that  price.  Once  the  investor  accepted
at  $5,000,  there  was  a  contract  formed  as  to  lot  101.  The
subsequent  change  to  $6,000  was  thus  a  modification,  and
since  there  was  no  consideration,  the  modification  as  to  lot
101  is  unenforceable  under  the  pre-existing  duty  rule.  As  a
result, the contract price is $5,000 for lot 101 and $6,000 for
the rest.
This  question  indicates  why  it’s  so  important  to  segregate
UCC and non-UCC cases before you analyze them. Here, the
rule on modifications under the UCC is very different from the
common  law.  Under  UCC  §  2-209,  modifications  are  valid
without  consideration  as  long  as  they  are  in  good  faith.  At
common  law,  consideration  is  required  under  the  “pre-
existing  duty”  rule.  As  to  irrevocability,  at  common  law,
consideration  is  required  to  form  an  option  contract;  under
UCC  §  2-205,  merchants  can  make  irrevocable,  or  “firm”
offers,  without  consideration.  Both  of  these  would  lead  you
astray on these facts. However, since B correctly applies the
common law rules, it’s the best response.
(A) is wrong, because it ignores the fact that only lot 101 is
subject  to  the  $5,000  offer — the  remaining  lots  will  cost
$6,000. The landowner’s May 1 telegram to the investor was
sufficiently definite to constitute an offer to sell any or all lots
in  the  subdivision  for  $5,000  each.  The  investor’s  May  2

195

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

telegram to the landowner constituted an acceptance as to lot
101 at $5,000, and probably implicitly rejected the offer as to
the other 49 lots. As a result, the landowner’s offer as to all
the  other  lots  terminated,  because  his  original  offer  to  keep
the  offer  open  until  June  1  was  not  supported  by
consideration,  so  it  was  revocable.  Even  if  the  investor’s
acceptance  as  to  lot  101  didn’t  terminate  the  offer  as  to  the
other  49,  the  landowner’s  subsequently  raising  the  price  to
$6,000 did revoke the original offer and created a new one, at
$6,000. Thus, the price on the latter 49 lots was $6,000. Any
contract  for  these  49  (which  we’re  told  was  created)  would
thus have been at $6,000, not $5,000.

(C) is wrong, because it ignores the fact that lot 101 will only
cost $5,000, although this choice is correct in stating that the
other  49  will  be  $6,000  each.  The  landowner’s  May  1
telegram to the investor was sufficiently definite to constitute
an  offer  to  sell  any  or  all  lots  in  the  subdivision  for  $5,000
each.  The  investor’s  May  2  telegram  to  the  landowner
constituted  an  acceptance  as  to  lot  101  at  $5,000.  The
landowner’s  subsequent  change  to  $6,000  was  thus  an
attempted modification of a completed contract as to lot 101,
and since there was no consideration for the modification, at
common law the modification as to lot 101 was unenforceable
under the pre-existing duty rule. As a result, the contract price
remained  $5,000  for  lot  101.  Therefore,  this  choice  is
incorrect  in  implying  that  the  contract  price  for  lot  101  is
$6,000.

(D) is wrong, because it doesn’t correctly state the price as to
either  lot  101  or  the  remaining  49  lots — in  fact,  it  has  the
prices reversed. Since it’s the sale of land that’s involved, not
a  transaction  in  goods,  the  common  law  (not  the  UCC)  will
control.
The  landowner’s  May  1  telegram  to  the  investor  was
sufficiently definite to constitute an offer to sell any or all lots
in  the  subdivision  for  $5,000  each.  The  investor’s  May  2
telegram to the landowner constituted an acceptance as to lot
101 at $5,000, and probably rejected the offer as to the other
49 lots. As a result, the landowner’s offer as to all the other
lots  terminated,  because  his  original  offer  to  keep  the  offer

196

open  until  June  1  was  not  supported  by  consideration,  so  it
was revocable. Even if the investor’s acceptance as to lot 101
didn’t  terminate  the  offer,  the  landowner’s  subsequently
raising  the  price  to  $6,000  did  revoke  the  original  offer  and
created a new one, at $6,000, for the other 49 lots.

Thus, the price on the latter 49 lots was $6,000. The original
lot, number 101, had a price of $5,000, because the investor
originally  accepted  at  that  price.  Once  the  investor  accepted
at  $5,000,  there  was  a  contract  formed  as  to  lot  101.  The
subsequent  change 
thus  an  attempted
to  $6,000  was 
modification  as  to  lot  101,  and  since  there  was  no
consideration  for  that  modification,  the  modification  was
unenforceable under the pre-existing duty rule. As a result, the
contract price is $5,000 for lot 101 and $6,000 for the rest.

If you chose this response, you probably mistakenly believed
the modification as to lot 101 was valid, but that the original
offer as to the other lots was irrevocable. Since neither one of
these  is  true,  due  to  operation  of  the  common  law  rules  on
modifications 
(not  valid  without  consideration)  and
irrevocable  offers  (no  irrevocability  without  consideration),
D is completely wrong.

Question  13:  An  accountant  entered  into  a  contract  with  a
painter  by  the  terms  of  which  the  painter  was  to  paint  the
accountant’s office for $1,000 and was required to do all of
the  work  over  the  following  weekend  so  as  to  avoid
disruption of the accountant’s business.

If  the  painter  had  started  to  paint  on  the  following  Saturday
morning,  he  could  have  finished  before  Sunday  evening.
However, he stayed home that Saturday morning to watch the
final  game  of  the  World  Series  on  TV,  and  did  not  start  to
paint until Saturday afternoon. By late Saturday afternoon, the
painter realized that he had underestimated the time it would
take  to  finish  the  job  if  he  continued  to  work  alone.  The
painter  phoned  the  accountant  at  her  home  and  accurately
informed  her  that  it  was  impossible  to  finish  the  work  over
the weekend unless he hired a helper. He also stated that to do
so would require an additional charge of $200 for the work.
The  accountant  told  the  painter  that  she  apparently  had  no
choice but to pay “whatever it takes” to get the work done as

197

scheduled.

The painter hired a helper to help finish the painting and paid
the helper $200. The accountant has offered to pay the painter
$1,000. The painter is demanding $1,200.

How much is the painter likely to recover?

(A)    $1,000  only,  because  the  accountant  received  no
consideration for her promise to pay the additional sum.
(B)    $1,000  only,  because  the  accountant’s  promise  to  pay
“whatever it takes” is too uncertain to be enforceable.
(C)    $1,200,  in  order  to  prevent  the  accountant’s  unjust

enrichment.

(D)    $1,200,  because  the  impossibility  of  the  painter’s
completing  the  work  alone  discharged  the  original
contract and a new contract was formed.

Answer  13:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  If  parties  to  an  existing
contract  agree  to  modify  the  contract  for  the  sole  benefit  of
one of them, the modification will usually be unenforceable in
non-UCC cases, for lack of consideration. That’s because of
the  pre-existing  duty  rule:  When  one  party  to  an  existing
contract  makes  an  additional  promise,  and  the  other  party
merely promises to do what she is already required to do, the
former’s  promise  is  not  supported  by  consideration.  A
primary  function  of  the  pre-existing  duty  rule  is  to  refuse  to
reward “hold-up” behavior by a provider of services, who in
the  middle  of  the  contract  refuses  to  complete  performance
unless he gets a better price or other improved terms. That’s
exactly  what  happened  here:  The  painter  has  unfairly
extracted the $200 promise from the accountant when it’s too
late for the accountant to get a substitute. So the accountant’s
promise  will  be  unenforceable  unless  some  exception  to  the
pre-existing  duty  rule  applies.  Two  common  exceptions  are
that: (1) there were unanticipated circumstances that made the
painter’s request for more money not unreasonable, or (2) the
painter  agreed  to  do  some  additional  duty  beyond  what  he
was  already  required  to  do.  But  neither  of  these  exceptions
(or  any  other)  applies  here,  so  the  pre-existing  duty  rule
applies  and  the  accountant’s  promise  is  unenforceable  for
lack of consideration.

198

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  accountant’s  promise  is  not  too
uncertain.  The  parties  were  not  agreeing  to  a  charge  of
“whatever it takes” — they were instead agreeing to a charge
of  $200,  with  the  accountant’s  “whatever  it  takes”  remark
being  more  in  the  nature  of  a  side  commentary  (e.g.,  “I’m
agreeing  to  the  $200  because  I  would  in  fact  agree  to
whatever it took to get you to finish the work.”).

(C)  is  wrong  because  letting  the  accountant  escape  from  her
$200-extra-compensation  promise  would  not  lead  to  her
unjust  enrichment.  The  painter  is  only  doing  exactly  what  he
always  agreed  to  do  for  exactly  the  price  the  two  parties
agreed  to,  so  depriving  him  of  his  unfairly  extracted  extra
$200 would not constitute unjust enrichment to the accountant.

(D)  is  wrong  because  a  party’s  inability  to  complete
performance  due  to  that  party’s  own  delay  or  poor  planning
does not constitute the sort of extraordinary and unanticipated
occurrence  to  which  the  impossibility  doctrine  applies.  In
general, only “external” events (e.g., an act of God, a strike,
etc.) will qualify for the impossibility defense.

a.  Unanticipated circumstances

Question  14:  A  contractor  contracted  with  a  warehouse
owner  to  construct  for  $500,000  a  warehouse  and  an  access
driveway  at  highway  level  on  the  owner’s  property.  Shortly
after commencing work on the driveway, which required for
the  specified  level  some  excavation  and  removal  of  surface
material,  the  contractor  unexpectedly  encountered  a  large
mass  of  solid  rock.  The  contractor  informed  the  owner
(accurately)  that  because  of  the  rock  the  driveway  as
specified would cost at least $20,000 more than figured, and
demanded for that reason a total contract price of $520,000.
Since  the  owner  was  expecting  warehousing  customers
immediately  after  the  agreed  completion  date,  he  signed  a
writing  promising  to  pay  the  additional  $20,000.  Following
timely  completion  of  the  warehouse  and  driveway,  which
conformed to the contract in all respects, the owner refused to
pay the contractor more than $500,000.
What  is  the  maximum  amount  to  which  the  contractor  is
entitled?

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

199

(A)    $500,000,  because  there  was  no  consideration  for  the

owner’s promise to pay the additional $20,000.

(B)    $500,000,  because  the  owner’s  promise  to  pay  the

additional $20,000 was exacted under duress.

(C)    $520,000,  because  the  modification  was  fair  and  was
made in the light of circumstances not anticipated by the
parties when the original contract was made.

(D)    $520,000,  provided  that  the  reasonable  value  of  the

the  modification 

contractor’s total performance was that much or more.
Answer 14: Choice (C) is correct. Although the general rule
is 
is
that  a  modification  solely  benefiting  one  party 
unenforceable  due  to  lack  of  consideration,  there  is  a  very
important  exception:  If 
is  “fair  and
equitable  in  view  of  circumstances  not  anticipated  by  the
parties  when  the  contract  was  made,”  the  modification  will
be  binding  without  consideration.  That  is  the  case  here:  the
large amount of rock was a “circumstance not anticipated by
the  parties  when  the  contract  was  made,”  and  the  $20,000
seems to have been a fair estimate of the increased cost to the
the
contractor 
contractor  gave  no  consideration  for  the  owner’s  promise  to
pay the extra $20,000 (the contractor merely promised to do
what he was already obligated to do, i.e., build the warehouse
and driveway) is irrelevant.

in  performing.  Therefore, 

the  fact 

that 

(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  it  is  true  that  there  was  no
consideration  for  the  owner’s  promise  to  pay  the  additional
$20,000, the absence of consideration does not matter for the
reason explained in the discussion of Choice (C).

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  contractor’s  request  for  the  extra
$20,000 would not be deemed by a court to have constituted
duress. If no rock had been discovered, and the contractor had
demanded the extra $20,000 merely because he knew that the
owner  was  time-sensitive  and  vulnerable,  this  choice  would
probably be correct in result and reasoning. But because the
facts make it clear that the $20,000 was merely an adjustment
on account of the unanticipated cost of excavating the rock, no
duress will be found.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  gives  the  wrong  explanation  for  the

200

correct result. Even if the reasonable value of the contractor’s
total  performance  was  $520,000  or  greater,  the  contractor
would not receive the extra $20,000 if the increase was due
to the owner’s desperation to have the project completed on
time  rather  than  due  to  an  unanticipated  circumstance  (the
rock) — in  that  case  the  requirement  of  consideration  would
render  the  modification  unenforceable  regardless  of  the
“value” of the total performance.

2.  Duty owed to third person rather than to promisor

Question  15:  A  burglar  stole  Collecta’s  impressionist
painting  valued  at  $400,000.  Collecta,  who  had  insured  the
painting  for  $300,000  with  Artistic  Insurance  Co.,  promised
to pay $25,000 to Snoop, a full-time investigator for Artistic,
if  he  effected  the  return  of  the  painting  to  her  in  good
condition. By company rules, Artistic permits its investigators
to  accept  and  retain  rewards  from  policyholders  for  the
recovery  of  insured  property.  Snoop,  by  long  and  skillful
detective  work,  recovered  the  picture  and  returned  it
undamaged to Collecta.

If Collecta refuses to pay Snoop anything, and he sues her for
$25,000,  what  is  the  probable  result  under  the  prevailing
modern rule?

(A)    Collecta  wins,  because  Snoop  owed  Artistic  a  pre-

existing duty to recover the picture if possible.

(B)  Collecta wins, because Artistic, Snoop’s employer, had a
pre-existing  duty  to  return  the  recovered  painting  to
Collecta.

(C)    Snoop  wins,  because  Collecta  will  benefit  more  from
return  of  the  $400,000  painting  than  from  receiving  the
$300,000 policy proceeds.

(D)  Snoop wins, because the pre-existing duty rule does not
apply  if  the  promisee’s  (Snoop’s)  duty  was  owed  to  a
third person.

Answer  15:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  If  the  promisee  merely
does or promises to do what the promisee is already legally
obligated to  the  promisor  to  do,  under  the  pre-existing  duty
rule  that  performance  or  return  promise  does  not  serve  as
consideration  for  the  promisor’s  promise.  But  this  rule  does

201

not  apply  where  the  promisee  does  or  promises  to  do
something that is already legally owed not to the promisor but
to  some  third  person.  This  exception  applies  here,  since
Snoop (the promisee) does not owe any contractual duty to the
promisor (Collecta), merely to a third party (Artistic).

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  Snoop  indeed  owed  Artistic  a
pre-existing  duty  to  recover  the  picture  if  possible,  no  duty
was owed to the promisor (Collecta), and that’s what matters,
as explained in the discussion of Choice (D) above.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  Artistic  may  have  had  a
pre-existing duty to return the recovered painting to Collecta
is irrelevant, since it is not Artistic that was the promisee of
Collecta’s  promise  of  a  bonus  (Snoop  was).  For  the  pre-
existing duty rule to apply it must be the promisee who has the
pre-existing duty (and who owes that duty to the promisor).

(C) is wrong because it states an irrelevant fact. The issue is
whether the pre-existing duty rule applies, and the fact that the
promisor  would  receive  some  net  benefit  if  the  promisee
performed the act he was already legally obligated to perform
does  not  render  the  pre-existing  rule  inapplicable.  (Virtually
every  time  the  promisor  makes  a  promise  in  return  for  the
promisee’s  performance  of  an  already-owed  duty, 
the
promisor  expects  to  do  better  than  if  the  promisee  didn’t
perform,  otherwise  the  promisor  wouldn’t  be  making  the
promise;  yet  the  pre-existing  duty  rule  applies  to  these
situations.)

3.  Agreement to accept part payment of debt

a.  Disputed debt

Question  16:  In  a  written  contract,  an  architect  agreed  to
draw  up  the  plans  for  and  to  supervise  construction  of  a
client’s  new  house.  In  return,  the  client  agreed  to  pay  the
architect  a  fee  of  $10,000  to  be  paid  upon  the  house’s
completion. After completion, the client claimed erroneously
but in good faith that the architect’s plans were defective. The
client  orally  offered  to  pay  the  architect  $7,500  in  full
settlement  of  the  claim  for  the  fee.  The  architect  orally
accepted  that  offer  despite  the  fact  that  the  reasonable  value
of  his  services  was  in  fact  $10,000.  The  client  paid  the

202

architect $7,500 pursuant to their agreement.

The  architect  subsequently  sued  the  client  for  the  remaining
$2,500.  In  a  preliminary  finding,  the  trier  of  fact  found  that
there were no defects in the architect’s plans.

Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against the
client for $2,500?

(A) 

  Yes,  because  payment  of  $7,500  cannot  furnish
consideration for the architect’s promise to surrender his
claim.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  oral  agreement  to  modify  the  written

contract is not enforceable.

(C)    No,  because  the  architect’s  promise  to  accept  $7,500
became binding when the client made the payment.
(D)  No, because the architect’s acceptance of partial payment

constituted a novation.

to  encourage  settlements:  Where  either  (a) 

Answer 16: Choice (C) is correct. It’s true that under the pre-
existing duty rule, as a general matter a party who promises to
accept less than the amount or other performance he is owed
has  not  received  consideration  for  that  promise.  So,  for
instance,  a  creditor  with  an  unquestionably-valid  liquidated
claim who agrees to accept partial payment won’t be bound.
But all courts recognize an important exception to this rule, in
order 
the
creditor’s  claim  (or  a  defense  to  it)  is  in  fact  of  uncertain
validity; or (b) the debtor honestly believes that the claim may
be invalid (or that the debtor’s defense may be valid), then the
creditor’s agreement to take partial payment is  supported  by
consideration,  namely  the  debtor’s  promise  to  pay  a  lesser
amount. And that’s true even if it later turns out that the claim
was valid and/or the defense was invalid. See Rest. 2d, §74.
(In  this  situation,  the  settlement  agreement  is  an  “executory
accord,”  which  becomes  a  completed  “accord-and-
satisfaction”  when  the  agreed-upon  partial  payment  is  made,
thereby  extinguishing  the  creditor’s  original  claim  for  the
whole amount.)
That’s  exactly  what  happened  here:  The  client  believed  in
good faith (even though, as it turned out, erroneously) that she
had  a  valid  defense,  based  on  the  defectiveness  of  the

203

architect’s performance. Her agreement to pay the architect’s
claim in return for a $2,500 discount was thus a surrender of
her good-faith potential defense, and that surrender furnished
consideration  for  the  architect’s  return  promise  to  give  the
discount.  Therefore,  the  architect’s  promise  to  give  the
discount  was  binding  on  him,  as  an  executory  accord  that
became  a  completed  accord-and-satisfaction  at  the  moment
the client paid the $7,500.

is  wrong  because  of 

the  special  rule  validating
(A) 
compromises  of  claims  that  are  disputed  in  good  faith.  The
rule of Foakes v. Beer, which is a specific application of the
pre-existing  duty  rule,  provides  that  a  promise  to  accept
partial payment of a liquidated and undisputed debt is invalid
for a lack of consideration. The rule does not apply, however,
where  there  is  a  compromise  of  a  claim  disputed  in  good
faith. This exception applies even if it later becomes apparent
that  the  reason  for  disputing  the  claim  was  invalid.  See  the
analysis of Choice (C) for more information.

(B) is wrong for two reasons. First, there is nothing in these
facts  that  makes  the  Statute  of  Frauds  applicable,  as  this
choice suggests. Oral contracts are valid unless the situation
falls  within  one  of  the  enumerated  Statute  of  Frauds
categories,  which  this  one  does  not.  Oral  modifications  are
ordinarily binding as long as neither the original contract nor
the  contract-as-modified  falls  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds.
And the fact that the original contract was in writing does not
change this. If the written contract had contained a “No Oral
Modifications”  clause,  then  this  clause  would  have  been
enforceable  to  make  an  oral  modification  (such  as  a
modification  of  the  price)  unenforceable.  But  there  is  no
indication  in  these  facts  that  a  N.O.M.  clause  was  present.
Furthermore,  even  if  there  was  a  N.O.M.  clause,  it’s  likely
that  the  court  would  conclude  that  full  performance  (the
payment of the agreed-upon lesser sum, and its acceptance by
the architect) caused the N.O.M. clause to become ineffective.
Second,  even  if  the  original  contract  had  been  within  the
Statute  of  Frauds,  full  performance  by  both  parties — the
architect’s doing of the work, and the client’s payment to the
agreed-upon  lesser  sum — would  have  caused  the  Statute  of

204

Frauds  to  disappear  as  a  defense  anyway.  (See  Rest.  2d,
§145.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  facts  here  did  not  involve  a
novation.  A  novation  arises  where  either  one  or  both  of  the
parties  to  a  contract  is  replaced  by  a  third party.  See  Rest.
2d,  §  280.  The  architect’s  acceptance  of  payment  does  not
constitute a novation, since neither the client nor the architect
was replaced by a third party.

b.  Cashing of check tendered as settlement

i.  How tested on the MBE

Question 17: A client consulted a lawyer about handling the
sale  of  the  client’s  building,  and  asked  the  lawyer  what  her
legal fee would be. The lawyer replied that her usual charge
was  $100  per  hour,  and  estimated  that  the  legal  work  on
behalf of the client would cost about $5,000 at that rate. The
client  said,  “Okay;  let’s  proceed  with  it,”  and  the  lawyer
timely  and  successfully  completed  the  work.  Because  of
unexpected  title  problems,  the  lawyer  reasonably  spent  75
hours on the matter and shortly thereafter mailed the client a
bill  for  $7,500,  with  a  letter  itemizing  the  work  performed
and time spent. The client responded by a letter expressing his
good-faith belief that the lawyer had agreed to a total fee of
no  more  than  $5,000.  The  client  enclosed  a  check  in  the
amount  of  $5,000  payable  to  the  lawyer  and  conspicuously
marked, “Payment in full for legal services in connection with
the  sale  of  [the  client’s]  building.”  Despite  reading  the
“Payment  in  full  .  .  .”  language,  the  lawyer,  without  any
notation  of  protest  or  reservation  of  rights,  endorsed  and
deposited the check to her bank account. The check was duly
paid  by  the  client’s  bank.  A  few  days  later,  the  lawyer
unsuccessfully  demanded  payment  from  the  client  of  the
$2,500  difference  between  the  amount  of  her  bill  and  the
check, and now sues the client for that difference.
What, if anything, can the lawyer recover from the client?

(A)  Nothing, because the risk of unexpected title problems in
a  real-property  transaction  is  properly  allocable  to  the
seller’s attorney and thus to the lawyer in this case.
(B)    Nothing,  because  the  amount  of  the  lawyer’s  fee  was

205

disputed  in  good  faith  by  the  client,  and  the  lawyer
impliedly agreed to an accord and satisfaction.

(C)  $2,500, because the client agreed to an hourly rate for as
many hours as the work reasonably required, and the sum
of $5,000 was merely an estimate.

contained 

communication 

(D)  The reasonable value of the lawyer’s services in excess
of  $5,000,  if  any,  because  there  was  no  specific
agreement on the total amount of the lawyer’s fee.
Answer 17: Choice (B) is correct. UCC § 3-311 deals with
the  effect  of  a  creditor’s  cashing  of  an  “in  full  settlement”
partial-payment check. To get the protection of § 3-311 (i.e.,
to  have  the  creditor’s  cashing  of  the  check  constitute  full
settlement),  the  debtor  must  show  that:  (1)  the  check  or
accompanying  written 
a
“conspicuous  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  instrument  was
tendered as full satisfaction of the claim,” (2) the underlying
claim was either “unliquidated” or “subjected to a bona fide
dispute,” and (3) the debtor acted in good faith. Here, all of
these  requirements  are  met,  since:  (1)  we’re  told  that  the
check was “conspicuously marked, ‘Payment in full’”; (2) the
parties  had  a  real  dispute  about  whether  the  $5,000  initially
quoted by the lawyer was merely a non-binding estimate or a
binding  cap;  and  (3)  we’re  expressly  told  that  the  client’s
letter  expressed  his  “good-faith  belief”  that  the  lawyer  had
quoted  the  $5,000  as  a  cap.  Therefore,  when  the  lawyer
cashed  the  check,  her  doing  so  constituted  an  implied
agreement to an accord and satisfaction of her claim, under §
3-311.  Note  that  this  result  would  still  occur  even  if  the
lawyer had placed a notation of protest or of reservation-of-
rights on the check before cashing it.
(A) is wrong for two reasons: (1) the “rule of law” it purports
to state about the risk of loss probably would not be accurate
even  in  the  absence  of  the  lawyer’s  cashing  the  partial-
payment  check;  and  (2)  under  UCC  §  3-311,  the  cashing  of
that  check  constituted  a  settlement,  for  the  reasons  stated  in
the discussion of Choice (B) above.
(C)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  clear  that  the  $5,000  figure
quoted  by  the  lawyer  was  merely  an  estimate — in  the
absence of the check-cashing, a court might well have found

206

that  the  client  reasonably  understood  the  figure  to  be  a  firm
cap  (i.e.,  an  upper  bound)  on  the  amount  that  the  lawyer
would  charge,  in  which  case  the  cap  would  have  been
deemed part of the contract.

(D) is wrong for two reasons: (1) there may indeed have been
a  specific  agreement  on  the  total  amount  of  the  lawyer’s  fee
(the facts are indeterminate about whether this would be true,
in the absence of the partial-check-cashing); and (2) when the
lawyer cashed the check, the case became governed by UCC §
3-311, not the parties’ original agreement, whatever that was.

Question 18: Ames had painted Bell’s house under a contract
which  called  for  payment  of  $20,000.  Bell,  contending  in
good  faith  that  the  porch  had  not  been  painted  properly,
refused to pay anything.

On  June  15,  Ames  mailed  a  letter  to  Bell  stating,  “I  am  in
serious need of money. Please send the $20,000 to me before
July  1.”  On  June  18,  Bell  replied  “I  will  settle  for  $18,000
provided you agree to repaint the porch.” Ames did not reply
to this letter.

Thereafter, Bell mailed a check for $18,000 marked “Payment
in full on the Ames-Bell painting contract as per letter dated
June  18.”  Ames  received  the  check  on  June  30.  Because  he
was badly in need of money, Ames cashed the check without
objection and spent the proceeds but has refused to repaint the
porch.

After  cashing  the  check  Ames  sued  Bell  for  $2,000.  Ames
probably will

(A)    succeed  if  he  can  prove  that  he  had  painted  the  porch

according to specifications.

(B)    succeed,  because  he  cashed  the  check  under  economic

duress.

(C)  not succeed, because he cashed the check.
(D)    not  succeed,  because  he  is  entitled  to  recover  only  the

reasonable value of his services.

Answer  18:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Under  UCC  §  3-311,  a
creditor  who  cashes  a  partial-payment  check  offered  in  full
settlement  will  be  deemed  to  have  accepted  an  “accord  and

207

satisfaction,” and lose his right to sue for the balance, if: (1)
the  check  or  accompanying  communication  contained  a
“conspicuous  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  instrument  was
tendered as full satisfaction of the claim,” (2) the claim was
either “unliquidated” or was “subject to a bona fide dispute,”
and (3) the debtor acted in good faith. (This provision applies
even  to  contracts  for  services  rather  than  goods.)  All  3
requirements  imposed  by  §  3-311  are  met  here:  (1)  the
“payment  in  full”  legend  on  the  check  was  a  “conspicuous
statement” that the check was tendered in full payment; (2) the
prior letter shows that there was a dispute about whether the
painting was done correctly; and (3) there’s no indication that
Bell didn’t act in good faith.

(A)  is  not  the  best  response,  because  Ames’  cashing  of  the
check was an accord and satisfaction under UCC § 3-311, as
described  above.  Therefore,  Ames  can’t  recover  even  if  he
did paint the porch according to specs.

(B)  is  not  the  best  response,  because  (1)  it  ignores  the  fact
that  UCC  §  3-311  treats  the  cashing  of  the  check  as  an
agreement  to  settle;  and  (2)  “economic  duress”  is  not  a
defense or a relevant factor, at least where the duress does not
come from the other party to the contract.
(D)  is  not  the  best  answer,  because  it  states  an  irrelevant
factor.  If  Ames  had  not  cashed  the  check,  he  could  have
recovered the $2,000 (the remaining contract price) if he had
been able to show he had fulfilled the contract. But by cashing
the  partial-payment  check,  he  cut  off  his  right  to  sue  for  the
contract price. And that’s true no matter what the relationship
was between the contract price and the value of the services
rendered.  (If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been
thinking  of  quasi-contractual  recovery,  where  a  non-
substantially performing plaintiff’s damages are measured by
the reasonable value of his services. But this concept doesn’t
apply here, not only because of the check-cashing but because
there’s no indication that Ames indeed failed to substantially
perform, or if so, that the services were worth only $18,000.)

4.  Other settlements

Question  19:  A  lifeguard  saved  the  life  of  a  woman  who

208

thereafter  changed  her  will  to  leave  the  lifeguard  $1,000.
However,  upon  her  death  she  had  no  property  except  an
undivided interest in real estate held in tenancy by the entirety
of  her  husband.  The  property  had  been  purchased  by  her
husband from an inheritance.

After  the  woman  died,  her  husband  signed  and  delivered  to
the  lifeguard  the  following  instrument:  “In  consideration  of
the  lifeguard’s  saving  my  wife’s  life  and  his  agreement  to
bring no claims against my estate based on her will, I hereby
promise  to  pay  the  lifeguard  $1,000.”  Upon  the  woman’s
husband’s  death,  the  lifeguard  filed  a  claim  for  $1,000.  The
husband’s executor contested the claim on the ground that the
instrument was not supported by sufficient consideration. On
which  of  the  following  theories  would  it  be  most  likely  that
the lifeguard could recover?

(A)  The husband and the lifeguard have made a compromise.
(B)  The husband must give restitution for benefits it would be

unjust to retain.

(or  a  substitute 

for  consideration, 

(C)  The husband is bound by promissory estoppel.
(D)  The husband executed a binding unilateral contract.
Answer  19:  Choice  (A)  is  correct,  because  it  provides  the
lifeguard’s  best  argument  for  recovery:  an  enforceable
contract.  A  valid  contract  requires  an  offer,  acceptance,  and
consideration 
like
promissory estoppel). Consideration is the sticky point here.
Consideration 
requires  a  bargained-for  exchange,  and
detriment to the promisee or benefit to the promisor. Here, as
to  the  promise  to  pay,  the  husband  is  the  promisor  and  the
lifeguard  is  the  promisee.  Courts  generally  hold  that  if  A
promises  not  to  sue  B  on  a  claim  (even  a  claim  that  is  of
questionable  validity),  in  exchange  for  B’s  promise  to  make
payment,  A’s  promise  not  to  sue  is  consideration  for  B’s
promise  to  pay.  Therefore,  the  court  will  probably  hold  that
the  lifeguard’s  release  of  his  claim  against  the  husband’s
estate  (whether  the  claim  would  have  proved  valid  or  not)
was  consideration  for 
the  husband’s  promise.  (Courts
disagree  about  what  happens  when  the  person  surrendering
the  claim  has  doubts  about  its  validity,  but  there’s  no
indication here that the lifeguard had doubts about the validity

209

of his potential claim against the husband’s estate, and in any
event the “compromise” theory is the only one of the choices
that could possibly allow the lifeguard to recover.)

Incidentally, note that the lifeguard’s saving the woman’s life
wouldn’t  be  consideration,  because  it  wasn’t  bargained  for;
he  saved  the  woman  before  his  agreement  with  the  husband
(or the woman, for that matter). If the husband’s promise were
solely  in  return  for  the  lifeguard’s  saving  the  woman’s  life,
then,  it  wouldn’t  be  enforceable.  It’s  the  compromise  that
makes it enforceable.

(B) is wrong, because the husband has not received any unjust
benefits  and,  even  if  he  had,  restitution  would  not  apply  to
these  facts.  Restitution  is  a  remedy  under  which  the  parties
are returned to their position before the contract was formed,
in  order  to  avoid  an  outcome  in  which  one  of  the  parties
receives unjust benefits. Restitution is measured by the value
rendered  to  defendant.  Here,  the  husband  hasn’t  benefitted
unjustly (at least in money terms) from the lifeguard’s saving
the wife’s life. In any case, the lifeguard has a valid claim at
law  (for  breach  of  contract,  since  his  agreement  with  the
husband was enforceable, as discussed in Choice (A) above),
so the equitable remedy of unjust enrichment (available only
if  a  legal  remedy  is  unavailable)  would  not  be  necessary  to
fix the problem.

(C)  is  wrong,  because  it  misstates  the  facts:  The  husband
would not be bound by promissory estoppel, because he’d be
bound by a valid contract. Promissory estoppel is a substitute
for consideration, used to avoid injustice. It is triggered by a
gratuitous  promise  that  is  likely  to,  and  does,  induce
detrimental  reliance  in  the  promisee.  The  first  reason
promissory  estoppel  doesn’t  apply  here  is  that  there’s  an
enforceable  contract,  and  the  court  will  award  the  plaintiff
promissory  estoppel  only  in  the  absence  of  an  enforceable
promise. The second reason is that there’s no indication that
the promisee (the lifeguard) relied in any substantial way on
the  promise  of  payment  (since  he  knew  that  he  could  still
bring  a  legal  claim  against  the  husband’s  estate,  for  the
reasons discussed in Choice (A) above).
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  mischaracterizes  the  facts:  The

210

contract was bilateral, not unilateral. An offer for a bilateral
contract seeks acceptance in the form of a promise; one for a
unilateral  contract  seeks  acceptance  by  performance.  Here,
the husband’s document says he was promising to pay $1,000
in return for the lifeguard’s return agreement (read: promise)
not  to  sue.  Thus,  since  the  husband  sought  and  received  an
(implicit) return promise, the resulting contract was bilateral.

III.  ILLUSORY, ALTERNATIVE AND IMPLIED

PROMISES

A.  Implied promises

Question 20:  A  buyer,  who  was  a  representative  of  a  bank,
contracted in writing with a shareholder, who owned all of a
corporation’s outstanding stock, to purchase all of her stock at
a  specified  price  per  share.  At  the  time  this  contract  was
executed,  the  buyer  said  to  the  shareholder,  “Of  course,  our
commitment to buy is conditioned on our obtaining approval
of  the  contract  from  the  bank’s  board  of  directors.”  The
shareholder replied, “Fine. No problem.”

The  board  orally  approved  the  contract,  but  the  shareholder
changed her mind and refused to consummate the sale on two
grounds:  (1)  when  the  agreement  was  made  there  was  no
consideration  for  her  promise  to  sell;  and  (2)  the  board’s
approval  of  the  contract  was  invalid.  If  the  buyer  sues  the
shareholder  for  breach  of  contract,  is  the  buyer  likely  to
prevail?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  buyer’s  promise  to  buy,  bargained  for
and  made  in  exchange  for  the  shareholder’s  promise  to
sell,  was  good  consideration  even  though  it  was
expressly conditioned on an event that was not certain to
occur.

(B)    Yes,  because  any  possible  lack  of  consideration  for  the
shareholder’s promise to sell was expressly waived by
the shareholder when the agreement was made.

(C)    No,  because  mutuality  of  obligation  between  the  parties

was lacking when the agreement was made.

(D)    No,  because  the  condition  of  the  board  of  director’s

211

approval  of  the  contract  was  an  essential  part  of  the
agreed exchange and was not in a signed writing.

Answer  20:  Choice  (A)  is  correct,  because  a  promise  to
perform an act is sufficient consideration to support a contract
even  if  the  duty  to  perform  that  act  is  made  expressly
conditional on the happening of another event. For a contract
to  be  binding,  each  party  must  give  bargained-for
consideration to the other. In the case of a bilateral contract,
such as the one in this problem, the consideration on each side
may take the form of a promise. Here, the buyer has promised
to pay for the shareholder’s stock, while the shareholder has
promised  to  sell  the  buyer  all  of  her  stock.  Although  the
buyer’s  promise  is  expressly  conditioned  on  receiving  the
board’s  approval,  an  event  that  is  not  certain  to  occur,  the
buyer’s  promise  is  still  adequate  as  consideration.  The
shareholder  may  argue  that  the  buyer  had  the  opportunity  to
avoid  the  contract  by  not  seeking  the  board’s  approval,
thus  not
rendering 
consideration  for  the  shareholder’s  return  promise  to  sell.
However,  the  express  language  of  a  condition  will  often  be
deemed  to  create  an  implied  promise  on  the  part  of  the
promisor  to  use  his  best  efforts  to  cause  the  condition  to
occur.  A  court  would  likely  hold  that  the  buyer  impliedly
promised  to  use  its  best  efforts  to  obtain  approval  of  the
contract,  making 
the
consideration  for  the  shareholder’s  return  promise  to  sell  if
board approval occurred.

implicit  promise  part  of 

the  buyer’s  promise 

illusory  and 

that 

for 

the  shareholder’s  promise 

(B) is not the best response, because the buyer has provided
to  sell.
consideration 
Consideration  may  consist  of  a  promise  to  either  take  any
affirmative  act  or  forbear  any  legal  right.  Here,  in  exchange
for the shareholder’s promise to sell, the buyer has implicitly
promised not only to buy if board approval occurred, but also
to  use  his  best  efforts  in  seeking  approval  of  the  contract,
making that implicit promise part of the consideration for the
shareholder’s  return  promise  to  sell  if  board  approval
occurred. As a result, this is a bilateral contract: one in which
the bargained-for exchange is one promise for another. Since
the buyer has provided consideration, there is no need for the

212

shareholder 
consideration.

to  have  waived  any  possible 

lack  of

(C) is not the best response, because the parties entered into a
valid  bilateral  contract.  For  a  contract  to  be  binding,  each
party must give bargained-for consideration to the other. In the
case  of  a  bilateral  contract,  such  as  the  one  in  this  problem,
the  consideration  on  each  side  may  take  the  form  of  a
promise.  The  shareholder  may  argue  that  the  buyer  had  the
chance  to  avoid  the  contract  by  not  seeking  the  board’s
approval, rendering the buyer’s promise illusory and thus not
consideration  for  the  shareholder’s  return  promise  to  sell.
However,  the  express  language  of  a  condition  will  often
create an implied promise on the part of the promisor to use
his best efforts to cause the condition to occur. A court would
likely hold that the buyer impliedly promised to use his best
efforts  in  seeking  approval  of  the  contract,  making  that
implicit  promise  part  of 
the
shareholder’s  return  promise  to  sell  if  board  approval
occurred.  So  there  is  no  lack  of  mutuality  of  obligation — 
each  party  has  promised  to  do  something  in  return  for  the
other’s promise to do something.

the  consideration 

for 

(D) is not the best response, because there is no requirement
that an express condition be in a signed writing. Generally, a
signed  writing  will  only  be  required  if  the  contract  falls
within  the  Statute  of  Frauds.  However,  an  agreement  to
purchase  shares  of  stock  does  not  fall  within  the  Statute  of
Frauds,  so  there  is  no  requirement  that  any  part  of  this
contract  be  in  writing.  (Note  that  shares  of  stock  are  not
“goods”  within  the  meaning  of  Article  2  of  the  UCC  since
they  are  not  tangible  items.)  Since  the  contract  is  not  within
the Statute of Frauds, the fact that the condition requiring the
board’s  approval  is  not  included  within  the  signed  writing
will not cause the contract to fail.

IV.  REQUIREMENTS AND OUTPUT CONTRACTS

A.  Requirements and output contracts generally

1.  UCC approach

a.  How tested on the MBE

213

Question 21:  Responding  to  County’s  written  advertisement
for bids, Tyres was the successful bidder for the sale of tires
to  County  for  County’s  vehicles.  Tyres  and  County  entered
into  a  signed,  written  agreement  that  specified,  “It  is  agreed
that Tyres will deliver all tires required by this agreement to
County,  in  accordance  with  the  attached  bid  form  and
specifications, for a one-year period beginning September 1,
2005.” Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form
and  specifications.  In  the  written  advertisement  to  which
Tyres  had  responded,  but  not  in  the  bid  form,  County  had
stated, “Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best
interests of County.” No definite quantity of tires to be bought
by  County  from  Tyres  was  specified  in  any  of  these
documents.

In January 2006, Tyres learned that County was buying some
of  its  tires  from  one  of  Tyres’s  competitors.  Contending  that
the  Tyres-County  agreement  was  a  requirements  contract,
Tyres sued County for the damages caused by County’s buying
some of its tires from the competitor.

If  the  court  concludes  that  the  Tyres-County  contract  is  an
agreement by County to buy its tire requirements from Tyres,
Tyres probably will

(A)    recover  under  the  Contracts  Clause  of  the  United  States

Constitution.

(B)  recover under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial

Code.

(C)    not  recover,  because  the  agreement  lacks  mutuality  of

obligation.

(D)    not  recover,  because  the  agreement  is  indefinite  as  to

quantity.

Answer 21: Choice (B) is correct. The UCC, in § 2-306(1),
makes  requirements  contracts  valid,  and  interprets  such
agreements  to  cover  “such  actual  .  .  .  requirements  as  may
occur  in  good  faith,  except  that  no  quantity  unreasonably
disproportionate to any stated estimate or in the absence of a
stated estimate to any normal or otherwise comparable prior .
.  .  requirements  may  be  .  .  .  demanded.”  Given  that  the
question tells you to assume that the Tyres-County contract is

214

interpreted to represent an obligation by County to buy all its
requirements  for  tires  from  Tyres,  the  contract  is  valid  as  a
requirements contract under § 2-306(1).

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  Contracts  Clause  of  the  U.S.
Constitution would not furnish the basis of recovery for Tyres.
The  Contracts  Clause  limits  the  circumstances  in  which  a
government may use its legislative powers to alter the terms
of contracts. But here, County is not trying to alter the terms of
its contract; it is merely hoping to persuade the court to find
the contract invalid under general contract principles. Such an
argument does not implicate the Contracts Clause.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  agreement  does  have  mutuality  of
obligation — Tyres is required to supply all of the reasonable
requirements  of  County  for  tires  at  the  prices  stated  in  the
attachments, and in return County is obligated to purchase all
of  its  tires  exclusively  from  Tyres.  (If  the  agreement  were
interpreted  to  mean  merely  that  County  would  “order
whatever tires it decides to order” from Tyres, then the lack-
of-mutuality  argument  might  work;  but  you’re  told  that  the
contract is interpreted by the court to be a true requirements
contract.)
(D)  is  wrong  because  the  agreement  is  not  indefinite  as  to
quantity. It’s true that the contract does not specify a particular
number  of  tires,  but  a  contract  that  specifies  that  “all  of  the
buyer’s requirements” for a particular type of item are to be
purchased from the seller is deemed to be sufficiently definite
as to quantity.

b.  Good faith obligation

Question  22:  Under  a  written  agreement  a  manufacturer  of
pastries promised to sell its entire output of baked buns at a
specified  unit  price  to  a  bakery,  for  one  year.  The  bakery
promised not to sell any other supplier’s baked buns. Shortly
after  making  the  contract,  and  before  the  manufacturer  had
tendered  any  buns,  the  bakery  decided  that  the  contract  had
become undesirable because of a sudden, sharp decline in its
customers’  demand  for  baked  buns.  It  renounced 
the
agreement, and the manufacturer sues for breach of contract.
Which of the following will the court probably decide?

215

(A)    The  bakery  wins,  because  mutuality  of  obligation  was
lacking  in  that  the  bakery  made  no  express  promise  to
buy any of the manufacturer’s baked buns.

(B)    The  bakery  wins,  because  the  agreement  was  void  for
indefiniteness  of  quantity  and  total  price  for  the  year
involved.

(C)  The manufacturer wins, because the bakery’s promise to
sell at retail the manufacturer’s baked buns exclusively,
if it sold any such buns at all, implied a promise to use
its best efforts to sell bakery’s one-year output of baked
buns.

(D)  The manufacturer wins, because under the applicable law
both  parties  to  a  sale-of-goods  contract  impliedly
assume the risk of price and demand fluctuations.

Answer  22:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  was  an  output
contract, as well as a requirements contract. Under UCC § 2-
306(2), “A lawful agreement by either the seller or the buyer
for exclusive dealing in the kind of goods concerned imposes
unless otherwise agreed an obligation by the seller to use best
efforts  to  supply  the  goods  and  by  the  buyer  to  use  best
efforts to promote their sale.” This was an exclusive-dealing
contract (all requirements and output contracts are exclusive-
dealing  contracts);  therefore,  since  the  parties  did  not
otherwise  agree,  §  2-306(2)  imposed  on  the  bakery  the
“obligation  .  .  .  to  use  best  efforts  to  promote  [the  goods’]
sale.”  When  the  bakery  renounced  the  agreement  without
having even bought any buns yet, it breached this best-efforts-
to-promote obligation.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  even  though  the  bakery  made  no
express promise to buy any of the manufacturer’s buns, under
§ 2-306(2), the bakery was implicitly obligated to make best
efforts  to  promote  the  sale  of  buns  so  that  the  bakery  would
need some of them.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  under  §  2-306(1),  “A  term  which
measures  the  quantity  by  the  output  of  the  seller  .  .  .  means
such  actual  output  .  .  .  as  may  occur  in  good  faith[.]”  This
section  has  the  effect  of  providing  a  quantity  (or  at  least,  a
method  for  determining  quantity),  saving  the  output  contract
here from indefiniteness.

216

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  does  not  speak  to  the  main  issue  in
the  case.  It’s  essentially  true  that  both  buyer  and  seller
“impliedly assume the risk of price and demand fluctuations,”
but  the  question  here  is  whether  buyer  could  rely  on  the
sudden reduction in its own customers’ demand to escape the
contract.  UCC  §  2-306(2)  in  effect  allocates  this  risk,  by
saying  that  the  buyer  in  both  a  requirements  and  output
contract  must  use  good  faith  to  promote  sale  of  the  goods,
effectively  negating  the  bakery’s  ability  to  discontinue  the
product line here without any promotional effort.

217

CHAPTER 3
PROMISES BINDING WITHOUT
CONSIDERATION

I.    PROMISSORY ESTOPPEL

A.  Possible applications

1.  Promise to perform business service

a.  Promise to make a loan

Question 23:  Dominique  obtained  a  bid  of  $10,000  to  tear
down her old building and another bid of $90,000 to replace
it  with  a  new  structure  in  which  she  planned  to  operate  a
sporting  goods  store.  Having  only  limited  cash  available,
Dominique  asked  Hardcash  for  a  $100,000  loan.  After
reviewing  the  plans  for  the  project,  Hardcash  in  a  signed
writing  promised  to  lend  Dominique  $100,000  secured  by  a
mortgage  on  the  property  and  repayable  over  ten  years  in
equal monthly installments at 10% annual interest. Dominique
promptly  accepted  the  demolition  bid  and  the  old  building
was  removed,  but  Hardcash  thereafter  refused  to  make  the
loan.  Despite  diligent  efforts,  Dominique  was  unable  to
obtain a loan from any other source.

Does Dominique have a cause of action against Hardcash?

(A)    Yes,  because  by  having  the  building  demolished,  she

accepted Hardcash’s offer to make the loan.

(B)    Yes,  because  her  reliance  on  Hardcash’s  promise  was

substantial, reasonable, and foreseeable.

(C)    No,  because  there  was  no  bargained-for  exchange  of

consideration for Hardcash’s promise to make the loan.

(D)  No, because Dominique’s inability to obtain a loan from
any other source demonstrated that the project lacked the
financial soundness that was a constructive condition to
Hardcash’s performance.

Answer  23:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Hardcash  has  made  a
promise,  but  no  contract  has  come  into  existence.  (If
Hardcash’s  promise  is  viewed  as  an  offer,  it  was  never

218

accepted,  since  Dominique  never  actually  bound  herself  to
take  the  loan,  as  is  further  described  in  the  discussion  of
Choice  (A)  below.)  Therefore,  Dominique  will  have  to
recover on a promissory estoppel theory or not at all. Under
promissory estoppel, “A promise which the promisor should
reasonably  expect  to  induce  action  or  forbearance  on  the
part of the promisee or a third person and which does induce
such  action  or  forbearance  is  binding  if  injustice  can  be
avoided only by enforcement of the promise.” Rest. 2d, § 90.
Dominique  meets  all  of  the  requirements  for  promissory
estoppel:  (1)  Hardcash  made  a  promise  of  the  loan;  (2)
Hardcash  should  reasonably  have  expected  that  Dominique
would rely on the availability of the loan, by demolishing the
old structure (Hardcash knew that Dominique had gotten both
bids,  an  indication  of  the  likelihood  that  she  would  rely  by
doing  the  demolition);  (3)  Dominique  did  indeed  rely  by
demolishing, and reasonably so; and (4) at least some type of
enforcement  of  the  loan  promise  will  be  required  to  avoid
injustice, since otherwise Dominique will be left without the
use of the old building and with a loss of the funds used for
the demolition. (Notice that the phrase “promissory estoppel”
is not used in this choice — you have to notice that that’s the
basis for the choice, something that you’re clued in to from the
reference to “reliance.”)

(A)  is  wrong  because  Dominique’s  act  of  having  a  building
demolished  was  not  an  acceptance  of  the  offer.  It’s  not  so
clear that Hardcash’s promise was an “offer” at all, but even
if  it  was,  Hardcash  did  nothing  to  authorize  Dominique  to
“accept”  the  offer  by  demolishing  the  old  building — any
acceptance of a loan offer would, under these circumstances,
have  to  be  by  Dominique’s  taking  some  action  vis-à-vis
Hardcash  (e.g.,  signing  loan  papers  and  promising  to  repay
the loan, or at least paying some sort of commitment fee).
(C) 
the  absence  of  bargained-for
consideration  does  not  matter.  The  whole  point  of  the
promissory  estoppel  doctrine,  which  as  described  above
applies  here,  is  that  there  does  not  need  to  be  consideration
for the promise. In other words, promissory estoppel here is a
substitute for consideration.

is  wrong  because 

219

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  project’s  financial  soundness  was
not a constructive condition to Hardcash’s obligation to make
the  loan.  Hardcash  could  of  course  have  made  his  loan
promise  conditional  upon  Dominique’s  demonstration  to  his
satisfaction  that  the  project  was  financially  sound;  but  the
facts give no suggestion that Hardcash did this, and there is no
reason for the court to infer such a condition out of thin air.

220

CHAPTER 4
MISTAKE

I.    MUTUAL MISTAKE

A.  Three requirements for avoidance

1.  Allocation of risk by parties

Question  24:  A  breeder  bought  a  two-month-old  registered
boar at auction from a farmer for $800. No express warranty
was  made.  Fifteen  months  later,  tests  by  experts  proved
conclusively that the boar had been born incurably sterile. If
this  had  been  known  at  the  time  of  the  sale,  the  boar  would
have been worth no more than $100.

In  an  action  by  the  breeder  against  the  farmer  to  avoid  the
contract and recover the price paid, the parties stipulate that,
as both were and had been aware, the minimum age at which
the fertility of a boar can be determined is about 12 months.
Which of the following will the court probably decide?

(A)    The  breeder  wins,  because  the  parties  were  mutually
mistaken  as  to  the  boar’s  fertility  when  they  made  the
agreement.

(Q)    The  breeder  wins,  because  the  farmer  impliedly

warranted that the boar was fit for breeding.

(R)  The farmer wins, because the breeder assumed the risk of

the boar’s sterility.

(S)    The  farmer  wins,  because  any  mistake  involved  was

unilateral, not mutual.

Answer 24: The correct choice is (C). Since the facts tell us
that  the  farmer  made  no  express  warranty,  the  only  way  the
breeder  can  avoid  the  contract  is  if  he  successfully  invokes
the  doctrine  of  mutual  mistake.  The  UCC  is  silent  on  the
subject of mistake, so the matter is left to the common law. A
good summary of the common law on mutual mistake is given
by the Second Restatement: “Where a mistake of both parties
at the time a contract was made as to a basic assumption on
which  the  contract  was  made  has  a  material  effect  on  the
agreed exchange of performances, the contract is voidable by

221

the  adversely  affected  party  unless  he  bears  the  risk  of  the
mistake[.]” Rest. 2d §152(1). Even if the fertility of the boar
was  a  “basic  assumption”  on  which  the  contract  was  made
(which  it  probably  wasn’t,  since  both  parties  knew  that
fertility couldn’t yet be determined), the breeder will lose if
the court concludes that he “bore the risk of the mistake.” The
facts  tell  us  that  both  parties  knew  that  the  boar’s  fertility
could not yet be known at the time of the sale. Therefore, the
breeder  was  consciously  aware  of  his  ignorance  about  the
boar’s fertility, and a party who is consciously aware of his
ignorance  of  fact  X  will  be  found  to  bear  the  burden  of  fact
X’s  turning  out  to  be  true  and  damaging.  Therefore,  the
breeder will be found to bear the risk of the boar’s turning out
to be sterile.

(A) is wrong, because the doctrine of mutual mistake will not
apply  on  these  facts.  As  is  described  more  fully  in  the
discussion of Choice (C), a party cannot invoke the doctrine
of mutual mistake if he is found to have borne the risk of the
type  of  mistake  in  question.  A  party  who  proceeds  with
conscious ignorance of whether a particular “bad” fact is true
will  be  found  to  have  borne  the  risk  of  that  fact.  Since  the
breeder  knew  that  he  didn’t  (and  indeed  couldn’t)  know  the
boar’s fertility status at the time of sale, he’ll be found to have
borne  the  risk  of  infertility,  making  the  mutual  mistake
doctrine inapplicable.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  no  implied  warranty  was  made.  A
seller is deemed to make an implied warranty of fitness for a
particular purpose only where the buyer relies on the seller’s
“skill or judgment to select or furnish suitable goods.” UCC §
2-315. Since both parties knew that fertility could not yet be
known,  and  since  there  is  no  indication  that  the  farmer  said
anything to indicate to the breeder that the farmer believed the
boar would likely be good for breeding, there is no evidence
of  the  breeder’s  reliance  on  the  farmer’s  selection  skills.
Therefore,  the  farmer  did  not  make  an  implied  warranty  of
fitness for breeding.
(D) is not the best response, because no “mistake” was made
(whether unilateral or mutual), and because even the existence
of a unilateral mistake here would not support recovery. The

222

same  requirements  are  imposed  for  unilateral  mistake  as  for
mutual  mistake  (see  the  discussion  of  Choice  (C)  above  for
the latter), but in addition, either of two things must be shown:
(1)  that  the  mistake  is  such  that  enforcement  of  the  contract
would  be  unconscionable,  or  (2)  that  the  other  party  had
reason to know of the mistake or his fault caused the mistake.
The  breeder  could  not  prove  a  mutual  mistake  was  made,
because, as described in the discussion of Choice (C) above,
the  breeder  knew  that  he  didn’t  know  anything  about  the
boar’s  fertility,  and  thus  bore  the  risk  of  any  mistake.
Furthermore,  the  breeder  cannot  show  either  of  the  two
additional  elements  needed  to  prove  unilateral  mistake:  (1)
the  deal  was  not  unconscionable,  since  unconscionability  is
very rare in commercial settings, and since the price here was
implicitly set by market conditions, and factored in the risk of
infertility; and (2) the farmer did not have reason to know of
the  mistake — it  was  impossible  for  either  party  to  have
known the fertility of a two-month-old boar.

II.    REFORMATION AS REMEDY FOR ERROR

IN EXPRESSION

A.  Generally

1.  Not a remedy for underlying disagreement about deal

Question 25: A landowner and a prospective buyer, standing
on a parcel owned by the landowner, orally agreed to its sale
and  purchase  for  $5,000,  and  orally  marked  its  bounds  as
“that  line  of  trees  down  there,  the  ditch  that  intersects  them,
the fence on the other side, and that street on the fourth side.”
In  which  of  the  following  is  the  remedy  of  reformation  most
appropriate?
(A)    As  later  reduced  to  writing,  the  agreement  by  clerical
mistake included two acres that are actually beyond the
fence.

(B)    The  buyer  reasonably  thought  that  two  acres  beyond  the
fence  were  included  in  the  oral  agreement  but  the
landowner  did  not.  As  later  reduced  to  writing,  the
agreement included the two acres.

223

(C)  The buyer reasonably thought that the price orally agreed
upon  was  $4,500,  but  the  landowner  did  not.  As  later
reduced to writing, the agreement said $5,000.

(D)    The  buyer  reasonably  thought  that  a  dilapidated  shed
backed  up  against  the  fence  was  to  be  torn  down  and
removed as part of the agreement, but the landowner did
not.  As  later  reduced  to  writing,  the  agreement  said
nothing about the shed.

Answer 25: Choice (A) is correct. If the parties orally agree
on  a  deal,  but  mistakenly  prepare  and  execute  a  document
which  incorrectly  reflects  that  oral  agreement,  either  party
may obtain a court order for reformation (i.e., a re-writing of
the document). That’s what would happen in this choice, since
both parties agreed on what acreage was to be covered by the
agreement,  and  a  clerical  mistake  caused  the  document  to
diverge from the oral agreement.

Choices (B), (C), and (D) are all wrong for the same reason:
Tthe parties did not in fact have a meeting of the minds about
a  key 
their  “actual”
(subjective)  agreement  is  not  possible.  In  this  situation,
discharge  for  mutual  mistake,  rather  than  reformation,  is  the
appropriate remedy.

issue,  so  reformation 

to  match 

224

CHAPTER 5
PAROL EVIDENCE AND
INTERPRETATION

I.    TOTAL AND PARTIAL INTEGRATIONS

A.  Statement of rule

1.  Summary

Question  26:  Stirrup,  a  rancher,  and  Equinox,  a  fancier  of
horses,  signed  the  following  writing:  “For  $55,000,  Stirrup
will  sell  to  Equinox  a  gray  horse  that  Equinox  may  choose
from among the grays on Stirrup’s ranch.”

Equinox  refused  to  accept  delivery  of  a  gray  horse  timely
tendered  by  Stirrup  or  to  choose  among  those  remaining,  on
the  ground  that  during  their  negotiations  Stirrup  had  orally
agreed  to  include  a  saddle,  worth  $100,  and  also  to  give
Equinox  the  option  to  choose  a  gray  or  a  brown  horse.
Equinox insisted on one of Stirrup’s brown horses, but Stirrup
refused to part with any of his browns or with the saddle as
demanded by Equinox.

If  Equinox  sues  Stirrup  for  damages  and  seeks  to  introduce
evidence  of  the  alleged  oral  agreement,  the  court  probably
will

(A)  admit the evidence as to both the saddle and the option to

choose a brown horse.

(B)  admit the evidence as to the saddle but not the option to

choose a brown horse.

(C)    admit  the  evidence  as  to  the  option  to  choose  a  brown

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

horse but not the promise to include the saddle.

(D)  not admit any of the evidence.
Answer 26: Choice (B) is correct. The key to this question is
to correctly categorize the writing: Is it a complete integration
or a partial one? In deciding such a question, courts give a lot
of  weight  to  the  nature  of  the  document  itself:  The  more
extensive  and  formal,  the  more  likely  it  is  to  have  been
intended  to  be  a  complete  integration.  Here,  the  fact  that  the

225

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

writing  consists  of  just  one  very  informal  sentence  strongly
suggests  that  it  was  intended  as  only  a  partial  integration;
since  there  is  no  evidence  pointing  in  the  other  direction,  a
court  would  almost  certainly  conclude  that  the  writing  was
only a partial integration. Therefore, it can be supplemented,
but  cannot  be  contradicted,  by  a  prior  or  simultaneous  oral
understanding.  The  alleged  saddle  agreement  merely
supplements the writing, since the writing doesn’t purport to
cover  the  issue  of  accessories;  therefore,  evidence  of  the
saddle  agreement  will  be  admissible.  The  oral  agreement  to
choose a brown horse, on the other hand, is directly at odds
with  the  writing,  since  the  writing  specifies  that  Equinox  is
permitted  to  choose  from  among  gray  horses,  and  does  not
mention any right to choose a brown horse; therefore, the oral
agreement  on  brown  horses  will  be  excluded  as  a
contradiction  even  though  the  writing  is  only  a  partial
integration.

Choices  (A),  (C),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

II.   SITUATIONS WHERE PAROL EVIDENCE

RULE DOES NOT APPLY

A.  Existence of a condition on effectiveness of contract

1.  Often tested on MBE

Question  27:  Buyer,  Inc.,  contracted 
in  writing  with
Shareholder,  who  owned  all  of  XYZ  Corporation’s
outstanding  stock,  to  purchase  all  of  her  stock  at  a  specified
price  per  share.  At  the  time  this  contract  was  executed,
Buyer’s  contracting  officer  said  to  Shareholder,  “Of  course,
our  commitment  to  buy  is  conditioned  on  our  obtaining
approval of the contract from Conglomerate, Ltd., our parent
company.” Shareholder replied, “Fine. No problem.”
Later, Shareholder was willing and ready to consummate the
sale of her stock to Buyer, but the latter refused to perform on
the  ground  (which  was  true)  that  Conglomerate  had  firmly
refused to approve the contract. If Shareholder sues Buyer for
breach  of  contract  and  seeks  to  exclude  any  evidence  of  the

226

oral  condition  requiring  Conglomerate’s  approval,  the  court
will probably

(A)  admit the evidence as proof of a collateral agreement.
(B)    admit  the  evidence  as  proof  of  a  condition  to  the
existence of an enforceable obligation, and therefore not
within the scope of the parol evidence rule.

(C)    exclude  the  evidence  on  the  basis  of  a  finding  that  the
parties’ written agreement was a complete integration of
their contract.

(D)    exclude  the  evidence  as  contradicting  the  terms  of  the
parties’  written  agreement,  whether  or  not  the  writing
was a complete integration of the contract.

Answer  27:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  When  the  parties  to  a
written  contract  agree  orally  that  the  enforceability  of  the
contract is subject to a condition, proof of the existence of that
condition does not fall within the parol evidence rule.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  there  is  indeed  a  “collateral
agreement” exception to the parol evidence rule (an exception
discussed immediately below in the main text), that exception
is  not  applicable  here.  The  collateral  agreement  exception
allows proof of an oral “side” agreement in which the parties
agreed  to  a  separate  exchange,  as  long  as  the  alleged  side
agreement is not inconsistent with the total integration. But the
“approval  required”  condition  here  was  not  a  collateral
agreement;  rather,  it  was  a  condition  to  the  enforceability  of
the  main  agreement,  so  the  collateral-agreement  exception
does not apply.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  even  though  the  parties’  written
agreement here was probably a complete integration of their
contract,  proof  of  an  oral  condition  to  the  contract’s
enforceability  is  nonetheless  allowed,  as  described  in  the
discussion of Choice (B).
(D) is wrong because, although this formulation is essentially
a  correct  statement  of  the  parol  evidence  rule  on  provisions
that contradict the writing (under which even a partial rather
than complete integration may not be contradicted by a prior
or  simultaneous  oral  understanding),  the  rule  does  not  apply
to a condition to the enforceability of the contract.

227

Question 28: A landowner and a landscape architect signed a
detailed  writing  in  which  the  landscape  architect  agreed  to
landscape and replant the landowner’s residential property in
accordance  with  a  design  prepared  by  the  architect  and
incorporated  in  the  writing.  The  landowner  agreed  to  pay
$10,000  for  the  work  upon  its  completion.  The  landowner’s
spouse  was  not  a  party  to  the  agreement,  and  had  no
ownership interest in the premises.

Shortly before the agreement was signed, the landowner and
the architect orally agreed that the writing would not become
binding on either party unless the landowner’s spouse should
approve  the  landscaping  design.  If  the  landowner’s  spouse
disapproves  the  design  and  the  landowner  refuses  to  allow
the architect to proceed with the work, is evidence of the oral
agreement  admissible  in  the  architect’s  action  against  the
landowner for breach of contract?

(A)  Yes, because the oral agreement required approval by a

third party.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  evidence  shows  that  the  writing  was
intended to take effect only if the approval occurred.
(C)    No,  because  the  parol  evidence  rule  bars  evidence  of  a
prior oral agreement even if the latter is consistent with
the terms of a partial integration.

(D)    No,  because  the  prior  oral  agreement  contradicted  the

writing by making the parties’ duties conditional.

Answer  28:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Ordinarily,  the  parol
evidence  rule  bars  proof  of  an  oral  clause  offered  to
supplement  or  contradict  a  completely  integrated  writing
(which the writing here probably was). But an oral agreement
that the writing will simply not be legally enforceable at all
unless some condition precedent is satisfied is not barred by
the  parol  evidence  rule.  This  exception  applies  here:  The
owner’s  spouse’s  approval  of  the  design  was  a  condition
precedent to the enforceability of the agreement, so that oral
condition, and its non- satisfaction, may be proved.
(A)  is  wrong  because  it  gives  an  incorrect  reason  for  the
correct  result.  It  is  not  the  fact  that  a  third  party’s  approval
was  required  that  makes  evidence  of  the  oral  agreement

228

admissible in the face of the parol evidence rule; it’s the fact
that  the  oral  agreement  established  a  condition  precedent  to
the  writing’s  enforceability  that  exempts  proof  of  the  oral
agreement from the rule.

(C)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  it  misstates  the  “partial
integration”  branch  of  the  parol  evidence  rule  (under  which
an  oral  agreement  that  supplements  rather  than  contradicts  a
partial integration is admissible); and (2) the parol evidence
rule simply doesn’t apply to an orally-agreed-upon condition
to  the  writing’s  enforceability,  as  analyzed  in  Choice  (B)
above.

the  parol  evidence 

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  correctly  summarizes  the
branch  of 
that  bars  oral
understandings  that  contradict  any  sort  of  integration  (partial
or complete), it fails to reflect the fact that the parol evidence
rules simply doesn’t apply to an orally-agreed-upon condition
to  the  writing’s  enforceability,  as  analyzed  in  Choice  (B)
above.

rule 

III.  INTERPRETATION

A.  Modern view

1.  Extrinsic evidence in the case of ambiguous terms

a.  Evidence of parties’ own pre-contract negotiations

Question 29:  Responding  to  County’s  written  advertisement
for bids, Tyres was the successful bidder for the sale of tires
to  County  for  County’s  vehicles.  Tyres  and  County  entered
into  a  signed,  written  agreement  that  specified,  “It  is  agreed
that Tyres will deliver all tires required by this agreement to
County,  in  accordance  with  the  attached  bid  form  and
specifications, for a one-year period beginning September 1,
2005.” Attached to the agreement was a copy of the bid form
and  specifications.  In  the  written  advertisement  to  which
Tyres  had  responded,  but  not  in  the  bid  form,  County  had
stated, “Multiple awards may be issued if they are in the best
interests of County.” No definite quantity of tires to be bought
by  County  from  Tyres  was  specified  in  any  of  these
documents.

229

In January 2006, Tyres learned that County was buying some
of  its  tires  from  one  of  Tyres’s  competitors.  Contending  that
the  Tyres-County  agreement  was  a  requirements  contract,
Tyres sued County for the damages caused by County’s buying
some of its tires from the competitor.

If  County  defends  by  offering  proof  of  the  advertisement
concerning  the  possibility  of  multiple  awards,  should  the
court admit the evidence?

(A)  Yes, because the provision in the written agreement, “all

tires required by this agreement,” is ambiguous.

to 

(B)  Yes, because the advertisement was in writing.
(C)  No, because of the parol evidence rule.
(D)  No, because it would make the contract illusory.
Answer 29: Choice (A) is correct. All courts agree that if a
term is found by the trial court to be ambiguous — capable of
more than one meaning — extrinsic evidence on the meaning
term  must  be  allowed,
the 
the  parties  attached 
notwithstanding the parol evidence rule. The phrase “all tires
required  by  this  agreement”  is  indeed  ambiguous,  as  this
choice  suggests:  A  reader  looking  only  at  the  contract
document  itself  (including  the  attachments)  would  not  know
whether the phrase meant merely “whatever quantities of tires
that  County  decides  to  order  during  the  contract  term”  or
instead the far meatier “all County’s tire requirements during
the  contract  term.”  Since  the  advertisement  was  effectively
part of the parties’ negotiations — it disclosed to Tyres what
County was thinking at the outset — it fairly bears on what the
parties intended by the ambiguous phrase.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  advertisement  was  in
writing is irrelevant. This choice incorrectly implies that the
only materials barred by the parol evidence rule are prior or
simultaneous  oral  understandings  between  the  parties.  Prior
writings agreed to or exchanged between the parties are also
excluded  by  the  parol  evidence  rule,  if  offered  to  add  terms
to, or contradict terms in, a final writing.
(C)  is  wrong  because  of  the  “ambiguity”  exception  to  the
parol  evidence  rule,  described  in  the  discussion  of  Choice
(A) above.

230

to  put 

in  proof  of 

the  advertisement, 

(D)  is  wrong  because  it  makes  a  conclusion  that  does  not
logically  follow  from  its  premise.  It  is  true  that  if  County  is
permitted 
the
consequence  will  likely  be  that  the  contract  would  be  held
illusory  (since  County  would  be  promising  only  to  “buy
whatever we decide to buy”), and County’s illusory promise
would not furnish consideration for Tyres’ return promise. But
the fact that an item of proffered evidence would, if admitted,
tend to prove that a contract is unenforceable does not mean
that the parol evidence rule requires exclusion of that piece of
evidence.

IV.  TRADE USAGE, COURSE OF

PERFORMANCE, AND COURSE OF DEALING

A.  Used to interpret even a complete integration

Question  30:  A  radio  manufacturer  and  a  retailer,  after
extensive negotiations, entered into a final, written agreement
in  which  the  manufacturer  agreed  to  sell  and  the  retailer
agreed  to  buy  all  of  the  retailer’s  requirements  of  radios,
estimated at 20 units per month, during the period January 1,
2004, and December 31, 2006, at a price of $50 per unit. A
dispute  arose  in  late  December  2006,  when  the  retailer
returned  25  non-defective  radios  to  the  manufacturer  for  full
credit after the manufacturer had refused to extend the contract
for a second three-year period.

In  an  action  by  the  manufacturer  against  the  retailer  for
damages  due  to  the  return  of  the  25  radios,  the  manufacturer
introduces  the  written  agreement,  which  expressly  permitted
the  buyer  to  return  defective  radios  for  credit  but  was  silent
as to the return of non-defective radios for credit. The retailer
seeks to introduce evidence that during the three years of the
agreement  it  had  returned,  for  various  reasons,  125  non-
defective radios, for which the manufacturer had granted full
credit.  The  manufacturer  objects  to  the  admissibility  of  this
evidence.
The trial court will probably rule that the evidence proffered
by the retailer is

231

(A)  inadmissible, because the evidence is barred by the parol

evidence rule.

(B)  inadmissible, because the express terms of the agreement
control when those terms are inconsistent with the course
of performance.

(C)  admissible, because the evidence supports an agreement

that is not within the relevant statute of frauds.

(D)    admissible,  because  course-of-performance  evidence,
when available, is considered the best indication of what
the parties intended the writing to mean.

Answer 30: Choice (D) is correct. Even where the writing is
a  complete  integration,  as  it  is  here,  the  court  will  look  to
course-of-performance evidence to determine what the parties
meant as to a point on which the writing is ambiguous. This is
true  in  both  sales  and  non-sales  cases.  Thus,  in  sales
governed by UCC Article 2, § 2-208(1) says that “Where the
contract for sale involves repeated occasions for performance
by  either  party  with  knowledge  of  the  nature  of  the
performance  and  opportunity  for  objection  to  it  by  the  other,
any  course  of  performance  accepted  or  acquiesced  in
without  objection  shall  be  relevant  to  determine  the
meaning  of  the  agreement.”  Here,  the  evidence  proffered  by
the  retailer — that  the  manufacturer  permitted  him  to  return
undamaged  radios  for  credit  earlier  during  the  course  of  the
present  contract — fits  §  2-208(1)  exactly,  since  the  retailer
is  claiming  that  the  manufacturer’s  knowing  acquiescence  in
the retailer’s repeated requests for a credit for non-defective
returned  goods  was  a  course  of  performance,  admissible  to
show  that  the  parties  intended  the  writing  to  mean  that  such
returns are allowed.
(A)  is  wrong  because,  as  further  explained  in  Choice  (D)
above, even though the writing here is a complete integration,
the  proffered  evidence  is  course-of-performance  evidence,
which  is  admissible  notwithstanding  the  parol  evidence  rule
to show the meaning of the agreement.
(B) is wrong because it states an irrelevant point. It’s true that
the express terms control if those terms are inconsistent with
the  course  of  performance;  thus  UCC  §  2-208(2)  says  that
“The  express  terms  of  an  agreement  and  any  .  .  .  course  of

232

performance,  as  well  as  any  course  of  dealing  and  usage  of
trade,  shall  be  construed  wherever  reasonable  as  consistent
with each other; but when such construction is unreasonable,
express  terms  shall  control  course  of  performance  and
course  of  performance  shall  control  both  course  of  dealing
and  usage  of  trade[.]”  But  here,  there  is  no  express  term
dealing with the retailer’s right to return non-defective goods
for credit (the writing is silent on this point), so the priority of
express terms over the course of performance simply doesn’t
apply.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  relies  on  an  irrelevant  fact.  The
retailer  is  not  trying  to  show  an  “agreement”  to  modify  the
original agreement — if he were, then there might be a Statute
of Frauds issue. Instead, he’s trying to show what the original
the  use  of  course-of-
written  agreement  meant 
performance evidence), and his ability to do that has nothing
to do with the Statute of Frauds.

(by 

233

CHAPTER 6
CONDITIONS, BREACH, AND OTHER
ASPECTS OF PERFORMANCE

I.    EXPRESS CONDITIONS

A.  Satisfaction of a party

1.  Subjective

Question  31:  A  photographer  and  a  customer  entered  a
contract in writing on November 1, the essential part of which
read  as  follows:  “The  photographer  to  supply  the  customer
with  200  personalized  Christmas  cards  on  or  before
December 15, 2010, bearing a photograph of the customer and
his family, and the customer to pay $100 thirty days thereafter.
Photograph to be taken by the photographer at the customer’s
house. Cards guaranteed to be fully satisfactory and on time.”
Because  the  customer  suddenly  became  ill,  the  photographer
was unable to take the necessary photograph of the customer
and  his  family  until  the  first  week  of  December.  The  final
week’s  delay  was  caused  by  the  photographer’s  not  being
notified  promptly  by  the  customer  of  his  recovery.  Before
taking  the  photograph  of  the  customer  and  his  family,  the
photographer  advised  the  customer  that  he  was  likely  to  be
delayed  a  day  or  two  beyond  December  15  in  making
delivery  because  of  the  time  required  to  process  the
photograph and cards. The customer told the photographer to
take the photograph anyway. The cards were finally delivered
by  the  photographer  to  the  customer  on  December  17,  the
photographer having diligently worked on them in the interim.
Although the cards pleased the rest of the family, the customer
refused to accept them because, as he said squinting at one of
the  cards  at  arm’s  length  without  bothering  to  put  on  his
reading  glasses,  “The  photograph  makes  me  look  too  old.
Besides, the cards weren’t delivered on time.”
In an action by the photographer against the customer, which
of the following would be the customer’s best defense?

(A)  The cards, objectively viewed, were not satisfactory.

234

(T)  The cards, subjectively viewed, were not satisfactory.
(U)  The cards were not delivered on time.
(V)    The  customer’s  illness  excused  him  from  further

obligation under the contract.

Answer  31:  The  correct  choice  is  (B),  because 
the
customer’s dissatisfaction, if in good faith, would relieve him
of  performing  under  the  contract,  and  would  thus  be  a  good
defense.  Whether  satisfaction  is  objective  or  subjective
depends on the subject matter of the contract. In a construction
or  manufacturing  contract,  a  satisfaction  clause  will  require
the  satisfaction  of  a  reasonable  person.  But  if  personal  taste
or judgment is involved (e.g., cosmetic surgery, paintings, and
the like), only subjective satisfaction is required. Here, since
a  portrait  photograph  is  involved,  the  customer’s  personal,
subjective  satisfaction  is  all  that’s  required;  as  long  as  he
operates  in  good  faith,  he  can  reject  performance  and  avoid
liability  under  the  contract,  even  if  the  photograph  is
objectively  satisfactory.  As  choice  B  points  out,  this  would,
as a result, be a good defense for the customer.
(A)  is  wrong  because  arguing  that  the  cards  are  objectively
unsatisfactory  wouldn’t  help  the  customer,  for  two  reasons.
First,  as  is  described  in  Choice  (B),  if  personal  taste  or
judgment is involved, only subjective satisfaction is required.
Second,  the  facts  tell  you  that  the  rest  of  the  family  was
pleased;  it  was  only  the  customer  who  was  displeased.  So
even if the standard were  objective  satisfaction,  the  fact  that
the family was satisfied would tend to rebut the argument that
the cards are objectively unsatisfactory.

(C) is wrong, because the customer waived the condition that
the  cards  be  delivered  on  time,  so  arguing  that  he  should  be
excused  from  performance  due  to  the  delay  would  not  help
him.
Under the contract, time was probably made “of the essence”
by  expressly  providing  that  the  cards  must  be  delivered  “on
time.”  Even  if  the  contract  hadn’t  specifically  provided  for
delivery on time, the fact that the cards were Christmas cards,
and Christmas was fast approaching, suggests that time was of
the  essence.  As  a  result,  under  normal  circumstances,  any
delay  would  be  considered  a  major  breach,  relieving  the

235

customer of the duty to perform under the contract. However,
conditions  can  be  excused  by  waiver,  and  that’s  what
happened here. When the photographer told the customer that
the  customer’s  inability  to  have  his  picture  taken  earlier
would  mean  a  delay  in  the  completion  date,  by  telling  the
photographer  to  go  ahead  and  take  the  picture  anyway,  the
customer  was  waiving  delivery  on  December  15th,  and
thereby  excusing  the  delivery-on-time  express  condition.
Thereafter,  the  customer  could  not  rely  on  breach  of  the
condition as a defense.

(Even if the customer had not expressly waived the condition,
his  subsequent  failure  to  notify  the  photographer  of  his
recovery would excuse the delivery-on-time condition, since,
had the customer notified the photographer immediately of his
recovery,  the  photographer  could  have  performed  on  time.
Thus  the  customer’s  own  wrongful  conduct  prevented  the
condition  from  occurring,  blocking  him  from  avoiding
liability by relying on failure of the condition.)

(D) is wrong, because the customer’s illness wouldn’t excuse
him  from  performing  under  the  contract.  If  the  customer’s
illness had prevented him from performing under the contract,
then he would have a valid impossibility defense, and would
avoid liability under the contract. But that’s not what the facts
here  tell  you.  The  photographer’s  final  delivery  of  the
pictures was only two days late, and the customer’s delay in
giving notice of his recovery lasted one week. Thus, it’s not
the customer’s illness that caused the delay, but his failure to
promptly  notify  the  photographer  of  his  recovery.  Therefore,
as  described  in  (C),  the  customer’s  failure  to  call  the
photographer in a timely way acted as a waiver of the on-time
condition.

B.   Check whose duty was conditional

1.  Right to waive condition

a.  Frequently tested on MBE

Question  32:  In  a  writing  signed  by  both  parties  on
December  1,  a  buyer  agreed  to  buy  from  a  seller  a  gasoline
engine  for  $1,000,  delivery  to  be  made  on  the  following
February 1. Through a secretarial error, the writing called for

236

delivery on March 1, but neither party noticed the error until
February 1. Before signing the agreement, the buyer and seller
orally agreed that the contract of sale would be effective only
if  the  buyer  should  notify  the  seller  in  writing  not  later  than
January 2 that the buyer had arranged to resell the engine to a
third  person.  Otherwise,  they  agreed  orally,  “There  is  no
deal.” On December 15, the buyer entered into a contract with
a  third  person  to  resell  the  engine  to  the  third  person  at  a
profit.

On December 16, the buyer notified the seller by telephone of
the  buyer’s  resale  agreement  with  the  third  person,  and
explained  that  a  written  notice  was  unfeasible  because  the
buyer’s  secretary  was  ill.  The  seller  replied,  “That’s  okay.
I’ll  get  the  engine  to  you  on  February  1,  as  we  agreed.”
Having  learned,  however,  that  the  engine  had  increased  in
value about 75% since December 1, the seller renounced the
agreement on February 1.

If  the  buyer  sues  the  seller  on  February  2  for  breach  of
contract,  which  of  the  following  concepts  best  supports  the
buyer’s claim?
(A)  Substantial performance.
(B)  Nonoccurrence of a condition subsequent.
(C)  Waiver of condition.
(D)  Novation of buyers.
Answer  32:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  It  was  a  condition
precedent  to  the  enforceability  of  the  contract  that  the  buyer
give  written  notice  to  the  seller  by  Jan.  2  that  the  buyer  had
found  a  buyer.  However,  when  the  buyer  explained  the
difficulty  with  a  written  notice  to  the  seller  on  Dec.  16,  the
seller’s “That’s okay” response clearly indicated to the buyer
that the seller would not insist on the written notice. This oral
response constituted a waiver of the condition, i.e., a knowing
intent to abandon the benefit of the condition.
(A) is wrong because the requirement of a writing by Jan. 2
was an express condition to the enforceability of the contract.
Complete,  not  just  substantial,  compliance  with  an  express
condition is normally required. Since the oral notice did not
completely  comply  with  the  requirement  of  a  written  notice,

237

the  fact  that  it  may  have  constituted  substantial  performance
will not help the buyer.

(B) is wrong because: (1) the condition here was a condition
precedent  (the  condition  had  to  be  satisfied  before  the
contract  would  ever  become  enforceable),  not  a  condition
subsequent  (i.e.,  something  that  if  not  satisfied  would
“unenforce”  the  previously  enforceable  contract);  and  (2)
even in the unlikely event that the condition was found to be a
condition  subsequent,  its  nonoccurrence  could  only  help  the
seller, not the buyer.

(D) is wrong because the concept of a novation has nothing to
do with these facts. A novation occurs when the two original
parties  to  a  contract — an  obligor  and  an  obligee — agree
that a stranger can be substituted for the original obligor. So,
for  instance,  if  the  seller  and  the  buyer  agreed  that  the  third
person  would  substitute  for  the  buyer  as  the  party  who  was
under  contract  to  buy  the  engine  from  the  seller,  a  novation
would  have  occurred.  But  on  the  actual  facts  here,  no
substitution of either of the original parties to the contract has
occurred, so there is no novation.

b.  Waiver by receiving and keeping benefit

i.  MBE tip

Question 33: Ohner and Planner signed a detailed writing in
which Planner, a landscape architect, agreed to landscape and
replant  Ohner’s  residential  property  in  accordance  with  a
design  prepared  by  Planner  and  incorporated  in  the  writing.
Ohner  agreed  to  pay  $50,000  for  the  work  upon  its
completion.

At  Ohner’s  insistence,  the  written  Ohner-Planner  agreement
contained  a  provision  that  neither  party  would  be  bound
unless  Ohner’s  law  partner,  an  avid  student  of  landscaping,
should approve Planner’s design. Before Planner commenced
the work, Ohner’s law partner, in the presence of both Ohner
and  Planner,  expressly  disapproved  the  landscaping  design.
Nevertheless,  Ohner  ordered  Planner  to  proceed  with  the
work,  and  Planner  reluctantly  did  so.  When  Planner’s
performance was 40% complete, Ohner repudiated his duty, if
any, to pay the contract price or any part thereof.

238

If Planner now sues Ohner for damages for breach of contract,
which  of  the  following  concepts  best  supports  Planner’s
claim?

(A)  Substantial performance.
(B)  Promissory estoppel.
(C)  Irrevocable waiver of condition.
(D)  Unjust enrichment.
Answer 33:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  When  the  circumstances
indicate that a condition is intended for the protection of just
one  party,  that  party  is  always  free  to  waive  the  condition.
Such  a  waiver  can  occur  by  implication.  That’s  what
happened here: the “partner must approve” provision was an
express condition intended for the benefit of Ohner, and Ohner
had  the  power  to  waive  it,  expressly  or  implicitly.  When
Ohner  ordered  Planner  to  proceed  notwithstanding  the
partner’s  disapproval,  this  was  an  implied  waiver  of  the
condition. At the moment the waiver occurred, Ohner had the
power  to  retract  it  (i.e.,  reinstate  the  condition).  But  once
Planner  began  the  work,  this  was  a  material  change  in
position  by  Planner  in  reliance  on  the  waiver,  and  that
reliance made the waiver non-retractable, i.e., irrevocable.

(A)  is  wrong  because:  (1)  the  doctrine  of  substantial
performance  helps  a  plaintiff  recover  “on  the  contract,”  and
here there would be no contract if the non-occurrence of the
partner-approval condition is not somehow excused (which it
is by operation of the doctrine of waiver, as described in the
analysis of Choice (C) above); and (2) Planner has done only
40%  of  the  work,  and  such  a  small  portion  would  not  be
considered “substantial performance.”

(B) is wrong because the promissory estoppel doctrine, even
where  it  applies,  makes  the  promise  enforceable  only  to  the
extent  “necessary  to  avoid  injustice,”  and  here,  injustice
could be avoided by awarding Planner just the value of 40%
partial  performance  (a  reliance  or  restitution  measure).
Planner is suing for breach of the contract, and would like to
be  able  to  recover  his  full  “contract,”  i.e.,  expectation
damages,  which  would  give  him  a  greater  recovery  than  the
reliance  or  restitution  damages  that  are  all  that  promissory

239

estoppel would allow.

(D) is wrong because unjust enrichment would yield a lesser
recovery  than  a  waiver-of-condition  theory,  since  unjust
enrichment  will  get  Planner  just  the  relatively  small  amount
by  which  he  has  increased  the  value  of  Ohner’s  property,
whereas waiver will permit recovery “on the contract,” i.e.,
for full expectation damages.

II.   CONSTRUCTIVE CONDITIONS

A.  Waiver

Question  34:  Bitz,  an  amateur  computer  whiz,  agreed  in
writing  to  design  for  the  Presskey  Corporation,  a  distributor
of TV game systems, three new games a year for a five-year
period.  The  writing  provided,  in  a  clause  separately  signed
by  Bitz,  that  “No  modification  shall  be  binding  on  Presskey
unless  made  in  writing  and  signed  by  Presskey’s  authorized
representative.”

Because  of  family  problems,  Bitz  delivered  and  Presskey
accepted  only  two  game  designs  a  year  for  the  first  three
years; but the games were a commercial success and Presskey
made  no  objection.  Accordingly,  Bitz  spent  substantial  sums
on  new  computer  equipment  that  would  aid  in  speeding  up
future  design  work.  In  the  first  quarter  of  the  fourth  year,
however, Presskey terminated the contract on the ground that
Bitz had breached the annual-quantity term.

In Bitz’s suit against Presskey for damages, the jury found that
the contract had been modified by conduct and the trial court
awarded Bitz substantial compensatory damages.
Is this result likely to be reversed on appeal?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  contract’s  no-oral-modification  clause

was not expressly waived by Presskey.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  contract’s  no-oral-modification  clause
was a material part of the agreed exchange and could not
be avoided without new consideration.

(C)    No,  because  the  contract’s  no-oral-modification  clause
was unconscionable as against an amateur designer.

240

(D)  No, because Presskey by its conduct waived the annual-
quantity term and Bitz materially changed his position in
reasonable reliance on that waiver.

Answer  34:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  beneficiary  of  a
constructive  condition  may  be  found  to  have  waived  the
condition. Such a waiver may be implied rather than express.
Here,  when  Presskey  accepted  the  two  game-designs  a  year
without  protest  for  three  years,  this  constituted  an  implied
waiver  of  the  minimum-quantity  term,  at  least  as  to  the
already-completed  three  years.  Then,  when  Bitz  spent  the
substantial  sums  on  new  computer  equipment,  this  probably
constituted  a  material  change  of  position  in  reasonable
reliance on this waiver. While it is probably not the case that
no  reasonable  jury  could  have  found  for  Presskey  on  these
facts  (for  instance,  a  reasonable  jury  could  probably  have
found that Bitz’s reliance expenditure was not reasonable), a
reasonable  jury  could  have  found  for  Bitz,  so  an  appellate
affirmance  would  be  proper.  (Note  that  the  question  doesn’t
ask you to predict who would win at trial, merely to predict
whether  Presskey  could  get  a  reversal  of  the  jury  verdict,  a
harder task for Presskey to accomplish.)
(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  a  no-oral-modification  clause
will  normally  be  enforced,  such  a  clause  does  not  prevent
enforcement  of  an  oral  or  implicit  waiver  where  the
conditions  for  waiver  are  satisfied,  as  they  are  here.  (The
difference  between  modification  and  waiver  is  that  a  true
modification — which was forbidden by the n.o.m. clause — 
could  not  have  been  prospectively  retracted,  whereas
Presskey’s  waiver  could  have  been  retracted  by  it  until  Bitz
changed position in reasonable reliance on it.)
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  does  not  apply  on  these  facts — as
described  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (A)  above,  what
happened here was a waiver rather than an avoidance of the
no-oral-modification  clause’s  effect,  and  a  waiver  is  not
prevented by a n.o.m. clause.
(C) is wrong because the no-oral-modification clause would
not be unconscionable on these facts. It is rare for a clause in
a commercial (as opposed to consumer) contract to be ruled
unconscionable. To be unconscionable, the clause would have

241

to  either  be  shockingly  unfair  substantively,  or  very  unfair
from  a  procedural  perspective.  N.O.M.  clauses  are  quite
routine,  and  the  one  here  would  not  be  found  to  be  either
substantively  or  procedurally  unfair.  The  fact  that  Bitz  was
supposedly  an  “amateur”  designer  would  not  change  this
result, especially since what he was performing was a series
of commercial services.

III.  SUBSTANTIAL PERFORMANCE

A.  Material breach in contracts for the sale of goods

1.  “Perfect tender” rule

a.  Not so strict

i.  Trade usage or course of dealing as “wiggle room”

Question  35:  Computers,  Inc.,  contracted  in  writing  with
Bank to sell and deliver to Bank a mainframe computer using
a new type of magnetic memory, then under development but
not  perfected  by  Computers,  at  a  price  substantially  lower
than that of a similar computer using current technology. The
contract’s delivery term was “F.O.B. Bank, on or before July
31.” Computers tendered the computer to Bank on August 15,
and Bank rejected it because of the delay.
If  Computers  sues  Bank  for  breach  of  contract,  which  of  the
following  facts,  if  proved,  will  best  support  a  recovery  by
Computers?

(A)  The delay did not materially harm Bank.
(B)    Computers  believed,  on  the  assumption  that  Bank  was
getting a “super deal” for its money, that Bank would not
reject because of the late tender of delivery.

(C)    Computers’  delay  in  tender  was  caused  by  a  truckers’

strike.

(D)    A  usage  in  the  relevant  trade  allows  computer  sellers  a
30-day leeway in a specified time of delivery, unless the
usage is expressly negated by the contract.

Answer  35:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  For  one-shot  (i.e.,  non-
installment)  sales  contracts  like  the  one  here,  UCC  §  2-601
states what is, in effect, a perfect tender rule: “[I]f the goods

242

or the tender of delivery fail in any respect to conform to the
contract, the buyer may (a) reject the whole[.]” So Computers
will lose unless it finds a defense that is not inconsistent with
the perfect-tender rule of § 2-601. Section 1-205(3) says that
“[A]ny  usage  of  trade  in  the  vocation  or  trade  in  which  [the
parties] are engaged or of which they are or should be aware
to  and  supplement[s]  or
give[s]  particular  meaning 
qualif[ies]  terms  of  an  agreement.”  So  if  Computers  can
indeed  show  that  under  trade  usage  in  the  purchase  of
computers,  an  apparently  fixed  delivery  date  really  means
“plus or minus 30 days on either side of the specified date,”
the contract will be interpreted in light of this usage. In other
words,  §  2-601  will  still  entitle  Bank  to  reject  if  delivery
were  untimely,  but  the  delivery  won’t  in  fact  be  deemed
untimely because of the trade usage.

(A) is wrong because as described in the analysis of Choice
(D) above, the UCC essentially requires tenders to be perfect
(and  “perfect”  includes  timely  delivery),  so  that  a  defense
based on lack of material harm won’t work.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  goodness  of  the  deal  Bank  was
getting would not entitle Computers to relief from the perfect-
tender rule. As described further in Choice (D) above, UCC §
2-601  essentially  applies  the  perfect  tender  rule  to  non-
installment contracts. Under § 2-601, there is no room for an
argument that because the deal was an unusually good one for
the buyer, the buyer loses its right to reject for late delivery or
other non-conformity.

(C)  is  wrong  because  a  trucker’s  strike  would  not  give
Computers  a  cause  of  action  for  breach.  The  fact  that  the
contract stated “F.O.B. Bank” hurts Computers’ ability to rely
on  the  truckers’  strike.  Section  2-319(1)(b)  says  that  “when
the  [shipment]  term  is  F.O.B.  the  place  of  destination,  the
seller must at his own expense and risk transport the goods to
that place and there tender delivery of them . . . . ” So a court
would probably hold that use of the F.O.B. destination clause
shifted  to  Computers  the  risk  of  a  problem  with  Computers’
choice  of  delivery  methods.  The  defense  of  commercial
impracticability  might  conceivably  help  Computers  escape
monetary liability  (a  damages  award  against  it)  for  breach,

243

but the section wouldn’t allow it to insist that Bank must take
delivery late; the best that Computers could reasonably hope
for is for both parties to be discharged, not for an affirmative
recovery for breach against Bank.

2.  Cure

a.  Beyond contract

Question  36:  In  a  signed  writing,  a  buyer  contracted  to
purchase  a  25-foot  travel  trailer  from  an  RV  dealer  for
$15,000,  cash  on  delivery  no  later  than  June  1.  The  buyer
arrived at the dealer’s sales lot on Sunday, May 31, to pay for
and take delivery of the trailer, but refused to do so when he
discovered that the spare tire was missing.

The dealer offered to install a spare tire on Monday when its
service department would open, but the buyer replied that he
did  not  want  the  trailer  and  would  purchase  another  one
elsewhere.

Which of the following is accurate?

(A)  The buyer had a right to reject the trailer, but the dealer
was  entitled  to  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  cure  the
defect.

(B)    The  buyer  had  a  right  to  reject  the  trailer  and  terminate

the contract under the perfect tender rule.

(C)  The buyer was required to accept the trailer, because the

defect could be readily cured.

(D)  The buyer was required to accept the trailer, because the

defect did not substantially impair its value.

Answer 36: Choice (A) is correct. The case is governed by
the  UCC,  since  a  trailer,  though  large,  is  still  an  item  of
personal  property  and  thus  constitutes  “goods,”  the  sale  of
which  is  covered  by  Article  2.  To  begin  our  analysis,  if  we
assume  that  the  contracted-for  trailer  was  one  with  a  spare
tire, the buyer was permitted to reject the tendered trailer for
lack of the tire. That’s because § 2-601 says that in a single-
shot (non-installment) contract, “unless otherwise agreed . . .
if  the  goods  or  the  tender  of  delivery  fail  in  any  respect  to
conform  to  the  contract,  the  buyer  may  (a)  reject  the  whole
[.]” So no matter how minor the defect, the buyer was entitled

244

to insist that it be cured before he was required to accept the
trailer. But it does not follow that the defect entitled the buyer
to  cancel  the  contract.  That’s  because  §  2-508(1)  says  that
“where  any  tender  or  delivery  by  the  seller  is  rejected
because non-conforming and the time for performance has not
yet expired, the seller may seasonably notify the buyer of his
intention to cure and may then within the contract time make a
conforming delivery.” Here, the time for performance would
not  expire  until  the  end  of  business  on  Monday,  June  1,  and
the dealer was proposing to cure the problem on Monday, i.e.,
within  the  contract  time.  Therefore,  the  dealer  met  the
notification requirement of § 2-508(1), and had the right to try
to make the actual cure up until the end of June 1.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  while  §  2-601  in  theory  applies  the
perfect tender rule — which would allow the buyer to reject
and  terminate  immediately — that  rule  is  subject  to  the
seller’s right under § 2-508(1) to give notice of intent to cure
within the contract period and to then make the cure.

(C) is wrong because the buyer was not required to accept the
trailer on May 31, with the defect still uncured. And that was
true no matter how easy and probable a timely cure appeared
to  be.  Instead,  the  buyer  was  permitted  to  suspend  his
performance (i.e., his acceptance and payment), wait and see
whether  the  dealer  promptly  cured  the  defect  as  promised,
and if it didn’t, make a final rejection.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  buyer  was  not  required  to  accept
the trailer given the defect, despite the fact that the defect did
not  substantially  impair  the  trailer’s  value.  If  the  tendered
goods  are  defective,  no  matter  how  small  the  defect  is
(assuming it indeed amounts to a true “defect” as opposed to a
permissible  variation  under  relevant  trade  usage),  the  buyer
may  reject  the  goods  if  the  defect  is  not  cured.  To  put  it
another way, there is no doctrine of “substantial performance”
with  respect  to  the  seller’s  obligations  under  a  single-shot
(non-installment) contract for the sale of goods.

IV.  EXCUSE OF CONDITIONS

A.  Hindrance

245

1.  Implied promise of cooperation

Question  37:  A  fugitive  was  wanted  for  murder.  The
authorities offered the following reward: “$20,000 to anyone
who provides information leading to the arrest and conviction
of  this  fugitive.”  A  private  detective  knew  of  the  reward,
located  the  fugitive,  and  brought  him  to  the  authorities,  who
arrested  him.  The  authorities  then  determined  that  while  the
fugitive  had,  in  fact,  committed  the  crime,  he  had  been
directed to commit the crime by his boss. The authorities and
the  fugitive  then  agreed  that  in  exchange  for  the  fugitive’s
testimony  against  his  boss,  all  charges  against  the  fugitive
would  be  dropped.  The  fugitive  testified  and  was  released.
The  authorities  refused  to  pay  the  reward  to  the  private
detective on the ground that the fugitive was never convicted.

Would the private detective be likely to prevail in a breach of
contract action against the authorities?

(A)    No,  because  the  private  detective  failed  to  notify  the

authorities that he had accepted the reward offer.

(B)  No, because the express conditions set out in the reward

were not met.

(C)  Yes, because the authorities’ agreement with the fugitive

was against public policy.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  authorities  themselves  prevented  the

conviction of the fugitive.

Answer  37:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  A  performance  that  is
subject to an express condition cannot become due unless the
condition  occurs  or  its  nonoccurrence  is  excused.  The
detective’s  entitlement  to  the  award  was  subject  to  two
conditions — the  arrest  and  conviction  of  the  fugitive.  The
first, the arrest, was satisfied when the detective delivered the
fugitive to the authorities. The second, the conviction, did not
occur.  Its  nonoccurrence  is  excused,  however,  under  the
doctrine  of  prevention,  which  requires  that  a  party  refrain
from  conduct  that  prevents  or  hinders  the  occurrence  of  a
condition.  See  Farnsworth,  §8.6,  p.  544:  “The  duty  of  good
faith and fair dealing that is usually imposed requires at least
that  a  party  do  nothing  to  prevent  the  occurrence  of  a
condition of that party’s duty.” The authorities had it in their

246

power to obtain a conviction, and would ordinarily have done
so by routine procedures; the fact that they chose to give up a
conviction in order to get the fugitive’s testimony against the
boss  brings  the  case  within  this  rule  that  a  party  whose
conduct  prevents  the  occurrence  of  a  condition  cannot  then
claim  the  benefit  of  that  non-occurrence.  See  also  Rest.  2d
§245, Comment a.

is  often  required 

to  give  notice  of 

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  cites  a  requirement  that  does  not
apply  to  these  facts.  It’s  true  that  in  an  offer  for  a  unilateral
contract,  an  offeree  who  accepts  by  rendering  the  requested
performance 
that
acceptance. But the offeree’s duty to give notice of acceptance
applies only if the offeree has reason to know that the offeror
would not learn of the requested performance with reasonable
certainty and promptness after that performance has occurred.
That’s  not  the  case  here,  since  the  offeror  learned  of  the
performance  when  the  detective  took  the  fugitive  to  the
authorities,  i.e.,  at  the  very  time  the  requested  performance
occurred. Rest. 2d, §54(2).

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  overlooks  the  doctrine  of  excuse  of
conditions.  The  general  rule  is  that  a  party’s  performance
does  not  become  due  until  all  express  conditions  to  it  have
occurred  or  are  excused.  In  this  case,  the  detective’s
entitlement to the award was subject to two conditions, one of
which  (conviction  of  the  fugitive)  was  excused  under  the
doctrine  of  prevention,  which  requires  that  a  party  refrain
from  conduct  that  prevents  or  hinders  the  occurrence  of  a
condition.  See  the  discussion  of  Choice  (D)  for  more  about
the doctrine of excuse of conditions.

(C) is wrong because it’s unresponsive to the question. That’s
so  because  this  choice  relates  to  the  enforceability  of  the
agreement between the fugitive and the authorities rather than
the  enforceability  of  the  purported  contract  between  the
authorities  and  the  detective.  The  dispositive  issue  is  the
effect  of  the  nonoccurrence  of  an  express  condition.  As
discussed  further  in  (D)  above,  that  nonoccurrence  was
excused  by  the  authorities’  preventing  the  conviction  by
making the plea deal.

247

CHAPTER 7
ANTICIPATORY REPUDIATION AND
OTHER ASPECTS OF BREACH

I.    ANTICIPATORY REPUDIATION

A.  What constitutes repudiation

1.  Statement

a.  Grudging willingness to perform

Question 38: Broker needed a certain rare coin to complete a
set that he had contracted to assemble and sell to Collecta. On
February  1,  Broker  obtained  such  a  coin  from  Hoarda  in
exchange for $1,000 and Broker’s signed, written promise to
re-deliver to Hoarda “not later than December 31 this year” a
comparable specimen of the same kind of coin without charge
to  Hoarda.  On  February  2,  Broker  consummated  sale  of  the
complete set to Collecta.
On October 1, the market price of rare coins suddenly began a
rapid,  sustained  rise;  and  on  October  15  Hoarda  wrote
Broker  for  assurance  that  the  latter  would  timely  meet  his
coin-replacement  commitment.  Broker  replied,  “In  view  of
the  surprising  market,  it  seems  unfair  that  I  should  have  to
replace your coin within the next few weeks.”

Having  received  Broker’s  message  on  October  17,  Hoarda
sued  Broker  on  November  15  for  the  market  value  of  a
comparable  replacement-coin  as  promised  by  Broker  in
February. The trial began on December 1.
If Broker moves to dismiss Hoarda’s complaint, which of the
following is Broker’s best argument in support of the motion?
(A)  Broker did not repudiate the contract on October 17, and
may  still  perform  no  later  than  the  contract  deadline  of
December 31.

(B)  Even if Broker repudiated on October 17, Hoarda’s only
action  would  be  for  specific  performance  because  the
coin is a unique chattel.

(C)    Under  the  doctrine  of  impossibility,  which  includes

248

unusually  burdensome  and  unforeseen  impracticability,
Broker is temporarily excused by the market conditions
from  timely  performnance  of  his  coin-replacement
obligation.

(D)  Even if Broker repudiated on October 17, Hoarda has no
remedy  without  first  demanding  in  writing  that  Broker
retract his repudiation.

Answer  38:  Choice  (A) 
is  correct.  To  constitute  a
repudiation, a party must clearly bring home to the other party
that  he  will  be  unable  or  unwilling  to  perform.  Mere
expression  of  doubts  about  performance,  or  statements  that
performance would be burdensome or unfair, will usually not
constitute a sufficiently clear indication of an impending non-
performance.  Therefore,  Broker’s  statement  that  it  “seems
unfair”  that  he  should  have  to  honor  the  contract  in  a  timely
manner  probably  did  not  constitute  a  repudiation.  It  is  not
certain that Broker will succeed with this argument, but of the
four presented, it is the one that has by far the best chance of
success for him.

(B) is wrong because it is a flat misstatement of law. While
Hoarda  would  probably  be  entitled 
to  seek  specific
performance  due  to  the  coin’s  status  as  a  unique  chattel,  the
plaintiff is always free to decline to seek a remedy of specific
performance and to instead seek money damages if these can
be proved with sufficient certainty (and there is no indication
here that they could not be).

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  facts  here  would  not  support  the
temporary impossibility defense. The defense of impossibility
is not available to a party if a court would conclude that the
agreement implicitly placed on that party the risk of the type
of event that has occurred. The market prices of rare coins are
constantly fluctuating, sometimes severely, and a court would
almost  certainly  conclude  that  Broker,  when  he  undertook  to
replace  Hoarda’s  coin  within  a  defined  period,  implicitly
took the risk that the price of doing so would increase sharply.
This result is especially likely in view of the fact that Broker
was in the business of buying and selling such coins.
(D) is wrong because when one party repudiates, the other is
not  required  to  demand  (in  writing  or  otherwise)  that  the

249

repudiation be retracted. It is true that the repudiatee has the
right  to  demand  a  retraction,  but  the  repudiatee  may  instead
elect  to  treat  the  repudiation  as  final  and  immediately  sue
upon it.

Question 39:  On  June  1,  a  seller  and  a  buyer  contracted  in
writing for the sale and purchase of the seller’s cattle ranch (a
large single tract), and to close the transaction on December
1.

On  October  1,  the  buyer  told  the  seller,  “I’m  increasingly
unhappy  about  our  June  1  contract  because  of  the  current
cattle market, and do not intend to buy your ranch unless I’m
legally  obligated  to  do  so.”  If  the  seller  sues  the  buyer  on
October 15 for breach of contract, the seller will probably

(A)    win,  because  the  buyer  committed  a  total  breach  by

anticipatory repudiation on October 1.

(B)    win,  because  the  buyer’s  October  1  statement  created
reasonable  grounds  for  the  seller’s  insecurity  with
respect to the buyer’s performance.

(C)    lose,  because  the  parties  contracted  for  the  sale  and
conveyance of a single tract, and the seller cannot bring
suit  for  breach  of  such  a  contract  prior  to  the  agreed
closing date.

(D)    lose,  because  the  buyer’s  October  1  statement  to  the
seller was neither a repudiation nor a present breach of
the June 1 contract.

Answer  39:  The  correct  choice  is  (D),  because  the  buyer
stated she would buy the ranch if legally obligated to do so.
An  anticipatory  repudiation  is  a  clear  statement  by  a  party,
made  before  performance  under  a  contract  is  due,  that  the
party  does  not  intend  to  perform.  For  a  statement  by  the
promisor  to  constitute  a  repudiation,  it  must  appear  to  the
promisee that the promisor is quite unlikely to perform. It is
not  enough  that  the  promisor  states  vague  doubts  about  her
willingness or ability to perform. The buyer’s statement here
does  not  meet  these  requirements:  She  has  not  made  it  clear
that she probably won’t perform — indeed, just the contrary,
since she’s indicated that she will perform if legally required
to do so.

250

An anticipatory repudiation is treated as if it were a present
breach.  But  since  the  statement  here  is  not  an  anticipatory
repudiation,  and  since  there  is  no  other  present  breach  (the
time for performance won’t arrive until December), there has
been no breach, and the seller will lose if the case is decided
before December.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  buyer  stated  she  would  buy  if
legally obligated to do so. As described in the discussion of
choice  D  above,  the  buyer’s  statement  did  not  meet  the
requirements  for  an  anticipatory  repudiation,  because  the
buyer indicated that she would perform if required to do so.

these  assurances, 

this  failure  will 

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  seller  has  not  yet  requested
assurances.  A  party  to  a  contract  has  the  right  to  demand
reasonable assurances when the other party to a contract gives
an ambiguous indication of not performing. If the latter fails to
provide 
itself  be
considered a repudiation and a breach. The buyer’s October 1
statement  indeed  created  reasonable  grounds  for  the  seller’s
insecurity with respect to the buyer’s performance. However,
before the seller could claim repudiation and sue for breach
of  contract,  he  was  obligated  to  request  assurances  from  the
buyer.  If  the  buyer  then  did  not  give  the  seller  the  requested
assurances, the seller could treat this failure as a repudiation.
However,  under  these  facts,  the  seller  has  not  yet  requested
assurances,  so  the  seller  cannot  successfully  claim  that  a
breach has occurred.

(C) is wrong because a seller can bring suit prior to closing if
the buyer anticipatorily repudiates. One of the major purposes
of  the  anticipatory  repudiation  doctrine  is  that  it  allows  the
repudiatee  to  bring  an  immediate  suit  for  breach,  before  the
time  for  performance  has  arrived.  So  if  the  buyer  had
anticipatorily repudiated, the seller could bring an immediate
suit,  and  choice  C  would  be  an  incorrect  statement.  Beyond
this problem, of course, there is the additional difficulty (for
the  seller)  that  the  buyer’s  words  “I  won’t  perform  unless
legally obligated” are not an anticipatory repudiation, for the
reasons described in the discussion of choice D above.

II.   OTHER ASPECTS OF REPUDIATION

251

A.  Retraction of repudiation

1.  Final acts

a.  Cancellation and new contract with someone else

i.  Real estate

Question 40:  On  June  1,  a  seller  and  a  buyer  contracted  in
writing for the sale and purchase of the seller’s cattle ranch,
and  to  close  the  transaction  on  December  1.  The  buyer
unequivocally repudiated the contract on August 1. On August
15, the seller urged the buyer to change her mind and proceed
with  the  scheduled  closing  on  December  1.  On  October  1,
having  heard  nothing  further  from  the  buyer,  the  seller  sold
and  conveyed  his  ranch  to  a  third  party — a  rancher — 
without  notice  to  the  buyer.  On  December  1,  the  buyer
attempted to close under the June 1 contract by tendering the
full purchase price to the seller. The seller rejected the tender.

If  the  buyer  sues  the  seller  for  breach  of  contract,  the  buyer
will probably
(A)    win,  because  the  seller  failed  seasonably  to  notify  the

buyer of any pending sale to the rancher.

(B)    win,  because  the  seller  waived  the  buyer’s  August  1
repudiation by urging her to retract it on August 15.
(C)    lose,  because  the  buyer  did  not  retract  her  repudiation
before  the  seller  materially  changed  his  position  in
reliance thereon by selling the ranch to the rancher.
(D)    lose,  because  acceptance  of  the  purchase  price  by  the
seller  was  a  concurrent  condition  to  the  seller’s
obligation to convey the ranch to the buyer on December
1.

Answer  40:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  A  repudiation  may  be
retracted  until  the  aggrieved  party  has  either  (i)  sued  for
breach, (ii) changed his position materially in reliance on the
repudiation,  or  (iii)  stated  that  he  regards  the  repudiation  as
final. Rest. 2d § 256(1). Under these facts, the buyer had from
August 1, when she unequivocally repudiated the contract, to
October  1  to  retract  her  unequivocal  repudiation.  The  buyer
didn’t do so. The buyer’s right to retract her repudiation and
perform  under  the  contract  ended  when  the  seller  materially

252

changed his position in reliance on the repudiation, by selling
to the rancher. The fact that the seller initially urged the buyer
to  change  her  mind  does  not  alter  the  analysis — under  the
modern view, the repudiatee’s exhortation to the repudiator to
perform does not “reinstate the contract,” and does not impair
the  repudiatee’s  subsequent  right  to  cancel  the  contract  or
change position in reliance on the repudiation.

(A) is wrong because the seller had no obligation to notify the
buyer  that  the  seller  was  viewing  the  contract  as  being  in
material  breach.  A  repudiation  may  be  retracted  until  the
aggrieved  party  has  done  any  of  three  things  (see  the
discussion  of  Choice  (C)  above),  one  of  which  is  to
materially  change  position  in  reliance  on  the  repudiation.
While the seller had the right to notify the buyer that the seller
was viewing the contract as terminated and preparing to sell
to someone else (and such a notice would have immediately
ended  the  buyer’s  right  to  retract  the  repudiation,  under  the
third  branch  of  the  Restatement  test  cited  above),  the  seller
did not have the obligation to give this notice before changing
position.

(B) is wrong because the seller did not waive the repudiation
by  urging  performance.  Under 
the
repudiatee’s exhortation to the repudiator to perform does not
“reinstate the contract,” and does not impair the repudiatee’s
right to cancel the contract or change position in reliance on
the repudiation.

the  modern  view, 

(D) is wrong because this choice misstates the law both as to
a  repudiation  and  a  non-repudiation  scenario.  For  instance,
suppose  that  the  buyer  never  repudiated  and  tendered  the
contract price on December 1, and the seller refused either to
accept the money or convey the ranch — in that scenario the
buyer  would  win,  whereas  the  language  of  Choice  (D)  says
that the buyer would lose. Beyond that, of course, the fact that
the buyer had repudiated long before Dec. 1 entitled the seller
to cancel the contract and convey to someone else, making the
buyer’s  later  tender  of  the  contract  price  (and  whether  the
seller accepted that tender) irrelevant.

B.  Special UCC rules

253

1.  Party has choice of remedies

Question 41: Broker needed a certain rare coin to complete a
set that he had contracted to assemble and sell to Collecta. On
February  1,  Broker  obtained  such  a  coin  from  Hoarda  in
exchange for $1,000 and Broker’s signed, written promise to
re-deliver to Hoarda “not later than December 31 this year” a
comparable specimen of the same kind of coin without charge
to  Hoarda.  On  February  2,  Broker  consummated  sale  of  the
complete set to Collecta.

On October 1, the market price of rare coins suddenly began a
rapid,  sustained  rise;  and  on  October  15  Hoarda  wrote
Broker  for  assurance  that  the  latter  would  timely  meet  his
coin-replacement  commitment.  Broker  replied,  “In  view  of
the  surprising  market,  it  seems  unfair  that  I  should  have  to
replace your coin within the next few weeks.”

After  receiving  Broker’s  message  on  October  17,  Hoarda
telephoned  Broker,  who  said,  “I  absolutely  will  not  replace
your coin until the market drops far below its present level.”
Hoarda  then  sued  Broker  on  November  15  for  the  market
value  of  a  comparable  replacement-coin  as  promised  by
Broker in February. The trial began on December 1.

If Broker moves to dismiss Hoarda’s complaint, which of the
following is Hoarda’s best argument in opposing the motion?

(A)    Hoarda’s  implied  duty  of  good  faith  and  fair  dealing  in
enforcement  of  the  contract  required  her  to  mitigate  her
losses on the rising market by suing promptly, as she did,
after  becoming 
a
prospective breach by Broker.

apprehensive  of 

reasonably 

(B)    Although  the  doctrine  of  anticipatory  breach  is  not
applicable  under  the  prevailing  view  if,  at  the  time  of
repudiation,  the  repudiatee  owes  the  repudiator  no
remaining  duty  of  performance,  the  doctrine  applies  in
this  case  because  Hoarda,  the  repudiatee,  remains
potentially liable under an implied warranty that the coin
advanced to Broker was genuine.

(C)  When either party to a sale-of-goods contract repudiates
with  respect  to  a  performance  not  yet  due,  the  loss  of
which will substantially impair the value of the contract

254

to the other, the aggrieved party may in good faith resort
to any appropriate remedy for breach.

(D)    Anticipatory  repudiation,  as  a  deliberate  disruption
without 
legal  excuse  of  an  ongoing  contractual
relationship  between  the  parties,  may  be  treated  by  the
repudiatee at her election as a present tort, actionable at
once.

Answer  41:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  is  a  sale-of-goods
repudiation
the  UCC’s  special  anticipatory 
case,  so 
provision,  §  2-610,  applies.  That  section  says  that  “when
either  party  repudiates  the  contract  with  respect  to  a
performance  not  yet  due  the  loss  of  which  will  substantially
impair  the  value  of  the  contract  to  the  other,  the  aggrieved
party  may  .  .  .  (b)  resort  to  any  remedy  for  breach[.]”  This
section  applies  to  these  facts,  and  almost  perfectly  matches
the  phrasing  in  Choice  (C):  Broker  has  repudiated  his
obligation  to  deliver  a  replacement  coin  by  Dec.  31;  this
repudiation  has  substantially  impaired  the  value  of  the
contract to Hoarda (since Broker’s insistence on waiting for
prices to come down means that the delay may be infinite, and
will  expose  Hoarda  to  an  ever-increasing  financial  loss  if
prices  continue  to  mount);  and  a  suit  for  the  market  value  of
the promised coin is an authorized “remedy for breach” in the
circumstances.

(A)  is  wrong  because  Hoarda  had  no  duty  to  mitigate  her
losses in the rising market by suing promptly. UCC § 2-610(a)
gives Hoarda the right to “for a commercially reasonable time
await  performance  by  the  repudiating  party.”  So  Hoarda
could  have  waited  a  while,  and  didn’t  have  to  mitigate  her
damages  by  bringing  suit  immediately  (although  for  the
reasons  described  in  Choice  (C)  she  had  the  right  to  bring
such an immediate suit).

(B) is wrong because, while it is true that in non-UCC cases,
the  repudiatee  cannot  bring  suit  prior  to  the  time  for  the
performance  if  the  repudiatee  has  no  remaining  duty  of
performance, this special rule does not apply to UCC cases.
Therefore, it wouldn’t matter whether Hoarda did or did not
have a surviving implied warranty that the coin she advanced
to Broker was genuine.

255

(D) is wrong because, while this choice correctly states that
the  repudiatee  may  bring  suit  at  once,  the  choice  incorrectly
states that this action would be for a “present tort.” When the
doctrine  of  anticipatory  repudiation  allows  suit,  the  suit  is  a
form of breach-of-contract action, not a tort suit.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

256

CHAPTER 8
STATUTE OF FRAUDS

I.    SURETYSHIP

A.  Main purpose rule

1.  Often tested on MBE

a.  Question may not mention Statute of Frauds

Question 42: A father and his adult daughter encountered an
old family friend on the street. The daughter said to the friend,
“How about lending me $1,000 to buy a used car? I’ll pay you
back  with  interest  one  year  from  today.”  The  father  added,
“And  if  she  doesn’t  pay  it  back  as  promised,  I  will.”  The
friend  thereupon  wrote  out  and  handed  to  the  daughter  his
personal  check,  payable  to  her,  for  $1,000,  and  the  daughter
subsequently used the funds to buy a used car. When the debt
became due, both the daughter and the father refused to repay
it, or any part of it.

In an action by the friend against the father to recover $1,000
plus  interest,  which  of  the  following  statements  would
summarize the father’s best defense?
(A)  He received no consideration for his conditional promise

to the friend.

(B)    His  conditional  promise  to  the  friend  was  not  to  be
performed in less than a year from the time it was made.
(C)    His  conditional  promise  to  the  friend  was  not  made  for
the primary purpose of benefiting himself (the father).
(D)  The loan by the friend was made without any agreement

concerning the applicable interest rate.

Answer  42:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  daughter  is  the
primary  obligor  on  the  debt  to  the  friend.  The  father,  by
promising  to  make  the  payment  if  the  daughter  doesn’t,  has
promised  to  “answer  for  the  debt  of  another,”  making  him  a
surety.  Since  the  father’s  promise  is  oral,  it  is  rendered
unenforceable  by  the  suretyship  provision  of  the  Statute  of
Frauds,  unless  some  exception  makes  it  inapplicable.  The

257

most  important  exception  to  the  suretyship  provision  is  the
main purpose rule. But here, the fact that the father’s promise
was  not  made  for  the  “primary  purpose”  (i.e.,  “main
purpose”)  of  benefiting  the  father’s  own  economic  interests
means that the main purpose rule does not apply, making the
suretyship provision applicable. (Notice that nowhere in this
choice do the examiners mention either the Statute of Frauds,
the  concept  of  suretyship,  or  the  significance  of  the  fact  that
the  promise  was  oral — it’s  up  to  you  to  notice  that  the
reference to the absence of “primary purpose” means that the
suretyship provision will apply.)

(A) is wrong because the father did receive consideration for
his conditional promise — the friend’s making of the loan to
the daughter. Consideration need not be given to the promisor,
but  can  instead  be  given  to  a  third  party,  as  long  as  the
promisor bargained for it.

(B) is wrong because it refers to the not-performable-within-
one year provision of the Statute of Frauds, and that provision
does not apply to the father’s promise here. The reason is that
there  is  a  special  exception  under  which  “the  one-year
provision does not apply to a contract which is performed on
one side at the time it is made, such as a loan of money, nor
to  any  contract  which  has  been  fully  performed  on  one  side,
whether the performance is completed within a year or not.”
Rest.  2d,  §  130,  Comment  d.  Since  the  friend  has  fully
the  full
performed  on  his  side  by  making 
performance  removed  the  entire  contract  from  the  one-year
provision.

loan, 

the 

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  law  will  supply  a  reasonable
interest rate under the circumstances, so that the contract (and
the  father’s  promise)  will  not  be  void  for  indefiniteness.  As
long  as  the  term  omitted  by  the  parties’  agreement  is  not  so
basic  as  to  prevent  them  from  having  had  a  meeting  of  the
minds, the court will supply the missing term by implication.
Here, since the friend cares mainly about getting his principal
back,  he  can  stipulate  that  the  interest  rate  was  0%,  and  the
court  will  certainly  be  willing  to  apply  that  rate  to  save  the
contract from indefiniteness.

258

II.   SATISFACTION BY A MEMORANDUM

A.  UCC

1.  Confirmation

Question  43:  A  skiing  retailer,  in  a  telephone  conversation
with  a  glove  manufacturer,  ordered  12  pairs  of  vortex-lined
ski gloves at the manufacturer’s list price of $600 per dozen
“for  delivery  in  30  days.”  The  manufacturer  orally  accepted
the  offer,  and  immediately  faxed  to  the  ski  shop  this  signed
memo: “Confirming our agreement today for your purchase of
a  dozen  pairs  of  vortex-lined  ski  gloves  for  $600,  the
shipment will be delivered in 30 days.” Although the retailer
received and read the manufacturer’s message within minutes
after  its  dispatch,  she  changed  her  mind  three  weeks  later
about  the  purchase  and  rejected  the  conforming  shipment
when it timely arrived.

On  learning  of  the  rejection,  does  the  manufacturer  have  a
cause of action against the retailer for breach of contract?

(A)    Yes,  because  the  gloves  were  identified  to  the  contract

and tendered to the retailer.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  manufacturer’s  faxed  memo  to  the
the  agreement

to  make 

sufficient 

retailer  was 
enforceable.

(C)  No, because the agreed price was $600 and the retailer
never  signed  a  writing  evidencing  a  contract  with  the
manufacturer.

(D)  No, because the retailer neither paid for nor accepted any

of the goods tendered.

Answer 43:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Normally,  a  contract  for
the  sale  of  goods  having  a  value  of  more  than  $500  is  not
enforceable  unless  memorialized  in  a  writing  signed  by  the
party  against  whom  enforcement  is  sought,  here,  the  retailer.
However,  there  is  an  important  exception  for  confirmations
sent  between  merchants.  According  to  UCC  §  2-201(2),
“Between merchants if within a reasonable time a writing in
confirmation  of  the  contract  and  sufficient  against  the  sender
is received and the party receiving it has reason to know its
contents,  it  satisfies  the  requirements  of  [the  Statute  of

259

Frauds] against such party unless written notice of objection
to its contents is given within 10 days after it is received.” So
here,  even  though  the  retailer  didn’t  sign  anything,  the
confirmation  makes  the  contract  good  against  her  under  §  2-
201(2), because: (1) the retailer and the manufacturer are both
merchants;  (2)  the  manufacturer  signed  the  confirmation,  so
that  the  confirmation  would  have  been  binding  against  the
manufacturer;  (3)  the  retailer  had  “reason  to  know  [the
confirmation’s]  contents”  (because  she  read  it);  and  (4)  the
retailer  did  not  indicate  her  objection  to  the  memorandum’s
contents within 10 days after receiving it.

(A) is wrong because the fact that the goods were “identified
to  the  contract”  is  irrelevant  to  the  enforceability  of  the
contract — even if the retailer had canceled before the goods
were  shipped  (or  even  before  the  goods  were  identified
within  the  manufacturer’s  plant  as  being  the  ones  that  would
be shipped to the retailer), the manufacturer would still have
been  entitled  to  sue  for  breach  if  more  than  10  days  had
passed  since  the  retailer  received  the  confirmation.  (The
MBE examiners are probably trying to fool you into thinking
of  §  2-709,  under  which  the  fact  that  the  goods  have  been
identified to the contract will entitle the seller to sue for the
full  contract  price  if  the  seller  cannot  resell  them  at  a
turn  an
reasonable  price — but 
otherwise-unenforceable  contract  into  an  enforceable  one;  it
merely  governs  the  measure  of  damages  for  an  already-
enforceable contract.)

this  provision  doesn’t 

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  retailer  is  liable  despite  never
having signed a writing, due to her receipt of a confirmation
and her lack of objection to it, as described in the discussion
of Choice (B) above.
(D) is wrong because the fact that the retailer never paid for
or  accepted  any  of  the  goods  is  irrelevant — the  retailer  is
bound  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  she  received  a  signed
confirmation  and  failed  to  object  to  it,  and  this  is  true
regardless  of  whether  she  paid  for  or  accepted  any  of  the
goods.

260

CHAPTER 9
REMEDIES

I.    EQUITABLE REMEDIES

A.  Two types

1.  Specific performance

Question 44: A landowner owned a lot in fee simple. For a
consideration of $5,000, the landowner gave a buyer a written
option  to  purchase  the  lot  for  $300,000.  The  option  was
assignable.  For  a  consideration  of  $10,000,  the  buyer
subsequently  gave  an  option  to  a  speculator  to  purchase  the
lot for $325,000. The speculator exercised his option.

The buyer thereupon exercised his option. The buyer paid the
agreed  price  of  $300,000  and  took  title  to  the  lot  by  deed
from  the  landowner.  Thereafter,  the  speculator  refused  to
consummate  his  purchase.  The  buyer  brought  an  appropriate
action  against  the  speculator  for  specific  performance,  or,  if
that  should  be  denied,  then  for  damages.  The  speculator
counterclaimed  for  return  of  the  $10,000.  In  this  action,  the
court will
(A)  grant money damages only to the buyer.
(B)  grant specific performance to the buyer.
(C)  grant the buyer only the right to retain the $10,000.
(D)  require the buyer to refund the $10,000 to the speculator.
Answer  44:  Choice  (B)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
identifies  that  the  buyer  is  entitled  to  the  remedy  he  wanted:
specific performance.
Understanding  why  specific  performance  is  the  appropriate
remedy  requires  that  you  analyze  the  facts  with  two  rules  in
mind:  first,  specific  performance  is  an  equitable  remedy,
requiring  as  a  prerequisite  that  there  be  no  adequate  remedy
“at law” (i.e., money damages). This occurs, typically, where
the subject is unique — e.g., a piece of land or an antique — 
and/or the money value is not ascertainable. Second, in land
sale contracts, when the seller refuses to convey the property,

261

the  buyer  can  seek  specific  performance.  That’s  pretty
straightforward. But the rule that’s less obvious is that if the
buyer  refuses  to  carry  out  the  sale,  the  seller  can  usually
compel  performance — even  though  the  buyer  will  only  be
paying money, as he would in a damages claim!

With that in mind, look closely at what happens in these facts.
The buyer has an option to buy the lot for $300,000. He then
makes  an  irrevocable  offer  to  the  speculator  to  purchase  the
lot  for  $325,000.  The  speculator  exercises  his  option,
meaning  the  buyer  is  bound  to  exercise  his  own  option.  The
buyer  exercises  his  option,  pays  the  $300,000,  and  takes  the
deed to the lot. Only at that point does the speculator renege
on the deal. Thus, what you have is the buyer holding the title
to  the  lot,  and  the  speculator  refusing  to  carry  out  an
enforceable  duty — paying  a  stipulated  amount  and  taking
title to the lot. Thus, what’s involved is a land sale contract 
— a  classic  specific  performance  situation!  Note  that  the
reason money damages are inadequate in a case like this — 
where the buyer refuses to carry out a land sale contract — is
the  seller’s  difficulties  of  proof.  In  a  damages  action,  the
damage  would  consist  of  the  difference  between  the  market
value  of 
the  contract  price  (plus
consequential  damages,  like  expenses  of  finding  another
buyer). So the seller would have to establish the market value
of  the  land  at  the  time  of  the  breach,  and  that  might  be  a
speculative  and  hard-to-prove  amount.  Specific  performance
relieves the seller of this burden of proof: All he has to show
is the contract price.

the  property  and 

(A) is wrong, for the reason explained in (B): The buyer/re-
seller  is  entitled  to  specific  performance,  because  money
damages would be inadequate due to difficulties of proof.
(C) is wrong because it understates the buyer’s recovery; he’s
entitled to specific performance of the option contract, for the
reasons discussed in (B). If the buyer is unable to recover the
the
exercise  price  specified  under  his  contract  with 
speculator, the buyer will be out of pocket for the amount he
spent to buy the lot from the original seller.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  ignores  entirely  the  fact  that  the
speculator breached the contract with the buyer, and thus the

262

buyer  will  be  entitled  to  some  kind  of  remedy.  In  fact,  the
buyer will be entitled to the remedy he requested — specific
performance.

B.  Limitations on equitable remedies

1.  Inadequacy of damages

Question 45: Elda, the aged mother of Alice and Barry, both
adults,  wished  to  employ  a  live-in  companion  so  that  she
might  continue  to  live  in  her  own  home.  Elda,  however,  had
only  enough  income  to  pay  one-half  of  the  companion’s
$2,000  monthly  salary.  Learning  of  their  mother’s  plight,
Alice  and  Barry  agreed  with  each  other  in  a  signed  writing
that  on  the  last  day  of  January  and  each  succeeding  month
during  their  mother’s  lifetime,  each  would  give  Elda  $500.
Elda then hired the companion.

Alice  and  Barry  made  the  agreed  payments  in  January,
February,  and  March.  In  April,  however,  Barry  refused  to
make any payment and notified Alice and Elda that he would
make no further payments.

Assume that there is a valid contract between Alice and Barry
and that Elda has declined to sue Barry. Will Alice succeed in
an  action  against  Barry  in  which  she  asks  the  court  to  order
Barry  to  continue  to  make  his  payments  to  Elda  under  the
terms of the Alice-Barry contract?

(A)  Yes, because Alice’s remedy at law is inadequate.
(B)    Yes,  because  Alice’s  burden  of  supporting  her  mother
will be increased if Barry does not contribute his share.
(C)  No, because a court will not grant specific performance

of a promise to pay money.

(D)    No,  because  Barry’s  breach  of  contract  has  caused  no

economic harm to Alice.

Answer  45:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Alice’s  request  that  the
court  order  Barry  to  continue  making  his  payments  is  a
request  for  a  decree  of  specific  performance.  The  principal
requirement that Alice must satisfy in order to get this (or any)
form of equitable relief is to show that legal relief — i.e., an
award of money damages — would not be adequate to protect
her. One reason for which an award of money damages might

263

not be adequate is that the amount of the damage award cannot
be computed with reasonable accuracy. Here, we don’t know
how long Elda will live, so the number of payments that Barry
will  end  up  being  legally  obligated  to  make  is  unknown.
Therefore, the court cannot accurately assess a single amount
as a damage award that represents the certain present value of
Barry’s obligation, and an award of “$500 per month for the
rest of Elda’s life” is a more accurate solution.

(B) is wrong because, while the burden on Alice will indeed
increase by virtue of Barry’s non-performance, this fact alone
would  not  entitle  Alice  to  a  decree  of  specific  performance
rather than an award of damages. Alice will have to show that
money  damages  are  not  an  adequate  remedy,  and  the  reason
that this is true is as discussed in the analysis of Choice (A).

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  is  a  misstatement  of  law — there
simply  is  no  rule  that  courts  will  not  grant  specific
performance  of  a  promise  to  pay  money.  (Indeed,  where  the
contract calls for a series of payments in return for some sort
of ongoing performance, a decree that the payments be made
as scheduled is likely to be preferable to a one-shot award of
money  damages,  because  the  decree  better  protects  the
defendant’s interest in getting the ongoing return performance
in exchange for his payments.)
(D) is wrong because there is no requirement that a plaintiff
show  economic  harm  from  the  defendant’s  breach.  Often  the
promisee in a third-party beneficiary scenario does not suffer
economic  harm  if  the  promisor  fails  to  render  the  promised
performance  to  the  third-party,  but  such  promises  are
nonetheless enforceable by the promisee. It’s true that there is
a  requirement  that  the  defendant’s  promise  have  been
supported  by  consideration;  but  here,  the  consideration  for
Barry’s promise was Alice’s return promise to pay her half of
each  monthly  payment,  so  the  fact  that  Alice  herself  is
suffering  no  economic  harm  from  Barry’s  breach  of  his
payment obligation does not mean that Barry’s promise lacked
consideration.

2.  Difficulty of enforcement

a.  Personal service contract

264

Question  46:  On  November  15,  a  carpenter  in  a  signed
writing  contracted  with  a  homeowner  for  an  agreed  price  to
personally  remodel  the  homeowner’s  kitchen  according  to
specifications provided by the homeowner, and to start work
on December 1. The carpenter agreed to provide all materials
for the job in addition to all of the labor required.

the  contract,  and 

the  carpenter  without 

legal  excuse
On  November  26 
repudiated 
the  homeowner,  after  a
reasonable  and  prolonged  effort,  could  not  find  anyone  to
remodel  his  kitchen  for  a  price  approximating  the  price
agreed  to  by  the  carpenter.  If  one  year  later  the  homeowner
brings  an  action  for  specific  performance  against  the
carpenter, which of the following will provide the carpenter
with the best defense?

(A)    An  action  for  equitable  relief  not  brought  within  a

reasonable time is barred by laches.

(B)    Specific  performance  is  generally  not  available  as  a
remedy to enforce a contractual duty to perform personal
services.

(C)    Specific  performance  is  generally  not  available  as  a
remedy in the case of an anticipatory repudiation.
(D)  Specific performance is not available as a remedy where
even  nominal  damages  could  have  been  recovered  as  a
remedy at law.

Answer  46:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Courts  will  usually  not
grant specific performance of an individual’s duty to perform
personal  services,  because  of  the  difficulties  in  supervising
the  defendant’s  ongoing  performance,  and  the  distastefulness
of ordering what amounts to involuntary servitude. Here, for
instance, if the court grants an order compelling the carpenter
to  do  the  work  at  the  contracted-for  price  and  in  the
contracted-for  time  period,  the  court  may  have  to  make
constant decisions about whether the carpenter is keeping up
to
to 
specifications,  so  that  the  court  risks  becoming  enmeshed  in
burdensome  project  details,  which  the  court  probably  will
conclude is not a sensible use of judicial resources. Also, the
court  may  have  to  imprison  the  carpenter  if  he  doesn’t
perform, a consequence that seems somewhat like slavery.

the  schedule  and  doing 

the  work  according 

265

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  requirements  for  laches  have  not
been satisfied here. It is true that if a plaintiff who is seeking
equitable  relief  unjustifiably  “sleeps  on  his  rights,”  the
defense  of  laches  may  preclude  recovery.  But  here,  there
seem to be two reasons why laches would not apply: (1) we
are  told  that  the  homeowner  made  a  “reasonable  and
prolonged  effort”  to  find  a  substitute,  suggesting  that  the
homeowner  spent  most  or  all  of  the  one-year  gap  between
repudiation and suit in reasonable efforts to mitigate, making
the gap not unjustifiable; and (2) there is no evidence that the
carpenter  has  been  prejudiced  by 
the  delay,  a  usual
requirement for laches.

(C)  is  wrong  as  a  statement  of  law:  When  a  plaintiff  suffers
from  the  defendant’s  anticipatory  repudiation,  all  standard
contract remedies are typically available to him, even though
the time for performance has not yet arrived. So a decree of
specific  performance  may  be  issued,  though  typically  the
decree would not require performance until the contractually-
specified time for it.

(D) is wrong as a statement of law. It is true that a decree of
specific performance, like other equitable relief, will not be
granted  where  damages  would  provide  an  adequate  remedy.
But  the  availability  of  nominal  damages  alone  will  typically
not be an adequate remedy, and that is certainly the case here,
where  the  homeowner’s  actual  damages  will  be  more  than
nominal.

II.   EXPECTATION DAMAGES

A.  Formula for calculating

1.  Breaching supplier of services

Question 47:  A  homeowner  and  a  contractor  entered  into  a
contract  for  the  construction  of  a  home  for  the  price  of
$300,000. The contractor was to earn a profit of $10,000 for
the job. After the contractor had spent $45,000 on labor and
materials, including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed,
the  homeowner  informed  the  contractor  that  the  homeowner
had  lost  his  job  and  could  not  pay  for  any  services.  The
homeowner  told  the  contractor  to  stop  working  immediately.

266

The  reasonable  market  value  of  the  labor  and  materials
provided  by  the  contractor  at  that  point,  including  the  oak
flooring, was $40,000. The contractor used the $5,000 worth
of oak flooring on another job.

In  an  action  by  the  contractor  against  the  homeowner  for
damages, which of the following would be the largest amount
of damages recoverable by the contractor?

(A)    $40,000,  the  reasonable  value  of  the  services  the

contractor had provided.

(B)  $40,000, the contractor’s construction costs.
(C)    $50,000,  the  contractor’s  construction  costs  of  $45,000
plus  the  $10,000  profit  minus  the  $5,000  saved  by
reusing the oak flooring on another job.

(D)    $55,000,  the  contractor’s  construction  costs  of  $45,000

plus the $10,000 profit.

Answer  47:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  $50,000  represents  the
contractor’s  expectation  measure  of  recovery  and  gives  the
contractor  the  benefit  of  the  bargain — this  amount  would
place the contractor in the position he would have been in but
for the breach. It is also the greatest amount the contractor is
able to recover. The general expectation formula permits the
contractor  to  recover  $50,000  and  can  be  computed  as
follows:

General expectation formula = Loss In Value + Other Loss –
Cost Avoided – Loss Avoided:

                            LIV =  the difference between the performance the non-breaching party should have received under the contract

and what was actually received, if anything, in this case, $300,000 less $0.

                            OL =   consequential and incidental damages, if any, in this case, $0.
                            CA =   the additional costs the non-breaching party can avoid by rightfully discontinuing performance under the

contract as a result of the other party’s breach, in this case, $290,000 less $45,000.

                                         (Full performance would have cost the contractor $290,000, since he would have made $10,000 on a
$300,000-revenue  contract.  But  the  contractor  has  already  incurred  $45,000  of  this  $290,000,
leaving $245,000.)

LA =   the beneficial effects of the breach due to the non-breaching party’s ability to salvage or reallocate resources
that otherwise would have been devoted to performing under the contract, in this case, $5,000 (the
oak flooring that can be reused).

So $300,000 + $0 – $245,000 – $5,000 = $50,000.
Rest. 2d, § 347; Farnsworth, § 12.9.

267

(A)  is  wrong,  because  it  does  not  put  the  contractor  in  the
position  he  would  have  been  in  had  the  contract  been
fulfilled.  The  $40,000  figure  is  an  attempt  to  calculate  the
contractor’s  restitution  recovery,  measured  by  the  benefit
conferred  on  the  owner.  See  Rest.  2d,  §  371.  That  measure
would  yield  the  smallest  amount  of  recovery,  since  it  would
not  allow  the  contractor  to  recover  damages  related  to  the
benefit  of  the  bargain.  “Innocent”  (i.e.,  non-breaching)
plaintiffs like the contractor usually have the option of suing
for  restitution  damages  where  this  would  produce  a  higher
recovery 
the  expectation  measure,  but  restitution
wouldn’t  produce  a  higher  recovery  here.  Furthermore,  the
$40,000  amount  is  incorrect  even  as  a  restitution  amount,
since  it  fails  to  deduct  the  $5,000  worth  of  oak  flooring  the
contractor  used  on  another  job  (making  the  real  benefit
conferred on the owner $35,000).

than 

represents 

fulfilled.  $40,000 

(B) is wrong because it, too (like the measure in (A)) fails to
put the contractor in the position he would have been in had
the  contract  been 
the
contractor’s reliance measure of recovery; that measure fails
to  take  into  account  the  contractor’s  benefit  of  the  bargain,
i.e.,  the  profit  the  contractor  anticipated  making  on  the
project.  Reliance  damages  would  consist  of  the  contractor’s
unreimbursed expenses for labor and materials, $45,000, less
the  salvage  value  of  the  oak  flooring,  $5,000,  which  indeed
equals $40,000, as this choice suggests. Cf. Rest. 2d, § 349.
But  nothing  in  this  scenario  would  cause  the  contractor  to
seek  damages  based  on  the  reliance  principle  and  forgo  his
(larger)  expectation  measure  of  recovery.  Rest.  2d,  §§  349,
347.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it’s  too  generous  to  the  contractor.  A
$55,000  damages  recovery  will  place  the  contractor  in  a
better position than he would have been in but for the breach,
because  it  fails  to  take  into  account  the  “loss  avoided”  (see
the discussion of Choice (C)) — the beneficial effects to the
contractor  from  the  breach,  due  to  the  contractor’s  ability  to
salvage  or  reallocate  resources  that  otherwise  would  have
been devoted to performing under the contract. Here the loss
avoided is the $5,000 worth of oak flooring that the contractor

268

used on another job.

Question 48: A contractor agreed to build a power plant for
a public utility. A subcontractor agreed with the contractor to
lay  the  foundation  for  $200,000.  The  subcontractor  supplied
goods and services worth $150,000, for which the contractor
made progress payments aggregating $100,000 as required by
the subcontract. The subcontractor then breached by refusing
unjustifiably  to  perform  further.  The  contractor  reasonably
spent $120,000 to have the work completed by a third party.

The subcontractor now sues the contractor for the reasonable
value of benefits conferred, and the contractor counterclaims
for breach of contract.

Which of the following should be the court’s decision?

(A) 

the  benefit
  The  subcontractor  recovers  $50,000, 
conferred  on  the  contractor  for  which  the  subcontractor
has not been paid.

(B)    The  subcontractor  recovers  $30,000,  the  benefit  the
subcontractor  conferred  on  the  contractor  minus  the
$20,000 in damages incurred by the contractor.

(C)    The  contractor  recovers  $20,000,  the  excess  over  the
contract  price  that  was  paid  by  the  contractor  for  the
performance  it  had  bargained  to  receive  from  the
subcontractor.
  Neither  party 
the
subcontractor  committed  a  material,  unexcused  breach
and  the  contractor  received  a  $50,000  benefit  from  the
subcontractor  for  which  the  subcontractor  has  not  been
paid.

recovers  anything,  because 

(D) 

Answer 48: Choice (C) is correct. The standard measure of
contract damages is the expectation measure, which attempts
to put the plaintiff in the position he would have been in had
the contract been performed. Here, performance meant that the
contractor  would  have  a  foundation,  at  a  total  cost  to  it  of
$200,000.  The  contractor  paid  the  subcontractor  $100,000,
then paid another $120,000 to the replacement subcontractor,
for  a  total  of  $220,000.  So  the  contractor  is  $20,000  worse
off than had the subcontractor performed. The contractor will
need to recover this $20,000 in order to be in the position that

269

performance would have left it.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  subcontractor’s  restitutionary
recovery must be computed after subtracting breach damages
owed  by  the  subcontractor.  A  materially-breaching  plaintiff
may recover in quasi-contract for the value to the defendant of
this  recovery  must  be
the  rendered  performance.  But 
computed on a “net” basis, by subtracting from the unpaid-for
value  rendered  to  the  defendant  any  damages  caused  by  the
breach.  So  in  this  case,  if  the  contractor  had  been  able  to
finish the work for, say, $10,000 (so that it would have spent
a  total  of  $130,000),  the  subcontractor  would  have  been
entitled  to  recover  in  quasi-contract  the  $50,000  difference
between the $150,000 value that it rendered to the contractor
and  the  $100,000  the  contractor  had  made  in  progress
payments  (since  the  subcontractor’s  breach  would  not  have
caused any damages to the contractor). But on the actual facts
here,  even  if  the  subcontractor  recovered  nothing  in  quasi-
contract,  the  contractor  would  still  have  been  damaged  by
$20,000  (as  analyzed  in  Choice  (C)).  So  the  subcontractor
obviously can’t recover anything in quasi-contract, since each
dollar  given  to  it  would  just  make  the  contractor’s  net
damages  worse. 
the
contractor the $20,000 needed to make the contractor whole.
Furthermore, in many jurisdictions a plaintiff who “wilfully”
breaches isn’t even eligible for a quasi-contract recovery, so
in  such  a  jurisdiction  we  wouldn’t  even  get  to  the  point  of
calculating whether the subcontractor was entitled to anything.

the  subcontractor  owes 

Instead, 

(B)  is  wrong  because  this  computation  would  not  leave  the
contractor  whole.  The  contractor  has  $20,000  in  damages
(see  Choice  (C))  only  on  the  assumption  that  the  contractor
doesn’t have to pay the subcontractor anything in the litigation
on  a  quasi-contract  theory.  If  the  subcontractor  recovered
$50,000,  the  contractor’s  net  damages  would  mount  to
$70,000 from the original $20,000.
(D) is wrong because this computation, too, would not leave
the  contractor  whole.  The  overriding  principle  is  that  the
contractor, 
counterclaimer,  gets
expectation damages to put it in the net position it would have
been in had the contract been performed. If the subcontractor

a  non-breaching 

as 

270

didn’t have to pay anything (and didn’t receive anything), the
contractor  would  be  $20,000  worse  off  than  if  the  contract
had been performed.

B.  “Reasonable certainty”

1.  Profits from a new business

a.  Not rule of law

i.  Shift in law

Question  49:  Swatter,  a  baseball  star,  contracted  with  the
Municipal Symphony Orchestra. Inc., to perform for $5,000 at
a  children’s  concert,  as  narrator  of  “Peter  and  the  Wolf.”
Shortly  before  the  concert,  Swatter  became  embroiled  in  a
highly publicized controversy over whether he had cursed and
assaulted a baseball fan. The orchestra canceled the contract
out of concern that attendance might be adversely affected by
Swatter’s appearance.
Swatter  sued  the  orchestra  for  breach  of  contract.  His
business  agent 
the
cancellation  had  resulted  in  Swatter’s  not  getting  other
contracts for performances and endorsements.
The trial court instructed the jury, in part, as follows: “If you
find  for  the  plaintiff,  you  may  award  damages  for  losses
which  at  the  time  of  contracting  could  reasonably  have  been
foreseen  by  the  defendant  as  a  probable  result  of  its  breach.
However,  the  law  does  not  permit  recovery  for  the  loss  of
prospective  profits  of  a  new  business  caused  by  breach  of
contract.”

testified  without  contradiction 

that 

On  Swatter’s  appeal  from  a  jury  verdict  for  Swatter,  and
judgment thereon, awarding damages only for the $5,000 fee
promised by the orchestra, the judgment will probably be
(A)  affirmed, because the trial court stated the law correctly.
(B)    affirmed,  because  the  issue  of  damages  for  breach  of

contract was solely a jury question.

(C)    reversed,  because  the  test  for  limiting  damages  is  what
the  breaching  party  could  reasonably  have  foreseen  at
the time of the breach.

(D)  reversed, because under the prevailing modern view, lost

271

profits  of  a  new  business  are  recoverable  if  they  are
established with reasonable certainty.

Answer 49:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  While  it  is  true  that  any
item of damages must be proved with reasonable certainty in
order  to  be  recovered,  there  is  no  fixed  rule  of  law  that
prospective  profits  from  a  new  business  may  not  be
recovered  in  a  breach  of  contract  action.  Since  the  judge’s
instructions  prevented  the  jury  from  even  considering  the
possibility that some elements of Swatter’s lost performance
and  endorsement  income  might  be  proven  with  reasonable
certainty, the instruction was incorrect and not harmless. (For
instance, Swatter might have been able to show that he got a
certain  amount  of  performance  or  endorsement  revenue  each
year  prior  to  Orchestra’s  cancellation,  and  that  this  dropped
to  $0  in  the  following  year  without  any  other  explanation;
such  proof,  if  made,  would  likely  have  satisfied  the
requirement of reasonable certainty.)
(A)  is  wrong  because  the  instruction  was  incorrect,  for  the
reason discussed in Choice (D) above.
(B) is wrong as a matter of law — although the jury computes
the  damages,  the  judge  can  and  must  instruct  the  jury  on  the
legal principles applicable to that computation (although here,
the judge did so incorrectly).

(C)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  is  true  that  contract  damages
are  generally  limited  to  those  which  the  defendant  could
reasonably  have  foreseen,  there  is  an  additional  requirement
that  each  item  of  damages  be  proved  with  reasonable
certainty,  and  this  choice  does  not  contain  that  important
additional limitation.

C.  Breaching seller of property

Question 50: On April 1, Owner and Buyer signed a writing
in  which  Owner,  “in  consideration  of  $100  to  be  paid  to
Owner  by  Buyer,”  offered  Buyer  the  right  to  purchase
Greenacre  for  $100,000  within  30  days.  The  writing  further
provided, “This offer will become effective as an option only
if and when the $100 consideration is in fact paid.” On April
received  no  payment  or  other
20,  Owner,  having 
communication from Buyer, sold and conveyed Greenacre to

272

Citizen  for  $120,000.  On  April  21,  Owner  received  a  letter
from  Buyer  enclosing  a  cashier’s  check  for  $100  payable  to
Owner  and  stating,  “I  am  hereby  exercising  my  option  to
purchase  Greenacre  and  am  prepared  to  close  whenever
you’re ready.” Owner explained that he had already sold the
property  to  Citizen.  Buyer  brought  suit  against  Owner  for
breach of contract.

Assume  that  Buyer  prevails  in  the  breach  of  contract  suit
against  Owner.  Which  of  the  following  is  Buyer  entitled  to
recover?

(A)    Nominal  damages  only,  because  the  remedy  of  specific

performance was not available to Buyer.

(B)  The fair market value, if any, of an assignable option to

purchase Greenacre for $100,000.

(C)  $20,000, plus the amount, if any, by which the fair market
value  of  Greenacre  on  the  date  of  Owner’s  breach
exceeded $120,000.

(D)    The  amount,  if  any,  by  which  the  fair  market  value  of
Greenacre  on  the  date  of  Owner’s  breach  exceeded
$100,000.

Answer  50:  Choice  (D)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
reflects  the  standard  measure  of  damages  for  breach:
expectation  damages.  In  awarding  expectation  damages,  the
court  attempts  to  put  the  plaintiff  in  the  position  she  would
have  been  in  had  the  contract  been  performed  by  the
defendant. Normally, this means that the plaintiff is awarded
the  profits  she  would  have  made  had  the  contract  been
performed.  That’s  the  case  here.  Choice  (D)  best  states  this
principle:  In  giving  Buyer  “the  amount,  if  any,  by  which  the
fair  market  value  of  Greenacre  on  the  date  of  [the]  breach
exceeded [the contract price],” the court will be giving Buyer
the  “benefit  of  her  bargain,”  i.e.,  the  profit  she  would  have
been able to make immediately by reselling the property.
(A) is wrong because nominal damages — which are a small
sum that is fixed without regard to the amount of harm — are
awarded only when a right of action for breach exists but no
harm has been done or is provable. Here, Buyer has suffered
provable harm (the contract-market differential). The fact that

273

an equitable remedy (injunction) isn’t available doesn’t mean
that  Buyer  didn’t  suffer  provable  harm,  and  doesn’t  prevent
Buyer from collecting expectation damages.

(B) is wrong because the value of an assignable option would
not be a measure of Buyer’s expectation interest in this case.
When Buyer sent the $100, she was exercising the option, and
thus  binding  herself  to  purchase  the  property.  Prior  to  that
moment, it’s possible that the measure of damages would  be
the  value  of  the  option  (less  the  $100  price  to  “buy”  that
option).  But  once  Buyer  exercised  by  sending  the  $100,  the
option was no longer significant — there was a contract fully
binding on both sides, and the usual measure of damages for a
buyer  whose  seller  breaches  the  contract  of  sale  (benefit  of
the bargain) applied.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  incorrectly  implies  that  the  market
value on the day of the sale to Citizen was at least $120,000.
If  the  sale  price  to  Citizen  were  the  definitive  proof  of  the
market value of the property, this choice might be an accurate
formulation.  But  that  sale  price  is  not  legally  dispositive,
merely  evidence  of  the  fair  market  value.  For  instance,  the
sale to Citizen might have been at a price that the court finds
to be greater than the actual market value on that day. In that
event,  guaranteeing  Buyer  a  minimum  recovery  of  $20,000
would  be  legally  incorrect.  (True,  it  seems  unlikely  that
anyone would pay greater than the then “fair market value” on
the day of sale. But the point is that the legal standard is “fair
market value less plaintiff’s contract price,” not “the lesser of
(1)  the  price  paid  by  the  third  party  minus  the  plaintiff’s
contract price or (2) the fair market value minus the plaintiff’s
contract price.”)

III.  SUITS IN QUASI-CONTRACT

A.  Breaching plaintiff

1.  Construction cases

a.  Lesser of “cost to owner” and “change in value to owner”

Question 51: In a single writing, a painter contracted with a
farmer  to  paint  three  identical  barns  on  the  farmer’s  rural

274

estate for $2,000 each. The contract provided for the farmer’s
payment of $6,000 upon the painter’s completion of the work
on  all  three  barns.  The  painter  did  not  ask  for  any  payment
when the first barn was completely painted, but she demanded
$4,000  after  painting  the  second  barn.  The  farmer  rightfully
refused  the  painter’s  demand  for  payment.  The  painter  then
immediately terminated the contract without painting the third
barn. What is the painter entitled to recover from the farmer?

(A)  Nothing, because payment was expressly conditioned on

completion of all three barns.

(B)    The  painter’s  expenditures  plus  anticipated  “profit”  in
painting the first two barns, up to a maximum recovery of
$4,000.

(C)  The reasonable value of the painter’s services in painting
the two barns, less the farmer’s damages, if any, for the
painter’s failure to paint the third barn.

(D)    The  amount  that  the  combined  value  of  the  two  painted

barns has been increased by the painter’s work.

Answer  51:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Where  a  defaulting
plaintiff  has  rendered  some  performance  of  value  to  the
defendant,  but  has  not  substantially  performed,  the  plaintiff
may not recover “on the contract.” But she may recover on a
quasi-contract  or  quantum  meruit  (“as  much  as  he
deserved”) theory — the court uses its equity-like powers to
prevent unjust enrichment of the defendant. If the farmer didn’t
have to pay anything, he’d be unjustly enriched (at least with
respect  to  the  two  painted  barns,  putting  aside  his  damage
from not getting the agreed-upon painting of the third barn) by
the “value” to him of the painting of two barns. So the court
would  start  by  awarding  the  painter  this  value.  But  then,  the
farmer would be entitled to be made whole for the damages to
him  from  not  getting  all  three  barns  painted  for  the  agreed-
upon $6,000. So the court would compute how much it would
now cost the farmer to get that single barn painted. If that cost
would  be  $2,000  or  less,  the  farmer’s  damages  would  be
zero. But if it would cost more, then the difference would be
deducted  from  the  painter’s  quasi-contract  “value  of  the
services of painting two barns” recovery.
(A)  is  wrong  because  even  though  the  painting  of  all  three

275

barns was an express condition of payment under the contract,
the court can and would still award a quasi-contract recovery,
as described above.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  painter  is  only  entitled  to  a  quasi-
contract  recovery,  not  to  recover  “on  the  contract.”  So  any
formula  keyed  to  the  painter’s  anticipated  “profit”  is
irrelevant — it’s the value to the defendant, not the profit that
would  have  been  made  by  the  breaching  plaintiff,  that  is  the
starting  point.  (Profits  that  would  have  been  made  by  the
plaintiff  are  relevant  only  where  it’s  the  defendant,  not  the
plaintiff, who breached.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  this  formula  doesn’t  take  into  account
the farmer’s right to deduct damages for the painter’s failure
to  paint  the  third  barn.  (The  court  might  indeed  use  the
increase in the value of the two painted barns as the measure
of  the  “reasonable  value”  of  the  painter’s  services,  but  the
court  would  deduct  from  this  number  the  farmer’s  damages
from the failure to paint the third barn.)

2.  UCC gives partial restitution to breaching buyer

a.  Exception for actual damages proved by seller

Question 52: Hydro-King. Inc., a high-volume, pleasure-boat
retailer, entered into a written contract with Zuma, signed by
both  parties,  to  sell  Zuma  a  power  boat  for  $12,000.  The
manufacturer’s price of the boat delivered to Hydro-King was
$9,500.  As  the  contract  provided,  Zuma  paid  Hydro-King
$4,000 in advance and promised to pay the full balance upon
delivery of the boat. The contract contained no provision for
liquidated  damages.  Prior  to  the  agreed  delivery  date,  Zuma
notified  Hydro-King  that  he  would  be  financially  unable  to
conclude the purchase; and Hydro-King thereupon resold the
same  boat  that  Zuma  had  ordered  to  a  third  person  for
$12,000 cash.
If Zuma sues Hydro-King for restitution of the $4,000 advance
payment, which of the following should the court decide?
(A)  Zuma’s claim should be denied, because, as the party in
default, he is deemed to have lost any right to restitution
of a benefit conferred on Hydro-King.

276

(B)    Zuma’s  claim  should  be  denied,  because,  but  for  his
repudiation,  Hydro-King  would  have  made  a  profit  on
two boat-sales instead of one.

(C)  Zuma’s claim should be upheld in the amount of $4,000
minus  the  amount  of  Hydro-King’s  lost  profit  under  its
contract with Zuma.

(D)  Zuma’s claims should be upheld in the amount of $3,500
($4,000  minus  $500  as  statutory  damages  under  the
UCC).

Answer  52:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  UCC  controls.
Section  2-718  deals  with  a  repudiating  buyer’s  right  to
restitution of any deposit. Section 2-718(2) states the general
rule  that  if  there  is  no  liquidated  damages  clause  in  the
contract (and there is none here), the seller must return all but
20% of the total contract price or $500, whichever amount is
smaller.  However,  §  2-718(3)  says  that  the  buyer’s  right  to
restitution  is  subject  “to  offset  to  the  extent  that  the  seller
establishes  (a)  a  right  to  recover  damages  under  the
provisions of this Article other than [the liquidated damages
provision].” So to the extent that Hydro-King can prove actual
damages greater than $500, it need refund only the amount of
the deposit less these greater actual damages. That’s precisely
the  formulation  listed  in  Choice  (C).  (We  don’t  know  what
Hydro-King’s lost profits actually will be, because we don’t
know whether it is a “lost volume” seller, or instead can only
get fewer of the power boats in question than it has customers
for, in which case it would not have suffered any actual lost
profits. But whatever amount represents its actual lost profits,
Hydro-King  gets  to  keep  that  amount,  as  this  choice
specifies.)
(A)  is  wrong  because  it  directly  conflicts  with  §  2-718(2),
which  entitles  even  a  defaulting  buyer  to  restitution  of  his
deposit less either the seller’s actual damages or the lesser of
20% of the contract price and $500.
(B)  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  we  don’t  actually  know
whether Hydro-King is indeed a “lost volume seller” as this
choice  suggests  it  is — if  Hydro-King  had  more  customers
wanting  to  buy  that  particular  model  boat  than  it  could  get
boats  from  the  manufacturer,  Hydro-King  didn’t  lose  a  net

277

sale; and (2) even if Hydro-King lost a net sale, its damages
were  only  $2,500,  so  it  can’t  keep  the  entire  $4,000  as  this
choice asserts it can.

(D) is wrong because, while it correctly states the result that
would occur under § 2-718(2) if Hydro-King couldn’t prove
any  actual  damages,  it  ignores  the  fact  that  Hydro-King  can
keep  that  part  of  the  deposit  representing  its  actual  damages
from the lost sale if this amount is greater than $500.

IV.  LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

A.  Reasonableness of amount

1.  Modern view

a.  Unexpectedly high damages

i.  How tested on the MBE

Question 53: A sea captain owns an exceptionally seaworthy
boat  that  she  charters  for  sport  fishing  at  a  $500  daily  rate.
The fee includes the use of the boat with the sea captain as the
captain, and one other crew member, as well as fishing tackle
and  bait.  On  May  1,  a  customer  agreed  with  the  captain  that
the customer would have the full-day use of the boat on May
15 for himself and his family for $500. The customer paid an
advance  deposit  of  $200  and  signed  an  agreement  that  the
deposit  could  be  retained  by  the  captain  as  liquidated
damages  in  the  event  the  customer  canceled  or  failed  to
appear.

At the time of contracting, the captain told the customer to be
at the dock at 5 a.m. on May 15. The customer and his family,
however,  did  not  show  up  on  May  15  until  noon.  Meantime,
the captain agreed at 10 a.m. to take a replacement customer
and  her  family  out  fishing  for  the  rest  of  the  day.  The
replacement  had  happened  to  come  by  and  inquire  about  the
possibility  of  such  an  outing.  In  view  of  the  late  hour,  the
captain  charged  the  replacement  $400  and  stayed  out  two
hours  beyond  the  customary  return  time.  The  original
customer’s failure to appear until noon was due to the fact that
he had been trying to charter another boat across the bay at a
lower  rate  and  had  gotten  lost  after  he  was  unsuccessful  in

278

getting such a charter.

Which  of  the  following  is  an  accurate  statement  concerning
the rights of the parties?

(A)    The  captain  can  retain  the  $200  paid  by  the  customer,
because it would be difficult for the captain to establish
her actual damages and the sum appears to have been a
reasonable forecast in light of anticipated loss of profit
from the charter.

(B)    The  captain  is  entitled  to  retain  only  $50  (10%  of  the
contract price) and must return $150 to the customer.
(C)  The captain must return $100 to the customer in order to
avoid  her  own  unjust  enrichment  at  the  customer’s
expense.

(D)  The captain must return $100 to the customer, because the
liquidated-damage clause under the circumstances would
operate as a penalty.

Answer 53: Choice (A) is correct. Even in a court that has a
relatively  tough  standard  for  the  enforceability  of  litigated
damages clauses, the court will enforce the clause if both of
the  following  are  true:  (1)  the  forecast  was  a  reasonable
estimate  of  likely  damages  at  the  time  the  contract  was
entered  into;  and  (2)  the  party  seeking  to  enforce  the  clause
has  suffered  actual  damages  that  are  hard  to  calculate
accurately. Here, these two conditions are satisfied: (1) at the
time the contract was made, the captain faced a real risk that
the customer would fail to show up at the last minute, and that
she would be unable to get another charter for that same day;
therefore,  a  deposit  of  40%  of  total  contract  price  was  a
reasonable forecast of likely damages, especially since most
of the captain’s costs for a one-day charter are fixed (cost of
boat) so that if she doesn’t do the trip she recoups relatively
little expense; (2) while the captain has collected $400 from
the replacement as well as $200 from the customer, giving her
a  total  for  the  day  of  $600  (i.e.,  $100  more  than  she  would
have gotten from the customer alone if the contract had been
fulfilled), she had to stay out two hours beyond the customary
return time, so some of her $100 “surplus” may have been due
to 
than  being  a  windfall;
consequently, the captain’s actual damages are indeed hard to

this  extra-long  day  rather 

279

calculate accurately after-the-fact.

(B) is wrong because it is a misstatement of law. In non-sales
cases,  there  is  no  single  formula  that  determines  the  outer
bounds  of  permissible  liquidated  damages,  as  this  choice
suggests that there is. The examiners may have been trying to
trick  you  into  thinking  of  the  formula  applied  in  UCC  cases,
under  which  if  the  buyer  of  goods  makes  a  deposit  and  then
breaches  (e.g.,  by  canceling),  and  the  contract  does  not
contain a liquidated damages clause, the buyer gets back any
part of his deposit in excess of “20% of the value of the total
[contract  price]  or  $500,  whichever  is  smaller”  if  the  seller
does  not  establish  actual  damages.  §  2-718(2)(b).  Since  this
is  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  services  rather  than  goods,  this
provision does not apply (and the 10% amount in the choice
doesn’t match up with the UCC percentage anyway).

(C) is wrong because, while it arguably describes a treatment
that puts the captain in the same position she would have been
in  had  the  contract  been  performed  (she  has  collected  $600
for  the  day  from  the  combination  of  the  customer  and  the
replacement,  versus  $500  if  the  customer  contract  had  been
performed,  so  she  arguably  needs  to  give  back  $100),  this
choice ignores the liquidated damages clause. So long as the
liquidated  damages  clause  meets  the  rules  for  enforceability
of such clauses, the fact that the clause gives the person trying
to  use  it  some  slight  benefit  over  the  actual  damage  amount
that a court might compute is irrelevant.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  liquidated  damages  clause  here
would  not  operate  as  a  penalty.  As  long  as  such  a  clause  at
least  meets  the  two-part  test  described  in  Choice  (A),  it  by
definition  does  not  constitute  a  penalty.  In  other  words,  the
“penalty”  label  is  simply  a  shorthand  method  of  stating  that
the  clause  doesn’t  pass  the  two-part  test,  which  the  clause
here does pass.

V.  DAMAGES IN SALES CONTRACTS

A.  Where goods not accepted

1.  Seller’s damages for breach

280

a.  Lost profits

i.  “Lost volume” seller

Question  54:  By  the  terms  of  a  written  contract  signed  by
both parties on January 15, a computer retailer agreed to sell
a specific ICB personal computer to a buyer for $3,000, and
the  buyer  agreed  to  pick  up  and  pay  for  the  computer  at  the
retailer’s  store  on  February  1.  The  buyer  unjustifiably
repudiated  on  February  1.  Without  notifying  the  buyer,  the
retailer  subsequently  sold  at  private  sale  the  same  specific
computer to another buyer, who paid the same price ($3,000)
in  cash.  The  ICB  is  a  popular  product;  the  retailer  can  buy
from the manufacturer more units than it can sell at retail.

If the retailer sues the buyer for breach of contract, the retailer
will probably recover

(A)  nothing, because it received a price on resale equal to the

contract price that the buyer had agreed to pay.

(B)    nothing,  because  the  retailer  failed  to  give  the  buyer

proper notice of the retailer’s intention to resell.

(D) 

the  buyer

(C)    the  retailer’s  anticipated  profit  on  the  sale  to  the  buyer
plus incidental damages, if any, because the retailer lost
that sale.
  $3,000  (the  contract  price),  because 
intentionally breached the contract by repudiation.
Answer  54:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  retailer  is  a  “lost
volume”  seller,  that  is,  one  who  can  obtain  as  many  items
from  a  supplier  as  she  can  sell.  UCC  §  2-708(2),  which
doesn’t expressly mention lost-volume sellers but is designed
for  them,  gives  such  sellers  the  profit  that  the  seller  would
have made from full performance by the buyer, together with
any incidental damages.
(A)  is  wrong  because  §  2-708(2)  gives  a  lost-volume  seller
such as the retailer its lost profits regardless of the amount of
the  resale-contract  differential.  Indeed,  the  whole  point  of  §
2-708(2) is to prevent a lost-volume seller from being limited
to a $0 or very small resale-contract differential.
(B) is wrong because notice of intent to resell is not required
where the recovery is on a lost-volume basis. When the seller

281

elects  the  remedy  of  “cover” — i.e.,  the  right  to  resell  and
collect  the  difference  between  the  resale  price  and  the
(higher) contract price — and the resale is at  a  private  sale,
the  buyer  “reasonable
to  give 
the  seller  is  required 
notification of his intention to resell.” § 2-706(3). However,
the  retailer  is  not  recovering  on  this  resale/contract-price
basis  (since  that  basis  would  give  him  $0).  Instead,  he’s
recovering his lost profits as a lost-volume seller under § 2-
708(2),  and  no  advance  notice  is  required  for  such  a
recovery.

(D) is wrong because the damages available to a lost volume
seller are not the contract price. The retailer is entitled to its
lost  profits  and  any  incidental  damages  suffered.  Awarding
the retailer the contract price would over-compensate it, since
it has not had to bear the expense of buying the computer from
the manufacturer.

282

CHAPTER 10
CONTRACTS INVOLVING MORE THAN
TWO PARTIES

I.    ASSIGNMENT

A.  Contract terms prohibiting assignment

Question 55: In a written contract, a seller agreed to deliver
to a buyer 500 described chairs at $20 each, F.O.B. seller’s
place  of  business.  The  contract  provided  that  “neither  party
will  assign  this  contract  without  the  written  consent  of  the
other.”  The  seller  placed  the  chairs  on  board  a  carrier  on
January 30. On February 1, the seller said in a signed writing,
“I  hereby  assign  to  my  bank  all  my  rights  under  the  seller-
buyer contract.” The seller did not request and did not get the
buyer’s consent to this transaction. On February 2, the chairs
while  in  transit  were  destroyed  in  a  derailment  of  the
carrier’s railroad car.

In an action by the bank against the buyer, the bank probably
will recover

(A)  $10,000, the contract price.
(B)  the difference between the contract price and the market

value of the chairs.

(C)  nothing, because the chairs had not been delivered.
(D)    nothing,  because  the  seller-buyer  contract  forbade  an

assignment.

Answer  55:  The  correct  choice  is  (A)  because  it  correctly
identifies  that  the  bank  will  be  able  to  recover  the  entire
contract  amount.  Arriving  at  this  result  requires  resolving
three  major  issues:  (1)  whether  the  assignment  to  the  bank
was valid, (2) whether the risk of loss had passed to the buyer
by the moment of destruction; and (3) the measure of damages
in these circumstances.

First,  the  assignment  was  valid,  even  though  the  contract
expressly  prohibited  assignment  without  the  other  party’s
there  are  no
permission.  Under  UCC  §  2-210(4), 

if 

283

circumstances indicating the contrary, a provision prohibiting
assignment  “of  the  contract”  is  deemed  to  bar  only  the
delegation of duties, not the assignment of contractual rights.
(Furthermore,  under  UCC  §  9-406,  the  right  to  receive
payment  cannot  be  prohibited  from  assignment — so  even  if
the circumstances had  indicated  a  contrary  intent,  the  clause
barring  assignment  would  not  have  prevented  the  seller’s
assignment  of  his  right  to  payment.)  So  the  seller  was
permitted  to  make — and  did  make — an  assignment  to  the
bank of all his rights (i.e., the right to payment). (The bank as
assignee would still be subject to any defenses that the buyer
would have had against the seller, but as discussed in the next
paragraph, there are no such defenses, because the risk of loss
passed to the bank.)

Second,  the  risk  of  loss  had  passed  to  the  buyer  by  the
moment of destruction, because of the “F.O.B. seller’s place
of business” term. Under that term, the risk of loss passed to
the buyer as soon as the seller placed the chairs on board the
carrier.  Since  the  chairs  were  destroyed  after  the  seller  did
so,  while  the  chairs  were  in  transit,  the  buyer  will  bear  the
loss.  Therefore,  the  bank,  as  assignee  of  the  seller’s  rights,
gets to collect the purchase price just as the seller would have
been entitled to do had he not made the assignment. (Note that
the seller and the buyer could have distributed the loss as they
saw  fit — if 
they  provided  “F.O.B.  buyer’s  place  of
business,”  the  seller  would  have  borne  the  risk  of  loss  until
the goods had arrived at the buyer’s business).

Third,  you  have  to  figure  out  what  the  measure  of  damages
would be. The bank steps into the seller’s shoes, because the
assignment  was  valid  and  the  seller  complied  with  all
contractual obligations. UCC § 2-709(1) says that “when the
buyer fails to pay the price as it becomes due the seller may
recover,  together  with  any  incidental  damages  .  .  .  (a)  the
[contract]  price  of  .  .  .  conforming  goods  lost  or  damaged
within a commercially reasonable time after risk of their loss
has passed to the buyer[.]” So had there been no assignment,
the seller would have been entitled to the full contract price.
The  bank,  standing  in  the  shoes  of  the  seller,  is  entitled  to
receive this same amount.

284

(B)  is  wrong,  because  it  does  not  use  the  correct  formula  in
determining  the  bank’s  damages.  The  bank  steps  into  the
seller’s  shoes,  because  the  assignment  was  valid  and  the
seller  complied  with  all  contractual  obligations.  (Both  of
these propositions are further explained above.) As explained
in the last paragraph of the discussion of Choice (A), the bank
is  entitled  to  recover  the  full  contract  price.  Choice  (B),  by
restricting the bank to the contract/market differential, would
leave  the  bank  woefully  undercompensated:  For  instance,  if
as would likely be the case the contract price was equal to the
market price, the differential would leave the bank (standing
in  the  seller’s  shoes)  with  $0  recovery,  yet  the  buyer  would
be  deemed  to  have  received  and  accepted  (by  virtue  of  the
F.O.B. clause) conforming goods.

(C) is wrong, because it fails to recognize that the buyer will
be  liable  even  though  the  chairs  hadn’t  been  delivered.
Determining  who’s  responsible  for  the  loss — the  seller  or
the buyer —  depends on determining whether the risk of loss
had passed from the seller to the buyer. The relevant term is
the F.O.B. term — here, that term specifies the seller’s place
of business. Thus, once the seller placed the goods on board
the  carrier,  the  risk  of  loss  passed  to  the  buyer.  In  other
words,  the  goods  are  deemed  to  have  been  delivered,  even
though they never got to the buyer’s place of business.
If  the  term  had  been  “F.O.B.  buyer’s  place  of  business,”
choice C would be right, because the buyer wouldn’t bear the
risk of loss until the chairs reached him.

(D) is wrong because it doesn’t recognize that the seller had
the  right  to  assign  his  rights  under  the  contract  despite  the
contract  prohibition.  Here,  it’s  true  that  the  seller  and  the
buyer agreed not to “assign the contract” without the written
consent of the other party. But under UCC § 2-210(4), absent
circumstances indicating the contrary, a provision prohibiting
assignment  “of  the  contract”  is  deemed  to  bar  only  the
delegation of duties, not the assignment of contractual rights.
So  the  seller  was  permitted  to  make  (and  did  make)  an
assignment  to  the  bank  of  all  his  rights  (i.e.,  the  right  to
payment).  (Furthermore,  under  UCC  §  9-406,  the  right  to
receive  payment  cannot  be  prohibited  from  assignment — so

285

even if the circumstances had indicated a contrary intent, the
clause  barring  assignment  would  not  have  prevented  the
seller’s assignment of his right to payment.)

B.  Assignee vs. obligor

Question  56:  Under  the  terms  of  a  written  contract,  a
contractor agreed to construct for a homeowner a garage for
$10,000.  Nothing  was  said  in  the  parties’  negotiations  or  in
the contract about progress payments during the course of the
work. After completing 25% of the garage strictly according
to the homeowner’s specifications, the contractor assigned his
rights under the contract to a banker as security for an $8,000
loan. The banker immediately notified the homeowner of the
assignment.  The  contractor  thereafter,  without  legal  excuse,
it  was  half-complete.  The
abandoned 
contractor subsequently defaulted on the loan from the banker.
The  contractor  has  no  assets.  It  will  cost  the  homeowner  at
least $8,000 to get the garage finished by another builder.

job  before 

the 

If  the  banker  sues  the  homeowner  for  $8,000,  which  of  the
following will the court decide?

(A)    The  banker  wins,  because  the  contractor-homeowner
contract  was  in  existence  and  the  contractor  was  not  in
breach  when  the  banker  gave  the  homeowner  notice  of
the assignment.

(B)    The  banker  wins,  because  the  banker  as  a  secured
creditor  over  the  contractor  is  entitled  to  priority  over
the homeowner’s unsecured claim against the contractor.
(C)  The homeowner wins, because his right to recoupment on
account  of  the  contractor’s  breach  is  available  against
the banker as the contractor’s assignee.

(D)    The  homeowner  wins,  because  his  claim  against  the
contractor  arose  prior  to  the  contractor’s  default  on  his
loan from the banker.

Answer  56:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Generally,  an  assignee
“stands  in  the  shoes  of  his  assignor.”  That  is,  the  assignee
generally 
to  all  defenses,  set-offs,  and
counterclaims that the obligor could have asserted against the
assignor.  Here,  therefore,  the  banker  as  assignee  of  the
contractor’s  rights  stands  in  the  contractor’s  shoes,  and  is

takes  subject 

286

vulnerable  to  any  counterclaim  or  defense  to  which  the
contractor  would  have  been  vulnerable  if  it  was  the
contractor that was suing the homeowner. If the contractor had
not made the assignment and had sued the homeowner for the
$10,000  contract  price  (or  any  part  of  it),  the  homeowner
could  have  raised  the  counterclaim  or  defense  for  damages
for breach due to the contractor’s abandonment, and used that
counterclaim/defense  as  a  set-off,  i.e.,  to  reduce  any  amount
which  the  homeowner  would  otherwise  owe.  Consequently,
the  homeowner  can  make  this  same  counterclaim  or  defense
when  sued  by  the  banker  as  the  contractor’s  assignee.  (The
homeowner could not achieve an affirmative recovery against
the banker, but the homeowner isn’t trying to do that here, just
reduce the amount he owes the banker.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  does  not  matter  either  that  the
contractor-homeowner  contract  was  already  in  existence  at
the time of the notice of assignment or that the contractor was
not yet in breach at that time. In a suit by the assignee against
the  obligor, 
the  obligor  can  raise  any  defenses  or
counterclaims  that  it  could  have  raised  against  the  assignor,
regardless of when those defenses or counterclaims came into
existence.  (If  you  selected  this  choice,  you  may  have  been
thinking  about  the  rules  on  modification,  under  which  the
giving of notice of assignment by the assignee to the obligor
will deprive the obligor and assignor of the subsequent right
to modify the contract if the assignor has fully performed.)

(B) is wrong because it states a completely fictitious rule of
law.  It  is  true  that  the  homeowner’s  claim  is  unsecured  and
that  the  banker’s  is  secured;  this  fact  might  prevent  the
homeowner  from  getting  and  collecting  an  affirmative
recovery  against  the  contractor  (since  the  banker’s  secured
claim  would  take  priority  over  the  homeowner’s  later-
acquired judgment for the affirmative recovery). But what the
homeowner  cares  about  here  is  using  its  claim  as  a  set-off
(something  that  can  reduce  the  banker’s  recovery  against  the
homeowner), and the homeowner’s claim is fully operative as
a  set-off  even  though  the  set-off  claim  is  in  a  sense
“unsecured.”
(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  states  the  correct  result,  it

287

gives  the  wrong  reason.  Whether  or  not  the  homeowner’s
claim  against  the  contractor  arose  prior  to  the  contractor’s
default  on  the  loan  from  the  banker,  the  homeowner  gets  to
raise against the banker any defense he could use against the
contractor (for reasons described in the discussion of Choice
(C) above).

Question  57:  On  March  1,  Mechanic  agreed  to  repair
Ohner’s machine for $5,000, to be paid on completion of the
work.  On  March  15,  before  the  work  was  completed,
Mechanic sent a letter to Ohner with a copy to Jones, telling
Ohner to pay the $5,000 to Jones, who was one of Mechanic’s
creditors. Mechanic then completed the work.

Which of the following, if true, would best serve Ohner as a
defense in an action brought against him by Jones for $5,000?

(A)  Jones was incapable of performing Mechanic’s work.
(B)  Mechanic had not performed his work in a workmanlike

manner.

(C)  On March 1, Mechanic had promised Ohner that he would

not assign the contract.

(D)    Jones  was  not  the  intended  beneficiary  of  the  Ohner-

Mechanic contract.

Answer  57:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  An  assignment  of
contractual  rights  is  the  transfer  of  that  right  to  another.  It
requires  assignor’s  intent  to  transfer,  identification  of  the
rights  to  be  assigned,  and  assignee’s  acceptance  (which  is
normally presumed if the assignment is beneficial). Under the
contract here, Mechanic’s “right” under  the  contract  was  to
receive  payment  from  Ohner.  Thus,  his  letter  to  Jones  and
Ohner  would  serve  to  transfer  the  right  to  payment  to  Jones.
This  makes  Jones  the  assignee,  Mechanic  the  assignor,  and
Ohner  the  obligor.  The  result  of  the  transfer  is  that  Jones
“stands in Mechanic’s shoes” as to the right to payment. As a
result, any defenses under the contract that Ohner could assert
against  Mechanic,  he  can  assert  against  Jones.  Thus,
Mechanic’s failure to perform under the contract would be a
defense Ohner could successfully assert against Jones.
(A)  is  not  the  best  response,  because  Jones’s  ability  to  do
Mechanic’s  work  is  irrelevant  to  Jones’s  recovery.  If  you

288

chose  this  response,  you  either  confused  an  assignment  of
rights with a delegation of duties, or assumed that Mechanic
assigned  the  contract,  not  just  the  right  to  payment,  which
would  involve  a  presumption  that  the  duties  were  delegated
as  well.  Most  “impersonal”  duties  can  be  delegated,  and
Mechanic’s  duty  to  repair  the  machine  probably  could  be
delegated, barring facts indicating that Ohner had a particular
interest in receiving performance from Mechanic. Rest. 2d §
318(2). However, a delegation or an assignment is not valid
where  it  materially  increases  the  risk  that  Ohner  will  not
receive return performance. Rest. 2d § 317 (2). Where Jones
can’t perform the work, such a delegation would be invalid.
However,  since  only  an  assignment  of  right  to  payment  is
involved here, A isn’t the best response.

(C)  is  not  the  best  response,  because  the  prohibition  against
assignment  would  not  be  upheld.  UCC  §  9-406(d)  provides
that  a  party  may  assign  its  right  to  payment  even  though  the
contract  under  which  payment  is  due  prohibits  assignment.
Here, the proposed answer stipulates that Mechanic promised
not to assign the contract. Nonetheless, applicable law would
permit  Mechanic  to  assign  the  right  to  collect  Ohner’s
payment.
(D) is not the best response, because Jones’s not being a third
party beneficiary would not be determinative of his recovery.
This choice suggests that the only way Jones can recover is as
an intended beneficiary to the contract. While it’s true that an
intended beneficiary has enforceable  rights  under  a  contract,
so does an assignee.

C.  Rights of successive assignees of the same claim

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Question  58:  A  tortfeasor  tortiously  injured  a  victim  in  an
the  victim  was  consequently
auto  accident.  While 
hospitalized, the tortfeasor’s liability insurer settled with the
victim  for  $5,000.  The  victim  gave  the  insurer  a  signed
release  and  received  a  signed  memorandum  wherein  the
insurer promised to pay the victim $5,000 by check within 30
days.  When  the  victim  left  the  hospital  two  days  later,  the
hospital  demanded  payment  of  his  $4,000  stated  bill.  The
victim  thereupon  gave  the  hospital  his  own  negotiable
promissory note for $4,000 payable to the hospital’s order in

289

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

30  days,  and  also,  as  security,  assigned  to  the  hospital  the
insurer’s  settlement  memorandum.  The  hospital  promptly
assigned for value the settlement memorandum and negotiated
the  note  to  a  bank,  which  took  the  note  as  a  holder  in  due
course. Subsequently, the victim misrepresented to the insurer
that  he  had  lost  the  settlement  memorandum  and  needed
another. The insurer issued another memorandum identical to
the first, and the victim assigned it to a furniture company to
secure  a  $5,000  credit  sale  contract.  The  furniture  company
immediately  notified  the  insurer  of  this  assignment.  Later  it
was  discovered  that  the  hospital  had  mistakenly  overbilled
the victim by an amount of $1,000 and that the tortfeasor was
an irresponsible minor.

In view of the tortfeasor’s age and irresponsibility when the
insurer  issued  his  liability  policy,  can  the  bank  and  the
furniture company recover on their assignments?

(A)  Neither can recover because the victim, the assignor, is a
third-party  beneficiary  of  the  liability  policy  whose
rights thereon can be no better than the tortfeasor’s.
(B)  Neither can recover unless the insurer knowingly waived
and

tortfeasor’s  minority 

the 

the  defense  of 
irresponsibility.

(C)    Neither  can  recover  because  the  liability  policy  and
settlement  thereunder  are  unenforceable  on  account  of
the tortfeasor’s minority.

(D)    Either  the  bank  or  the  furniture  company,  depending  on
priority, can recover as an assignee (or subassignee) on
the victim’s claim, because the victim’s claim arose from
the  insurer’s  settlement  agreement,  and  that  settlement
was valid.

Answer 58:  Choice  (D)  is  correct,  because  it  identifies  the
central reason why the insurer will be liable to the bank or the
furniture company, whichever assignee has priority. The rights
of  either  the  bank  or  the  furniture  company  stem  from  the
victim-insurer  settlement  agreement.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a
contract  requires  consideration,  which  is  a  bargained-for
exchange and either a benefit to the promisor or a detriment to
the  promisee  (and  typically  both).  Under  these  facts,  the
victim  had  a  good-faith  belief  in  the  validity  of  his  claim

290

against  the  insurer.  Thus,  the  settlement  agreement  between
them,  whereby  the  victim  surrendered  his  claim,  was
supported  by  consideration.  Since  the  insurer’s  settlement
promise (to pay the victim $5,000) was not conditional on the
tortfeasor’s policy’s being valid as against the insurer, the fact
that  the  insurer  might  have  had  a  chance  to  void  the  policy
pre-settlement on the grounds of the tortfeasor’s minority (an
unlikely chance anyway) is irrelevant, and the settlement was
binding on the insurer.

Then,  because  the  right  to  receive  payment  was  assignable,
the victim validly assigned his right to either the bank or the
furniture  company  (depending  on  which  had  priority).  As
assignee,  the  bank  or  the  furniture  company  assumed  the
victim’s  rights  under  the  contract,  and  could  enforce  the
insurer’s promise to pay.

the  settlement  agreement  between 

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  victim’s  rights  under  the  contract
with  the  insurer  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  tortfeasor.  The
rights  of  either  the  bank  or  the  furniture  company  stem  from
the  victim-insurer  settlement  agreement.  The  victim  had  a
good-faith  belief  in  the  validity  of  his  claim  against  the
insurer.  Thus, 
them,
whereby the victim surrendered his claim, was supported by
consideration. Since the insurer’s settlement promise (to pay
the  victim  $5,000)  was  not  conditional  on  the  tortfeasor’s
policy’s  being  valid  as  against  the  insurer,  the  fact  that  the
insurer  might  have  had  a  chance  to  void  the  policy  pre-
settlement  on  the  grounds  of  the  tortfeasor’s  minority  (an
unlikely chance anyway) is irrelevant, and the settlement was
unconditionally  binding  on  the  insurer.  Then,  the  victim  was
entitled to assign whatever right to payment he had under the
contract, and that’s what he did. His rights did not spring from
any beneficiary status under the insurer-tortfeasor agreement;
since A states otherwise, it’s wrong.
(B)  is  wrong  because  the  insurer  will  be  liable  under  its
contract  with  the  victim,  regardless  of  the  tortfeasor’s
ultimate irresponsibility. The victim had a good-faith belief in
the  validity  of  his  claim  against  the  insurer.  Thus,  the
settlement  agreement  between  them,  whereby  the  victim
surrendered his claim, was supported by consideration. Since

291

(an  unlikely  chance  anyway) 

the  insured’s  settlement  promise  (to  pay  the  victim  $5,000)
was not conditional on the tortfeasor’s policy’s being valid as
against  the  insurer,  the  fact  that  the  insurer  might  have  been
able  to  void  the  policy  pre-settlement  on  the  grounds  of  the
tortfeasor’s  minority 
is
irrelevant, and the settlement was unconditionally binding on
the  insurer.  Thus  this  choice  is  not  correct  in  saying  that  the
insurer is liable only if it “knowingly waived the defense of
the  tortfeasor’s  minority  and  irresponsibility.”  (The  victim’s
unconditional right to payment was thus properly assigned to
either  the  bank  or  the  furniture  company,  whichever  had
priority.)

(C) is wrong because the tortfeasor’s minority is not relevant
to  either  the  bank’s  or  the  furniture  company’s  rights  as
assignees  of  the  victim’s  rights.  The  victim  had  a  good-faith
belief  in  the  validity  of  his  claim  against  the  insurer.
Therefore  the  settlement  agreement  between  them,  whereby
the  victim  surrendered  his  claim,  was  supported  by
consideration. Since the insured’s settlement promise (to pay
the  victim  $5,000)  was  not  conditional  on  the  tortfeasor’s
policy’s  being  valid  as  against  the  insurer,  the  fact  that  the
insurer  might  have  had  a  chance  to  avoid  the  policy  pre-
settlement  on  the  grounds  of  the  tortfeasor’s  minority  (an
unlikely chance anyway) is irrelevant, and the settlement was
unconditionally binding on the insurer. As assignee, the bank
or the furniture company assumed the victim’s rights under the
contract, and could enforce the insurer’s promise to pay.

II.   DELEGATION OF DUTIES

A.  Delegatee’s liability

1.  Assignment of “the contract”

a.  Delegator remains liable

Question  59:  Gyro,  an  expert  in  lifting  and  emplacing
equipment  atop  tall  buildings,  contracted  in  a  signed  writing
to  lift  and  emplace  certain  air-conditioning  equipment  atop
Tower’s building. The contract contained a clause providing
for per diem damages if Gyro did not complete performance

292

by a specified date, and a clause providing that “time is of the
essence.”  Another  clause  provided  that  any  subsequent
agreement for extra work under the contract must be in writing
and signed by both parties.

time 

the  contract 

With  ample 
for
remaining  under 
commencement  and  completion  of  his  performance,  Gyro
notified Tower that he was selling his business to Copter, who
was  equally  expert  in  lifting  and  emplacing  equipment  atop
tall  buildings,  and  that  Copter  had  agreed  to  “take  over  the
Gyro-Tower contract.”

Tower  orally  agreed  with  Gyro  to  accept  Copter’s  services.
Copter performed on time but negligently installed the wrong
air-conditioning equipment.

Will Tower succeed in an action against Gyro for damages for
breach of contract?

(A)  Yes, because Tower did not agree to release Gyro from

liability under the Gyro-Tower contract.

(B)    Yes,  because  Tower  received  no  consideration  for  the

substitution of Copter for Gyro.

(C)    No,  because  by  accepting  the  substitution  of  Copter  for
Gyro, Tower effected a novation, and Gyro was thereby
discharged of his duties under the Gyro-Tower contract.
(D)    No,  because  the  liquidated-damage  clause  in  the  Gyro-
Tower  contract  provided  only  for  damages  caused  by
delay in performance.

Answer 59: Choice (A)  is  correct.  The  sale  of  the  business
by Gyro to Copter was both an assignment of rights under the
Gyro-Tower  contract  and  a  delegation  of  duties  under  it.
When a delegation occurs, the delegator (here, Gyro) remains
liable  to  the  obligee  (here,  Tower)  unless  the  obligee
expressly releases the delegator and agrees to look solely to
the  delegate  (Copter);  if  this  occurred  it  would  be  a
“novation.”  The  mere  fact  that  the  obligee  agrees  to  the
delegation does not by itself constitute a novation or release
the  delegator  from  liability.  Here,  therefore,  although  Tower
agreed  to  the  delegation  (i.e.,  agreed  to  accept  performance
from Copter), he did not agree to a novation and therefore did
not release Gyro.

293

(B) is wrong because: (1) an obligee’s assent to a delegation
does  not  require  consideration;  and  (2)  even  though  Tower
validly  assented  to  Copter’s  doing  the  work,  this  did  not
release  Gyro  from  liability,  for  the  reason  explained  in  the
analysis of Choice (A).

(C) is wrong because the mere fact that an obligee assents to a
delegation  does  not  effect  a  novation.  Instead,  a  novation  is
deemed  to  occur  only  when  the  obligee  expressly  agrees  to
release the obligee and look solely to the delegate; there was
therefore  no  novation  here.  (If  there  had  been  a  novation,  it
would  indeed  have  served  to  discharge  Gyro,  as  this  choice
suggests.)

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  liquidated-damages
clause  covered  only  delay  damages  does  not  mean  that
damages  for  other  breaches  (e.g.,  timely  but  non-conforming
work) cannot be recovered. A liquidated damages clause that
is  restricted  to  a  certain  type  of  breach  leaves  common-law
damages intact for other types of breach.

III.  THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES

A.  When beneficiary may sue

1.  Intended beneficiaries may sue

a.  Intended beneficiary

Question 60: A written contract was entered into between an
investor and a winery. The contract provided that the investor
would  invest  $1  million  in  the  winery  for  its  capital
expansion and, in return, that the winery, from grapes grown
in  its  famous  vineyards,  would  produce  and  market  at  least
500,000  bottles  of  wine  each  year  for  five  years  under  the
investor’s label.
The contract included provisions that the parties would share
equally  the  profits  and  losses  from  the  venture  and  that,  if
feasible,  the  wine  would  be  distributed  by  the  winery  only
through  a  specific  distributor  of  fine  wines.  Neither  the
investor  nor  the  winery  had  previously  dealt  with  the
distributor.  The  distributor  learned  of  the  contract  two  days
later  from  reading  a  trade  newspaper.  In  reliance  thereon,  it

294

immediately  hired  an  additional  sales  executive  and
contracted  for  enlargement  of  its  wine  storage  and  display
facility. If the winery refuses to distribute the wine through the
distributor and the distributor then sues the winery for breach
of contract, is it likely that the distributor will prevail?

(A)  Yes, because the winery’s performance was to run to the

distributor rather than to the investor.

(B)    Yes,  because  the  investor  and  the  winery  could
reasonably foresee that the distributor would change its
position in reliance on the contract.

(C)  No, because the investor and the winery did not expressly
agree that the distributor would have enforceable rights
under their contract.

(D)    No,  because  the  investor  and  the  winery,  having  no
apparent  motive  to  benefit  the  distributor,  appeared  in
making  the  contract  to  have  been  protecting  or  serving
only their own interests.

Answer 60: Choice (D) is correct, because it recognizes the
central reason the distributor can’t recover under the contract:
It is an incidental beneficiary, and thus it has no rights under
the contract. When two parties enter into a contract, there are
two  types  of  beneficiaries  that  may  be  created:  intended
beneficiaries  and  incidental  beneficiaries.  Only  intended
beneficiaries have enforceable rights under the contract. Most
courts determine whether a beneficiary is intended by looking
at the intent of the promisee (the original contracting party to
whom  the  promise  in  question  was  made).  If  the  promisee
intends (even though it is not his sole or even primary intent)
that  the  third  party  receive  benefit  from  the  promisor’s
performance, the third party is an intended beneficiary; if not,
he has no enforceable rights under the contract. (Some courts
also look secondarily to the intent of the promisor.)

Here,  there  is  no  sign  that  either  the  investor  or  the  winery
had  any  intent  to  benefit  the  distributor:  The  facts  instead
suggest  that  these  original  parties  intended  to  distribute
through  the  distributor  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  wine  was
distributed  correctly,  and  thus  the  use  of  the  distributor  was
intended  solely  to  benefit  the  parties  themselves,  not  the
distributor.  This  prevents  the  distributor  from  being  an

295

intended beneficiary.

to 

that 

the  winery’s  performance  would  run 

(A) is wrong, because it attaches too much importance to the
the
fact 
distributor.  Only  intended  beneficiaries  have  enforceable
rights  under  the  contract.  Courts  determine  whether  a
beneficiary is intended mainly by looking at the intent of the
promisee (the one to whom the duty in question is owed), and
sometimes  secondarily  at  the  intent  of  the  promisor.  It’s  true
that in assessing this intent, one of the factors is whether the
promisor’s  performance  is  to  run  directly  to  the  third  party;
this  factor  points  towards  a  finding  that  the  beneficiary  was
intended.  But  this  “to  whom  performance  runs”  factor  is  at
best  a  “tie-breaker”  to  be  used  when  the  other  evidence  of
intent-to-benefit  is  unclear  or  evenly-balanced.  Here,  all  the
indications are that the winery and the investor specified this
particular  distributor  only  to  benefit  their  own  business
interests,  not  to  benefit  the  distributor.  So  the  fact  that
performance  would  run  to  the  distributor  is  not  needed  as  a
tie-breaker, and therefore doesn’t change the outcome.

(B) is wrong, because reasonable foreseeability of reliance is
not an adequate basis on which the distributor could recover.
In order to recover, the distributor would have to have been
an intended beneficiary under the winery-investor contract. It
is  the  intent  of  the  original  parties  (principally  the  promisee
of  the  performance  in  question)  that  determines  whether  the
distributor  was  an  intended  beneficiary.  Thus,  the  mere
foreseeability of the distributor’s reliance wouldn’t be enough
to  give  him  enforceable  rights  under  the  contract;  only  the
intent of the original parties would matter.

the 

in  determining  when 

Reliance  can  be  relevant  in  the  third-party  beneficiary
context,  but  only 
intended
beneficiary’s rights “vest.” (Before vesting, but not after, the
parties  can  modify  or  rescind  the  contract  without  the
beneficiary’s consent.) If the distributor had been an intended
beneficiary,  then  his  rights  would  have  vested  as  soon  as  he
detrimentally  relied  on  the  contract.  But  here,  he  never
attained  intended-beneficiary  status,  so  his  reliance  never
became relevant to any issue in the case.
(C) is wrong, because it overstates what’s necessary to create

296

an intended beneficiary. The distributor could, in theory, have
enforceable  rights  under  the  contract  without  there  being  an
express provision in the contract. Courts determine whether a
beneficiary  is  intended  by  looking  at  whether  the  original
parties  (principally  the  promisee,  the  one  to  whom  the
promise  in  question  is  made)  intended  to  benefit  the
the
beneficiary.  But 
circumstances — it does not have to be explicitly agreed upon
by  the  original  parties.  Since  (C)  asserts  that  an  express
agreement to benefit the third party is required, it’s wrong.

intent  can  be 

inferred  from 

that 

i.  Tie-breaker looks to whom the performance is rendered

Question 61: Elda, the aged mother of Alice and Barry, both
adults,  wished  to  employ  a  live-in  companion  so  that  she
might  continue  to  live  in  her  own  home.  Elda,  however,  had
only  enough  income  to  pay  one-half  of  the  companion’s
$2,000  monthly  salary.  Learning  of  their  mother’s  plight,
Alice  and  Barry  agreed  with  each  other  in  a  signed  writing
that  on  the  last  day  of  January  and  each  succeeding  month
during  their  mother’s  lifetime,  each  would  give  Elda  $500.
Elda then hired the companion.

Alice  and  Barry  made  the  agreed  payments  in  January,
February,  and  March.  In  April,  however,  Barry  refused  to
make any payment and notified Alice and Elda that he would
make no further payments.

Will Elda succeed in an action for $500 brought against Barry
after April 30?

(A)    Yes,  because  by  making  his  first  three  payments,  Barry

confirmed his intent to contract.

(B)  Yes, because Elda is an intended beneficiary of a contract

between Alice and Barry.

(C)  No, because a parent cannot sue her child for breach of a

promise for support.

(D)  No, because Alice and Barry intended their payments to

Elda to be gifts.

Answer 61: Choice (B) is correct. The issue is whether Elda
was  an  intended  beneficiary  of  the  Alice-Barry  contract;  if
she was, she can sue, and if she wasn’t, she can’t. It’s pretty
clear  from  the  context  that  Alice  (the  promisee  of  Barry’s

297

promise)  desired  to  help  her  mother;  therefore,  Elda  is  an
intended  beneficiary  of  Barry’s  promise  even  though  Alice
was also motivated by a desire not to pay for the companion
entirely by herself. In other words, Alice’s “mixed motives”
don’t  disqualify  Elda  from  being  an  intended  beneficiary,  as
long as one of Alice’s motives was to help Elda. The fact that
performance by Barry (payment of $500 per month) was to be
rendered directly to Elda, rather than to Alice, also pushes the
classification  toward  a  finding  that  Elda  was  an  intended
beneficiary.

(A)  is  wrong  because  Barry’s  making  of  the  first  three
payments is irrelevant — from the conduct and motivation of
the parties in making the contract, we know that Elda was an
intended  beneficiary  (as  discussed  in  Choice  (B)  above),  so
Elda would have been entitled to sue Barry for non-payment
even if he had not made any prior payments.

(C) is wrong because it ignores the significance of the three-
party  context.  In  a  two-party  scenario  in  which  all  that
happens  is  that  a  child  promises  to  pay  for  the  parent’s
support, this promise may indeed be unenforceable for lack of
consideration. But in a three-party case like this one, the law
of third-party beneficiaries can change the result. Here, each
of the children’s promises supplies consideration for the other
child’s return promise; therefore, lack of consideration is not
a  problem  even 
is  not  herself  giving
consideration.

though  Elda 

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  is  true  that  Alice  and  Barry
both  intended  their  payments  to  be  gifts,  this  fact  does  not
prevent  Elda  from  being  an  intended  beneficiary,  who
therefore gets the right to sue either promisor for breach. The
whole  idea  of  a  “donee  beneficiary”  (as  opposed  to  a
“creditor beneficiary”) is that a person to whom the promisee
intends to make a gift becomes an intended beneficiary (of the
“donee” sub-category).

2.  Incidental beneficiaries

a.  Real estate neighbors

Question 62: A landowner was land-rich by inheritance but
losses  on  bad
money-poor,  having 

suffered 

severe 

298

investments,  but  still  owned  several  thousand  acres  of
unencumbered  timberland.  He  had  a  large  family,  and  his
normal, fixed personal expenses were high. Pressed for cash,
he advertised a proposed sale of standing timber on a choice
2,000-acre  tract.  The  only  response  was  from  a  logging
company,  which  operated  a  large,  integrated  construction
enterprise.  The  logging  company,  after  inspection  of  the
advertised  tract,  offered  a  fair  price  for  the  timber  rights  in
question,  and  the  landowner  accepted  the  offer.  The  2,000-
acre  tract  was  an  abundant  wild-game  habitat  and  had  been
used  for  many  years,  with  the  landowner’s  permission,  by
area  hunters.  The  logging  company’s  performance  of  the
timber  contract  would  destroy  this  habitat.  Without  legal
excuse and over the landowner’s strong objection, the logging
the  contract  before  commencing
company 
performance. The landowner could not afford to hire a lawyer
and take legal action, and made no attempt to assign any cause
of action he might have had against the logging company.

repudiated 

If  the  logging  company  is  sued  for  breach  of  the  contract  by
the landowner’s next-door neighbor, whose view of a nearby
lake  is  obscured  by  the  standing  timber,  the  neighbor  will
probably
(A)    lose,  as  only  an  incidental  beneficiary,  if  any,  of  the

logging company-landowner contract.
(B)  lose, as a maintainer of nuisance litigation.
(C)    prevail,  as  a  third-party  intended  beneficiary  of  the

logging company-landowner contract.

(D)  prevail, as a surrogate for the landowner in view of his

inability to enforce the contract.

Answer  62:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Incidental  beneficiaries
cannot  enforce  a  contract  if  one  of  the  original  parties  to  it
defaults. Since there will often be many people indirectly or
even directly benefited by any given contractual performance,
the  term  “incidental  beneficiary”  is  used  to  describe  those
persons who would benefit by the performance but who were
not intended by the original parties to be benefited. Here, the
landowner’s  neighbor’s  rights  under  the  landowner-logging
company  contract  are  those  of  an  incidental  beneficiary,  at
best — neither  the  landowner  nor  the  logging  company

299

intended to confer any benefit (and certainly not the benefit of
an  improved  view)  upon  the  neighbor  when  they  made  the
contract.  Therefore,  the  neighbor  cannot  recover  against  the
logging company for breach.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  a  suit  is  “nuisance
litigation” will not be a ground on which the defendant to the
suit  can  win.  Instead,  if  the  defendant  wins  “on  the  merits,”
the  fact  that  the  suit  was  so  meritless  as  to  have  been  a
nuisance might be grounds for the original defendant to win a
tort-like recovery from the original plaintiff in a second suit,
brought  by  the  original  defendant  for  wrongful  use  of  civil
proceedings. So here, the fact that the neighbor was bringing a
“nuisance  litigation”  would  be  irrelevant  to  whether  the
neighbor would win.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  neighbor  was  not  an  intended
beneficiary.  For  a  third  party  to  be  an  intended  beneficiary,
the  circumstances  must  indicate  that  at  least  one  of  the
original parties intended to give the beneficiary the benefit of
the  intended  promise.  Here,  this  is  not  so,  for  the  reasons
described in Choice (A) above.
(D)  is  wrong  because  no  rights  were  transferred  to  the
neighbor  to  allow  him  to  sue  as  a  surrogate.  The  neighbor
cannot  claim  to  be  a  surrogate  standing  in  to  enforce  the
landowner’s  rights  under  the  contract  unless  he  can  show
some  relation  to  the  contract.  The  facts  state  that  the
landowner has made no attempt to assign to his neighbor any
cause  of  action  he  might  have  against  the  logging  company;
nor do the facts state any other legal relationship between the
landowner and his neighbor that might be the basis for some
sort of surrogacy.

B.  Discharge or modification by the original parties

Question  63:  On  May  4,  Mater  and  Nirvana  Motors  both
signed a single document evidencing a contract for the sale by
Nirvana  to  Mater,  “as  a  wedding  gift  for  Mater’s  son
Gilbert,”  a  new  Mark  XX  Rolls-Royce  sedan,  for  $180,000
cash  on  delivery.  On  May  5,  Mater  handed  Gilbert  a
photocopy  of  this  document.  In  reliance  on  the  prospective
gift,  Gilbert  on  May  20  sold  his  nearly  new  Cheetah  (an

300

expensive  sports  car)  to  a  dealer  at  a  “bargain”  price  of
$50,000 and immediately informed Mater and Nirvana that he
had done so.

On May 25, however,  Mater  and  Nirvana  Motors  by  mutual
agreement  rescinded  in  a  signed  writing  “any  and  all
agreements heretofore made between the undersigned parties
for  the  sale-and-purchase  of  a  new  Mark  XX  Rolls-Royce
sedan.”  Later  that  day,  Nirvana  sold  for  $190,000  cash  to
another buyer the only new Mark XX Rolls-Royce that it had
in stock or could readily obtain elsewhere. On June 1, Gilbert
tendered $180,000 in cash to Nirvana Motors and demanded
delivery to him “within a reasonable time” of a new Mark XX
Rolls-Royce sedan with all available equipment.

Nirvana rejected the tender and denied any obligation.

If  Gilbert  sues  Nirvana  for  breach  of  contract,  which  of  the
following will the court probably decide?
(A)  Gilbert wins, because his rights as an assignee for value
of the May 4 Mater-Nirvana contract cannot be cut off by
agreement between the original parties.

(B)  Gilbert wins, because his rights as a third-party intended
beneficiary became vested by his prejudicial reliance in
selling his Cheetah on May 20.

(C)  Nirvana wins, because Gilbert, if an intended beneficiary
at  all  of  the  Mater-Nirvana  contract,  was  only  a  donee
beneficiary.

(D)    Nirvana  wins,  because  it  reasonably  and  prejudicially
relied on its contract of mutual rescission with Mater by
selling  the  only  readily  available  new  Mark  XX  Rolls-
Royce sedan to another buyer.

Answer  63:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Gilbert  is  an  intended
beneficiary  of  the  Mater-Nirvana  agreement,  since  Mater
made  it  clear  that  her  primary  purpose  in  entering  into  the
contract  was  to  provide  a  wedding  gift  for  Gilbert.  The
original  parties’  power  to  modify  the  contract  without  the
beneficiary’s  consent  terminates  if  the  beneficiary,  before  he
receives  notification  of  the  discharge  or  modification,  does
any  of  three  things:  (1)  materially  changes  his  position  in
justifiable reliance  on  the  promise;  (2)  brings  suit  on  it;  or

301

(3) manifests assent to it at the request of either of the original
parties. Here, Gilbert did the first of these, by selling his old
car  at  a  discount,  in  justifiable  reliance  on  the  forthcoming
gift. Once he did that, both Mater and Nirvana lost the ability
to  modify  the  contract  without  Gilbert’s  consent.  Therefore,
Gilbert has the right to sue the promisor, Nirvana, for breach.

(A) is wrong because Gilbert is not an “assignee for value” of
the  Mater-Nirvana  contract;  he’s  a  third-party  beneficiary  of
it. He’s not an “assignee” at all (neither of the original parties
assigned  him  any  right),  and  he’s  certainly  not  an  assignee
“for value,” since he didn’t pay or give anything of value to
either of the original parties.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  although  Gilbert  is  indeed  a  donee
beneficiary,  that  status  did  not  prevent  his  rights  from
“vesting”  when  he  changed  position  in  reliance  on  the
agreement.  (Donee  beneficiaries  and  creditor  beneficiaries
have  the  same  rights  regarding  modifications  by  the  original
parties.)

(D) is wrong because Nirvana’s reliance on the rescission is
irrelevant.  The  promisor  under  a  third-party  beneficiary
contract  is  expected  to  know  the  rules  governing  such
contracts,  and  those  rules  include  the  rule  that  a  beneficiary
who  detrimentally  relies  on  the  contract  gets  an  immediate
vesting.

Question  64:  On  March  1,  Zeller  orally  agreed  to  sell  his
land,  Homestead,  to  Byer  for  $46,000  to  be  paid  on  March
31. Byer orally agreed to pay $25,000 of the purchase price
to  Quincy  in  satisfaction  of  a  debt  which  Zeller  said  he  had
promised to pay Quincy.
On March 10, Byer dictated the agreement to his secretary but
omitted all reference to the payment of the $25,000 to Quincy.
Neither  Byer  nor  Zeller  carefully  read  the  writing  before
signing  it  on  March  15.  Neither  raised  any  question
concerning omission of the payment to Quincy.
In an action by Quincy against Byer for $25,000, which of the
following, if proved, would best serve Byer as a defense?
(A) 

  There  was  no  consideration  to  support  Zeller’s
antecedent promise to pay Quincy the $25,000.

302

(B)    On  March  5,  before  Quincy  was  aware  of  the  oral
agreement  between  Zeller  and  Byer,  Zeller  agreed  with
Byer not to pay any part of the purchase price to Quincy.
(C)  Whatever action Quincy may have had against Zeller was
barred by the statute of limitations prior to March 1.
(D)  Before he instituted his action against Byer, Quincy had
not notified either Byer or Zeller that he had accepted the
Byer-Zeller arrangement for paying Quincy.

to 

the  promise;  (2) 

Answer 64: Choice (B) is correct. An intended beneficiary to
a  contract  only  has  enforceable  rights  under  that  contract
when his rights “vest.” Before the rights vest, the beneficiary
can’t  stop  the  parties  from  modifying  or  rescinding  the
contract. Under the modern/Restatement view, a beneficiary’s
rights  vest  when  any  of  these  three  events  occurs:  (1)  the
the
beneficiary  manifests  assent 
beneficiary sues to enforce the promise; or (3) the beneficiary
justifiably  relies  on  the  promise  to  his  detriment.  Thus,  if
Byer  and  Zeller  eliminated  the  Quincy  payment  provision
before  Quincy  even  found  out  about  the  contract,  Quincy
couldn’t possibly have either “manifested assent” (#1 above),
“sued  to  enforce  the  promise”  (#2)  or  “justifiably  relie[d]”
(#3).  That  meant  that  Quincy’s  rights  could  not  yet  have
vested  as  of  the  moment  the  original  two  parties  to  the
contract (Byer and Zeller) modified the contract, and not-yet-
vested beneficiary rights may be rescinded or modified by the
original parties at any time.

(A) is not the best response, because a promise by one of the
original  contracting  parties  to  make  payment  to  a  third-party
beneficiary  does  not  need  separate  consideration  from  the
beneficiary.  The  only  consideration  that’s  relevant  under  the
Byer-Zeller  contract  is  whether  there  was  consideration  to
support  the  contract  itself,  and  there  was  such — Byer
received  Zeller’s  promise 
the  property  as
consideration for his, Byer’s, promise to make the $46,000 in
total payments.
(C) is not the best response, because any time-bar of Quincy’s
right to sue Zeller is not relevant to Byer’s duty to pay Quincy.
As  discussed  in  (A),  there  does  not  need  to  be  separate
consideration for one contracting party’s promise to pay some

to  convey 

303

of  the  contract  price  to  a  third  party  beneficiary.  Therefore,
Quincy  can  recover  under  the  Byer-Zeller  agreement  if  he
was  an  intended  beneficiary  (or  an  assignee).  Thus,  it
wouldn’t  matter  if  Zeller  had  an  enforceable  debt  to  Quincy
or  not — Zeller  could  be  giving  Quincy  money  as  a  gift  and
Quincy  would  still  have  enforceable  rights.  (The  only
significance  of  the  debt  is  that  it  would  make  Quincy  a
creditor  beneficiary  instead  of  a  donee  beneficiary,  but  that
distinction  rarely  matters  today,  and  doesn’t  matter  on  these
facts.)

(D)  is  not  the  best  response,  because  Quincy’s  notifying  the
parties  of  his  acceptance  of  the  agreement  wouldn’t  be
relevant to his ability to prevail. An intended beneficiary can
(as long as his rights haven’t previously been cut off by one of
the events described in (B) above) sue the promisor without
having first notified either of the two original parties that the
beneficiary  was  “accepting.”  If  Quincy  had  given  such  a
notice, that notice would serve to “vest” his rights (it would
be  a  “manifestation  of  assent”).  But  even  absent  such  a
manifestation, the bringing of suit would vest Quincy’s rights,
if the original parties hadn’t modified or rescinded the rights
first.

C.  Defenses against the beneficiary

1.  Promisor may invoke conditions to his duty

Question 65: Kabb, the owner of a fleet of taxis, contracted
with Petrol, a dealer in petroleum products, for the purchase
and sale of Kabb’s total requirements of gasoline and oil for
one  year.  As  part  of  that  agreement,  Petrol  also  agreed  with
Kabb that for one year Petrol would place all his advertising
with  Ada  Artiste,  Kabb’s  wife,  who  owned  her  own  small
advertising agency. When Artiste was informed of the Kabb-
Petrol contract, she declined to accept an advertising account
from  the  Deturgid  Soap  Company  because  she  could  not
handle both the Petrol and Deturgid accounts during the same
year.

For this question only, assume the following facts. During the
first  month  of  the  contract,  Kabb  purchased  substantial
amounts of his gasoline from a supplier other than Petrol, and

304

Petrol  thereupon  notified  Artiste  that  he  would  no  longer
place his advertising with her agency.

In  an  action  against  Petrol  for  breach  of  contract,  Artiste
probably will

(A)    succeed,  because  she  is  a  third-party  beneficiary  of  the

Kabb-Petrol contract.

(B)    succeed,  because  Kabb  was  acting  as  Artiste’s  agent

when he contracted with Petrol.

(C)    not  succeed,  because  the  failure  of  a  constructive
condition  precedent  excused  Petrol’s  duty  to  place  his
advertising with Artiste.

(D)    not  succeed,  because  Artiste  did  not  provide  any
consideration  to  support  Petrol’s  promise  to  place  his
advertising with her.

if  Petrol  had  breached 

Answer 65: Choice (C) is correct. It is true that Artiste was a
third-party  beneficiary  of 
the  Kabb-Petrol  agreement.
the  agreement  by
Therefore, 
unjustifiably  failing  to  place  all  of  his  advertising  with
Artiste, Artiste would have been able to recover against him
for  breach.  However,  when  the  original  parties  to  an
agreement  each  make  a  promise  to  the  other,  each  party’s
substantial  performance  of  his  own  promise  is  generally  a
constructive  condition  to  the  other  party’s  obligation  to
perform any subsequent duties. Therefore, when Kabb failed
to  perform  his  obligations  early  in  the  contract  by  not
purchasing all his gas from Petrol, this was not only a breach
of  the  Kabb-Petrol  agreement  but  also  operated  as  the  non-
occurrence of a constructive condition to Petrol’s subsequent
duty  to  continue  using  Artiste  as  his  sole  source  for
advertising.  Therefore,  Petrol’s  notice  to  Artiste  that  he
would  not  use  her  for  any  further  advertising  was  neither  an
anticipatory repudiation nor a present breach, so that there is
nothing for Artiste to recover on.
(A) is wrong because, although Artiste is in fact a third-party
beneficiary of the Kabb-Petrol contract, this does not help her
because  Petrol  committed  no  breach,  for 
the  reasons
explained above.
(B) is wrong because even if Kabb is viewed as having been

305

Artiste’s agent when he obtained the promise from Petrol that
Petrol  would  buy  advertising  exclusively  from  Artiste,  this
will  not  entitle  Artiste  to  recover — Petrol’s  duty  to  Artiste
was dependent upon Kabb’s first not materially breaching any
prior obligations to Petrol, and as described above Kabb did
breach.

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  was  consideration  for  Petrol’s
promise to place all his advertising with Artiste. It’s true that
Artiste did not give consideration for this promise, but there
is no rule that says that the beneficiary of a promise must be
the  one  who  supplies  the  consideration — a  third-party  can
supply  it.  Here,  Kabb,  by  promising  to  buy  all  his  gas  from
Petrol,  was  supplying  consideration  for  Petrol’s  return
promise to place advertising with Artiste.

306

CHAPTER 11
IMPOSSIBILITY, IMPRACTICABILITY,
AND FRUSTRATION

I.    IMPOSSIBILITY OF PERFORMANCE

A.  Three classes

1.  Destruction of subject matter

a.  Sale of goods

i.  Destruction of identified goods

Question 66: On June 1, a seller agreed, in a writing signed
by  both  the  seller  and  the  buyer,  to  sell  an  antique  car  to  a
buyer  for  $20,000.  The  car  was  at  the  time  on  display  in  a
museum  in  a  different  city  and  was  to  be  delivered  to  the
buyer  on  August  1.  On  July  15,  before  the  risk  of  loss  had
passed  to  the  buyer,  the  car  was  destroyed  by  fire  without
fault of either party. Subsequent to the contract but before the
fire,  the  car  had  increased  in  value  to  $30,000.  The  seller
sued the buyer for the contract price of $20,000, and the buyer
counterclaimed for $30,000.
Which of the following will the court conclude?

(A)  Both claims fail.
(B)  Only the seller’s claim prevails.
(C)  Only the buyer’s claim prevails.
(D)  Both claims prevail.
Answer  66:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  UCC  §  2-613  provides
that  where  goods  that  are  “identified  at  the  time  the  contract
was made” are totally destroyed before the risk of their loss
has  passed  to  the  buyer  and  without  the  fault  of  either  party,
the  contract  is  “avoided,”  and  each  party  is  relieved  of  its
respective obligation to perform. Section 2-501 lists various
ways  that  particular  goods  will  be  deemed  “identified,”  one
of  which  is  that  at  the  time  of  contract  formation  the  parties
agreed  that  what  was  being  sold  was  a  particular  already-
existing and identified item. Since the parties here agreed that

307

what was being sold was the particular antique car on display
in  the  museum,  that  car  was  deemed  “identified”  to  the
contract.  Therefore,  §  2-613  applied,  and  both  parties’
obligations  were  discharged  by  the  total  destruction  of  the
car. Therefore, no claim under the contract could be asserted
by either party.

(B), (C), and (D) are all wrong because (A) is correct — the
total  destruction  of  the  car  caused  the  contract  to  be
discharged, and any claims asserted under it to be void. See
the analysis of Choice (A) for more details.

2.  Supervening illegality

Question  67:  Mermaid  owns  an  exceptionally  seaworthy
boat  that  she  charters  for  sport  fishing  at  a  $500  daily  rate.
The  fee  includes  the  use  of  the  boat  with  Mermaid  as  the
captain, and one other crew member, as well as fishing tackle
and  bait.  On  May  1,  Phinney  agreed  with  Mermaid  that
Phinney would have the full-day use of the boat on May 15 for
himself  and  his  family  for  $500.  Phinney  paid  an  advance
deposit  of  $200  and  signed  an  agreement  that  the  deposit
could  be  retained  by  Mermaid  as  liquidated  damages  in  the
event Phinney canceled or failed to appear.

On  May  15  at  1  a.m.,  the  Coast  Guard  had  issued  offshore
“heavy  weather”  warnings  and  prohibited  all  small  vessels
the  size  of  Mermaid’s  from  leaving  the  harbor.  This
prohibition remained in effect throughout the day. Phinney did
not  appear  at  all  on  May  15,  because  he  had  heard  the
weather warnings on his radio.

Which of the following is an accurate statement?

(A)  The contract is discharged because of impossibility, and

Phinney is entitled to return of his deposit.

(B)    The  contract  is  discharged  because  of  mutual  mistake
concerning  an  essential  fact,  and  Phinney  is  entitled  to
return of his deposit.

(C)    The  contract  is  not  discharged,  because  its  performance
was  possible  in  view  of  the  exceptional  seaworthiness
of Mermaid’s boat, and Phinney is not entitled to return
of his deposit.

(D)  The contract is not discharged, and Phinney is not entitled

308

to  return  of  his  deposit,  because  the  liquidated-damage
clause  in  effect  allocated  the  risk  of  bad  weather  to
Phinney.

Answer  67:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  Coast  Guard’s
prohibition  had  the  force  of  law,  so  that  prohibition
constituted  “supervening  illegality,”  a  form  of  impossibility.
When  the  defense  of  impossibility  applies,  the  court  will
normally cancel the contract and attempt to put the parties in
the position they were in before the contract was made. Doing
so in this case will require that Phinney get his deposit back.

(B)  is  wrong  because  “mutual  mistake”  is  deemed  to  occur
only when the parties are mistaken about some fact that exists
at  the  time  of  the  contract.  Where  some  supervening  event
renders  performance  impossible,  the  case  is  treated  as
involving impossibility, not mutual mistake (although the legal
effect is pretty much the same — the contract is canceled and
the  parties  are  restored  to  their  pre-contract  position  to  the
extent possible).
(C) is wrong because the Coast Guard’s prohibition made the
performance  impossible.  Where  a  supervening  rule  of  law
would make it illegal for a party to perform, the fact that the
party is physically capable of performing does not prevent the
impossibility doctrine from applying. Therefore, the fact that
the  boat  was  extra  seaworthy  did  not  make  performance
possible.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  liquidated-damages  clause  did  not
allocate  the  risk  of  a  supervening  illegality  to  Phinney.
Indeed,  a  liquidated  damages  clause  normally  does  not
allocate risk at all — it merely specifies what the amount of
damages  should  be  if,  based  on  other  contract  provisions,  a
breach  should  occur.  Here,  there  was  no  breach,  so  the
liquidated-damages clause plays no role.

II.   IMPRACTICABILITY

A.  Modern view of impracticability

1.  Allocation of risk by parties

a.  Implicit allocation

309

i.  Risk of technological breakthrough

type  of  magnetic  memory, 

Question 68: A computer company contracted in writing with
a bank to sell and deliver to the bank a mainframe computer
using  a  new 
then  under
development but not perfected by the computer company, at a
price substantially lower than that of a similar computer using
current technology. The contract’s delivery term was “F.O.B.
the bank, on or before July 31.”

After  making  the  contract  with  the  bank,  the  computer
company  discovered  that  the  new  technology  it  intended  to
use  was  unreliable  and  that  no  computer  manufacturer  could
yet  build  a  reliable  computer  using  that  technology.  The
company  thereupon  notified  the  bank  that  it  was  impossible
for  the  company  or  anyone  else  to  build  the  contracted-for
computer “in the present state of the art.” If the bank sues the
computer  company  for  failure  to  perform  its  contract,  the
court will probably decide the case in favor of

(A)    the  computer  company,  because  its  performance  of  the

contract was objectively impossible.

(B)    the  computer  company,  because  a  contract  to  build  a
machine  using  technology  under  development  imposes
only  a  duty  on  the  builder  to  use  its  best  efforts  to
achieve the result contracted for.

(C)  the bank, because the law of impossibility does not apply

to merchants under the applicable law.

(D)    the  bank,  because  the  computer  company  assumed  the
risk,  in  the  given  circumstances,  that  the  projected  new
technology would not work reliably.

Answer 68: Choice (D) is correct. The computer company’s
defense would have to be based on the UCC’s version of the
doctrine  of  commercial  impracticability.  Section  2-615(a)
says  that  “[d]elay  in  delivery  or  nondelivery  in  whole  or  in
part by a seller . . . is not a breach of his duty under a contract
if  performance  as  agreed  has  been  made
for  sale 
impracticable  by  the  occurrence  of  a  contingency  the  non-
occurrence  of  which  was  a  basic  assumption  on  which  the
contract  was  made  .  .  .  .  ”  So  if  the  computer  company  can
convince the court that the non-occurrence of the unreliability

310

of  the  new  technology  was  a  “basic  assumption”  behind  the
contract, the company would get off the hook.

to  use  commercial 

The problem for the computer company is that in determining
whether  the  non-occurrence  of  a  condition  (let’s  call  it
“condition X”) was a “basic assumption,” the court will look
to whether the parties implicitly or explicitly allocated to one
party  the  risk  of  the  non-occurrence  of  condition  X.  If  the
party  seeking 
impracticability  was
allocated this risk during the negotiations, that party can’t use
the  defense.  And  such  allocation  need  not  be  explicit  in  the
contract — the  court  can  infer  it  from  the  circumstances.
Where  one  party  (the  seller)  undertakes  to  manufacture  a
device  reliant  on  what  both  parties  know  will  be  new  and
untested technology, a court would almost certainly infer that
that  party,  not  the  buyer,  implicitly  bore  the  risk  that  the
anticipated 
to
materialize.

technological  breakthrough  would 

fail 

(A) is wrong because, as described in the analysis of choice
D above, even if performance by the computer company was
objectively  impossible,  this  won’t  get  the  company  off  the
hook, because it would be found to have assumed the risk that
the anticipated breakthrough would not materialize.
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  simply  not  a  correct  statement  of
the  law.  When  a  seller  contracts  to  build  and  deliver  a
machine 
incorporating  new  and  heretofore  untested
technology,  the  seller  has  a  binding  obligation  to  deliver  it,
unless  the  court  finds  that  the  parties  intended  to  excuse
performance  in  the  event  the  technology  does  not  come
through.  There’s  nothing  in  these  facts  to  indicate  that  the
parties intended such an excuse here. On the contrary, a court
would  almost  certainly  find  (as  detailed  in  the  analysis  of
choice D above) that the computer company assumed the risk
that it would be unable to make the needed breakthrough.
(C) is wrong because it is an incorrect statement of law: The
defense of impossibility does  essentially  apply  to  merchants
under the UCC, in the form of the commercial impracticability
defense.  It’s  true  that  the  UCC  doesn’t  use  the  word
“impossibility.”  But  §  2-615  gives  a  defense  called  “excuse
by  failure  of  presupposed  conditions,”  a  defense  that  is

311

referred 

impracticability.”
to  as  “commercial 
usually 
(However, as detailed above, the computer company won’t be
able to successfully use the impracticability defense on these
facts.)

ii. Foreseeability and relative expertise

Question 69:  For  an  agreed  price  of  $20  million,  a  builder
contracted  with  a  developer  to  design  and  build  on  the
developer’s  commercial  plot  a  15-story  office  building.  In
excavating  for  the  foundation  and  underground  utilities,  the
contractor encountered a massive layer of granite at a depth of
15  feet.  By  reasonable  safety  criteria, 
the  building’s
foundation  required  a  minimum  excavation  of  25  feet.  When
the  contract  was  made,  neither  the  developer  nor  the
contractor  was  aware  of  the  subsurface  granite,  for  the
presence  of  which  neither  party  had  hired  a  qualified  expert
to test.

Claiming accurately that removal of enough granite to permit
the construction as planned would cost him an additional $3
million and a probable net loss on the contract of $2 million,
the  contractor  refused  to  proceed  with  the  work  unless  the
developer  would  promise  to  pay  an  additional  $2.5  million
for the completed building.

If the developer refuses and sues the contractor for breach of
contract,  which  of  the  following  will  the  court  probably
decide?

(A)    The  contractor  is  excused  under  the  modern  doctrine  of
includes  severe
impossibility,  which 

supervening 
impracticability.

(B)    The  contractor  is  excused,  because  the  contract  is
voidable  on  account  of  the  parties’  mutual  mistake
concerning an essential underlying fact.

(C)  The developer prevails, because the contractor assumed
the  risk  of  encountering  subsurface  granite  that  was
unknown to the developer.

(D)    The  developer  prevails,  unless  subsurface  granite  was
previously  unknown  anywhere  in  the  vicinity  of  the
developer’s construction site.

Answer  69:  Choice  (C) 

is  correct.  The  doctrine  of

312

commercial  impracticability  can  cover  situations  in  which  a
pre-existing  fact  of  which  the  parties  were  unaware  at  the
time  of  contracting  becomes  known  later,  and  renders
performance  impracticable.  However,  the  impracticability
defense will not apply where the party asserting it is found to
have  expressly  or  impliedly  borne  the  risk  of  the  event  in
question.  Here,  two  facts  strongly  militate  against  the
builder’s  being  excused  under  the  doctrine:  (1)  in  any
substantial excavation project, there is a very foreseeable risk
of  finding  unexpectedly  large  rock  deposits,  and  the  more
foreseeable the risk, the less likely it is to be excusable under
the  impracticability  doctrine;  and  (2)  the  builder  as  a
professional  builder  has  more  experience  with  the  business
risks involved in excavation than does a typical owner, so it
makes economic sense to put the risk of an excavation-related
surprise  (or  the  burden  of  negotiating  a  clause  dealing
specifically  with  that  risk)  on  the  builder  rather  than  on  the
owner.

(A) is wrong because, as described in the analysis of Choice
(C), the doctrine of impracticability does not apply where the
party  seeking  to  use  the  doctrine  is  found  to  have  impliedly
borne  the  risk  of  the  event  in  question,  as  the  builder  would
be found to have done here.
(B) is wrong because, while mutual mistake might apply here
just  as  impracticability  might  apply,  the  doctrine  of  mutual
mistake  will  not  apply  where  the  party  seeking  to  assert  it
would be found to have borne the risk of that type of mistake,
and the builder would be found to have borne that risk here.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  builder  would  be  found  to  have
borne the risk of subsurface granite even if such granite was
previously unknown in the vicinity of the construction site — 
as  further  explained  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (C)  above,  a
builder  will  normally  be  found  to  have  borne  the  risk  of
unfavorable sub-surface conditions.

III.  FRUSTRATION OF PURPOSE

A.  Factors to be considered

1.  Foreseeability

313

a.  Allocation of risk

Question  70:  On  August  1,  Geriatrics,  Inc.,  operating  a
“lifetime  care”  home  for  the  elderly,  admitted  Ohlster,  who
was  84  years  old,  for  a  trial  period  of  two  months.  On
September  25,  Ohlster  and  Geriatrics  entered  into  a  written
lifetime care contract with an effective commencement date of
October  1.  The  full  contract  price  was  $20,000,  which,  as
required  by  the  terms  of  the  contract,  Ohlster  prepaid  to
Geriatrics on September 25. Ohlster died of a heart attack on
October 2.

In  a  restitutionary  action,  can  the  administratrix  of  Ohlster’s
estate, a surviving sister, recover on behalf of the estate either
all or part of the $20,000 paid to Geriatrics on September 25?

(A)    Yes,  because  Geriatrics  would  otherwise  be  unjustly

enriched at Ohlster’s expense.

(B)  Yes, under the doctrine of frustration of purpose.
(C)    No,  because  Ohlster’s  life  span  and  the  duration  of
Geriatrics’  commitment  to  him  was  a  risk  assumed  by
both parties.

(D)    No,  but  only  if  Geriatrics  can  show  that  between
September 25 and Ohlster’s death it rejected, because of
its  commitment  to  Ohlster,  an  application  for  lifetime
care from another elderly person.

Answer  70:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  contract  will  be
enforced  as  written  (i.e.,  no  restitutionary  recovery)  unless
the estate can come up with a legal theory why it shouldn’t be.
The  only  plausible  theory  is  frustration  of  purpose.  But  the
frustration  defense  will  not  be  recognized  where  the  parties
are found to have expressly or implicitly allocated the risk of
the  event  in  question.  Here,  a  court  would  almost  certainly
conclude that given Ohlster’s advanced age, he took the risk
that  he  would  die  before  obtaining  substantial  benefits  from
the  contract,  and  Geriatrics  took  the  opposite  risk  that  he
would live so long that the deal would be a very bad one for
Geriatrics.
(A)  is  wrong  because,  although  Geriatrics  has  clearly  been
“enriched,”  a  court  would  be  unlikely  to  hold  that  the
enrichment  was  unjust,  in  view  of  the  substantial  risk  that

314

Geriatrics took that Ohlster would live a very long time.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  doctrine  of  frustration  of  purpose
will  not  apply  where  the  party  seeking  to  use  it  is  found  to
have impliedly borne the risk of the event in question, and the
court  will  probably  make  such  a  finding  here,  as  detailed  in
the discussion of Choice (C) above.

(D)  is  wrong  because  Geriatrics  will  win  even  if  it  cannot
show that it rejected some other lifetime-care application on
account  of  its  deal  with  Ohlster — the  contract  will  be
enforced  as  written  unless  some  defense  applies,  and  no
defense applies here.

IV.  RESTITUTION AND RELIANCE WHERE THE

PARTIES ARE DISCHARGED

A.  Restitution

1.  Time for measuring benefit

Question 71: A lawyer entered into a contract with a painter
by  the  terms  of  which  the  painter  was  to  paint  the  lawyer’s
office for $1,000 and was required to do all of the work over
the  following  weekend  so  as  to  avoid  disruption  of  the
lawyer’s business. The painter commenced work on Saturday
morning, and had finished half the painting by the time he quit
work for the day. That night, without the fault of either party,
the office building was destroyed by fire.

Which of the following is an accurate statement?

(A)    Both  parties’  contractual  duties  are  discharged,  and  the

painter can recover nothing from the lawyer.

(B)    Both  parties’  contractual  duties  are  discharged,  but  the
painter can recover in quasi-contract from the lawyer.
(C)  Only the painter’s contractual duty is discharged, because
the lawyer’s performance (payment of the agreed price)
is not impossible.

(D)  Only the painter’s contractual duty is discharged, and the
painter  can  recover  his  reliance  damages  from  the
lawyer.

Answer 71: Choice (B) is correct. First, since the continued

315

existence of the office being painted was a major assumption
on which the contract was based, the destruction of the office
will  cause  both  parties  to  be  contractually  discharged.
Second, when contractual duties are discharged on account of
impossibility,  a  party  who  has  partly  performed  will
generally  be  permitted  to  recover  in  quasi-contract  for
restitution,  i.e.,  for  the  value  of  the  benefit  conferred  on  the
other  party.  Therefore,  the  painter  will  be  permitted  to
recover for the value of the painting that he had done as of the
moment of the fire.

(A) is wrong because, as discussed in the analysis of Choice
(B)  above,  a  party  who  has  partly  performed  by  the  time  of
the  event  causing  the  discharge  is  permitted  to  recover  in
quasi-contract for the value of his partial performance.

(C) is wrong because the lawyer’s performance is discharged
not  because  it  is  impossible,  but  because  the  performance
which  the  lawyer  was  to  receive  in  exchange  for  her  own
performance  (a  paint  job)  is  impossible.  When  performance
of one side of the agreed exchange is rendered impossible, the
other  side  is  discharged  so  as  to  prevent  either  side  from
being unjustly enriched.
(D) is wrong because: (1) both parties’ contractual duties (not
just  the  painter’s)  are  discharged;  and  (2)  the  painter’s
damages  would  be  measured  by  a  restitution  concept  (value
conferred on the lawyer just before the fire) rather than by a
reliance concept.

316

CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS DEFENSES

I.    MISREPRESENTATION

A.  Non-disclosure

1.  Failure to correct other party’s basic mistake

a.    Possession  of  information  by  surreptitious  and  unfair

means

Question  72:  An  heir,  who  knew  nothing  about  horses,
inherited  a  thoroughbred  colt  whose  disagreeable  behavior
made  him  a  pest  around  the  barn.  The  heir  sold  the  colt  for
$1,500 to an experienced racehorse-trainer who knew of the
heir’s  ignorance  about  horses.  At  the  time  of  sale,  the  heir
said  to  the  trainer,  “I  hate  to  say  it,  but  this  horse  is  bad-
tempered and nothing special.” Soon after the sale, the horse
won three races and earned $400,000 for the trainer.

Which of the following additional facts, if established by the
heir, would best support his chance of obtaining rescission of
the sale to the trainer?

(A)  The heir did not know until after the sale that the trainer

was an experienced racehorse-trainer.

(B)  At a pre-sale exercise session of which the trainer knew
that the heir was not aware, the trainer clocked the horse
in  record-setting  time,  far  surpassing  any  previous
performance.

(C)  The horse was the only thoroughbred that the heir owned,
and  the  heir  did  not  know  how  to  evaluate  young  and
untested racehorses.

(D)  At the time of the sale, the heir was angry and upset over
an incident in which the horse had reared and thrown a
rider.

Answer 72: Choice (B) is correct. Normally, even where one
party knows that the other is making a mistake about a basic
assumption,  the  former’s  non-disclosure  of  the  relevant  fact
will  not  constitute  a  misrepresentation  that  the  relevant  fact

317

does  not  exist.  But  the  non-disclosure  will  constitute  a
misrepresentation that the mistaken fact does not exist — and
will be grounds for rescission — if it amounts to a “failure to
act in good faith and in accordance with reasonable standards
of  fair  dealing.”  Rest.  2d,  §161(b).  Where  the  non-discloser
learns  of  the  true  fact  through  improper  or  questionable
means, the court is likely to find a failure to act in good faith.
Here, since the horse was the heir’s property at the time the
trainer  secretly  timed  it  in  the  exercise  session,  the  case  is
analogous to the Restatement’s example of a mining company
trespassing  on  the  seller’s  property  to  gain  mineral-deposit
information;  a  court  would  therefore  likely  conclude  that  the
trainer’s timing session pushed the entire transaction into the
bad-faith category.

(A) is wrong because the trainer’s undisclosed experience as
a trainer would not alter the general principle that one party’s
failure  to  disclose  that  the  other  party  is  making  a  mistake
about  a  basic  assumption  does  not  constitute  the  sort  of
misrepresentation  that  would  allow  the  “innocent”  party  to
rescind.  The  test  is  whether  the  non-discloser’s  failure  to
correct  the  other’s  mistake  constitutes  bad  faith,  and  a  court
would be unlikely to conclude that the non-discloser’s failure
to  disclose  his  own  credentials  pushes  the  entire  situation
over into the bad-faith column.
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  party  with  superior  knowledge  is
normally  not  required  to  correct  the  other  party’s  mistake
about  even  a  basic  assumption  where  that  assumption  is  due
to the latter’s lack of diligence or knowledge — “if the other
[party]  is  indolent,  inexperienced  or  ignorant,  or  if  his
judgment  is  bad  or  he  lacks  access  to  adequate  information,
his  adversary  is  not  generally  expected  to  compensate  for
these  deficiencies.  A  buyer  of  property,  for  example,  is  not
ordinarily  expected  to  disclose  circumstances  that  make  the
property more valuable than the seller supposes.” Rest. 2d, §
161, Comment d.
(D) is wrong because it cites a completely irrelevant fact. The
trainer  had  no  obligation  to  correct  what  he  knew  to  be  the
heir’s mistake as to a basic assumption, unless the failure to
correct  amounted  to  bad  faith  or  a  failure  to  follow

318

reasonable  standards  of  fair  dealing.  The  fact  that  the
mistaken  party  was  angry  does  not  push 
the  more
knowledgeable  party’s  lack  of  disclosure  into  the  bad-faith
category,  especially  where  (as  here)  there  is  nothing  to
indicate that the more-knowledgeable party even knew about
the other’s anger.

II.   UNCONSCIONABILITY AND ADHESION

CONTRACTS

A.  Unconscionability  

1.  Remedies for unconscionability

a.  Refusal to enforce whole contract

severe 

suffered 

Question 73: A landholder was land-rich by inheritance but
money-poor,  having 
losses  on  bad
investments,  but  still  owned  several  thousand  acres  of
unencumbered  timberland.  He  had  a  large  family,  and  his
normal, fixed personal expenses were high. Pressed for cash,
he advertised a proposed sale of standing timber on a choice
2,000-acre tract. The only response was an offer by a logger,
the owner of a large, integrated construction enterprise, after
inspection of the advertised tract. The logger offered to buy,
sever,  and  remove  the  standing  timber  from  the  advertised
tract at a cash price 70% lower than the regionally prevailing
price for comparable timber rights. The landholder, by then in
desperate  financial  straits  and  knowing  little  about  timber
values,  signed  and  delivered  to  the  logger  a  letter  accepting
the offer.

the 

logger  commences  performance, 

If,  before 
the
landholder’s  investment  fortunes  suddenly  improve  and  he
wishes to get out of the timber deal with the logger, which of
the  following  legal  concepts  affords  his  best  prospect  of
effective cancellation?
(A)  Bad faith.
(B)  Equitable estoppel.
(C)  Unconscionability.
(D)  Duress.

319

in 

(C) 

light  of 

is  whether 

is  correct.  The 

for
test 
Answer  73:  Choice 
unconscionability 
the  general
commercial  background  and  the  commercial  needs  of  the
particular  parties,  the  contract  is  so  one-sided  as  to  be
unconscionable.  Here,  there  are  two  facts  that  support  an
unconscionability  claim:  (1)  a  purchase  price  that  was  70%
below  market;  and  (2)  the  landholder’s  lack  of  knowledge
about timber values. It is not certain that the landowner will
prevail  with  the  unconscionability  claim  as  the  basis  for
rescission, but of the four choices it is the only one that could
plausibly work for him.

(A) is wrong because the logger has not behaved in bad faith.
A  buyer  who  proposes  a  very  below-market  price  has  not
thereby behaved in bad faith. In any event, “bad faith” in some
abstract  sense  is  not  grounds  for  canceling  a  transaction  to
which  the  other  party  has  agreed,  in  the  absence  of
misrepresentation or unconscionability.

is  wrong  because 

(B) 
logger  did  not  make  a
the 
misrepresentation, which is necessary for equitable estoppel.
Equitable estoppel is a doctrine applied by courts of equity to
allow one party to rescind when the other misrepresents a fact
on  which  the  first  party  justifiably  and  detrimentally  relies.
Here,  the  landholder  would  have  to  show  that  the  logger
misrepresented  something,  and 
the
landholder could make that showing.

it’s  not 

likely 

that 

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  landholder  can’t  show  coercion.
The  defense  of  duress  will  rarely  be  successful  where  one
party merely takes economic advantage of the other’s pressing
need to enter the contract. For the concept of duress to work
for  the  landholder,  he  would  have  to  argue  that  the  logger
coerced him into entering the contract. There are no facts here
to show coercion — all the logger did was take advantage of
the landholder’s scant knowledge about timber values and his
pressing  need  for  immediate  money,  and  that’s  not  the  same
thing as coercion.
