QUESTIONS

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

 Question 1

A  state  law  provides  that  a  person  who  has  been  divorced  may  not  marry
again  unless  he  or  she  is  current  on  all  child-support  payments.  A  woman
who  was  refused  a  marriage  license  pursuant  to  this  law  sued  the
appropriate state officials.

What standard should the court apply in reviewing the constitutionality

of this law?

 (A) The state must show that the law is necessary to serve a compelling

government interest.

(B) The state must show that the law is substantially related to an important

government interest.

(C) The woman must show that the law serves no important public purpose.
(D) The woman must show that the legislature did not have a rational basis

for enacting the law.

 Question 2

Congress  enacted  a  statute  prohibiting  discrimination  in  the  rental  of
residential  property  anywhere  in  the  United  States  on  the  basis  of  sexual
orientation or preference by any person or entity, public or private.

Which  of  the  following  provisions  provides  the  strongest  basis  for

Congress's authority to enact this statute?

 (A) The Enforcement Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.
(C) The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(D) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, Section 8.

 Question 3

A state law made it a criminal offense for any state employee to “knowingly
provide  educational  services  or  extend  welfare  benefits”  to  a  foreign

309

 
national who was in the United States in violation of U.S. immigration laws.
The principal of a public elementary school was prosecuted under the law
for enrolling and providing education to several foreign nationals he knew
to be in the country illegally. All of these actions took place before the new
law was adopted. No federal statute applied to the principal's actions.

What  constitutional  provision  would  be  most  helpful  to  the  principal's

defense?

 (A) The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C) The Ex Post Facto Clause of Article I, Section 10.
(D) The Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 4

An  unconstrued  state  law  prohibited  the  distribution  within  the  state  of
“seditious  propaganda.”  The  state  prosecuted  United  States  Post  Office
letter  carriers  under  this  law  for  delivering  propaganda  from  a  foreign
country to state residents.

Which  of  the  following  statements  is  an  INACCURATE  description  of

the state's law as applied to the letter carriers?

 (A) It is an unconstitutional bill of attainder.
(B) It is void for vagueness.
(C) It may not be applied to the letter carriers, because they are employees

of a federal instrumentality carrying out an authorized function.
(D) It unconstitutionally abridges rights protected by the First and

Fourteenth Amendments.

 Question 5

A protester entered an IRS office during business hours. He denounced the
income tax and set fire to pages from his copy of the Internal Revenue Code.
The fire was extinguished before it caused any other damage. The protester
was arrested and charged with violating a state law that prohibited igniting
a  fire  in  a  public  building.  He  claimed  that  his  prosecution  was
unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

May the protester constitutionally be convicted?

 (A) No, because he was exercising his right to freedom of speech by

310

burning a copy of the code.

(B) No, because the copy of the code belonged to him, and thus burning it

did not infringe upon a legitimate government interest.

(C) Yes, because the burning of the code was conduct rather than speech.
(D) Yes, because the state law is narrowly drawn to further a substantial

government interest in prohibiting the noncommunicative aspects of the
act in question.

 Question 6

A private university is owned and operated by a religious organization. The
university is accredited by the department of education of the state in which
it is located. This accreditation certifies that the university meets prescribed
educational standards. Because it is accredited, the university qualifies for
state  funding  for  certain  of  its  operating  expenses.  Under  this  funding
program,  25  percent  of  the  university's  total  operating  budget  comes  from
state funds.

A  professor  at  the  university  was  a  part-time  columnist  for  the  local
newspaper.  In  one  of  her  published  columns,  the  professor  argued  that
“religion  has  become  a  negative  force  in  society.”  The  university
subsequently  discharged  the  professor,  giving  as  its  sole  reason  for  the
dismissal her authorship and publication of this column.

The  professor  sued  the  university,  claiming  only  that  her  discharge

violated her constitutional right to freedom of speech.

The  university  moved  to  dismiss  the  professor's  lawsuit  on  the  ground
that  the  U.S.  Constitution  does  not  provide  the  professor  with  a  cause  of
action in this case.

Should the court grant the university's motion to dismiss?

 (A) Yes, because the First and Fourteenth Amendments protect the right of
the university to employ only individuals who share and communicate
its views.

(B) Yes, because the action of the university in discharging the professor is
not attributable to the state for purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(C) No, because the accreditation and partial funding of the university by the
state are sufficient to justify the conclusion that the state was an active
participant in the discharge of the professor.

(D) No, because the U.S. Constitution provides a cause of action against any

state-accredited institution that restricts freedom of speech as a
condition of employment.

311

 Question 7

A  state  law  that  restricted  abortion  was  challenged  in  state  court  as  a
violation  of  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  to  the
U.S. Constitution and as a violation of a similar due (though not identical)
process  provision  of  the  state  constitution.  The  case  made  its  way  to  the
state's  highest  court,  which  ruled  that  the  law  violated  the  due  process
provisions of both the U.S. and the state constitutions.

If petitioned to do so, may the U.S. Supreme Court exercise jurisdiction

to review the state court decision?

 (A) No, because the state court's decision in this case rests on adequate and

independent state law grounds.

(B) No, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction only

over state court decisions that determine the constitutionality of federal
laws.

(C) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over any
ruling of a state's highest court based on an interpretation of federal law.

(D) Yes, because the U.S. Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction over
decisions that find state laws in violation of the federal Constitution.

 Question 8

A  recently  enacted  federal  statute  requires  the  President  to  make  each
appointment of a United States ambassador to a foreign country from a list
of  three  individuals.  The  list  is  to  be  compiled  by  the  Senate  Foreign
Relations  Committee  and  approved  by  the  full  Senate  in  advance  of  the
appointment.  The  statute  also  provides  that  Senate  confirmation  of  the
appointment  is  deemed  to  occur  automatically  30  days  after  the  time  the
President names an appointee from the list, unless the full Senate determines
otherwise within the 30-day period.

Is this statute constitutional?

 (A) No, because the statute violates the constitutional requirements for

appointment of principal officers of the United States.

(B) No, because the statute impermissibly restricts the plenary foreign

affairs powers of the President.

(C) Yes, because the statute is consistent with the constitutional requirement
that the presidential appointment of ambassadors be with the advice and
consent of the Senate.

312

(D) Yes, because the statute is a necessary and proper measure in

furtherance of Congress's power to regulate commerce with foreign
states.

 Question 9

Under a state law, a drug company that makes a false factual claim about a
prescription drug is strictly liable in tort to any user of the drug.

In  an  advertisement  promoting  sales  of  a  particular  drug,  a  drug
company claimed that the drug was safe for children. Suit was filed against
the company on behalf of a child who allegedly was harmed as a result of
taking  the  drug.  At  the  time  the  child  took  the  drug,  the  available  medical
studies supported the company's claim that the drug was safe for children,
but later research proved that the drug actually was harmful to children. The
company has moved to dismiss the suit on First Amendment grounds.

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because false or misleading commercial speech is not

constitutionally protected.

(B) No, because the drug business is subject to extensive health and safety

regulation.

(C) Yes, because liability cannot be imposed for false statements without a

showing of actual malice.

(D) Yes, because the company's claims about the drug were a matter of

public concern.

 Question 10

A  state  owned  a  large  natural  gas  field  and  took  bids  for  its  exploitation.
The  highest  bid  came  from  an  interstate  pipeline  company  that  distributed
natural  gas  to  providers  throughout  the  country.  A  local  gas  company
submitted the next highest bid, which included the commitment that it would
pass  along  to  local  customers  any  savings  if  it  was  awarded  the  contract.
The state awarded the contract to the local company. The interstate company
sued to overturn this decision.

Should the interstate company prevail?

 (A) No, because the state has a compelling interest in reducing the cost of

gas for state citizens.

(B) No, because the state acted as a market participant.

313

(C) Yes, because the state acted irrationally by not choosing the highest

bidder and thus denied the interstate company due process of law.
(D) Yes, because the state discriminated against interstate commerce.

 Question 11

Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the  denial  of  all  federal  funding  to
public  school  districts  in  which  a  specified  percentage  of  the  students
enrolled  in  the  public  schools  fail  to  pass  a  national  achievement  test.
According to the terms of the federal statute, the first national achievement
test was scheduled for administration five years from the effective date of
the statute.

After 

reviewing 

then-current 

levels  of  public  school  student
performance,  the  officials  of  a  state  became  concerned  that  several  of  its
public  school  districts  would  lose  their  federal  funding  after  the
administration of the first national achievement test. Then-current levels of
private school student performance were substantially higher.

In order to improve the chances of those school districts retaining their
federal funding, the state recently enacted a law that requires all children of
elementary and secondary school age to attend the schools operated by their
respective  local  public  school  districts.  The  law  is  to  take  effect  at  the
beginning of the next school year.

Parents  of  children  enrolled  in  private  schools  within  the  state  have

filed suit to challenge the constitutionality of this state law.

Should the court uphold the law?

 (A) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.
(B) Yes, because it is necessary to further a compelling state interest.
(C) No, because it is not rationally related to a legitimate state interest.
(D) No, because it is not necessary to further a compelling state interest.

 Question 12

Congress  enacted  a  statute  establishing  a  program  to  protect  areas  in  the
United States that are rich in biological diversity. The program is consistent
with the terms of an environmental treaty that the President objected to and
did not sign.

The  statute  creates  an  executive  agency  and  authorizes  it  to  designate
parts  of  federal  lands  for  inclusion  in  the  program  in  accordance  with
criteria taken from the treaty. In an inseverable provision, the statute further

314

provides  that  the  agency  must  report  each  designation  to  a  committee  of
Congress and that the committee may overturn the agency's designation by a
majority vote.

Why is the statute unconstitutional?

 (A) It constitutes an invalid delegation of legislative authority to an

executive agency.

(B) It interferes with the exercise of the President's paramount authority in

foreign affairs.

(C) It requires an executive agency to report its decisions to Congress.
(D) It authorizes a committee of Congress to overturn an executive decision.

 Question 13

A  city  ordinance  prohibited  individuals  from  picketing  in  residential
neighborhoods  unless  the  picketing  related  to  the  neighborhood  zoning
requirements.  This  exception  to  the  ordinance  was  adopted  in  response  to
local  citizens'  strong  views  about  proposed  rezoning  of  residential
neighborhoods.

A  group  that  wished  to  picket  in  front  of  a  business  owner's  home
because  of  the  business  owner's  employment  practices  challenged  the
ordinance as unconstitutional under the First Amendment.

Will the group's challenge likely prevail?

 (A) No, because the ordinance is a content-neutral regulation of speech.
(B) No, because the ordinance regulates conduct rather than speech.
(C) Yes, because the ordinance irrationally discriminates between different

types of protesters.

(D) Yes, because the ordinance is a content-based regulation of speech.

 Question 14

A state law prohibits the withdrawal of groundwater from any well within
the  state  for  use  in  another  state.  The  express  purpose  of  the  law  is  to
safeguard the supply of water for state citizens. Adoption of this state law
followed  enactment  of  a  federal  statute  providing  that  “the  transport  of
groundwater  from  one  state  to  another  may  be  restricted  or  prohibited  in
accordance with the laws of the state in which the water originates.”

An  association  of  water  users  in  a  neighboring  state  has  filed  suit  to
have the state law declared unconstitutional and enjoined on the ground that

315

it violates the negative implications of the Commerce Clause.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  best  argument  supporting  a  motion  to

dismiss the lawsuit?

 (A) The law promotes a compelling state interest that outweighs any burden

on interstate commercial activity that might result from this state
regulation of its groundwater.

(B) Groundwater located within a state is not itself an article of interstate
commerce, and therefore state regulation of the withdrawal of such
groundwater does not implicate the Commerce Clause.

(C) The Tenth Amendment reserves to the states plenary authority over the
regulation of the natural resources located within their respective
borders.

(D) The federal statute explicitly consents to a state's regulation of its
groundwater in a way that would otherwise violate the negative
implications of the Commerce Clause.

 Question 15

Congress  passed  a  statute  providing  that  parties  could  no  longer  seek
review  in  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  of  final  judgments  in  criminal  matters
made by the highest court in each state.

What is the best argument supporting the constitutionality of the statute?

 (A) Congress has the power to make exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction

of the Supreme Court.

(B) Criminal matters are traditionally governed by state law.
(C) The proper means of federal judicial review of state criminal matters is

by habeas corpus.

(D) The review of state court judgments is not within the original

jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.

 Question 16

A  state  adopted  a  rule  denying  admission  to  its  bar  to  anyone  who  was
currently  or  had  previously  been  a  member  of  a  subversive  group.  The
state's  bar  application  form  was  modified  to  ask  applicants  whether  they
were  or  had  previously  been  members  of  any  subversive  organization.  An
applicant refused to answer the question and was denied bar admission on
that basis. The applicant challenged the decision, arguing that the question
infringed upon his freedom of association.

316

Is the applicant likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because membership in a subversive group constitutes endorsement

of the group's illegal activities.

(B) No, because the Constitution does not apply to the bar.
(C) Yes, because denying bar admission based on any association with a

subversive organization violates the First Amendment.

(D) Yes, because denying bar admission based solely on past membership

in a subversive organization violates the First Amendment.

 Question 17

A  state  statute  prohibits  any  retailer  of  books,  magazines,  pictures,  or
posters from ‘‘publicly displaying or selling to any person any material that
may be harmful to minors because of the violent or sexually explicit nature
of its pictorial content.'' Violation of this statute is a misdemeanor.

A  store  displays  publicly  and  sells  magazines  containing  violent  and
sexually  explicit  pictures.  The  owner  of  this  store  is  prosecuted  under  the
above  statute  for  these  actions.  In  defending  against  this  prosecution  in  a
state trial court, the argument that would be the best defense for the store is
that the statute violates the

 (A) First Amendment as it is incorporated into the Fourteenth Amendment,

because the statute is excessively vague and overbroad.

(B) First Amendment as it is incorporated into the Fourteenth Amendment,
because a state may not prohibit the sale of violent or sexually explicit
material in the absence of proof that the material is utterly without any
redeeming value in the marketplace of ideas.

(C) Equal Protection of the Laws Clause, because the statute irrationally

treats violent and sexually explicit material that is pictorial differently
from such material that is composed wholly of printed words.

(D) Equal Protection of the Laws Clause, because the statute irrationally
distinguishes between violent and sexually explicit pictorial material
that may harm minors and such material that may harm only adults.

 Question 18

Congressional legislation authorizing marriages and divorces as a matter of
federal law on prescribed terms and conditions could most easily be upheld
if it

317

 (A) applied only to marriages and divorces in which at least one of the

parties is a member of the armed forces.

(B) applied only to marriages performed by federal judges and to divorces

granted by federal courts.

(C) implemented an executive agreement seeking to define basic human

rights.

(D) applied only to marriages and divorces in the District of Columbia.

 Question 19

A purchaser bought land in the mountain foothills just outside a resort town
and  planned  to  build  a  housing  development  there.  Soon  thereafter,  the
county  in  which  the  land  was  located  unexpectedly  adopted  a  regulation
that,  for  the  first  time,  prohibited  all  construction  in  several  foothill  and
mountain areas, including the area of the purchaser's property. The purpose
of the county's regulation was ‘‘to conserve for future generations the unique
natural wildlife and plant habitats'' in the mountain areas. Since the adoption
of the regulation, the purchaser has been unable to lease or sell the property
at any price. Several realtors have advised the purchaser that the property is
now worthless. The purchaser sued the county, claiming that the regulation
has  taken  the  purchaser's  property  and  that  the  county  therefore  owes  the
purchaser just compensation.

Is the court likely to rule in favor of the purchaser?

 (A) No, because the county did not take title to the property from the

purchaser.

(B) No, because the regulation has not caused or authorized any uninvited

physical invasion or intrusion onto the property.

(C) Yes, because the conservation objective of the county ordinance is not
sufficiently compelling to justify the substantial diminution in the
property value.

(D) Yes, because the effect of the county's regulation is to deny the
purchaser's investment-backed expectation and essentially all
economically beneficial use of the property.

 Question 20

Congress  recently  enacted  a  statute  imposing  severe  criminal  penalties  on
anyone  engaged  in  trading  in  the  stock  market  who,  in  the  course  of  that
trading, takes ‘‘unfair advantage'' of other investors who are also trading in

318

the  stock  market.  The  statute  does  not  define  the  term  ‘‘unfair  advantage.''
There have been no prosecutions under this new statute. The members of an
association  of  law  school  professors  that  is  dedicated  to  increasing  the
clarity  of  the  language  used  in  criminal  statutes  believe  that  this  statute  is
unconstitutionally vague. Neither the association nor any of its members is
currently  engaged  in,  or  intends  in  the  future  to  engage  in,  trading  in  the
stock market. The association and its members bring suit against the attorney
general of the United States in a federal district court, seeking an injunction
is
against 
unconstitutional.

the  enforcement  of 

this  statute  on 

the  ground 

that 

it 

May the federal court determine the merits of this suit?

 (A) Yes, because the suit involves a dispute over the constitutionality of a

federal statute.

(B) Yes, because the plaintiffs seek real relief of a conclusive nature — an

injunction against enforcement of this statute.

(C) No, because the plaintiffs do not have an interest in the invalidation of
this statute that is adequate to ensure that the suit presents an Article III
controversy.

(D) No, because a suit for an injunction against enforcement of a criminal
statute may not be brought in federal court at any time prior to a bona
fide effort to enforce that statute.

 Question 21

A certain mineral is added to bodies of fresh water to prevent the spread of
certain  freshwater  parasites.  The  presence  of  those  parasites  threatens  the
health of the organisms living in rivers and streams throughout the country
and  imperils  the  freshwater  commercial  fishing  industry.  The  mineral  is
currently mined only in one state.

In  order  to  raise  needed  revenue,  Congress  recently  enacted  a  statute
providing for the imposition of a $100 tax on each ton of the mineral mined
in the United States. Because it will raise the cost of the mineral, this tax is
likely  to  reduce  the  amount  of  the  mineral  added  to  freshwater  rivers  and
streams and, therefore, is likely to have an adverse effect on the interstate
freshwater commercial fishing industry. The producers of the mineral have
filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging this tax solely on constitutional
grounds. Is this tax constitutional?

 (A) No, because producers in only one state will pay the tax and, therefore,

319

it is not uniform among the states and denies the producers of the
mineral the equal protection of the laws.

(B) No, because it is likely to have an adverse effect on the freshwater

commercial fishing industry and Congress has a responsibility under the
Commerce Clause to protect, foster, and advance such interstate
industries.

(C) Yes, because the tax is a necessary and proper means of exercising
federal authority over the navigable waters of the United States.

(D) Yes, because the power of Congress to impose taxes is plenary, this tax
does not contain any provisions extraneous to tax needs or purposes,
and it is not barred by any prohibitory language in the Constitution.

 Question 22

The  U.S.  government  demonstrated 
involving
commercial  airliners  were  perpetrated  exclusively  by  individuals  of  one
particular  race.  In  response,  Congress  enacted  a  statute  imposing  stringent
new  airport  and  airline  security  measures  only  on  individuals  of  that  race
seeking to board airplanes in the United States.

terrorist  attacks 

that 

Which  of  the  following  provides  the  best  ground  for  challenging  the

constitutionality of the statute?

 (A) The Commerce Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(B) The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
(C) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.
(D) The Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 23

A  recently  enacted  state  law  forbids  aliens  from  owning  more  than  100
acres of land within the state and directs the state attorney general to bring
an action of ejectment whenever an alien owns such land.

A farmer, who was a resident alien, located and purchased 200 acres of
land  in  the  state  after  passage  of  that  law.  He  brings  an  action  in  federal
court  to  enjoin  the  state  attorney  general  from  enforcing  the  statute  against
him.  The  defendant  moves  to  dismiss  the  complaint.  The  federal  court
should

 (A) dismiss the action, because under the Constitution aliens may not sue in

federal court.

320

(B) dismiss the action, because a state has unlimited power to determine the

qualifications for landholding within its boundaries.

(C) hear the action, because the United Nations Charter forbids such

discrimination.

(D) hear the action, because a federal question is presented.

 Question 24

As  a  part  of  the  practice  of  the  religious  beliefs  of  a  small  cult  of  Satan
worshippers, the worshippers' high priest was required to sacrifice a cat to
the glory of Satan after a live dissection of the animal in which it endured
frightful  pain.  In  the  course  of  such  religious  sacrifice,  the  priest  was
arrested on the complaint of the local Humane Society and charged under a
statute  punishing  cruelty  to  animals.  On  appeal,  a  conviction  of  the  priest
probably will be

 (A) sustained on the grounds that belief in or worship of Satan does not

enjoy constitutional protection.

(B) sustained on the grounds that sincere religious belief is not an adequate

defense on these facts.

(C) overturned on the grounds that the constitutionally guaranteed freedom

of religion and its expression was violated.

(D) overturned on the grounds that the beliefs of the cult members in the

need for the sacrifice might be reasonable, and their act was religious.

 Question 25

A state employee grievance system requires any state employee who wishes
to  file  a  grievance  against  the  state  to  submit  that  grievance  for  final
resolution  to  a  panel  of  three  arbitrators  chosen  by  the  parties  from  a
statewide  board  of  13  arbitrators.  In  any  given  case,  the  grievant  and  the
state alternate in exercising the right of each party to eliminate five members
of the board, leaving a panel of three members to decide their case. At the
present time, the full board is composed of seven male arbitrators and six
female arbitrators.

A  female  state  employee,  filed  a  sexual  harassment  grievance  against
her male supervisor and the state. The state's attorney exercised all of her
five  strikes  to  eliminate  five  of  the  female  arbitrators.  At  the  time  she  did
so, the state's attorney stated that she struck the five female arbitrators solely
because  she  believed  women,  as  a  group,  would  necessarily  be  biased  in
favor of another woman who was claiming sexual harassment. Counsel for

321

the employee eliminated four males and one female arbitrator, all solely on
grounds of specific bias or conflicts of interest. As a result, the panel was
all  male.  When  the  panel  ruled  against  the  employee  on  the  merits  of  her
case, she filed an action in an appropriate state court, challenging the panel
selection process as a gender-based denial of equal protection of the laws.
In this case, the court should hold that the panel selection process is

 (A) unconstitutional, because the gender classification used by the state's
attorney in this case does not satisfy the requirements of intermediate
scrutiny.

(B) unconstitutional, because the gender classification used by the state's

attorney in this case denies the grievant the right to a jury made up of her
peers.

(C) constitutional, because the gender classification used by the state's

attorney in this case satisfies the requirements of the strict scrutiny test.

(D) constitutional, because the gender classification used by the state's

attorney in this case satisfies the requirements of the rational basis test.

 Question 26

A  city  is  a  center  for  businesses  that  assemble  personal  computers.
Components for these computers are manufactured elsewhere in the state in
which the city is located and in other states and are then shipped to the city,
where  the  computers  are  assembled.  A  city  ordinance  imposes  a  special
license  tax  on  all  of  the  many  companies  engaged  in  the  business  of
assembling computers in the city. The tax payable by each such company is
a percentage of the company's gross receipts.

A  state  statute  that  authorizes  municipalities  to  impose  this  license  tax
has a ‘‘state content'' provision. To comply with this provision of state law,
the city license tax ordinance provides that the tax paid by any assembler of
computers  subject  to  this  tax  ordinance  will  be  reduced  by  a  percentage
equal to the proportion of computer components manufactured in the state. A
company  assembles  computers  in  the  city  and  sells  them  from  its  offices,
also  in  the  city,  to  buyers  throughout  the  United  States.  All  of  the
components  of  its  computers  come  from  outside  the  state.  Therefore,  the
company must pay the city license tax in full without receiving any refund.
Other city computer assemblers use components manufactured in the state in
varying proportions and, therefore, are entitled to partial reductions of their
city  license  tax  payments.  Following  prescribed  procedure,  the  company
brings an action in a proper court asking to have the city's special license

322

tax  declared  unconstitutional  on  the  ground  that  it  is  inconsistent  with  the
negative implications of the Commerce Clause. In this case, the court should
rule

 (A) against the company, because the tax falls only on companies resident in
the city and, therefore, does not discriminate against or otherwise
adversely affect interstate commerce.

(B) against the company, because the Commerce Clause does not interfere
with the right of a state to foster and support businesses located within
its borders by encouraging its residents to purchase the products of
those businesses.

(C) for the company, because any tax on a company engaged in interstate

commerce, measured in whole or in part by its gross receipts, is a per
se violation of the negative implications of the Commerce Clause.
(D) for the company, because the tax improperly discriminates against

interstate commerce by treating in-state products more favorably than
out-of-state products.

 Question 27

A  federal  statute  required  a  federal  agency  to  establish  minimum  quality
standards  for  all  beer  sold  in  the  United  States.  The  statute  also  provided
that  public  proceedings  must  precede  adoption  of  the  standards,  and  that
once they were adopted, the standards would be subject to judicial review.
No  standards  have  yet  been  adopted.  Several  officials  of  the  agency  have
indicated their personal preference for beer produced by a special brewing
process  commonly  referred  to  as  pasteurization.  However,  these  officials
have  not  indicated  whether  they  intend  to  include  a  requirement  for
pasteurization  in  the  minimum  beer  quality  standards  to  be  adopted  by  the
agency.  A  brewery  that  produces  an  unpasteurized  beer  believes  that  its
brewing process is as safe as pasteurization. The brewery is concerned that,
after  the  appropriate  proceedings,  the  agency  may  adopt  quality  standards
that  will  prohibit  the  sale  of  any  unpasteurized  beer.  As  a  result,  the
brewery sued in federal district court to enjoin the agency from adopting any
standards that would prohibit the sale of unpasteurized beer in this country.

How should the district court dispose of the suit?

 (A) Determine whether the agency could reasonably believe that

pasteurization is the safest process by which to brew beer, and if the
agency could reasonably believe that, refuse to issue the injunction

323

against the agency.

(B) Determine whether the process used by the brewery is as safe as
pasteurization and, if it is, issue the injunction against the agency.

(C) Refuse to adjudicate the merits of the suit at this time and stay the action

until the agency has actually issued beer quality standards.

(D) Refuse to adjudicate the merits of the suit, because it does not involve a

justiciable case or controversy.

 Question 28

As  part  of  a  comprehensive,  federal  aid-to-education  program,  Congress
included the following provisions as conditions for state receipt of federal
funds: (1) whenever textbooks are provided to students without charge, they
must  include  no  religious  instruction  and  must  be  made  available  on  the
same  terms  to  students  in  all  public  and  private  schools  accredited  by  the
state educational authority; (2) salary supplements can be paid to teachers in
public  and  private  schools,  up  to  10  percent  of  existing  salary  schedules,
where  present  compensation  is  less  than  the  average  salary  for  persons  of
comparable  training  and  experience,  provided  that  no  such  supplement  is
paid to any teacher who instructs in religious subjects; and (3) construction
grants can be made toward the cost of physical plant at private colleges and
universities, provided that no part of the grant is used for buildings in which
instruction in religious subject matters is offered.

A federal taxpayer challenges the construction grants to church-operated
private  colleges  and  universities.  The  most  likely  result  is  that  the
construction grants will be

 (A) sustained, because aid to one aspect of an institution of higher education
not shown to be pervasively sectarian does not necessarily free it to
spend its other resources for religious purposes.

(B) sustained, because bricks and mortar do not aid religion in a way
forbidden by the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
(C) held unconstitutional, because any financial aid to a church-operated

school strengthens the religious purposes of the institution.

(D) held unconstitutional, because the grants involve or cause an excessive

entanglement with religion.

 Question 29

The  governor  of  a  state  proposes  to  place  a  Christmas  nativity  scene,  the
components of which would be permanently donated to the state by private

324

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

citizens,  in  the  rotunda  of  the  state  capitol  building,  where  the  state
legislature  meets  annually.  The  governor  further  proposes  to  display  this
state-owned nativity scene annually from December 1 to December 31, next
to permanent displays that depict the various products manufactured in the
state. The governor's proposal is supported by all members of both houses
of the legislature.

If  challenged  in  a  lawsuit  on  Establishment  Clause  grounds,  the

proposed nativity scene display would be held

 (A) unconstitutional, because the components of the nativity scene would be

owned by the state rather than by private persons.

(B) unconstitutional, because the nativity scene would not be displayed in a
context that appeared to depict and commemorate the Christmas season
as a primarily secular holiday.

(C) constitutional, because the components of the nativity scene would be
donated to the state by private citizens rather than purchased with state
funds.

(D) constitutional, because the nativity scene would be displayed alongside

an exhibit of various products manufactured in the state.

 Question 30

A city owns and operates a large public auditorium. It leases the auditorium
to  any  group  that  wishes  to  use  it  for  a  meeting,  lecture,  concert,  or
convention.  Each  user  must  post  a  damage  deposit  and  pay  rent,  which  is
calculated  only  for  the  actual  time  the  building  is  used  by  the  lessee.
Reservations are made on a first-come, first-served basis.

A  private  organization  that  permits  only  males  to  serve  in  its  highest
offices  rented  the  auditorium  for  its  national  convention.  The  organization
planned to install its new officers at that convention. It broadly publicized
the  event,  inviting  members  of  the  general  public  to  attend  the  installation
ceremony at the city auditorium. No statute or administrative rule prohibits
the organization from restricting its highest offices to men. An appropriate
plaintiff sues the private organization seeking to enjoin it from using the city
auditorium  for  the  installation  of  its  new  officers.  The  sole  claim  of  the
plaintiff  is  that  the  use  of  this  auditorium  by  the  organization  for  the
installation  ceremony 
the  organization
disqualifies  women  from  serving  in  its  highest  offices.  Will  the  plaintiff
prevail?

is  unconstitutional  because 

325

 (A) Yes, because the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits such an organization
from discriminating against women in any of its activities to which it
has invited members of the general public.

(B) Yes, because the organization's use of the city auditorium for this

purpose subjects its conduct to the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

(C) No, because the freedom of association protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment prohibits the city from interfering in any way with the
organization's use of city facilities.

(D) No, because this organization is not a state actor and, therefore, its

activities are not subject to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 31

A  county  is  located  adjacent  to  the  border  of  a  neighboring  state.  The
communities  located  in  the  county  are  principally  suburbs  of  a  large  city
located  in  the  neighboring  state,  and  therefore  there  is  a  large  volume  of
traffic  between  that  city  and  the  county.  While  most  of  that  traffic  is  by
private passenger automobiles, some of it is by taxicabs and other kinds of
commercial vehicles.

A  county  ordinance,  the  stated  purpose  of  which  is  to  reduce  traffic
congestion, provides that only taxicabs registered in the county may pick up
or discharge passengers in the county. The ordinance also provides that only
residents  of  the  county  may  register  taxicabs  in  the  county.  Which  of  the
following  is  the  proper  result  in  a  suit  brought  by  taxicab  owners  who
reside in the city challenging the constitutionality of the county ordinance?

 (A) Judgment for the taxicab owners, because the fact that private passenger
automobiles contribute more to the traffic congestion problem in the
county than do taxicabs indicates that the ordinance is not a reasonable
means by which to solve that problem.

(B) Judgment for the taxicab owners, because the ordinance unduly burdens
interstate commerce by insulating county taxicab owners from out-of-
state competition without adequate justification.

(C) Judgment for the county, because the ordinance forbids taxicabs

registered in other counties of the state as well as in other states to
operate in the county and, therefore, it does not discriminate against
interstate commerce.

(D) Judgment for the county, because taxicab owners do not constitute a

suspect class and the ordinance is reasonably related to the legitimate

326

governmental purpose of reducing traffic congestion.

 Question 32

A city enacted an ordinance banning from its public sidewalks all machines
dispensing  publications  consisting  wholly  of  commercial  advertisements.
The ordinance was enacted because of a concern about the adverse aesthetic
effects  of  litter  from  publications  distributed  on  the  public  sidewalks  and
streets.  However,  the  city  continued  to  allow  machines  dispensing  other
types of publications on the public sidewalks. As a result of the ordinance,
30  of  the  300  sidewalk  machines  that  were  dispensing  publications  in  the
city were removed.

Is this ordinance constitutional?

 (A) Yes, because regulations of commercial speech are subject only to the

requirement that they be rationally related to a legitimate state goal, and
that requirement is satisfied here.

(B) Yes, because the city has a compelling interest in protecting the

aesthetics of its sidewalks and streets, and such a ban is necessary to
vindicate this interest.

(C) No, because it does not constitute the least restrictive means with which

to protect the aesthetics of the city's sidewalks and streets.

(D) No, because there is not a reasonable fit between the legitimate interest
of the city in preserving the aesthetics of its sidewalks and streets and
the means it chose to advance that interest.

 Question 33

A  barber  is  licensed  in  a  state  where  the  state  barber  licensing  statute
provides that the Barber Licensing Board may revoke a barber license if it
finds  that  a  licensee  has  used  his  or  her  business  premises  for  an  illegal
purpose.

The  barber  was  arrested  by  federal  narcotics  enforcement  agents  on  a
charge  of  selling  cocaine  in  his  barbershop  in  violation  of  federal  laws.
However,  the  local  U.S.  attorney  declined  to  prosecute  and  the  charges
were dropped.

Nevertheless,  the  Barber  Licensing  Board  commenced  a  proceeding
against  the  barber  to  revoke  his  license  on  the  ground  that  he  used  his
business  premises  for  illegal  sales  of  cocaine.  At  a  subsequent  hearing
before  the  board,  the  only  evidence  against  the  barber  was  affidavits  by

327

unnamed  informants,  who  were  not  present  or  available  for  cross-
examination.  Their  affidavits  stated  that  they  purchased  cocaine  from  the
barber  in  his  barbershop.  Based  solely  on  this  evidence,  the  board  found
that  the  barber  used  his  business  premises  for  an  illegal  purpose  and
ordered his license revoked.

In  a  suit  by  the  barber  to  have  this  revocation  set  aside,  his  best

constitutional argument is that

 (A) the barber's inability to cross-examine his accusers denied him a fair

hearing and caused him to be deprived of his barber license without due
process of law.

(B) the administrative license revocation proceeding was invalid, because
it denied full faith and credit to the dismissal of the criminal charges by
the U.S. attorney.

(C) Article III requires a penalty of the kind imposed on him to be imposed

by a court rather than an administrative agency.

(D) the existence of federal laws penalizing the illegal sale of cocaine

preempts state action relating to drug trafficking of the kind involved in
this case.

 Question 34

An attorney contracted for expensive cable television service for a period
of  six  months  solely  to  view  the  televised  trial  of  a  suspect,  who  was  on
trial for murder in a state court.

In the midst of the trial, the judge prohibited any further televising of the
suspect's trial because he concluded that the presence of television cameras
was disruptive.

The  attorney  brought  an  action  in  a  federal  district  court  against  the
judge in the suspect's case, asking only for an injunction that would require
the judge to resume the televising of the suspect's trial. The attorney alleged
that  the  judge's  order  to  stop  the  televising  of  the  suspect's  trial  deprived
him of property — his investment in cable television service — without due
process of law.

Before  the  attorney's  case  came  to  trial,  the  suspect's  criminal  trial
concluded  in  a  conviction  and  sentencing.  There  do  not  appear  to  be  any
obvious errors in the proceeding that led to the result in the suspect's case.
After the suspect's conviction and sentencing, the defendant in the attorney's
case moved to dismiss that suit.

The  most  proper  disposition  of  this  motion  by  the  federal  court  would

328

be to

 (A) defer action on the motion until after any appellate proceedings in the
suspect's case have concluded, because the suspect might appeal, his
conviction might be set aside, he might be tried again, and television
cameras might be barred from the new trial.

(B) defer action on the motion until after the state supreme court expresses a

view on its proper disposition, because the state law of mootness
governs suits in federal court when the federal case is inexorably
intertwined with a state proceeding.

(C) grant the motion, because the subject matter of the controversy between
the attorney and the suspect has ceased to exist and there is no strong
likelihood that it will be revived.

(D) deny the motion, because the attorney has raised an important

constitutional question: whether his investment in cable service solely
to view the suspect's trial is property protected by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 35

A state imposes a tax on the ‘‘income'' of each of its residents. As defined in
the taxing statute, ‘‘income'' includes the fair rental value of the use of any
automobile provided by the taxpayer's employer for the taxpayer's personal
use. The federal government supplies automobiles to some of its employees
who are resident in the state so that they may perform their jobs properly. A
federal government employee supplied with an automobile for this purpose
may also use it for the employee's own personal business.

Assume  there  is  no  federal  legislation  on  this  subject.  May  the  state
collect this tax on the fair rental value of the personal use of the automobiles
furnished by the federal government to these employees?

 (A) No, because such a tax would be a tax on the United States.
(B) No, because such a tax would be a tax upon activities performed on

behalf of the United States, since the automobiles are primarily used by
these federal employees in the discharge of their official duties.
(C) Yes, because the tax is imposed on the employees rather than on the

United States, and the tax does not discriminate against persons who are
employed by the United States.

(D) Yes, because an exemption from such state taxes for federal employees

would be a denial to others of the equal protection of the laws.

329

 Question 36

A city ordinance requires a taxicab operator's license to operate a taxicab in
the city. The ordinance states that the sole criteria for the issuance of such a
license are driving ability and knowledge of the geography of the city. An
applicant  is  tested  by  the  city  for  these  qualifications  with  a  detailed
questionnaire,  written  and  oral  examinations,  and  a  practical  behind-the-
wheel demonstration.

The ordinance does not limit the number of licenses that may be issued.
It does, however, allow any citizen to file an objection to the issuance of a
particular license, but only on the ground that an applicant does not possess
the  required  qualifications.  City  licensing  officials  are  also  authorized  by
the  ordinance  to  determine,  in  their  discretion,  whether  to  hold  an
evidentiary hearing on an objection before issuing a license.

An applicant applied for a taxicab operator's license and was found to
be  fully  qualified  after  completing  the  usual  licensing  process.  Her  name
was  then  posted  as  a  prospective  licensee,  subject  only  to  the  objection
process. A licensed taxicab driver filed an objection to the issuance of such
a license to the applicant solely on the ground that the grant of a license to
the applicant would impair the value of his taxicab driver's existing license.
The driver demanded a hearing before a license was issued to the applicant
so  that  he  could  have  an  opportunity  to  prove  his  claim.  City  licensing
officials  refused  to  hold  such  a  hearing,  and  they  issued  a  license  to  the
applicant.  The  taxicab  driver  has  now  petitioned  for  review  of  this  action
by  city  officials  in  an  ap-propriate  court,  alleging  that  the  Constitution
requires  city  licensing  officials  to  grant  his  request  for  a  hearing  before
issuing a license to the applicant.

In this case, the court should rule for

 (A) The taxicab driver, because the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment requires all persons whose property may be adversely
affected by governmental action to be given an opportunity for a hearing
before such action occurs.

(B) The taxicab driver, because the determination of whether to hold a
hearing may not constitutionally be left to the discretion of the same
officials whose action is being challenged.

(C) The city officials, because the taxicab driver had the benefit of the

licensing ordinance and, therefore, may not now question actions taken
under it.

(D) The city officials, because the licensing ordinance does not give the

330

taxicab driver any property interest in being free of competition from
additional licensees.

 Question 37

Current  national  statistics  show  a  dramatic  increase  in  the  number  of
elementary  and  secondary  school  students  bringing  controlled  substances
(drugs)  to  school  for  personal  use  or  distribution  to  others.  In  response,
Congress  enacted  a  statute  requiring  each  state  legislature  to  enact  a  state
law that makes it a state crime for any person to possess, use, or distribute,
within  1,000  feet  of  any  elementary  or  secondary  school,  any  controlled
substance  that  has  previously  been  transported  in  interstate  commerce  and
that  is  not  possessed,  used,  or  distributed  pursuant  to  a  proper  physician's
prescription.

This federal statute is

 (A) unconstitutional, because Congress has no authority to require a state

legislature to enact any specified legislation.

(B) unconstitutional, because the possession, use, or distribution, in close

proximity to a school, of a controlled substance that has previously been
transported in interstate commerce does not have a sufficiently close
nexus to such commerce to justify its regulation by Congress.

(C) constitutional, because it contains a jurisdictional provision that will

ensure, on a case-by-case basis, that any particular controlled substance
subject to the terms of this statute will, in fact, affect interstate
commerce.

(D) constitutional, because Congress possesses broad authority under both
the General Welfare Clause and the Commerce Clause to regulate any
activities affecting education that also have, in inseverable aggregates, a
substantial effect on interstate commerce.

 Question 38

Congress enacts a criminal statute prohibiting ‘‘any person from interfering
in  any  way  with  any  right  conferred  on  another  person  by  the  equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.''

Application  of  this  statute  to  a  private  citizen,  would  be  most  clearly

constitutional if the citizen, with threats of violence, coerces

 (A) a public school teacher to exclude black pupils from her class, solely

331

because of their race.

(B) black pupils, solely because of their race, to refrain from attending a

privately owned and operated school licensed by the state.

(C) the bus driver operating a free school bus service under the sponsorship
of a local church to refuse to allow black pupils on the bus, solely
because of their race.

(D) the federal office in charge of distributing certain federal benefits
directly to students from distributing them to black pupils, solely
because of their race.

 Question 39

The vaccination of children against childhood contagious diseases (such as
measles, diphtheria, and whooping cough) has traditionally been a function
of  private  doctors  and  local  and  state  health  departments.  Because
vaccination  rates  have  declined  in  recent  years,  especially  in  urban  areas,
the  President  proposes  to  appoint  a  Presidential  Advisory  Commission  on
Vaccination,  which  would  be  charged  with  conducting  a  national  publicity
campaign to encourage vaccination as a public health measure. No federal
statute authorizes or prohibits this action by the president. The activities of
the  Presidential  Advisory  Commission  on  Vaccination  would  be  financed
entirely from funds appropriated by Congress to the office of the president
for ‘‘such other purposes as the President may think appropriate.''

May  the  President  constitutionally  create  such  a  commission  for  this

purpose?

 (A) Yes, because the President has plenary authority to provide for the
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the United States.
(B) Yes, because this action is within the scope of executive authority
vested in the President by the Constitution, and no federal statute
prohibits it.

(C) No, because the protection of children against common diseases by

vaccination is a traditional state function and, therefore, is reserved to
the states by the Tenth Amendment.

(D) No, because Congress has not specifically authorized the creation and

support of such a new federal agency.

 Question 40

Congress enacts a statute punishing ‘‘each and every conspiracy entered into
by  any  two  or  more  persons  for  the  purpose  of  denying  black  persons

332

housing,  employment,  or  education,  solely  because  of  their  race.''  Under
which of the following constitutional provisions is the authority of Congress
to pass such a statute most clearly and easily justifiable?

 (A) The obligation of Contracts Clause.
(B) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, Section 8.
(C) The Thirteenth Amendment.
(D) The Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 41

An independent municipal water-supply district was incorporated under the
applicable laws of a state. The district was created solely to supply water
to an entirely new community in a recently developed area of the state. That
new community is racially, ethnically, and socioeconomically diverse, and
the community has never engaged in any discrimination against members of
minority groups.

The  five-member,  elected  governing  board  of  the  newly  created  water
district contains two persons who are members of racial minority groups. At
its  first  meeting,  the  governing  board  of  the  water  district  adopted  a  rule
unqualifiedly  setting  aside  25  percent  of  all  positions  on  the  staff  of  the
district  and  25  percent  of  all  contracts  to  be  awarded  by  the  district  to
members  of  racial  minority  groups.  The  purpose  of  the  rule  was  ‘‘to  help
redress the historical discrimination against these groups in this country and
to  help  them  achieve  economic  parity  with  other  groups  in  our  society.''
Assume  that  no  federal  statute  applies.  A  suit  by  appropriate  parties
challenges  the  constitutionality  of  these  set-asides.  In  this  suit,  the  most
appropriate ruling on the basis of applicable United States Supreme Court
precedent would be that the set-asides are

 (A) unconstitutional, because they would deny other potential employees or

potential contractors the equal protection of the laws.

(B) unconstitutional, because they would impermissibly impair the right to

contract of other potential employees or potential contractors.

(C) constitutional, because they would assure members of racial minority

groups the equal protection of the laws.

(D) constitutional, because the function and activities of the water district
are of a proprietary nature rather than a governmental nature and,
therefore, are not subject to the usual requirements of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

333

 Question 42

A  state  legislature  enacts  a  statute  that  it  believes  reconciles  the  state's
interest  in  the  preservation  of  human  life  with  a  woman's  right  to
reproductive  choice.  That  statute  permits  a  woman  to  have  an  abortion  on
demand during the first trimester of pregnancy but prohibits a woman from
having  an  abortion  after  that  time  unless  her  physician  determines  that  the
abortion is necessary to protect the woman's life or health.

If  challenged  on  constitutional  grounds  in  an  appropriate  court,  this

statute will probably be held

 (A) constitutional, because the state has made a rational policy choice that
creates an equitable balance between the compelling state interest in
protecting fetal life and the fundamental right of a woman to
reproductive choice.

(B) constitutional, because recent rulings by the United States Supreme

Court indicate that after the first trimester a fetus may be characterized
as a person whose right to life is protected by the Due Process Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) unconstitutional, because the state has, without adequate justification,
placed an undue burden on the fundamental right of a woman to
reproductive choice prior to fetal viability.

(D) unconstitutional, because a statute unqualifiedly permitting abortion at
one stage of pregnancy, and denying it at another with only minor
exceptions, establishes an arbitrary classification in violation of the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Question 43

Congress enacts a law providing that all disagreements between the United
States  and  a  state  over  federal  grant-in-aid  funds  shall  be  settled  by  the
filing  of  a  suit  in  the  federal  district  court  in  the  affected  state.  ‘‘The
judgment of that federal court shall be transmitted to the head of the federal
agency dispensing such funds, who, if satisfied that the judgment is fair and
lawful, shall execute the judgment according to its terms.'' This law is

 (A) constitutional, because disagreements over federal grant-in-aid funds
necessarily involve federal questions within the judicial power of the
United States.

(B) constitutional, because the spending of federal monies necessarily

334

includes the authority to provide for the effective settlement of disputes
involving them.

(C) unconstitutional, because it vests authority in the federal court to
determine a matter prohibited to it by the Eleventh Amendment.
(D) unconstitutional, because it vests authority in a federal court to render

an advisory opinion.

 Question 44

The president of the United States recognizes a new country and undertakes
diplomatic relations with its government through the secretary of state. The
country is governed by a repressive totalitarian government.

In  an  appropriate  federal  court,  a  researcher  brings  a  suit  against  the
president and the secretary of state to set aside this action on the ground that
it  is  inconsistent  with  the  principles  of  our  constitutional  form  of
government.  The  researcher  has  a  lucrative  contract  with  the  U.S.
Department of Commerce to provide commercial information about the new
country.  The  contract  expressly  terminates,  however,  ‘‘when  the  president
recognizes  the  new  country  and  undertakes  diplomatic  relations  with  its
government.'' Which of the following is the most proper disposition of the
researcher's suit by federal court?

 (A) Suit dismissed, because the researcher does not have standing to bring

this action.

(B) Suit dismissed, because there is no adversity between the researcher

and the defendants.

(C) Suit dismissed, because it presents a non-justiciable political question.
(D) Suit decided on the merits.

 Question 45

A  generally  applicable  state  statute  requires  an  autopsy  by  the  county
coroner  in  all  cases  of  death  that  are  not  obviously  of  natural  causes.  The
purpose of this law is to ensure the discovery and prosecution of all illegal
activity resulting in death. In the 50 years since its enactment, the statute has
been consistently enforced.

A  man's  parents  are  sincere  practicing  members  of  a  religion  that
maintains it is essential for a deceased person's body to be buried promptly
and  without  any  invasive  procedures,  including  an  autopsy.  When  the  man
died of mysterious causes and an autopsy was scheduled, his parents filed

335

an action in state court challenging the constitutionality of the state statute,
and seeking an injunction prohibiting the county coroner from performing an
autopsy on their son's body. In this action, the parents claimed only that the
application  of  this  statute  in  the  circumstances  of  their  son's  death  would
violate their right to the free exercise of religion as guaranteed by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. Assume that no federal statutes are applicable.
As applied to the parents' case, the court should rule that the state's autopsy
statute is

 (A) constitutional, because a dead individual is not a person protected by

the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(B) constitutional, because it is a generally applicable statute and is

rationally related to a legitimate state purpose.

(C) unconstitutional, because it is not necessary to vindicate a compelling

state interest.

(D) unconstitutional, because it is not substantially related to an important

state interest.

 Question 46

A federal statute appropriated $7 million for a nationwide essay contest on
‘‘How the United States Can Best Stop Drug Abuse.'' The statute indicates
that  its  purpose  is  to  generate  new,  practical  ideas  for  eliminating  drug
abuse in the United States.

Contest rules set forth in the statute provide that winning essays are to
be selected on the basis of the ‘‘originality, aptness, and feasibility of their
ideas.''  The  statute  expressly  authorizes  a  first  prize  of  $1  million,  50
second  prizes  of  $100,000  each,  and  100  third  prizes  of  $10,000  each.  It
also states that judges for the contest are to be appointed by the president of
the  United  States  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate,  and  that  all
residents  of  the  United  States  who  are  not  employees  of  the  federal
government  are  eligible  to  enter  and  win  the  contest.  A  provision  of  the
statute  authorizes  any  taxpayer  of  the  United  States  to  challenge  its
constitutionality.  In  a  suit  by  a  federal  taxpayer  to  challenge  the
constitutionality of the statute, the court should

 (A) refuse to decide its merits, because the suit involves policy questions

that are inherently political and, therefore, non-justiciable.

(B) hold the statute unconstitutional, because it does not provide sufficient

guidelines for awarding the prize money appropriated by Congress and,

336

therefore, unconstitutionally delegates legislative power to the contest
judges.

(C) hold the statute unconstitutional, because its relationship to legitimate
purposes of the spending power of Congress is too tenuous and
conjectural to satisfy the Necessary and Proper Clause of Article I.
(D) hold the statute constitutional, because it is reasonably related to the

general welfare, it states concrete objectives, and it provides adequate
criteria for conducting the essay contest and awarding the prize money.

 Question 47

A  senator  makes  a  speech  on  the  floor  of  the  U.S.  Senate  in  which  she
asserts  that  a  federal  civil  servant  with  minor  responsibilities  was  twice
convicted of fraud by the courts in his home state. In making this assertion,
the senator relied wholly on research done by her chief legislative assistant.
In fact, it was a different man of the same name, and not the civil servant,
who  was  convicted  of  these  crimes  in  the  state  court  proceedings.  This
mistake was the result of carelessness on the legislative assistant's part.

No  legislation  affecting  the  appointment  or  discipline  of  civil  servants
or the program of the federal agency for which the civil servant works was
under consideration at the time the senator made her speech about him on the
floor  of  the  Senate.  The  civil  servant  sues  the  senator  and  his  legislative
assistant for defamation. Both defendants move to dismiss the complaint. As
a matter of constitutional law, the court hearing this motion should

 (A) grant it as to the legislative assistant, because he is protected by the

freedom of speech guarantee against defamation actions by government
officials based on his mere carelessness; but deny it as to the senator,
because, as an officer of the United States, she is a constituent part of
the government and, therefore, has no freedom of speech rights in that
capacity.

(B) grant it as to both defendants, because the senator is immune to suit for
any speech she makes in the Senate under the Speech or Debate Clause
of Article I, Section 6, and his legislative assistant may assert the
senator's immunity for his assistance to her in preparing the speech.
(C) deny it as to both defendants, because any immunity of the senator under
the Speech or Debate Clause does not attach to a speech that is not
germane to pending legislative business, and the legislative assistant is
entitled to no greater immunity than the legislator he was assisting.
(D) deny it as to the legislative assistant, because he is not a legislator

337

protected by the Speech or Debate Clause; but grant it as to the senator,
because she is immune from suit for her speech by virtue of that clause.

 Question 48

Three states are located next to one another, from west to east. The farthest
east and farthest west of the states permit the hunting and trapping of snipe,
but the state between them strictly forbids it in order to protect snipe, a rare
species of animal, from extinction. The state in the middle has a state statute
that provides, ‘‘Possession of snipe traps is prohibited. Any game warden
finding a snipe trap within the state shall seize and destroy it.'' Snipe traps
cost about $15 each.

A  hunter  is  a  resident  of  the  westernmost  of  the  three  states  and  is  an
ardent  snipe  trapper.  She  drove  her  car  to  the  easternmost  of  the  states  to
purchase  a  new,  improved  snipe  trap  from  a  manufacturer  there.  In  the
course of her trip back across the middle state with the trap in her car, she
stopped in a state park to camp for a few nights. While she was in the park,
a state game warden saw the trap, which was visible on the front seat of her
car.  The  warden  seized  the  trap  and  destroyed  it  in  accordance  with  the
middle  state's  statute  after  the  hunter  admitted  that  the  seized  item  was  a
prohibited  snipe  trap.  No  federal  statutes  or  other  federal  administrative
regulations apply. The hunter challenges the application of the middle state's
statute  to  her.  She  demonstrates  to  the  court  that  common  carriers  are
permitted  to  transport  snipe  traps  as  cargo  across  the  middle  state  for
delivery  to  another  state  and  that  in  practice,  the  middle  state's  statute  is
enforced only against private individuals transporting those traps in private
vehicles.  If  the  hunter's  challenge  is  based  only  on  a  theory  of  denial  of
equal protection, this application of the statute will probably be found

 (A) constitutional, because the traps constitute contraband in which the

hunter could have no protected property interest.

(B) constitutional, because there is a rational basis for differentiating

between the possession of snipe traps as interstate cargo by common
carriers and the possession of snipe traps by private individuals.
(C) unconstitutional, because the state cannot demonstrate a compelling

public purpose for making this differentiation between common carriers
and such private individuals.

(D) unconstitutional, because interstate travel is a fundamental right that may

not be burdened by state law.

338

 Question 49

Until  1954,  a  state  required  segregation  in  all  public  and  private  schools,
but  all  public  schools  are  now  desegregated.  Other  state  laws,  enacted
before  1954  and  continuing  to  the  present,  provide  for  free  distribution  to
all public and private schools of particular textbooks on secular subjects for
use  by  students  in  those  schools;  the  same  textbooks  are  distributed  to  the
two  types  of  schools.  In  addition,  the  state  accredits  schools  and  certifies
teachers.

A private school that offers elementary and secondary education in the

state denies admission to all non-Caucasians.

Which  of 

the  following 

the
constitutionality  of  free  distribution  of  textbooks  for  use  by  the  students  at
the private school?

the  strongest  argument  against 

is 

 (A) No legitimate educational function is served by the free distribution of

the textbooks.

(B) The state may not in any way aid private schools.
(C) The Constitution forbids private bias of any kind.
(D) Segregation is furthered by the distribution of textbooks to these

students.

 Question 50

A  mathematician  was  hired  as  an  assistant  professor  of  mathematics  at  a
state  college  and  is  now  in  his  third  consecutive  one-year  contract.  Under
state  law  he  cannot  acquire  tenure  until  after  five  consecutive  annual
contracts. In his third year, the mathematician was notified that he was not
being rehired for the following year. Applicable state law and college rules
did not require either a statement of reasons or a hearing, and in fact neither
was offered to him.

Which  of  the  following,  if  established,  sets  forth  the  strongest
constitutional argument the mathematician could make to compel the college
to  furnish  him  a  statement  of  reasons  for  the  failure  to  rehire  him  and  an
opportunity for a hearing?

 (A) There is no evidence that tenured teachers are any more qualified than

he is.

(B) He leased a home in reliance on an oral promise of reemployment by

the college president.

339

(C) He was the only teacher at the college whose contract was not renewed

that year.

(D) In the expectation of remaining at the college, he had just moved his

elderly parents to the town in which the college is located.

 Question 51

A city passed an ordinance requiring individuals to obtain a license in order
to care for children under the age of 12 for pay. To receive such a license,
the ordinance required the individuals to complete ten hours of instruction in
child care, undergo a background check, and pay a $100 fee. The ordinance
affected  women  disproportionately  to  men,  because  female  babysitters  far
out-numbered male babysitters in the city. City officials who promoted the
measure  said  that  the  certification  process  would  ensure  that  babysitters
were adequately regulated for the health and safety of the city's children.

Is the ordinance constitutional?

 (A) No, because it has a disparate impact on women without a showing that
the ordinance is necessary to advance a compelling government interest.
(B) No, because it infringes on the freedom of contract without a compelling

government interest.

(C) Yes, because any burden it imposes is clearly outweighed by an

important government objective.

(D) Yes, because it is rationally related to a legitimate government

objective.

 Question 52

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100
cars  had  to  ensure  that  at  least  10  percent  of  those  cars  were  electric
powered.

A city filed suit in federal district court against the federal official who
enforced  this  requirement.  The  city  sought  an  injunction  prohibiting
enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Should the court grant the injunction?

 (A) No, because the statute is valid under the Commerce Clause and does

not violate the Tenth Amendment.

(B) No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot

be sued without its explicit consent.

340

(C) Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under

the Tenth Amendment.

(D) Yes, because as applied to state and local governments, the statute

exceeds Congress's power under the Commerce Clause.

341

ANSWERS

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

342

ANSWERS

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

 Answer 1

 (A) is the best response,

because this choice correctly states the test for strict scrutiny, which the
statute will have to survive.

The  woman's  suit  would  be  brought  on  a  substantive  due  process
theory. The Supreme Court held in Zablocki v. Redhail, 434 U.S. 374
(1978),  that  marriage  is  a  “fundamental  right”  for  substantive  due
process purposes. That case, like the fact pattern here, involved a state
statute  making  a  marriage  license  conditional  upon  the  payment  of  all
court-ordered  child  support.  The  Court  concluded  that  the  statute
“substantially”  interfered  with  this  fundamental  right  of  marriage,
triggering  strict  scrutiny  of  the  statute.  When  a  statute  is  strictly
scrutinized, the defender of the statute (here, the state) bears the burden
of proving that the law is necessary to serve a compelling governmental
interest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not represent the correct test for strict scrutiny.

The  statute  here  substantially  interferes  with  the  right  to  marry,
which  the  Supreme  Court  has  found  to  be  a  fundamental  right,  as
discussed in Choice A. Where a fundamental right is being substantially
interfered with, the statute will be strictly scrutinized by the court. The
standard recited in this choice — “substantially related to an important
government interest” — is not the strict scrutiny standard, but is rather
the  standard  for  mid-level  review,  used,  for  example,  in  equal
protection cases involving gender classifications.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it does not represent the correct test for strict scrutiny.

The  statute  here  substantially  interferes  with  the  right  to  marry,
which  the  Supreme  Court  has  found  to  be  a  fundamental  right.  Any
substantial interference with a fundamental right triggers strict judicial

343

scrutiny. In strict scrutiny, the burden of proof is placed on the defender
of the statute, not on the person attacking it. Since this choice imposes
the burden of proof on the woman (the person attacking the statute), it
cannot correctly state the strict scrutiny standard.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not represent the correct test for strict scrutiny.

The  statute  here  substantially  interferes  with  the  right  to  marry,
which  the  Supreme  Court  has  found  to  be  a  fundamental  right.  Any
substantial interference with a fundamental right triggers strict judicial
scrutiny. In strict scrutiny, the burden of proof is placed on the defender
of the statute, not on the person attacking it. Like Choice C, this choice
imposes  the  burden  of  proof  on  the  person  attacking  the  statute,  so  it
cannot correctly state the strict scrutiny standard.

 Answer 2

 (C) is the best response,

because  rental  activities  have  a  substantial  effect  on  interstate
commerce.

in  her  owner-occupied  house,  an  essentially 

Congress of course has the power to “regulate commerce . . . among
the several states.” But the issue raised by this choice is that Congress
has  attempted  to  prohibit  sexual-orientation  discrimination  by  “any
person,”  in  connection  with  any  residential  property,  no  matter  how
local  the  transaction.  For  instance,  the  statute  would  apply  to  one
private individual's refusal, on sexual-orientation grounds, to rent out a
room 
intrastate
transaction.  But  the  Supreme  Court  has  long  held  that  even  purely
intrastate  commercial  acts  may  be  regulated  under  the  commerce
power, if such intrastate acts, taken in the aggregate, have a substantial
effect on interstate commerce. For instance, in Wickard v. Filburn, 317
U.S. 111 (1942), the Court famously held that Congress could regulate
the amount of wheat that could be grown by a farmer, even where all of
the wheat would be consumed by the farmer's family rather than sold —
home-grown wheat competed with wheat sold in interstate commerce,
so the home-growing taken in the aggregate had a substantial effect on
interstate  commerce.  Here,  similarly,  rentals  of  single  rooms  even  in
local transactions are commercial activities that collectively affect the
interstate market for accommodations, and may thus be regulated under

344

the commerce power.

 (A) is not the best response,

because Congress is attempting to regulate purely private conduct.

The Enforcement Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is § 5, which
gives  Congress  “power  to  enforce  [this  Amendment]  by  appropriate
legislation.”  But  the  entire  Fourteenth  Amendment  limits  only  “state
action,” that is, conduct by state and local governments rather than by
private  individuals.  Consequently,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that
Congress's § 5 enforcement power, too, applies only where Congress is
regulating state action rather than purely private conduct. See, e.g., U.S.
v. Morrison, 529 U.S. 598 (2000), where the Court held that Congress
could not use its § 5 enforcement powers to regulate gender-motivated
violence  against  women  committed  by  private  persons.  Here,  since
Congress is purporting to prohibit purely private discrimination based
on  sexual  orientation,  Congress  cannot  use  its  Fourteenth  Amendment
enforcement powers to do so.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the Article IV Privileges and Immunities Clause does not serve
as a source of congressional power.

The  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  Article  IV  prohibits  any
state from engaging in certain types of discrimination against citizens of
other states. It is not a source of congressional power.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  General  Welfare  Clause  is  not  a  free-standing  source  of
congressional power.

It's  true  that  Article  I,  §  8,  cl.  1,  gives  power  to  Congress  in
connection with the “general welfare” of the United States. But this is
not  a  grant  of  free-standing  congressional  power.  Rather,  the  clause
gives  Congress  the  power  to  tax  and  spend  for  the  purpose  of
achieving  the  general  welfare.  So  where  all  Congress  is  doing  is  to
regulate, rather than to tax and spend, the General Welfare Clause does
not act as a source of authority.

 Answer 3

345

 
(C) is the best response,

because  the  statute  criminalized  conduct  that  took  place  before  the
statute's enactment.

Article I, § 10 of the Constitution prohibits the states from passing
any “ex post facto Law.” An ex post facto law is a law that imposes a
punishment for an act that, at the time it occurred, was not punishable.
That's  what  the  state  is  doing  here,  by  prosecuting  the  principal  for
actions he took before the new statute was enacted. (The statute would
not pose an ex post facto problem if it were applied to actions taken by
a state employee after the date of the statute's enactment.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  restriction  would  only  have  to  pass  “mere  rationality”
review to be valid under the Due Process Clause.

The  principal  would  indeed  have  a  plausible  due  process  claim,
since he has been deprived of a liberty interest, namely, his freedom to
give  schooling  to  certain  people.  But  not  all  governmentally  imposed
restrictions  on  liberty  violate  the  Due  Process  Clause.  Where  the
liberty  interest  being  restricted  is  not  a  “fundamental”  one,  the
government  may  infringe  on  it  without  violating  the  Due  Process
Clause,  as  long  as  the  means  chosen  is  rationally  related  to  the
fulfillment of a legitimate state objective, an easy-to-satisfy test. There
is no reason to believe that a person's right to help others get schooling
is  a  “fundamental”  interest  for  due  process  purposes.  The  state  has  a
very  plausible  argument  that  it  is  pursuing  a  “legitimate”  interest
(keeping  its  employees  from  aiding  and  abetting  violations  of  U.S.
immigration  law),  and  that  the  means  it  has  chosen  are  at  least
rationally related to the achievement of this objective. It is not certain
that this argument will be victorious, but the principal is far more likely
to lose with this due process argument than with the ex post facto claim
covered by choice C.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  law  does  not  create  a  suspect  classification  or  burden  a
fundamental right.

The  state  has  indeed  made  a  classification  —  it  treats  state
employees  who  facilitate  the  schooling  of  known  illegal  immigrants
differently  from  non-state-employees  who  do  the  same  thing.  So  the
principal  has  at  least  a  plausible  equal  protection  claim.  But  unless  a

346

governmental classification either involves a suspect class, or burdens
an  interest  that  is  deemed  fundamental  for  equal  protection  purposes,
the classification is subject only to the easy-to-satisfy mere-rationality
standard:  it  just  has  to  be  rationally  related  to  the  achievement  of  a
legitimate  state  objective.  The  classification  scheme  here  —  which
treats  state  employees  differently  from  all  other  people  —  does  not
create  a  suspect  class  (as,  say,  a  classification  based  on  race  or
national  origin  would  do).  Nor  does  the  classification  burden  any
fundamental right, since neither the right to be a state employee nor the
right  to  help  others  become  educated  has  ever  been  found  to  be
fundamental for equal protection purposes. So the principal will have
to  show  either  that  the  state  is  not  pursuing  a  legitimate  governmental
interest, or that the means the state has chosen is not rationally related
to such an interest. The principal probably cannot make either of these
showings:  The  state's  interest  in  not  making  it  easier  for  immigration-
violators to remain in the country is probably at least “legitimate,” and
a  ban  on  state  employees'  rendering  educational  assistance  to  such
violators is probably at least rationally related to the fulfillment of that
interest. The principal's equal protection argument is not certain to fail,
but  it  is  clearly  a  weaker  argument  than  the  ex  post  facto  argument
covered by choice C.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because the case does not involve any right of national citizenship, and
is thus not covered by the Privileges or Immunities Clause.

regulating,  or  even  forbidding,  that  speech  inThe  Fourteenth
Amendment's  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  prevents  a  state  from
impairing certain rights held by U.S. citizens. But the clause has always
been  interpreted  to  protect  only  certain  rights  of  “national,”  as
opposed to state, citizenship. The list of rights protected by the clause
is a very short one, essentially limited to the right to travel from state to
state and to relocate to a new state without penalty, the right to vote in
national  elections,  and  a  few  other  narrowly-defined  rights.  The
principal  would  have  to  show  that  his  “right”  to  help  others  gain  an
education was covered by the clause. But the right to help others obtain
an education is certainly not a right of “national” citizenship of the sort
that  would  be  found  to  be  protected  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment's
Privileges or Immunities Clause.

347

 
Answer 4

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  bill  does  not  single  out  a  named  person  or  easily-
ascertained group.

A bill of attainder is a legislative act that applies either to named
individuals  or  to  easily-ascertainable  members  of  a  group,  in  such  a
way  as  to  inflict  punishment  on  them  without  a  judicial  trial.  U.S.  v.
Lovett, 328 U.S. 303 (1946). Since the statute here makes it a crime for
anyone  to  engage  in  the  forbidden  distribution,  it  does  not  single  out
named 
individuals  or  easily-ascertained  members  of  a  group.
Therefore, it is not a bill of attainder.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  statute  fails  to  give  individuals  reasonable  notice  of
whether their conduct would or would not violate the statute.

A  statute  will  be  held  void  for  vagueness  if  the  conduct  that  it
forbids is so unclearly defined that persons of reasonable intelligence
must  necessarily  guess  at  its  meaning.  The  idea  is  that  a  statute  is
unconstitutionally  vague  if  it  does  not  give  fair  notice  of  the  dividing
line between forbidden and non-forbidden behavior. Given that the term
“seditious propaganda” is not defined in the statute, and its meaning is
non-obvious,  the  statute  indeed  fails  to  give  fair  notice  of  what  is
forbidden. Therefore, this choice is not an inaccurate description of the
law.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  letter  carriers  fall  within  the  federal  immunity  from  state
regulation.

The federal government is essentially immune from state regulatory
interference. A federal employee is also immune from state regulation
that  would  substantially  interfere  with  his  ability  to  carry  out  his
officially-authorized  functions.  Since  the  letter  carriers  are,  when
delivering  foreign  propaganda  to  the  addressee,  carrying  out  their
authorized  federal  functions,  the  carriers  are  immune  from  a  state
prosecution  that  would  interfere  with  those  deliveries.  Therefore,  this
choice is not an inaccurate description of the law.

348

 
(D) is not the best response,

because the state law violates the free-speech rights of the addressees
and the letter carriers.

Core  political  speech  is  especially  rigorously  protected  under  the
First  Amendment  (as  made  applicable  to  the  states  by  the  Fourteenth
Amendment).  Even  speech  advocating  force  or  crime  may  not  be
forbidden  on  the  grounds  that  it  is  subversive,  unless  the  government
proves  that  (1)  the  speech  is  intended  to  incite  or  produce  imminent
lawless action; and (2) such imminent lawless action is in fact likely to
occur.  Brandenburg  v.  Ohio,  395  U.S.  444  (1969).  There  is  no
indication here that the state government has succeeded in making either
of these showings as to the letter carriers. Therefore, this choice is an
accurate description of the state law, making it not the best choice.

 Answer 5

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  the  standard  for  judging  non-content-based
restrictions on speech.

Where  a  regulation  has  a  significant 

impact  on  protected
expression,  but  is  “content  neutral”  (i.e.,  not  related  to  the  message
being communicated), the regulation is subject to mid-level review: It
must  be  “narrowly  tailored”  to  further  a  “significant  governmental
interest.”  Clark  v.  Community  For  Creative  Non-Violence,  468  U.S.
288  (1984).  The  protester's  conduct  in  setting  the  fire  receives  First
Amendment protection, because he was intending to deliver a message
(a protest), and the audience was likely to understand that message. But
the statute here is content-neutral: All setting of fires in public buildings
is prohibited, regardless of the content of any message being delivered
by  the  fire-setter.  So  the  “narrowly  tailored  to  further  a  significant
governmental interest” standard is the applicable standard. (It is highly
likely that the ban here satisfies this mid-level standard, since there is
obviously  a  significant  governmental  interest  in  avoiding  the  danger
posed  by  fires  in  public  buildings,  and  a  ban  on  intentionally  setting
such fires is a narrowly tailored means of avoiding this danger.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  states  a  correct  premise,  it  draws  an  incorrect
conclusion from that premise.

349

It's true that the protester's conduct in setting the fire receives First
Amendment protection, because he was intending to deliver a message
(a protest), and the audience was likely to understand that message. But
the  mere  fact  that  a  person  is  exercising  free  speech  does  not
automatically  prevent  the  government  from  regulating,  or  even
forbidding,  that  speech  in  particular  circumstances.  As  explained
further  in  Choice  D  above,  where  the  government  restricts  speech  but
does so in a content-neutral way, the restriction will be valid as long as
it  is  narrowly  tailored  to  further  a  significant  governmental  interest.
Since  this  choice  suggests  that  the  restriction  is  automatically  invalid
merely  because  it  restricts  the  protester's  exercise  of  his  right  to  free
speech, the choice is incorrect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it draws a legally incorrect conclusion from a correctly-stated
fact.

It's of course true that the protester owned the copy of the material
being  burned.  But  it  certainly  does  not  follow  from  this  fact  that  the
burning  “did  not  infringe  upon  a  legitimate  government  interest.”  The
government  has  a  substantial  interest  in  avoiding  dangerous  fires  in
public  places,  and  that  interest  applies  whether  or  not  the  materials
being burned belonged to the burner. Since the anti-burning restriction
here is content-neutral (it does not depend on the particular message, if
any, being communicated by the burning), the restriction will be upheld
even though it significantly infringes speech, as long as the restriction is
narrowly tailored to achieve a substantial governmental interest. Note
that not only does this choice incorrectly assert that the burning didn't
infringe  on  a  legitimate  governmental  interest,  but  the  choice  also
incorrectly  asserts  that  the  governmental  interest  must  merely  be
“legitimate” — for content-neutral restrictions that significantly infringe
on  protected  speech,  the  governmental  interest  being  pursued  must  be
“substantial,” not just “legitimate.”

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is based on an irrelevant distinction.

It is of course true that the protester's act of burning the code was
“conduct,”  not  pure  speech.  But  the  conduct/speech  distinction  is
essentially irrelevant in First Amendment law: If conduct is motivated
by  an  intent  to  communicate  a  message  (and  the  audience  is  likely  to

350

understand  the  message),  the  conduct  receives  First  Amendment
protection.  However,  even  conduct  that  receives  First  Amendment
protection because it is communicative may nonetheless be subjected to
significant  governmental  restriction;  where  the  restriction  is  content
neutral,  the  restriction  will  be  upheld  if  it  is  narrowly  tailored  to
achieve  a  significant  governmental  interest.  Since  this  choice  asserts
that  the  protester  automatically  loses  because  his  code-burning  was
conduct rather than speech, it is incorrect as a matter of law.

 Answer 6

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the state-action issue.

The  professor's  suit  would  have  to  have  been  based  on  the  First
Amendment,  as  made  applicable  to  the  states  by  means  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment's  Due  Process  Clause.  The  Fourteenth
Amendment  applies  only  where  there  is  “state  action,”  that  is,  some
sort  of  participation  in  the  challenged  action  by  a  state  or  local
government  entity.  So  purely  private  action  cannot  be  the  basis  for  a
First Amendment or Fourteenth Amendment claim. Here, the university
whose conduct is alleged to have violated the professor's free-speech
rights is a private university. Unless the state has somehow participated
in that conduct, the absence of state action will automatically defeat the
professor's  claim.  The  mere  fact  that  a  substantial  portion  of  the
university's operating budget comes from state funds is not sufficient to
cause  the  university's  conduct  to  be  deemed  state  action.  See,  e.g.,
Rendell-Baker  v.  Kohn,  457  U.S.  830  (1982)  (even  though  a  private
high  school  received  public  funds  amounting  to  90%  of  the  school's
budget,  this  was  not  enough  to  transform  the  school's  employment
decisions into state action).

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is wrong as a proposition of law.

If  the  university  here  were  a  public  university,  it  would  normally
not have an untrammeled right to discharge an employee for not sharing
or communicating the university's views — the employee's free-speech
rights would protect against such a dismissal. At least where the speech
is on a matter of public concern (as is the case here), the speech may be
grounds  for  dismissal  only  if  the  employer's  interest  in  promoting  the

351

efficiency  of  its  operations  is  found  to  outweigh  the  employee's  free
speech rights, a standard that the university would probably not be able
to meet here. What entitles the university to victory is the school's status
as a private actor, as discussed in Choice B.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the factors it cites are not sufficient to convert the university's
action into state action.

It's true that in some instances, the government may be so involved
with the conduct of an otherwise-private actor that the latter's conduct
is  converted  to  state  action  for  constitutional  purposes.  But  the  mere
fact  that  the  government  regulates  a  privately-conducted  activity,  or
supplies  funding  for  such  an  activity,  will  not  by  itself  be  enough  to
convert  the  activity  into  state  action.  So  the  fact  that  the  government
accredits the university, and supplies funding for some of its activities,
is  not  enough  state  involvement  to  convert  the  university's  hiring
decisions  into  state  action.  See,  e.g.,  Rendell-Baker v. Kohn  (cited  in
Choice B above).

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates what kind of state involvement would be needed to
satisfy the requirement of state action.

There is no provision of the U.S. Constitution that supplies a cause
of  action  against  a  private  institution  for  conditioning  a  job  on  a
restriction  of  the  worker's  free  speech.  Any  constitutional  claim
premised on a free-speech violation would have to be brought under the
First  Amendment,  as  made  applicable  to  the  states  by  the  Fourteenth
Amendment.  But  the  First  or  Fourteenth  Amendments  apply  only  to
“state  action,”  and  the  conduct  of  a  private  actor  cannot  constitute  a
violation  of  either  Amendment  if  the  government  is  not  extensively
involved  in  that  conduct.  The  mere  fact  that  the  state  accredits  the
university, or otherwise regulates it, would not be enough to convert the
university's employment decisions into the requisite state action. (If, by
contrast, the state ordered the university to, say, impose a loyalty oath
on  all  of  its  employees  as  a  condition  of  a  job,  such  an  order  would
constitute  such  extensive  state  involvement  in  the  university's  conduct
as to transform the loyalty-oath requirement into state action.)

 Answer 7

352

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  explains  why  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court  does  not  have
jurisdiction to review the decision.

the  due  process  provisions  of 

Any jurisdiction the U.S. Supreme Court would have over this case
would  have  to  be  under  the  constitutional  provision  giving  the  Court
jurisdiction  over  cases  involving  “federal  questions,”  i.e.,  cases
“arising under this Constitution [and] the laws of the United States[.]”
(Art. III, § 2, cl. 1.) The state court decision here, since it finds that the
the  U.S.
state  statute  violated 
Constitution,  would  seem  to  qualify  as  a  case  “arising  under  this
Constitution.” But where a state court opinion rests on two independent
grounds,  one  of  which  is  based  on  federal  law  and  the  other  on  state
law, the Supreme Court does not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal if
the state-law portion of the opinion is by itself sufficient to sustain the
judgment.  (If  the  Court  were  to  hear  the  appeal,  it  would  in  effect  be
rendering  an  advisory  opinion,  since  its  opinion  on  the  federal  law
issue  would  not  make  a  difference  to  the  outcome.)  In  this  situation,
there is said to be an “independent and adequate state ground.”

That's  the  situation  here.  We're  told  that  the  state  supreme  court
decided  that,  apart  from  whether  the  state  law  restricting  abortion
violated  the  federal  Constitution's  due  process  provisions,  the
provision  also  violated  the  state's  similar  (but  presumably  not
identical)  due  process  provision.  There  is  no  indication  that  the  state
court, in reaching this conclusion about state law, relied in any way on
its interpretation of the federal constitutional provision. Therefore, the
state  court's  conclusion  that  the  statute  violates  state  due  process  law
supplies an independent and adequate state ground for invalidating the
statute.  The  existence  of  that  ground  deprives  the  Supreme  Court  of
jurisdiction  to  review  even  the  federal-law  portion  of  the  opinion  on
appeal.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, while it reaches the correct outcome, it does so by misstating
the scope of the Supreme Court's appellate jurisdiction.

The  U.S.  Supreme  Court  has  appellate  jurisdiction  not  only  over
state court decisions that determine the constitutionality of federal laws,
but also over state court decisions that construe the meaning of federal
statutes.  So  this  choice  is  not  a  factually  accurate  statement  about  the
Supreme  Court's  appellate  jurisdiction.  But  this  choice  does  hint,

353

result  can  be 

however clumsily, at the real reason why the Supreme Court can't hear
the case: The Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to review a state court
decision  whose 
fully  supported  by  state-law
considerations  alone.  As  is  discussed  further  in  Choice  A,  if  a  state
court decision is based on two grounds, and one of those grounds is an
“independent and adequate” state-law ground, the Supreme Court must
treat  the  case  as  if  the  state-law  ground  were  the  sole  one  present,
thereby depriving the Supreme Court of jurisdiction to hear the federal-
law portion of the state opinion.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it overlooks the significance of the “independent and adequate”
state ground.

It  is  not  factually  correct  to  say,  as  this  choice  does,  that  the
Supreme  Court  has  appellate  jurisdiction  “over  any  ruling  of  a  state's
highest court based on an interpretation of federal law.” This statement
is incorrect in those situations where the state court decision rests upon
two  independent  grounds,  one  of  which  is  based  on  state  law  and  the
other  on  federal  law.  Because  the  outcome  of  the  case  here  is  fully
supported  by  the  state-law  portion  of  the  opinion  (the  statute  is
invalidated,  whether  or  not  it  violates  federal  law),  the  federal-law
portion of the opinion does not make any difference, a fact that deprives
the Supreme Court of jurisdiction to review that federal-law portion.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  is  generally  a  true  statement,  it  overlooks  the
significance of the “independent and adequate” state ground.

Generally,  the  Supreme  Court  indeed  has  appellate  jurisdiction
over  decisions  that  find  state  law  to  be  in  violation  of  the  federal
Constitution. But if a state court decision is based on two grounds, and
one of those grounds is a state-law ground that is by itself sufficient to
sustain the judgment (an “independent and adequate” state-law ground),
a special rule applies: The Supreme Court must treat the case as if the
state-law  ground  were  the  sole  one  present,  thereby  depriving  the
Supreme  Court  of  jurisdiction  to  hear  the  federal-law  portion  of  the
state opinion.

 Answer 8

354

 (A) is the best response,

because  both  the  listing  requirement  and  the  automatic  confirmation
requirement violate the Appointments Clause.

The  Appointments  Clause  (Art.  II,  §  2,  cl.  2)  provides  that  the
President shall “nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of
the  Senate,  shall  appoint  Ambassadors  .  .  .  Judges  of  the  Supreme
Court,  and  all  other  Officers  of  the  United  States[.]”  The  statute  here
violates this Clause in two respects. First, by saying that the President
may appoint an ambassador only from among the names appearing on a
congressionally-generated  list,  the  statute  violates  the  principle,
expressed in the Appointments Clause, that the President may nominate
anyone  he  or  she  wishes  as  an  ambassador  or  other  principal  federal
officer (subject, of course, to Senate confirmation). Second, the phrase
“by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate”  means  that  a
presidential  appointment  of  an  ambassador  or  other  principal  federal
officer  must  be  affirmatively  approved  by  a  vote  of  the  Senate;  the
Senate is not permitted to abdicate its duty to consent (or not consent)
to  such  an  appointment  by  means  of  a  statute  stating  that  lack  of
disapproval within 30 days shall be the equivalent of approval.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it reaches the right result for the wrong reason.

The President does not have “plenary foreign affairs powers.” For
instance,  the  President  may  make  a  treaty  only  if  two  thirds  of  the
Senate approves. And in any event, the statute here does not generally
curtail the President's broad role in foreign affairs — the statute affects
only the appointment of ambassadors. The only problems posed by the
statute are caused by the Appointments Clause, as described in Choice
A.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the effect of the advice-and-consent portion of the
Appointments Clause.

The requirement in the Appointments Clause that the Senate advise
and  consent  to  the  appointment  of  ambassadors  and  other  principal
federal  officers  means  that  the  Senate  must  affirmatively  vote  to
confirm.  So  a  provision  saying  that  the  Senate  is  deemed  to  have
approved  an  appointment  merely  by  failing  to  object  within  30  days

355

violates this obligation of an affirmative vote.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores the Appointments Clause problem.

First,  although  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  gives  Congress
broad  ranging  authority  to  implement  its  enumerated  powers,  it  is
unlikely  that  restricting  the  President's  power  to  appoint  ambassadors
to  names  on  a  congressionally-generated  list  would  be  found  to  be  a
“necessary”  means  of  regulating  foreign  commerce  —  the  connection
between foreign commerce and the choice of ambassador is simply too
tenuous to qualify under the Necessary and Proper Clause. The second,
and  more  direct,  problem  is  that  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause
applies  only  to  congressional  actions  that  do  not  violate  some
independent  constitutional  provision,  and  the  provision  here  directly
violates the Appointments Clause (as described in Choice A). Thus, the
statute  is  not  a  “proper”  means  of  carrying  out  any  power  granted  to
Congress.

 Answer 9

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly states one of the limits that may be constitutionally
imposed on commercial speech.

The drug company's claim that the product is safe for children was
made as part of speech promoting the sale of a product; therefore, the
claim  constituted  commercial  speech.  Commercial  speech  receives
First Amendment protection, but to a somewhat lesser extent than, say,
core political speech. One of the limitations is that commercial speech
that is misleading or deceptive is not entitled to any First Amendment
protection  at  all.  See,  e.g.,  Central  Hudson  Gas  v.  Public  Service
Comm.,  447  U.S.  557  (1980):  “[T]here  can  be  no  constitutional
objection  to  the  suppression  of  commercial  messages  that  do  not
accurately inform the public about lawful activity. The government may
ban forms of communication more likely to deceive the public than to
inform it[.]” Since there is ample evidence that the drug in fact harms
children, the speech here was deceptive speech that was not entitled to
any constitutional protection.

 (B) is not the best response,

356

because, although it states a true proposition, it reaches an unjustified
conclusion.

It's  true  that  the  drug  business  is  subject  to  extensive  health  and
safety regulation. But the existence and validity of such regulation does
not mean that the government can restrict all commercial speech related
to  the  regulated  activity.  For  instance,  regulations  that  significantly
restrict truthful advertising of a lawfully-offered product are subjected
to  mid-level  review  (so  that  the  restriction  must  directly  advance  a
substantial  governmental  interest,  in  a  narrowly  tailored  way).  What
makes  the  speech  restriction  here  constitutional  is  that  the  speech  in
question is false or misleading, as described in Choice A.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  adopts  a  test  that  does  not  apply  to  the  regulation  of
commercial speech.

The  “actual  malice”  requirement  applies  in  tort  cases  that  allege
defamation  by  public  officials  or  public  figures.  The  requirement  has
no  role  to  play  in  cases  where  a  state  regulates  commercial  speech.
Government  may  restrict  false  or  misleading  commercial  speech
without respect to the mental state of the speaker.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  significance  of  the  fact  that  the  speech  here  is
false or misleading.

is  entitled 

Truthful  commercial  speech 

to  substantial  First
Amendment  protection,  and  that  is  true  whether  the  speech  is  about  a
matter of public concern or not. So if the speech here were not false or
misleading,  the  regulation  would  have  to  survive  a  form  of  mid-level
review,  even  if  the  speech  was  not  a  matter  of  public  concern.  What
gives  the  state  the  right  to  forbid  the  speech  here  is  the  fact  that  the
speech is false or misleading, as is discussed further in Choice A.

 Answer 10

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly states why the dormant Commerce Clause does not
apply.

The  interstate  company's  suit  would  have  to  have  been  brought
under  a  dormant  Commerce  Clause  theory.  That  is,  the  plaintiff's

357

argument would be that when the state awarded the contract to the local
gas company, it was preferring an in-state supplier over an out-of-state
supplier, and thus impermissibly favoring local economic interests. But
the  Supreme  Court  has  long  recognized  a  “market  participant”
exception  to  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause:  When  a  state  acts  as  a
market participant (rather than as a pure regulator), the state may give a
preference to in-staters without violating the dormant commerce clause.
See,  e.g.,  Reeves  v.  Stake,  426  U.S.  794  (1976)  (state-owned  cement
plan may choose to sell preferentially to in-state customers in times of
shortage, because the dormant commerce clause does not apply where
the  state  is  a  market  participant).  Here,  since  the  state  owned  the  gas
field,  it  was  entitled  to  award  a  local  company  the  contract  to  do
business with the state-owned entity even if the state was acting for the
purpose  of  preferring  local  economic  interests  over  out-of-state
interests.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states the wrong test.

If  this  were  a  standard  dormant  Commerce  Clause  scenario
involving  “protectionism”  —  in  which  the  state,  acting  as  regulator,
intentionally  discriminates  against  out-of-staters  in  favor  of  local
economic  interests  —  then  the  court  would  employ  a  variant  of  strict
scrutiny,  under  which  one  of  the  issues  would  indeed  be  whether  the
state had a compelling interest in reducing its own citizens' gas costs.
(Even  then,  it's  unlikely  that  this  objective  would  be  found  to  be
sufficiently  “compelling”  to  justify  the  preference.)  But  because  the
state  is  acting  as  a  market  participant,  standard  dormant  Commerce
Clause analysis does not apply, and the state is permitted to prefer local
economic interests over out-of-state interests.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly asserts that the state has acted irrationally.

Where  the  state  is  acting  as  a  market  participant,  the  state  is
relatively  free  to  choose  to  protect  local  economic  interests  at  the
expense  of  out-of-state  interests.  Even  in  this  market-participant
scenario, the state may probably not “irrationally” favor local interests.
But the state here has not acted irrationally — giving the contract to a
local  company  that's  more  expensive,  in  exchange  for  that  company's
promise  to  pass  the  extra  proceeds  back  to  local  consumers,  is  not

358

irrational, since promoting local citizens' economic interests is at least
a  sensible  (though  not  necessarily  the  only  plausible)  legislative
decision.

 (D) is not the best response,

because even if the state has discriminated against interstate commerce,
it was permitted to do so.

When  the  state  acts  as  a  pure  regulator,  the  dormant  Commerce
Clause  prevents  the  state  from  intentionally  favoring  local  economic
interests  over  out-of-state  interests.  So  if  the  state  merely  passed  a
regulation  that,  say,  required  any  in-state  gas-field  owner  to  contract
with  an  in-state  company  to  transport  the  gas,  this  would  be  a
protectionist  measure  that  would  virtually  automatically  be  found  to
violate the dormant Commerce Clause. But because the state, as owner
of the gas field in question, was a market participant, the state was not
bound  by  the  usual  principles  of  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.
Therefore,  the  state  was  permitted  to  intentionally  favor  local
consumers  over  out-of-staters,  making  it  irrelevant  that  the  state  may
have  been  essentially  “discriminating  against  interstate  commerce,”  if
indeed that's what the state was doing.

 Answer 11

 (D) is the best response,

because strict scrutiny would apply, and the statute would not survive
that scrutiny.

The parents would sue on a Fourteenth Amendment substantive due
process 
theory.  Under  substantive  due  process  analysis,  any
governmental action that is found to substantially impair a “fundamental
liberty interest” must be subjected to strict scrutiny. The Supreme Court
has  long  held  that  a  parent  has  a  fundamental  liberty  interest  in
controlling his or her child's education, and that a state requirement that
the  parent  use  the  public  schools  violates  that  liberty  interest.  See
Pierce  v.  Society  of  Sisters,  268  U.S.  510  (1925)  (statute  requiring
children  to  attend  public  schools  violates  “the  liberty  of  parents  and
guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children under their
control”). To survive the requisite strict scrutiny, the state would have
to  prove  that  the  means  it  chose  were  “necessary”  to  fulfill  a
“compelling” state interest. The law here would not survive that strict

359

scrutiny:  Even  if  the  state  had  a  compelling  interest  in  raising  test
scores in order to continue receiving federal money, requiring parents
to  send  their  children  to  public  schools  rather  than  private  schools
would  not  be  found  to  be  a  “necessary”  means  of  raising  the  scores
(since other measures, like better teaching, would be likely to suffice).

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states the wrong test for reviewing the state law.

If no fundamental liberty interest were at stake here in the parents'
substantive  due  process  claim,  this  choice  would  probably  correctly
state the test and the outcome: Governmental regulation of a matter that
does  not  involve  a  fundamental  right  merely  needs  to  be  rationally
related  to  the  achievement  of  a  legitimate  state  objective,  an  easy-to-
satisfy standard that would likely be met here. But because the right to
control the education of one's children is a right that has long been held
“fundamental” for substantive due process purposes, strict scrutiny, not
the  mere-rationality  standard,  would  be  the  appropriate  standard  of
review.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  the  correct  test,  it  incorrectly  predicts  how
that test would be resolved.

Since  the  right  to  control  the  education  of  one's  children  is  a
“fundamental” liberty interest, any substantial governmental restriction
on that right would be subjected to strict scrutiny, under which the state
would  have  the  burden  of  establishing  that  the  means  chosen  were
necessary to further a compelling state interest. So this choice correctly
recites that strict scrutiny would be the applicable standard of review.
But there are many less-intrusive ways of achieving the state's interest
in  keeping  the  federal  funds  (which  may  or  may  not  be  a  compelling
interest): For instance, better classroom preparation or test preparation
would  have  a  good  chance  of  increasing  test  scores  sufficiently.
Therefore, it cannot be said that forcing parents to send their children to
public schools is a “necessary” means (i.e., the only effective means)
of achieving the stated interest.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it not only states the wrong test, it also incorrectly applies that
test.

360

If  the  liberty  interest  at  stake  here  were  not  one  that  is
“fundamental”  for  substantive  due  process  purposes,  it  would  be
correct to say that the test would be whether the means chosen by the
state  was  rationally  related  to  the  achievement  of  a  legitimate  state
interest. But because the freedom to control one's children's education
is considered fundamental (see Choice D above), strict scrutiny rather
than the mere-rationality standard controls. Therefore, it would not be
enough that the means chosen by the state was “rationally related” to the
achievement of a “legitimate” state objective. Furthermore, even if this
was  a  case  in  which  the  mere-rationality  test  was  to  be  used,  this
choice  would  be  a  misstatement  of  how  the  test  would  come  out:  the
state  probably  has  a  legitimate  (though  not  compelling)  interest  in
keeping the federal funds, and coercing all private students to enter the
public  schools  would  be  at  least  “rationally  related  to”  (though  not
“necessary for”) the achievement of that interest.

 Answer 12

 (D) is the best response,

because Congress may overturn an executive action only by passing a
statute.

Here,  Congress  has  correctly  set  up  an  executive  agency,  and  has
correctly  given  to  that  agency  the  power  to  make  certain  executive
decisions  in  furtherance  of  an  enumerated  congressional  power  (the
power  to  regulate  the  use  of  federal  lands).  But  once  the  agency  has
used  its  delegated  powers  to  make  a  decision,  Congress  may  only
overturn that decision by enacting a statute, that is, by (1) having both
Houses  vote  to  pass  the  statute,  and  (2)  presenting  the  statute  for  the
President's  signature  or  veto.  What  Congress  has  tried  to  do  here,
instead,  is  to  enact  a  “legislative  veto,”  by  which  one  House  (or  a
committee  of  one  House)  purports  to  single-handedly  overturn  an
executive decision. And the legislative-veto technique has been held to
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
be  a  violation  of  both  the  requirement  that  any  “legislative  act”  (i.e.,
any  statute  affecting  persons  beyond  the  legislative  branch)  be
approved by vote of both Houses, and the requirement that such an act
be presented to the President for the President's signature or veto. See
INS  v.  Chadha,  462  U.S.  919  (1983)  (Congress  cannot  give  the
Attorney General the authority to suspend certain deportations of aliens,
while  retaining  to  itself  the  power  to  reverse  such  a  suspension

361

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

decision by means of a one-House resolution).

 (A) is not the best response,

because the delegation here was proper.

Congress is free to delegate legislative (i.e., lawmaking) power to
an  executive  agency,  provided  that  Congress  provides  adequately-
specific standards for the exercise of that power by the agency. Here,
Congress has provided such standards, since the agency is directed to
use particular criteria set forth in the treaty. Thus there is no problem of
improper, i.e., standardless, delegation.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  statute  here  does  not  materially  affect  the  President's
foreign-affairs authority.

It's true that the statute here incorporates elements from the never-
enacted  treaty.  But  the  use  of  such  elements  does  not  interfere  in  any
meaningful  way  with  the  President's  authority  to  conduct  the  nation's
foreign affairs — the statute simply says that certain criteria that would
have  been  part  of  the  never-enacted  treaty  shall  be  used  for  another
purpose,  namely,  a  domestic  regulation  to  protect  certain  federal  land
from environmental harm. Congress has authority to control the use of
federal lands, and properly delegated that authority here to an executive
agency. (The problem is the veto power retained by Congress.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because there is nothing wrong with Congress's requiring the agency to
report to it.

Where Congress has correctly delegated lawmaking authority to an
executive agency (which it has done here), Congress has the additional
power  to  supervise  the  agency's  use  of  that  power,  by  requiring  the
agency  to  report  to  Congress  on  how  the  agency  is  exercising  the
power.  Congress  possesses  this  additional  power  by  means  of  the
Necessary and Proper Clause; that clause has been interpreted to mean
that  as  long  as  Congress  is  acting  in  furtherance  of  one  of  its
enumerated  powers  (here,  the  power  to  control  federal  lands),
Congress may use any means that are rationally related to the carrying
out of that enumerated power, if no independent constitutional provision
is  violated.  Requiring  an  agency  to  report  on  how  it  is  using  its
delegated  powers  is  certainly  a  rational  means  of  carrying  out

362

Congress's power to make that delegation.

 Answer 13

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  city  is  prohibiting  some  types  of  picketing  but  not  others
based on the message conveyed.

is  a  content-based  restriction  on  speech.  When 

Picketing is an expressive activity, so it receives First Amendment
protection. The ordinance here allows one type of picketing, but forbids
other  types,  based  on  the  content  of  the  message  being  expressed:
Picketing  having  to  do  with  neighborhood  zoning  requirements  is
allowed,  but  picketing  on  other  topics  is  forbidden.  Therefore,  the
ordinance 
the
government  restricts  speech  on  the  basis  of  its  content,  the  restriction
will  be  strictly  scrutinized:  It  will  be  struck  down  unless  the
government  can  bear  the  burden  of  proving  that  the  restriction  is  a
necessary  means  of  achieving  a  compelling  governmental  objective.
Speech  restrictions  rarely  survive  such  scrutiny,  and  the  one  here
certainly  would  not:  There 
is  almost  certainly  no  compelling
governmental  interest  being  served  by  a  general  ban  on  picketing  in
residential  neighborhoods,  and  even  if  there  were,  distinguishing
between  picketing  concerning  zoning  requirements  and  picketing  on
other  topics  would  not  be  a  necessary  means  of  achieving  that
objective.  For  a  similar  case  in  which  a  ban  on  certain  picketing
messages  was  struck  down,  see  Boos  v.  Barry,  485  U.S.  312  (1988)
(ordinance  prohibiting  the  display  of  any  sign  within  500  feet  of  a
foreign embassy if that sign tends to bring the foreign government into
“public disrepute” was struck down as not being a necessary means of
protecting the interest in preserving the dignity of foreign diplomats).

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is factually incorrect.

The ordinance here allows one type of picketing, but forbids other
types, based on the content of the message being expressed: Picketing
having  to  do  with  neighborhood  zoning  requirements  is  allowed,  but
picketing  on  other  topics  is  forbidden.  Therefore,  the  ordinance  is  a
content-based  restriction  on  speech,  not  a  content-neutral  restriction.
(By  the  way,  even  if  the  ordinance  restricting  picketing  were  content
neutral — such as a total ban on picketing in residential neighborhoods

363

— the ordinance would be subjected to mid-level review, whereby it
would be struck down if it was not narrowly tailored to achievement of
an important governmental interest.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because it makes a meaningless distinction.

Conduct  that  contains  a  significant  expressive  element  receives
First  Amendment  freedom  of  speech  protection.  So  the  distinction
between  “conduct”  and  “speech”  drawn  by  this  choice  is  essentially
meaningless for First Amendment purposes.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it states the wrong test for judging the ordinance.

If the correct test for judging the ordinance were indeed whether it
drew  a  rational  distinction  between  the  types  of  picketers,  the
ordinance  would  survive  (not  fail,  as  this  choice  suggests).  That's
because, given local citizens' strong views about the proposed rezoning
of residential neighborhoods, it is not irrational for the town to allow
picketing  on  that  topic  in  residential  neighborhoods  while  forbidding
such picketing on less-controversial topics (or on topics not so closely
tied to residential neighborhoods). However, because the government is
drawing a distinction based on the content of the speech, the test is not
whether  the  distinction  is  rational,  but  whether  it  is  necessary  to
achieve a compelling governmental objective, a far tougher test that the
ordinance will certainly fail, as discussed in Choice D.

 Answer 14

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly explains why the law does not violate the dormant
Commerce Clause.

The  phrase  “negative  implications  of  the  Commerce  Clause”  is  a
synonym  for  “the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.”  That  is,  a  state
regulation that significantly affects interstate commerce may be found to
violate  Congress's  power  to  regulate  commerce,  if  the  court  believes
that the regulation discriminates against (or unduly burdens) out-of-state
economic interests in favor of in-state interests. But even where a state
takes  an  action  that  would  ordinarily  be  held  to  violate  dormant
Commerce Clause principles, Congress is always free to affirmatively

364

consent to the state action, in which case there is no violation. That's
what  happened  here:  When  Congress  said  that  interstate  groundwater
transportation  may  be  restricted  or  prohibited  by  the  law  of  the  state
where  the  water  originates,  Congress  was  expressly  permitting  the
home  state  of  the  water  to  discriminate  against  out-of-staters;  that
permission conclusively nullifies any dormant Commerce Clause claim.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  both  states  the  wrong  test  for  dormant  Commerce  Clause
cases, and ignores the significance of congressional consent.

First, imagine that the federal statute did not exist. In that event, this
choice would still be wrong, because, by requiring a “compelling state
interest,”  it  more  or  less  applies  strict  scrutiny  to  claimed  dormant
commerce  clause  violations.  The  actual  test  used  is  more  forgiving:
The  state  regulation  must  merely  pursue  a  legitimate  (not  compelling)
state  objective,  the  means  chosen  must  be  rationally  related  to  that
legitimate objective, and there must not have been available means that
were  materially  less  burdensome  to,  or  discriminatory  against,
interstate  commerce.  In  any  event,  since  Congress  has  expressly
consented  to  the  type  of  burden  on  commerce  here,  the  dormant
commerce clause does not apply at all, and there is no need to consider
what test to use.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is based on a false factual premise.

Any item that can be bought, sold or transported over state lines is
an  article  of  interstate  commerce,  for  purposes  of  dormant  Commerce
Clause analysis. So the groundwater here could certainly be the subject
of  a  valid  dormant  Commerce  Clause  claim,  but  for  the  fact  that
Congress has expressly given its consent to the type of restriction here.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the Tenth Amendment does not validate a state law that would
otherwise violate a federal constitutional provision.

The Tenth Amendment has relatively little scope under modern law;
virtually its only function is to prevent Congress from commanding the
states  to  enact  or  enforce  federal  policies.  The  Tenth  Amendment  can
never  validate  a  state 
that  violates  some  other  Federal
constitutional  provision.  Therefore,  the  Tenth  Amendment  would  not

law 

365

save  the  state  statute  here  from  attack  on  the  grounds  that  the  statute
intentionally  discriminates  against,  and  unduly  burdens,  inter-state
commerce,  and  thereby  violates  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.  (It's
only  the  congressional  consent  to  such  a  statute  that,  as  described  in
Choice  D,  insulates  the  state  statute  from  dormant  Commerce  Clause
attack.)

 Answer 15

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  reflects  Congress's  power  to  modify  the  Supreme
Court's appellate jurisdiction.

Article  III,  §  2,  of  the  Constitution  says  that  in  all  cases  falling
within  the  federal  judicial  power,  and  not  falling  within  the  Supreme
Court's  original  jurisdiction,  the  Supreme  Court  “shall  have  appellate
jurisdiction . . . with such exceptions, and under such regulations as the
Congress  shall  make.”  Supreme  Court  cases  have  interpreted  this
language as meaning that Congress may remove an entire subject area
from the Supreme Court's appellate jurisdiction, as long as Congress is
acting in a substantively neutral way (rather than, say, trying to dictate
the outcome in a particular type of case). See, e.g., Ex parte McCardle,
74  U.S.  506  (1869)  (Congress  may  constitutionally  prevent  the  Court
from hearing all habeas corpus appeals from the federal circuit courts).
Since  the  statute  here  prevents  either  side  from  appealing  criminal
decisions  made  by  a  state's  highest  court,  the  statute  is  probably
sufficiently neutral. It's possible that the Supreme Court might conclude
that the statute here is so broad that it went beyond Congress's power to
modify the Court's appellate jurisdiction, but of the four arguments for
the  statute's  constitutionality,  this  one  is  clearly  the  most  likely  to
succeed.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states a fact that, while true, is irrelevant.

It's  true  that  criminal  matters  are  traditionally  governed  by  state
law. But when a decision by a state's highest court in a criminal case
turns on a matter of federal law (including a federal statute or a federal
constitutional  provision),  the  case  falls  within  the  federal  judicial
power. Therefore, the Supreme Court has the constitutional right to hear
an appeal from such a decision, unless Congress has made proper use

366

of  its  constitutional  power  to  curtail  the  Supreme  Court's  appellate
jurisdiction in the type of case in question.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is a misstatement of law.

It's  true  that,  under  some  circumstances,  a  prisoner  convicted  of
state criminal charges may bring a federal habeas corpus proceeding.
But such a proceeding is a separate civil suit brought by a wrongfully-
convicted  criminal,  and  is  not  the  only  method  of  having  a  state-court
conviction reviewed by the federal courts. Where a state court criminal
conviction  has  been  heard  and  upheld  by  the  state's  highest  court,  if
there is a substantial federal claim present in the case (e.g., a claim that
the  conviction  violates  the  federal  Constitution),  the  case  falls  within
the  federal  judicial  power,  and  may  be  heard  by  the  Supreme  Court
under  the  latter's  appellate  jurisdiction.  (The  correct  answer  turns  on
the  fact  that  Congress  has  the  power  to  limit  the  Supreme  Court's
appellate jurisdiction.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because it states a fact that is true, but irrelevant.

When  the  Constitution  puts  a  particular  type  of  case  within  the
Supreme  Court's  “original  jurisdiction,”  this  phrase  means  that  the
Court has the constitutional power to hear the case in the first instance
as a trier of fact. It is true that state-court criminal charges do not fall
into  one  of  the  few  categories  of  cases  that  are  within  the  Supreme
Court's original jurisdiction (e.g., suits in which a state is a party). But
where  a  state-court  criminal  proceeding  turns  on  a  matter  of  federal
law,  and  has  been  decided  by  the  state's  highest  court,  the  case  can
normally  be  heard  by  the  Supreme  Court  pursuant  to  the  latter's
“appellate”  (as  opposed  to  “original”)  jurisdiction,  assuming  that
Congress has not invoked its power to prevent the Court from hearing
appeals in that type of case.

 Answer 16

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  suggests  that  denial  of  bar  admission  based  on
membership in a subversive group must be based upon the candidate's
intent to further the group's illegal aims.

367

First,  the  Supreme  Court  has  repeatedly  held  that  the  First
Amendment  freedom  of  association  prevents  the  government  from
denying a privilege or benefit, such as bar membership, based solely on
membership  in  an  organization.  See,  e.g.,  Baird  v.  State  Bar  of
Arizona,  401  U.S.  1  (1971)  (Stewart,  J.,  concurring):  “[M]ere
membership in an organization can never, by itself, be sufficient ground
for  a  State's  imposition  of  civil  penalties  or  criminal  punishment.”
Second,  the  state  cannot  deny  a  privilege  or  benefit  based  upon  the
applicant's refusal to disclose her mere membership in an organization
—  if  a  membership  could  not  by  itself  be  the  basis  for  denying  a
privilege, the government cannot require disclosure of the membership
as a condition of receiving the privilege, either. On the other hand, the
government  may  withhold  a  benefit  or  privilege  (such  as  bar
membership)  based  on  the  applicant's  membership  in  an  organization
that the applicant knows advocates the overthrow of the government by
force or violence, if the applicant shares the specific intent to further
the  organization's  illegal  goals.  Baird,  supra.  And  the  government  is
permitted  to  (1)  ask  questions  sufficient  to  find  out  whether  the
applicant  has  such  a  specific  intent;  and  (2)  deny  membership  to  an
applicant  who  will  not  answer  such  questions  about  her  intent.  But
since  on  the  facts  here,  the  government  is  asking  about  mere
membership  in  a  subversive  group,  without  defining  “subversive,”
without  asking  anything  about  the  organization's  possibly-illegal
objectives,  and  without  asking  whether  the  applicant  shares  those
objectives,  the  denial  of  membership  based  on  refusal  to  answer
violates the applicant's freedom of association.

 (A) is not the correct response,

because  it  is  factually  incorrect,  and  leads  to  an  incorrect  legal
conclusion.

Mere  membership  in  a  “subversive  group”  does  not  by  itself
demonstrate  that  the  member  shares  or  endorses  any  illegal  goals  that
the group might have, or even demonstrate that the member is aware of
those goals. Therefore, the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that, on
account  of  the  First  Amendment  freedom  of  association,  mere
membership  in  an  organization  can  never  by  itself  be  sufficient  for
denial  of  a  government  benefit,  and  refusal  to  answer  questions  about
mere membership cannot by itself be the basis for such a denial. (See
the more detailed discussion in Choice D above.)

368

 (B) is not the correct response,

because it is an incorrect statement of law.

The rule at issue in this case was adopted by a state, and governs
the award of a right or benefit furnished by state law (bar membership).
Therefore,  the  rule  constitutes  state  action,  and  must  be  analyzed  to
determine whether it violates the First Amendment freedom of speech
and  association,  made  applicable  to  the  states  by  the  Fourteenth
Amendment's  Due  Process  Clause.  For  the  reasons  specified  in  the
discussion  of  Choice  D  above,  the  rule  in  fact  violates  those  First
Amendment rights.

 (C) is not the correct response,

because it overstates the relevant legal principles.

It's not accurate to say that the denial of bar admission may not be
premised  on  “any  association  with  a  subversive  organization.”  The
government  may  withhold  a  benefit  or  privilege  (such  as  bar
membership)  based  on  the  applicant's  membership  in  an  organization
that the applicant knows advocates the overthrow of the government by
force or violence, if the applicant shares the specific intent to further
the organization's illegal goals. And the government is permitted to (1)
ask  questions  sufficient  to  find  out  whether  the  applicant  has  such  a
specific intent; and (2) deny membership to an applicant who will not
answer  such  questions  about  her  intent.  (See  the  further  discussion  in
Choice D above.) So this choice, by asserting that any association with
a  subversive  organization  is  irrelevant  to  the  bar  admission  scenario,
overstates the breadth of the relevant legal principles.

 Answer 17

 (A) is the best response,

because the statute bars some protected conduct, and leaves the public
uncertain about what conduct is and is not forbidden.

A statute is overbroad  if,  in  addition  to  proscribing  activities  that
may be constitutionally forbidden, it also sweeps within its coverage a
substantial  amount  of  speech  or  conduct  that  is  protected  by  the
guarantees of free speech. The doctrine of vagueness is similar but not
identical to that of overbreadth: A statute will be void for vagueness if
the  conduct  forbidden  by  it  is  so  unclearly  defined  that  persons  of

369

common  intelligence  would  have  to  guess  at  its  meaning  and  would
differ as to its application.

The  statute  here  is  both  overbroad  and  vague.  It  is  overbroad
because it covers (or appears to cover) a substantial amount of conduct
protected by the First Amendment. One big problem is that the way the
statute is written, if the material might be harmful to minors, it may not
be  sold  to  (or  displayed  to)  adults,  either.  And  adults  have  a  First
Amendment  right  to  read  even  sexually  explicit  materials,  if  they  are
not  ‘‘obscene.''  So  the  statute  probably  denies  to  adults  massive
amounts  of  non-obscene  —  and  thus  protected  —  sexually  explicit
materials  (e.g.,  Playboy  magazine),  since  these  ‘‘may''  be  harmful  to
minors. That makes the statute overbroad.

And the statute is vague, as well, because it does not give even an
approximate definition of either the term ‘‘sexually explicit nature'' or
the term ‘‘harmful.'' So a reader of the statute would be left to guess just
how  great  the  degree  of  sexual  explicitness  (are  topless  women
covered, no pun intended?), or how great the likelihood of harm needs
to  be  (chance  that  one  in  1,000  minor  readers  would  have  a
nightmare?).

 (B) is not the best response,

because  this  is  a  corrupted  version  of  a  now-outmoded  test  for
obscenity, and is therefore not the relevant test.

At one time, to sustain an obscenity prosecution, prosecutors had to
prove  that  the  material  was  utterly  without  ‘‘the  slightest  redeeming
social  importance,''  a  standard  somewhat  similar  to  the  one  in  this
choice.  But  that's  no  longer  the  test  for  obscenity:  Now,  a  ‘‘patently
offensive'' portrayal of ‘‘sexual conduct'' that is ‘‘specifically defined''
by state law may be prohibited, provided only that the work, taken as a
whole,  lacks  ‘‘serious  literary,  artistic,  political,  or  scientific  value.''
(Miller  v.  Cal.  (1973)).  So  the  presence  of  the  smallest  ‘‘redeeming
value  in  the  marketplace  of  ideas''  (as  this  choice  states)  wouldn't
protect against a finding of obscenity.

But even if this choice had the right test for obscenity, it would miss
the  fact  that,  as  the  Court  held  in  Ginsberg v. N.Y.  (1968),  states  may
prohibit  the  sale  to  minors  of  sexually  explicit  material  that  doesn't
meet the definition of obscenity. The big problem with the statute is that
(as  described  in  choice  A)  it  bars  adults  from  seeing  or  buying  non-
obscene  materials  on  the  ground  that  these  might  harm  minors,  and
choice B doesn't capture this difficulty at all.

370

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  distinction  between  written  and  pictorial  material  would
not be found to be wholly irrational.

Where  a  statute  treats  two  different  classes  of  things  or  people  in
two  different  ways,  unless  a  suspect  category  or  fundamental  right  is
involved,  only  a  completely  irrational  classification  will  be  found  to
violate equal protection. So here, if a plaintiff could convince the court
that  it  is  irrational  to  treat  people  who  want  to  buy  sexually  explicit
pictorial  materials  differently  from  those  who  want  to  buy  sexually
explicit materials consisting solely of words, the plaintiff might prevail
with an equal protection argument.

The problem is that it is very unlikely that a court would agree that
it's completely irrational to distinguish between pictures and words. It
might be rational, for example, for a state to conclude that the harmful
impact  of  sexually  explicit  pictures  on  men  with  a  latent  tendency  to
impose sexually sadistic violence on women is greater than the impact
on the same men of works consisting solely of words. In summary, the
equal  protection  argument  is  far  less  likely  to  succeed  than  the
overbreadth and vagueness arguments used in choice A.

 (D) is not the best response,

because there is a rational distinction that may be made between minors
and adults.

Where  a  statute  treats  two  different  classes  of  things  or  people  in
two  different  ways,  unless  a  suspect  category  or  fundamental  right  is
involved,  only  a  completely  irrational  classification  will  be  found  to
violate equal protection. So here, if a plaintiff could convince the court
that it is wholly irrational to treat violent or sexually explicit pictorial
materials  differently  depending  on  whether  they  harm  minors  or  just
adults, the claim might work.

But a plaintiff would be exceptionally unlikely to succeed in making
such  a  showing.  The  Court  has  previously  held  (in  Ginsberg  v.  N.Y.
(1968), a First Amendment case), that the states may prohibit the sale to
minors  of  sexually  explicit  material  that  doesn't  meet  the  definition  of
obscenity,  on  the  grounds  that  minors  are  more  impressionable.  So  a
court now would be unlikely to conclude that it's wholly irrational for
materials  that  might  harm  minors  in  this  way  to  be  distinguished  from
those  that  would  ‘‘only''  harm  adults.  (Besides,  any  materials  that

371

would harm adults would be likely to harm minors as well, making the
statute's distinction even less irrational.)

 Answer 18

 (D) is the best response,

because it recognizes an area over which Congress would clearly have
authority to legislate marriages and divorces.

The  central  obstacle  under  this  problem  is  that  the  states  have  the
general  power  to  legislate  regarding  marriage  and  divorce,  because
family oriented legislation is not within Congress's enumerated powers.
Congress only has power to the extent of its enumerated powers under
the  Constitution.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a  federal  statute  must  be
rationally  related  to  an  enumerated  power,  or  be  a  necessary  and
proper means of effectuating such power. These are the major powers
of Congress: civil rights, elections (congressional), admiralty, taxation,
eminent  domain,  spending  for  general  welfare,  defense,  interstate
commerce, citizenship, and external (foreign) affairs.

What  choice  D  does  is  to  avoid  the  whole  issue  of  congressional
power vis-à-vis state power. Under Article I, § 8, of the Constitution,
Congress  is  expressly  given  the  power  to  govern  the  District  of
Columbia. This, in effect, gives it ‘‘state-like'' control over the District
of  Columbia,  and  this  neatly  avoids  the  obstacle  in  this  problem  —
namely,  that  marriage  and  divorce  is  neither  one  of  Congress's
enumerated  powers,  nor  is  its  legislation  necessary  and  proper  to
legislation  concerning
effectuating  an  enumerated  power.  Since 
marriage and divorce would clearly be part of ‘‘governing'' the District
of  Columbia,  such  congressional  legislation  would  be  valid.  This  is
admittedly a bit of a tricky question, since you don't often come across
questions concerning Congress's power over the District of Columbia.
However,  under  these  facts,  this  power  provides  the  best  means  of
regulating marriages and divorces, and since D recognizes this, it's the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although  Congress  has  power  over  the  military,  legislating
marriages  of  members  of  the  armed  forces  would  not  be  sufficiently
close to the military power to merit congressional control.

Congress  only  has  power  to  the  extent  of  its  enumerated  powers

372

under  the  Constitution.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a  federal  statute  must  be
rationally  related  to  an  enumerated  power,  or  be  a  necessary  and
proper means of effectuating such a power. These are the major powers
of Congress: civil rights, elections (congressional), admiralty, taxation,
eminent  domain,  spending  for  general  welfare,  defense,  interstate
commerce, citizenship, and external (foreign) affairs. The central focus
of  the  legislation  here  —  marriage  and  divorce  —  is  a  family  law
matter traditionally reserved to the states. The military power, found in
Article I, § 8, of the Constitution, grants Congress the power, in general,
to declare war, raise armies, maintain a navy, create rules regulating the
armed  forces,  and  otherwise  organize,  discipline,  arm,  and  call  forth
the  militia.  Regulating  the  marriages  of  military  personnel  could  only
be tenuously related to this power. Thus, the military power would not
be  a  good  basis  on  which  Congress  could  regulate  marriage  and
divorce. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because Congress's power over the jurisdiction of federal courts would
not  be  a  strong  basis  on  which  to  uphold  legislation  concerning
marriages and divorces.

Congress  only  has  power  to  the  extent  of  its  enumerated  powers
under  the  Constitution.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a  federal  statute  must  be
rationally  related  to  an  enumerated  power,  or  be  a  necessary  and
proper means of effectuating such a power. These are the major powers
of Congress: civil rights, elections (congressional), admiralty, taxation,
eminent  domain,  spending  for  general  welfare,  defense,  interstate
commerce, citizenship, and external (foreign) affairs.

The central focus of the legislation here — marriage and divorce —
is a family law matter traditionally reserved to the states. It's true that
Congress  has  great  control  over  the  jurisdiction  of  the  lower  federal
courts,  since  it  was  given  the  power  to  create  such  lower  courts  in
Article  III,  §  2,  of  the  Constitution.  This  theoretically  would  give
Congress the power to regulate marriages performed by federal judges
and  divorces  granted  by  federal  courts.  However,  due  to  Congress's
lack  of  enumerated  power  over  marriage  and  divorce,  this  argument
would  not  be  tremendously  strong,  especially  in  light  of  the  fact  that
there's  another  choice  —  D,  which  provides  a  clear  area  of
congressional power. As a result, B is not the best response.

373

 
(C) is not the best response,

because it does not overcome the central obstacle here — that is, that
marriage  and  divorce  is  an  area  traditionally  controlled  by  the  states,
not the federal government.

Congress  only  has  power  to  the  extent  of  its  enumerated  powers
under  the  Constitution.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a  federal  statute  must  be
rationally  related  to  an  enumerated  power,  or  be  a  necessary  and
proper means of effectuating such a power. These are the major powers
of Congress: civil rights, elections (congressional), admiralty, taxation,
eminent  domain,  spending  for  general  welfare,  defense,  interstate
commerce, citizenship, and external (foreign) affairs.

While  Congress  has  considerable  power  over  human  rights  under
amendments like the Fourteenth Amendment, this wouldn't as a general
matter give it the power to legislate concerning marriage and divorce.
The fact that there's an executive agreement involved doesn't create for
Congress  power  it  doesn't  otherwise  have.  Since  choice  C  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 19

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  county's  regulation  resulted  in  a  taking  of  the  purchaser's
land.

The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  Constitution  prohibits  the  government
from taking private property ‘‘without just compensation.'' The Supreme
Court  has  held  that  a  land  use  regulation  may  constitute  a  regulatory
taking  when  the  regulation  deprives  the  owner  of  all  economically
viable use of his land (Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council). The
purchaser  in  this  problem  bought  the  land  with  the  expectation  of
developing  it.  However,  the  county's  regulation,  enacted  after  the
purchase, barred him from doing so. The blanket prohibition on any sort
of development deprived the purchaser of any means of recouping any
part  of  his  investment  and  was  therefore  a  regulatory  taking  of  the
purchaser's land. As a result, the Taking Clause requires that the county
pay just compensation to the purchaser.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  government  does  not  have  to  take  possession  of  an
individual's property in order for there to be a taking.

374

The Fifth Amendment's Taking Clause requires just compensation to
be  paid  to  landowners  not  only  when  they  have  been  deprived  of
possession of their land because of government action, but also when a
land  use  regulation  denies  the  landowner  of  any  economically  viable
use  of  the  land.  In  this  case,  the  county's  regulation  prohibited  the
purchaser from building anything on his land. Although the county did
not  appropriate  the  parcel,  the  regulation  so  significantly  interfered
with the purchaser's investment-backed expectations that it constituted a
regulatory taking.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  physical  occupation  of  an  individual's  land  is  sufficient  to
result in a taking, it is not necessary.

The Fifth Amendment's Taking Clause requires just compensation to
be  paid  to  landowners  not  only  when  they  have  been  deprived  of
possession of their land because of government action, but also when a
land  use  regulation  denies  the  landowner  of  any  economically  viable
use  of  the  land.  In  this  case,  the  county's  regulation  prohibited  the
purchaser  from  building  anything  on  the  purchased  land.  Although  the
county  did  not  appropriate  the  parcel,  the  regulation  so  significantly
interfered  with  the  purchaser's  investment-backed  expectations  that  it
constituted a regulatory taking.

 (C) is not the best response,

because courts do not consider the goals of a governmental entity when
determining whether a taking has occurred.

The  Taking  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  applies  when  a
governmental  entity  either  interferes  with  an  individual's  right  to
possess his land (either by physically occupying or taking possession of
the  land)  or  enacts  a  land  use  regulation  that  effectively  removes  any
economically  viable  use  of  the  land.  The  legislative  purpose  of  the
is
zoning  may  be  relevant 
challenged,  but  is  irrelevant  to  the  issue  of  whether  compensation  is
due to the landowner.

the  regulation's  constitutionality 

if 

 Answer 20

 (C) is the best response,

because  none  of  the  members  of  the  association  has  been  injured  or

375

will be injured, meaning the organization lacks standing.

Standing  is  an  interest  in  the  outcome  of  a  controversy.  An
organization has standing to challenge government actions that cause an
injury  in  fact  to  its  members  if  the  organization  can  demonstrate  the
following:  (1)  that  there  is  an  injury  in  fact  to  some  members  of  the
organization that would give these individual members a right to sue on
their  own  behalf;  (2)  that  the  injury  to  the  members  is  related  to  the
organization's purpose; and (3) that neither the nature of the claim nor
the relief requested requires participation of the individual members in
the lawsuit. Hunt v. Wash. Apple (1977).

Here, the organization cannot satisfy (at least) requirement (1). The
facts carefully specify that no member currently trades or expects to do
so  in  the  future.  Consequently,  no  member  could  be  prohibited  by  the
statute from conduct they would otherwise engage in or benefit from the
statute's  protections.  Therefore,  no  member  has  standing  to  bring  an
individual  action,  and  thus  the  organization  does  not  have  standing
either.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  mere  fact  that  a  suit  involves  a  ‘‘dispute  over  the
constitutionality  of  a  federal  statute''  does  not  dispense  with  the  need
for standing.

It's true that, as this choice suggests, a federal suit (at least one not
based on diversity) must involve a federal question, that is, a question
arising under the Constitution or under a federal statute. So, the fact that
the constitutionality of a federal statute is at issue certainly satisfies the
‘‘must pose a federal question'' requirement. But there is an additional
requirement  that  the  plaintiffs  have  standing,  and  for  the  reasons
discussed in choice C above, that requirement is not satisfied.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  suit  seeks  ‘‘relief  of  a  conclusive  nature''  is
irrelevant.

Where plaintiffs lack standing, the fact that they are seeking ‘‘relief
of  a  conclusive  nature''  does  not  nullify  the  non-justiciability  of  their
claim.  This  organization  lacks  standing  for  the  reasons  discussed  in
choice  C  above.  If  choice  B  were  correct,  it  would  follow  that  any
person or organization, no matter how little their practical stake in the
outcome, could sue for an injunction against any statute's enforcement.

376

This would make a mockery of the constitutional requirement that each
federal suit involve a ‘‘case or controversy.''

 (D) is not the best response,

because  a  suit  for  an  injunction  preventing  enforcement  of  the  statute
could be brought.

It's  true  that  if  the  court  were  convinced  that  enforcement  of  the
statute  was  extremely  unlikely  to  occur  in  the  reasonable  future,  the
court might exercise its discretion to conclude that the suit shouldn't be
heard because it wasn't ripe. But this choice says far more than that —
it  asserts  that  the  mere  fact  that  there  has  not  yet  been  a  ‘‘bona  fide
effort'' to enforce the statute means an injunction suit can't be brought.
And  that's  clearly  not  true.  See,  e.g.,  Epperson  v.  Arkansas  (1968)
(involving  a  ban  on  teaching  evolution,  which  ban  had  never  been
enforced during its entire 40 years on the books).

 Answer 21

 (D) is the best response,

because the purpose of the tax is to raise revenue.

Article I, § 8, cl. 1, of the Constitution gives Congress the power to
‘‘lay and collect Taxes . . . and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide
for the Common Defence and general Welfare of the United States.'' So
Congress  can  tax  for  the  purpose  of  ‘‘provid[ing]  for  the  .  .  .  general
Welfare.''  That's  what  it  is  doing  here.  Because  the  power  is  plenary
(i.e., complete) a tax measure will be upheld so long as it bears some
reasonable relationship to revenue production and does not violate any
specific constitutional provision.

Here, the purpose of the tax is to raise revenue, so the requirement
of  ‘‘reasonable  relationship  to  revenue  production''  (expressed  in  the
choice  as  not  having  any  ‘‘provisions  extraneous  to  tax  needs  or
purposes'')  is  satisfied.  There  is  no  provision  in  the  Constitution  that
this tax would violate. Therefore, it's valid.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the tax is uniform in its application.

It's true that Article 1, § 8, cl. 1, which grants the power to tax, also
requires  that  ‘‘all  Duties,  Imposts  and  Excises  shall  be  uniform
throughout the United States.'' However, this requirement merely means

377

that  any  excise  tax  (and  this  is  one,  since  it's  imposed  on  the  sale  or
production of a particular product) may not discriminate among states
— it does not matter that only some individuals (and only residents of
one state) pay the tax because they are the ones who produce or sell the
product.

The  tax  on  the  mineral  here  meets  the  requirement  of  uniformity,
because it applies the same way on each ton of the mineral mined in the
country — so while it is currently mined only in one state, if it is ever
mined in another state the tax will also apply there.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the operation of the ‘‘Commerce Clause.''

If the phrase ‘‘Commerce Clause'' is intended to mean ‘‘commerce
power,''  the  fact  that  Congress  has  the  power  to  regulate  interstate
commerce doesn't impose on Congress any affirmative obligation to do
any  regulating  of  any  sort,  so  Congress  is  free  to  take  an  action  that
would  inhibit  (rather  than  foster)  a  particular  ‘‘interstate  industry.''  If
the  phrase  ‘‘Commerce  Clause''  is  intended  to  mean  the  ‘‘dormant
Commerce Clause,'' this is a limitation on what the states may do, not
an  affirmative  requirement  on  Congress.  So  there  is  no  plausible
meaning  for  the  phrase  ‘‘Commerce  Clause''  that  would  impose  on
Congress an obligation to ‘‘protect . . . such interstate industries.''

 (C) is not the best response,

because the issue is the power to tax, not navigable waterways.

Congress  has  no  special  authority  over  the  ‘‘navigable  waters''  of
the United States. (The federal judicial power extends to ‘‘all Cases of
admiralty  and  maritime  Jurisdiction,''  but  this  doesn't  add  anything  to
Congress's  powers.)  While  it's  true  that  Congress's  commerce  power
would probably give it authority to regulate navigable waters because
they affect commerce, this power is far more tangential to the problem
here than is Congress's power to tax for the general welfare. So choice
C reaches the correct conclusion, but for the wrong reason.

 Answer 22

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly recognizes that the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth  Amendment  applies  to  the  federal  government  through  the

378

Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

The  Equal  Protection  Clause,  operating  on  the  federal  government
through  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment,  provides  a
strong  basis  for  challenging  the  statute  because  the  statute  draws
distinctions  on  racial  lines.  In  order  to  determine  whether  a  statute  is
valid  under  equal  protection,  you  have  to  determine  the  basis  of  the
classification,  and  then  apply  the  appropriate  level  of  scrutiny  (strict,
intermediate, or rational basis) to the statute. When a statute classifies
individuals based on their race, which is a ‘‘suspect classification,'' a
court  will  review  the  statute  using  strict  scrutiny.  This  means  that  in
order for the statute to be valid, the classification must be necessary to
promote  a  compelling  governmental  interest.  Because  this  test  is  so
difficult to pass, the application of strict scrutiny will generally result
in a statute being ruled invalid. Since choice B recognizes this, it is the
best response.

Note that the application of strict scrutiny does not guarantee that a
statute will be held invalid. Rather, it puts a very heavy burden on the
government  that  makes  the  argument  in  favor  of  upholding  the  statute
unlikely  to  succeed.  Remember,  the  examiners  asked  for  the  best  ‘‘of
the  following''  bases  for  challenging  the  statute.  This  does  not
necessarily  mean  that  the  best  answer  will  support  a  successful
challenge.

 (A) is not the best response,

because, although the Commerce Clause may provide Congress with the
power to pass such a statute, it does not limit the power of Congress to
classify individuals based on their race.

The  Commerce  Clause  gives  Congress  the  right  to  regulate
interstate  commerce.  This  is  interpreted  extremely  broadly.  Since
commercial  airliners  move  people  across  state  and  national  borders,
they  are  within  Congress's  power  to  regulate  since  interstate  and
international  travel  are  forms  of  commerce.  However,  choice  A
provides  a  basis  for  supporting  the  validity  of  the  statute,  not
challenging it.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the statute was passed by Congress, not a state.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV prohibits states
from acting in ways that discriminate against the citizens of other states.

379

Since the statue in this question was neither passed by a state nor was
aimed at privileging state citizens over non-state citizens, the Privileges
and Immunities Clause has not been violated.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the statute was passed by Congress, not a state.

Although  the  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment  does  protect  the  right  to  travel  as  one  of  the  fundamental
rights  of  U.S.  citizenship,  it  only  applies  to  actions  by  one  state  that
deprive  non-state  citizens  of  their  rights  as  citizens.  Even  if  one  can
make  the  argument  that  this  statute  impinges  on  some  citizens'  right  to
travel, a statute passed by Congress cannot be successfully challenged
on this basis, since the Supreme Court has never applied the Privileges
or Immunities Clause to actions of the federal government.

 Answer 23

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  basis  of  the  federal  court's
jurisdiction.

What this question impliedly addresses is whether the federal court
can hear the case. The jurisdiction of the federal courts is addressed in
Article III, § 2, of the Constitution. Among other cases, federal courts
may  hear  cases  between  citizens  of  different  states  (‘‘diversity''
jurisdiction),  cases  arising  under  the  Constitution  or  a  federal  law  or
treaty  (‘‘federal  question''  jurisdiction),  and  those  where  the  United
States is a party.

Choice  D  suggests  that  there's  federal  question  jurisdiction  under
these facts. If you look at the farmer's claim, you can deduce that it will
address an equal protection violation, since the statute under which the
farmer  has  been  injured  creates  a  suspect  classification:  It  forbids
aliens  from  owning  more  than  100  acres  of  land,  and  alienage  is  a
suspect  classification.  Equal  protection  is  protected  by  the  federal
Constitution,  so 
the
Constitution, giving the federal court federal question jurisdiction over
the case. Since choice D recognizes this, it's the best response.

the  farmer's  claim  would  ‘‘arise''  under 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates federal court jurisdiction.

380

Article III, § 2, of the Constitution gives the Supreme Court original
jurisdiction over cases where a state is a party, as here. Congress has
the  power  to  create  lower  federal  courts,  and  give  them  jurisdiction
concurrent  with  the  Supreme  Court.  In  fact,  Congress  specifically
authorized federal courts to hear cases brought by aliens against states.
As a result, A is incorrect in stating that aliens may not sue in federal
court, making it not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  while  the  state  typically  has  power  over  in-state  land,  this
power is not unlimited.

In order to be valid, a state law — like the one here must meet three

requirements:

1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.
While  regulating  in-state  land  is  one  of  the  state's  powers,  this
regulation must still meet the other two requirements. Here, the statute
is an impermissible regulation principally because it violates the Equal
Protection  Clause,  by  setting  up  a  classification  based  on  alienage.
Since choice B incorrectly states that the state's right to regulate in-state
land is unlimited, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  violation  of  the  U.N.  charter,  by  itself,  would  not  give  the
federal court power to hear the lawsuit.

The jurisdiction of the federal courts is determined in Article III, §
2, of the Constitution, and as provided by Congress (which can regulate
the appellate jurisdiction of federal courts). One source of federal court
jurisdiction  is  ‘‘federal  question''  jurisdiction,  which  gives  federal
courts  the  power  to  hear  cases  arising  under  the  Constitution  or  a
federal law or treaty. If you chose this response, you may have thought
of the U.N. charter as a treaty; in fact, it's not, and there's nothing under
these  facts  to  suggest  that  it's  been  adopted  as  a  treaty.  On  the  other
hand, you may have been taking a wild stab in the dark in choosing this
response, which is unavoidable once in awhile. In any case, there is a
federal question presented by these facts, which is what gives the court
jurisdiction to hear the case. The farmer would most likely be arguing

381

 
that  the  state  statute  violated  the  federal  Constitution,  by  violating  the
Equal Protection Clause. Since choice C doesn't recognize this, it's not
the best response.

 Answer 24

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  impliedly  recognizes  that  the  statute  is  a  reasonable
restriction on the free exercise of religion.

The ‘‘free exercise'' part of the First Amendment's Religion Clause
guarantees the right to free exercise of religion. However, as with the
First Amendment rights of speech, assembly, and association, this right
is  not  absolute.  Instead,  reasonable  regulation  is  permissible.  And,  in
fact, if government enacts a “neutral law of general applicability” that
forbids  a  certain  type  of  conduct,  the  free  exercise  clause  “does  not
relieve an individual of the obligation to comply” with that neutral law.
Employment Div. v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872 (1990).

Here,  the  statute  which  the  priest  was  convicted  of  violating  is  a
“neutral” and “generally applicable” law prohibiting cruelty to animals
—in other words, it does not forbid particular conduct if done as part
of a religious observance while allowing the conduct if not religiously-
motivated.  (If  the  law  made  that  distinction,  it  would  not  be  a
“generally  applicable”  law,  and  the  rationale  of  Employment  Div.  v.
Smith wouldn't apply, so the law would violate the free exercise right.)
Therefore, the fact that the priest was motivated to perform the act by a
sincere religious belief would not furnish a defense.

 (A) is not the best response,

because a belief in Satan could enjoy constitutional protection, and A
makes the blanket statement that it cannot.

The ‘‘free exercise'' part of the First Amendment's Religion Clause
guarantees  the  right  to  free  exercise  of  religion.  In  order  to  gain
protection  a  religious  belief  must  be  held  in  good  faith,  and  it  must
parallel an orthodox religious belief; it cannot be merely a political or
philosophical view. United States v. Seeger  (1965).  Thus,  a  belief  in
Satan  could  constitute  a  religious  belief.  If  the  priest,  in  fact,  had  a
religious belief in Satan, and the statute here violated the priest's right
to  the  free  exercise  of  religion  (e.g.,  by  forbidding  any  worship  of
Satan), his conviction would be overturned. Since A doesn't recognize

382

this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because applying this statute to the priest would not violate his right to
freedom of religion.

The ‘‘free exercise'' part of the First Amendment's Religion Clause
guarantees the right to free exercise of religion. However, as is further
explained in the discussion of Choice (B), the free exercise clause does
not  relieve  a  person  of  the  obligation  to  obey  a  valid,  neutral,  and
“generally  applicable”  prohibition  of  particular  conduct.  Since  the
prohibition  on  animal  cruelty  constitutes  such  a  neutral  and  generally
applicable  prohibition,  the  priest's  conviction  does  not  violate  his
freedom of religion.

Incidentally,  note  that  while  the  conduct  of  religion  can  be
regulated,  the  beliefs  themselves  cannot.  The  right  to  hold  religious
beliefs  is  considered  absolute.  But  since  the  priest  is  not  being
punished  for  believing  in  Satan,  his  conviction  does  not  violate  this
principle.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not apply the correct test to these facts.

The  statute  here  impacts  the  priest's  exercise  of  his  religious
beliefs.  Thus,  the  ‘‘free  exercise''  part  of  the  First  Amendment's
Religion  Clause,  guaranteeing  the  right  to  free  exercise  of  religion,  is
called into question. This right, as with the First Amendment rights of
speech, assembly, and association, is not absolute.

However,  as  is  further  explained  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (B),
the free exercise clause does not relieve a person of the obligation to
obey  a  valid,  neutral,  and  “generally  applicable”  prohibition  of
particular  conduct.  Since  the  prohibition  on  animal  cruelty  constitutes
such  a  neutral  and  generally  applicable  prohibition,  the  priest's
conviction does not violate his freedom of religion. Employment Div. v.
Smith, 494 U.S. 872 (1990). So even if the court believed that the cult
members'  belief  in  the  need  for  pain-inducing  animal  cruelty  was
“reasonable” (not a likely conclusion by the court), under Employment
Div. v. Smith the priest would not be relieved of the obligation to obey
the anti-animal-cruelty statute.

 Answer 25

383

 (A) is the best response,

because  peremptory  challenges  based  on  gender  violate  equal
protection.

Gender-based  classifications  are  subject  to  intermediate  scrutiny,
which  requires  the  government  to  show  that  the  classification  be
substantially related to an important government objective. The use of
peremptory challenges to exclude all women from a jury cannot survive
mid-level review because it fails to further the state's legitimate interest
in  achieving  a  fair  trial,  while  reinforcing  stereotypical  assumptions
about women. J.E.B. v. Alabama (1994).

This  rationale  should  apply  to  invalidate  the  state's  action  here,
even though a non-jury adjudication method has been used. The state's
attorney used all of her peremptory challenges to eliminate women from
the arbitrator's panel because she believed that they would necessarily
be biased in favor of another woman claiming sexual harassment. Her
reasoning  reinforced  the  stereotypical  assumption  about  women.  By
removing  only  women  from  the  panel  she  did  not  substantially  further
the state's legitimate interest in ensuring the employee grievance system
provides a fair trial for employers and employees; therefore her actions
were unconstitutional.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  a  participant  in  an  arbitration  does  not  have  a  constitutional
right  to  have  the  arbitration  panel  made  up  of  the  participant's  peers;
that is a right limited to formal jury trials.

 (C) is not the best response,

because gender-based classifications are examined under intermediate
scrutiny, not strict scrutiny, and the state's action could not survive strict
scrutiny.

Gender-based  classifications  are  subject  to  intermediate  scrutiny,
which  requires  the  government  to  show  that  the  classification  is
substantially  related  to  an  important  government  objective.  As
described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  A,  the  state's  strike-all-female-
arbitrators action here does not satisfy this intermediate-level standard.
Choice  C  is  wrong  for  two  reasons.  First,  it  applies  the  wrong
standard,  strict  scrutiny  instead  of  the  proper  intermediate-level
the
scrutiny.  Second, 

the  state's  action  cannot  even  survive 

384

intermediate-level scrutiny (see the analysis of choice C for why), so it
certainly couldn't survive strict scrutiny, as choice C says it could.

 (D) is not the best response,

because gender-based classifications are examined under intermediate
scrutiny, not rational-basis review.

Gender-based  classifications  are  subject  to  intermediate  scrutiny,
which  requires  the  government  to  show  that  the  classification  be
substantially  related  to  an  important  government  objective.  Thus
rational-basis  review  (under  which  the  action  will  be  upheld  if  the
means  chosen  are  ‘‘rationally  related''  to  the  achievement  of  a
‘‘legitimate'' state interest) is not the right standard. (It probably is true
that if rational-basis review were the correct standard, the state would
survive that review here, though this is not absolutely certain.)

 Answer 26

 (D) is the best response,

because the tax discriminates against out-of-state manufacturers.

regulation: 

Congress's  power  over  interstate  commerce  is  nonexclusive.  If
Congress  has  not  enacted  laws  regarding  the  subject,  a  state  or  local
government may regulate aspects of interstate commerce if (and only if)
(1)  does  not  discriminate  against  out-of-state
the 
competition to benefit local economic interests; and (2) does not unduly
burden interstate commerce. This limit on the powers of state or local
governments  to  regulate  or  affect  interstate  commerce  is  sometimes
called the ‘‘dormant Commerce Clause.''

By reducing the amount of taxes paid by assemblers of computers in
an amount equal to the portion of computer components manufactured in
the  state,  the  city  is  discriminating  against  out-of-state  competition  to
benefit  local  economic  interests.  This  discrimination  causes  the  tax
measure to violate test (1) above. Consequently, the ordinance violates
the dormant Commerce Clause principle.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  ordinance  has  the  effect  of  making  parts  manufactured
outside of the state more expensive.

It is true that the tax falls only on companies resident in the city. But
the effect  of  the  tax  is  to  make  components  manufactured  in  the  state

385

than 

those  manufactured  outside  of 

the  state.
less  expensive 
Consequently,  companies  are  induced  to  favor  in-state  component-
makers  over  out-of-state  ones.  This  intentional  discrimination  against
the  no-discrimination-against-out-of-staters
out-of-staters  violates 
component  of  dormant  Commerce  Clause  principles  (described  more
fully in the discussion of choice D above).

 (B) is not the best response,

because the dormant Commerce Clause places limits on a state's right
to foster resident corporations.

to 

its 

residents 

Although  a  state  may  sometimes  foster  local  businesses  by
local,''  some  methods  of
encouraging 
‘‘buy 
encouragement  violate  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.  Where  a  state
uses its tax system to confer a direct financial benefit to those who buy
locally  manufactured  goods,  at  the  expense  of  out-of-state  makers  of
goods, 
‘‘economic
protectionism,''  and  violates  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.  That's
what the tax here does.

the  state  crosses 

forbidden 

into 

line 

the 

 (C) is not the best response,

because  taxes  based  on  gross  receipts  are  not  a  per  se  violation  of
dormant Commerce Clause principles.

Some  tax  schemes  violate  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause  because
they either discriminate against, or unduly burden, interstate commerce.
But  the  mere  fact  that  a  tax  is  ‘‘measured  in  whole  or  in  part  by  [the
taxpayer's]  gross  receipts''  does  not  automatically  mean  that  either
forbidden discrimination or an undue burden on commerce is present.

It's true that if a state enacted a tax on a multi-state taxpayer's gross
receipts,  and  made  no  distinction  between  receipts  from  in-state
activities and those from out-of-state activities, that tax might well be
found to be an undue burden on commerce, and thus a violation of the
dormant  Commerce  Clause.  But  choice  C  goes  way  beyond  this
principle and doesn't tie in to the problem with the tax here (which is
that  it  intentionally  discriminates  against  out-of-state  component
makers).

 Answer 27

 (D) is the best response,

386

because the case is not ripe for adjudication.

In order for a case to be heard in federal court, it must meet a series
of  justiciability  requirements.  In  particular,  to  be  heard  the  plaintiff
must  have  standing  and  the  case  must  (1)  not  call  for  an  advisory
opinion, (2) be ripe for adjudication, (3) not be moot, and (4) not call
for  the  courts  to  decide  a  non-justiciable  ‘‘political  question.''  The
court  in  this  problem  should  refuse  to  hear  the  case  because  the
controversy  is  not  yet  ripe  for  decision.  A  case  is  considered  not  yet
ripe  when  the  controversy  is  not  yet  sufficiently  concrete  as  to  allow
effective  adjudication.  In  particular,  when  a  plaintiff  sues  for  some
anticipated  harm,  that  harm  must  be  reasonably  likely  and  specific.
When it is unclear whether or not harm will ever come to the plaintiff,
the case is not ripe.

In this problem, the brewery is not facing imminent harm resulting
from  a  regulation  because  the  regulation  has  not  yet  been  enacted.
Since, at this point in time, we cannot be reasonably certain about what
standards the agency will adopt, we do not know if the anticipated harm
will ever come to the brewery. It is possible that the agency will adopt
standards that allow the brewery to continue to sell unpasteurized beer.
Accordingly,  the  case  is  not  yet  ripe  for  adjudication,  and  the  court
should refuse to hear the case.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the federal district court should refuse to hear the case.

As discussed in the analysis of choice D above, a federal court will
refuse  to  hear  cases  that  are  non-justiciable  because  they  call  for
advisory  opinions,  are  not  yet  ripe,  are  moot,  or  involve  ‘‘political
questions.''  The  brewery's  claim  is  not  ripe  because  there  is  no
presently existing risk of harm. The claim will only become ripe if the
agency  actually  adopts  a  standard  that,  if  enforced,  would  harm  the
brewery's economic interests. At this point, we can only speculate as to
what  standards  will  be  adopted  and  so  the  possibility  of  harm  to  the
brewery is too remote.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the federal district court should refuse to hear the case.

As discussed in the analysis of choice D above, a federal court will
refuse  to  hear  cases  that  are  non-justiciable  because  they  call  for
advisory  opinions,  are  not  yet  ripe,  are  moot,  or  involve  ‘‘political

387

questions.''  The  brewery's  claim  is  not  ripe  because  there  is  no
presently existing risk of harm. The claim will only become ripe if the
agency  actually  adopts  a  standard  that,  if  enforced,  would  harm  the
brewery's economic interests. At this point, we can only speculate as to
what  standards  will  be  adopted  and  so  the  possibility  of  harm  to  the
brewery is too remote.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  federal  district  court  will  dismiss  a  suit  when  the
controversy is not yet ripe for adjudication.

This  choice  correctly  states  that  the  federal  court  should  refuse  to
hear the case since, as discussed in the analysis of choice D above, the
dispute is not yet ripe. However, the proper response to an unripe suit
is dismissal, not staying the action. Federal courts will dismiss any suit
that fails to meet the five justiciability requirements (standing, case or
controversy,  ripeness,  mootness,  and  ‘‘political  questions'').  If  the
agency  subsequently  adopts  a  regulation  that  prohibits  the  sale  of
unpasteurized  beer,  the  brewery  will  then  have  a  ripe  claim,  and  may
file a new action to enjoin enforcement of the standard.

 Answer 28

 (A) is the best response,

because it recognizes the central reason the provision for construction
of buildings to be used for secular purposes, at religious colleges and
universities, is constitutional.

Under  the  First  Amendment,  the  government  must  be  ‘‘religion
neutral''; that is, it can't respect an establishment of religion, and it can't
prohibit  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  Here,  you  have  Congress
subsidizing  construction  of  buildings  at  private,  and  potentially
religious,  colleges  and  universities.  Thus, 
there's  a  potential
Establishment  Clause  problem.  In  such  situations,  the  test  used  to
determine if the enactment is constitutional is from Lemon v. Kurtzman
(1971):

1. The statute must have a secular purpose;
2. It must have as its principal or primary effect neither the

advancement nor inhibition of religion; and

3. It must not foster excessive government entanglement with

religion.

388

Choice  A  implicitly  recognizes  that  this  test  is  met.  The  central
issue here is the third element, ‘‘excessive entanglement,'' because it is
purely  judgmental  —  the  only  real  way  to  know  if  a  particular
provision  constitutes  excessive  entanglement  is  to  see  if  the  Supreme
Court  has  already  addressed  the  issue.  And,  by  gum,  with  this  one,  it
has. The issue of government grants for construction of buildings to be
used  exclusively  for  secular  education,  at  religious  colleges  and
universities, was addressed in Tilton v. Richardson (1971). The grants
were upheld, on the basis that, as long as the schools involved were not
‘‘permeated  with  religion,''  the  grants  didn't  involve  excessive
entanglement with religion. Choice A correctly addresses this.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not identify the central reason the building grant will be
constitutional.

Under  the  First  Amendment,  the  government  must  be  ‘‘religion
neutral''; that is, it can't respect an establishment of religion, and it can't
prohibit  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  Here,  you  have  Congress
subsidizing  construction  of  buildings  at  private,  and  potentially
religious,  colleges  and  universities.  Thus, 
there's  a  potential
Establishment  Clause  problem.  In  such  situations,  the  test  used  to
determine if the enactment is constitutional is from Lemon v. Kurtzman
(1971):

1. The statute must have a secular purpose;
2. It must have as its principal or primary effect neither the

advancement nor inhibition of religion; and

3. It must not foster excessive government entanglement with

religion.

Here, choice B states that the bricks and mortar themselves do not
foster  religion.  However,  say  the  facts  were  different,  and  the  bricks
and  mortar  were  to  be  used  to  build  a  chapel.  This  would  clearly
violate  the  Establishment  Clause,  although  the  reasoning  in  B  would
still make the grant valid.

Instead, the reason the grants here will be valid is that they are to be
used for secular education only and, thus, don't respect an establishment
of  religion  or  involve  excessive  government  entanglement  with
religion.  While  the  ‘‘excessive  entanglement''  issue  involves  line-
drawing,  the  Supreme  Court  addressed  this  specific  issue  in  Tilton  v.
Richardson (1971), and decided such grants were valid. Since B does
not  recognize  the  specific  reason  the  grants  will  be  valid,  it's  not  the

389

best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  fails  to  recognize  that  aid  for  secular  purposes  can  be
constitutional even if the recipient is a private, religious school.

Under  the  First  Amendment,  the  government  must  be  ‘‘religion
neutral''; that is, it can't respect an establishment of religion, and it can't
prohibit  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  Here,  you  have  Congress
subsidizing  construction  of  buildings  at  private,  and  potentially
religious,  colleges  and  universities.  Thus, 
there's  a  potential
Establishment  Clause  problem.  In  such  situations,  the  test  used  to
determine if the enactment is constitutional is from Lemon v. Kurtzman
(1971):

1. The statute must have a secular purpose;
2. It must have as its principal or primary effect neither the

advancement nor inhibition of religion; and

3. It must not foster excessive government entanglement with

religion.

The key point here is that financial aid to church-operated schools
can be valid if it meets this test, because it's possible to aid the secular
goals of schools without violating the Lemon v. Kurtzman  test.  While
this  would,  tangentially  perhaps,  strengthen  the  religious  purposes  of
the  school,  this  would  be  sufficiently  outweighed  by  the  government's
interest in the general welfare of students to allow limited financial aid
to religious schools.

There  is  a  caveat  to  this,  in  the  sense  that  almost  no  direct  aid  to
primary  and  secondary  religious  schools  would  be  permissible,  since
such  aid  is  considered  ‘‘excessive  entanglement''  (in  that  religious
indoctrination of younger students is more of a problem than with older,
university-age  students).  In  any  case,  since  C  would  prohibit  any
financial  help  to  religious  schools,  when  in  fact  there  are  limited
circumstances  (including  those  here)  where  such  aid  would  be
permissible, C cannot be the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because 
entanglement,''  and 
constitutional.

the  aid  here  would  not  be  considered 

‘‘excessive
in  fact,  be  considered

the  grants  would, 

Under  the  First  Amendment,  the  government  must  be  ‘‘religion-

390

neutral''; that is, it can't respect an establishment of religion, and it can't
prohibit  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  Here,  you  have  Congress
subsidizing  construction  of  buildings  at  private,  and  potentially
there's  a  potential
religious,  colleges  and  universities.  Thus, 
Establishment  Clause  problem.  In  such  situations,  the  test  used  to
determine if the enactment is constitutional is from Lemon v. Kurtzman
(1971):

1. The statute must have a secular purpose;
2. It must have as its principal or primary effect neither the

advancement nor inhibition of religion; and

3. It must not foster excessive government entanglement with

religion.

It's the third element that choice D calls into question. In fact, if you
chose this response, this is a perfectly understandable mistake to make,
because the ‘‘excessive entanglement'' issue is purely judgmental — the
only  real  way  to  know  if  a  particular  provision  constitutes  excessive
entanglement is to see if the Supreme Court has already addressed the
issue.  And,  with  this  one,  it  has.  The  issue  of  government  grants  for
construction of buildings to be used exclusively for secular education,
at  religious  colleges  and  universities,  was  addressed  in  Tilton  v.
Richardson (1971). The grants were upheld, on the basis that, as long
as the schools involved were not ‘‘permeated with religion,'' the grants
didn't  involve  excessive  entanglement  with  religion.  Since  D  states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 Answer 29

 (B) is the best response,

because based on the facts, a reasonable observer would likely believe
the  state  government  was  endorsing  the  nativity  scene  as  a  religious
symbol.

The constitutionality of the display of a religious symbol such as a
nativity  scene  will  be  a  question  of  fact.  The  most  important  single
factor  seems  to  be  the  context  in  which  the  religious  symbol  is
displayed:  If  the  religious  symbol  is  presented  by  itself  in  what  is
clearly a space reserved by the government for its own property and its
own  messages,  the  Court  is  likely  to  conclude  that  a  reasonable
observer  would  believe  that  the  government  was  endorsing  the
religious  message.  Conversely,  the  presence  of  other  non-religious

391

symbols  nearby,  or  the  existence  of  a  sign  indicating  that  the  display
was  furnished  by  private  parties,  may  well  be  enough  to  lead  a
reasonable  observer  to  the  conclusion  that  the  government  was  not
endorsing  religion.  See  Allegheny  County  v.  ACLU  (1989)  (nativity
scene  displayed  in  a  courthouse  violated  the  Establishment  Clause,  in
part because the absence of any nearby non-religious symbols as part of
the display would lead a reasonable observer to conclude that the city
was  endorsing  a  religious  observance,  not  merely  celebrating  the
secular holiday season).

On this standard, the proposed display of the nativity scene would
be unconstitutional. The nativity scene would not be surrounded by non-
religious  symbols  having  to  do  with  the  holiday  season,  a  fact  that
would  rebut  the  implication  that  the  nativity  scene  was  just  part  of  a
secular celebration of the holiday season.

The  whole  presentation  (and  the  fact  that  the  governor  and
legislature  supported  it)  would  create  in  a  reasonable  observer  the
impression that the government was endorsing a religious message.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the ownership of the display would not be dispositive on the
issue of whether the government seemed to be endorsing religion.

If  the  scene  here  seemed  to  be  a  celebration  of  Christmas  as  a
primarily  secular  holiday,  the  fact  that  the  government  owned  the
display would not be fatal.

But (for the reasons discussed in choice B above), the context of the
display here would suggest to a reasonable observer that the state was
endorsing religion. Consequently, the display violates the Establishment
Clause.  Thus  choice  A  reaches  the  correct  result,  but  for  the  wrong
reason.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  donation  would  be  only  one  element  considered  in  the  total
context of the display.

If  the  display  made  it  clear  to  the  public  that  private  citizens  had
donated the components, this would indeed be one factor (but just one)
tending to demonstrate that the display was not a forbidden government
endorsement of religion. But there's no indication that the fact of private
donations would be disclosed to the public. Furthermore, this fact, even
if disclosed, probably wouldn't be enough to overcome the otherwise-

392

powerful  impression  that  the  government  is  endorsing  a  religious
message.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  displaying  the  scene  next  to  the  products  would  not  rebut  the
impression  that  the  state  was  endorsing  the  nativity  scene's  religious
message.

When a religious symbol such as a nativity scene is displayed in a
public place, the issue is whether a reasonable observer would believe
that  the  government  is  endorsing  a  religious  method.  Context  is  all-
important. If the nativity scene were displayed next to other objects that
pertain to December as a primarily secular holiday (e.g., a Santa Claus
figure),  the  impression  of  an  endorsement  of  religion  would  be
rebutted. But putting the scene next to the year-round display of in-state-
impression  of  an
manufactured  products  would  not  rebut 
endorsement  of  religion,  because  an  observer  would  realize  that  the
two  displays  were  separate,  and  that  the  nativity  scene  was  its  own
standalone display on an explicitly religious topic.

the 

 Answer 30

 (D) is the best response,

because there is no evidence of the city's involvement with the private
organization beyond the renting of the auditorium.

The  Fourteenth  Amendment  provides  that  no  state  shall  make  or
enforce any law that shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal  protection  of  the  laws.  This  Amendment,  and  thus  the  Equal
Protection Clause contained in it, applies only  to  government  action,
not  to  action  by  private  citizens.  This  is  known  as  the  requirement  of
‘‘state  action,''  and  whenever  you  have  an  equal  protection  or  due
process question, you should check to see that it's satisfied.

There are several ways in which the state can become so involved
with private citizens' discriminatory actions that the discrimination will
be  attributable  to  the  state  for  state-action  purposes.  For  instance,
perhaps  the  state  has  become  so  involved  with  the  private  action  that
the  two  become  symbiotic,  which  is  to  say  there  is  a  mutually
beneficial relation between the state and the private discriminator (e.g.,
the state gets revenue from leasing space in a public parking garage to a
discriminatory restaurant; Burton v. Wilmington Parking Auth. (1961)).

393

Or,  perhaps 
discrimination.

the  state  has  somehow  encouraged 

the  private

But here, the state involvement with the private action is so limited,
and  so  independent  of  the  discrimination,  that  no  state  action  will  be
found. The state will rent to anyone, and charges the same hourly rate to
everyone, so the fact that the state is renting to the all-male organization
here does not constitute any kind of endorsement or encouragement by
the  state  of  (or  unusual  benefit  to  the  state  from)  the  discrimination.
Consequently,  there  is  no  state  action,  and  the  organization's  conduct
will not be subject to the Fourteenth Amendment.

 (A) is not the best response,

because inviting members of the general public does not make a private
organization a state actor.

It's  probable  that  if  this  organization  were  a  public  organization
(e.g., organized by and run by a city), the all-male-officers rule would
violate the Fourteenth Amendment. But as described in choice D above,
there is no state action here. Therefore, choice A cannot be correct in
suggesting that the Fourteenth Amendment applies. And that's true even
though  this  private  organization  has  invited  members  of  the  public  to
some of its activities.

 (B) is not the best response,

because renting the auditorium does not make the private organization a
state actor.

As is described in choice D above, the mere occasional first-come-
first-served rental of a city auditorium to a discriminatory private group
is not enough to transform the private group's conduct into the requisite
state action. If the city encouraged, or substantially benefitted from, the
discrimination  in  some  way,  that  might  be  enough  to  constitute  state
action. But the rental here — which is on the same basis as it would be
for  any  other  group,  discriminatory  or  not  —  does  not  come  close  to
being state action.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the absence of state action prevents the court from even getting
to the Fourteenth Amendment issue.

First  of  all,  this  choice  is  wrong  because  although  there  is  a
constitutionally  protected  interest  in  freedom  of  association,  it's

394

conferred  by  the  First  Amendment  (as  a  variant  of  the  freedom  of
expression),  not  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  Second,  whatever
freedom-of-association claim the organization might have would not be
strong  enough  to  prohibit  interference  ‘‘in  any  way''  with  the
organization's  use  of  city  facilities.  (The  organization's  freedom-of-
association rights might be strong enough to interfere with some efforts
by the city to reduce discrimination. See, e.g., Boy Scouts of America v.
Dale (2002), holding that because opposition to homosexuality is part
of the Scouts' ‘‘expressive message,'' the Scouts' freedom of association
was  violated  by  a  state  anti-discrimination  law  that  barred  the  group
from excluding gay members.)

But  the  biggest  reason  why  this  choice  is  wrong  is  that  due  to  the
lack of ‘‘state action'' here (see choice D above), the court would never
even  get  to  the  point  of  analyzing  whether  the  freedom  of  association
issue blocked the application of the Fourteenth Amendment.

 Answer 31

 (B) is the best response,

because lessening congestion by allowing only county-based cabs to do
business is an undue burden on interstate commerce.

Under  the  dormant  commerce  clause,  a  state  regulation  that
substantially  affects  interstate  commerce  must  meet  each  of  the
following requirements to be upheld:

(1) The regulation must pursue a legitimate end;
(2) The regulation must be rationally related to that legitimate end;

and

(3) The regulatory burden imposed by the state on interstate

commerce, and any discrimination against interstate commerce,
must be outweighed by the state's interest in enforcing the
regulation.

Protection  of  a  state's  economic 

is  generally  not
considered to be a legitimate state objective, where the pursuit of that
objective materially affects interstate commerce.

interests 

The stated purpose of the regulation, reducing traffic congestion in
the  county,  is  a  general  welfare  and  safety  concern  that  would  be
provisionally  considered  by  the  Court  to  be  a  legitimate  state  end,
pending the rest of the analysis. The ordinance is also rationally related
to  that  legitimate  state  end.  The  ordinance  fails,  however,  in  that  its

395

effect  imposes  an  undue  burden  on  interstate  travel.  The  practical
effect  of  this  ordinance  is  to  preclude  taxicab  drivers  from  the
neighboring  state  from  doing  business  in  the  county  or  in  the  state  in
which the county is located — they can neither pick up passengers nor
drop  off  passengers  in  the  county,  even  passengers  who  originated  in
the neighboring state. So the ordinance functionally eliminates from the
competition for business anyone not from the county. Reduction of some
degree of traffic congestion would not be enough of a benefit to justify
this  sort  of  protectionism  against  out-of-staters.  (And  the  fact  that  the
governmental  body  is  a  county  rather  than  state,  or  the  fact  that  in-
staters from outside the county are also discriminated against, makes no
difference.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because there is no requirement that the means used be the best way of
achieving the ends.

interstate  commerce  must  meet  each  of 

Under  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause,  a  state  regulation  which
the  following
affects 
requirements to be upheld: (1) the regulation must pursue a legitimate
end; (2) the regulation must be rationally related to that legitimate end;
and  (3)  the  regulatory  burden  imposed  by  the  state  on  interstate
commerce, and any discrimination against interstate commerce, must be
outweighed by the state's interest in enforcing the regulation.

The fact that the means used is not the ‘‘best'' means of solving the
problem — i.e., is not the means having the tightest possible fit with the
governmental  objection  —  is  irrelevant  under  this  test.  (Factor  (2)
above  requires  just  a  ‘‘rational  relation''  between  means  and  end,  a
very easy-to-satisfy test.) So the fact that the county has tried to solve
its  congestion  problem  ‘‘one  step  at  a  time''  (by  eliminating  some
sources of congestion but not the biggest source) is also irrelevant —
as long as the county has eased the problem somewhat, that's all that is
required as to the means-end fit.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  unlawful  discrimination  against  interstate  commerce  is  not
rebutted by showing that in-staters from a different part of the state are
also being discriminated against.

Under  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause,  as  long  as  the  business
efforts  of  out-of-staters  are  being  discriminated  against  or  unduly

396

burdened,  the  fact  that  in-staters  from  other  parts  of  the  state  (in  this
case, those living in the state containing the county but not in the county
itself) are also being discriminated against is irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  answer  applies  a  due  process  analysis  to  a  dormant
Commerce Clause issue.

Suspect classes are part of a due process analysis. The issue here is
whether  the  restriction  violates  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause.  The
appropriate  analysis  under  the  dormant  Commerce  Clause  is  the
balance  between  the  burden  on  interstate  commerce  imposed  by  the
state, and the state's interest in enforcing the regulation. Suspect classes
have nothing to do with that analysis.

 Answer 32

 (D) is the best response,

because the ordinance removes only one box in ten from the streets.

Commercial speech, if it is not misleading or concerning unlawful
activity, is covered by the First Amendment and may be regulated only
if  the  state  shows  that  the  regulation  (1)  directly  advances,  (2)  a
substantial  governmental  interest,  (3)  in  a  way  that  is  reasonably
tailored to achieve that objective. Central Hudson Gas v. Public Serv.
Comm., 447 U.S. 557 (1980)

While the ordinance here directly advances the city's governmental
interest in preventing the adverse effects of publication-caused litter on
public  sidewalks  and  streets,  the  ordinance  fails  the  last  part  of  the
Court's test. The facts state that the city's ordinance removed just 30 of
the existing 300 sidewalk machines that were dispensing publications.
And there's no indication that publications containing solely advertising
will result in more litter per-publication than those that have some non-
advertising content. An ordinance that removes only one box in ten, and
with no indication why that one poses more of a litter problem, is not
reasonably  tailored  to  achieving  the  city's  legitimate  interest  of
combatting litter.

 (A) is not the best response,

because this choice states the wrong test.

As  is  described  in  the  discussion  of  choice  D  above,  the  Court

397

applies  what  is  essentially  mid-level  review  to  regulations  of
commercial speech. Since choice A says that the review is the easy-to-
satisfy rational-relation standard, it's wrong.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the answer is based on a test that is inapplicable to the facts.

This choice propounds the strict-scrutiny standard used for content-
based restrictions. What's at issue here, however, is a time-place-and-
manner  regulation  aimed  at  the  secondary  effects  (litter)  of  a  certain
method of disseminating written material. The appropriate standard is
the intermediate-level review described in the discussion of choice D.
Furthermore, if strict-scrutiny were the correct standard, the ordinance
here  would  clearly  not  satisfy  the  standard,  since  it's  attacking  only
one-tenth  of  the  problem  (by  removing  only  one-tenth  of  the  boxes),
meaning that the means chosen are not a very good method of achieving
the objective.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the applicable test is reasonable fit, not least restrictive means.
Commercial speech, if it is not misleading or concerning unlawful
activity, is covered by the First Amendment and may be regulated only
if  the  state  shows  that  the  regulation  (1)  directly  advances,  (2)  a
substantial  governmental  interest,  (3)  in  a  way  that  is  reasonably
tailored to achieve that objective.

The Court has indicated that showing (3) does not require that there
not  be  any  less-restrictive  alternative,  merely  that  there  be  a  fairly
close  relationship  between  means  and  end.  In  fact,  the  scheme  here
doesn't even meet this reasonably tailored test, but choice C is wrong
because it states an incorrectly strict test for the means-end fit.

 Answer 33

 (A) is the best response,

because the defendant's barber license was ‘‘property,'' which the state
could not take away from him without due process.

Where  a  state-issued  license  is  required  to  pursue  a  business  or
profession,  a  person  who  has  already  obtained  the  license  has  a
‘‘property''  interest  in  that  license  for  Fourteenth  Amendment  due
process  purposes.  Consequently,  that  property  may  not  be  taken  away

398

without due process of law.

Precisely what procedural safeguards the barber is entitled to is not
certain, but the more serious the threatened loss of property or liberty,
the  wider  the  array  of  procedural  safeguards  required.  Mathews  v.
Eldridge,  425  U.S.  319  (1976).  Here,  the  threatened  loss  (the  right  to
practice one's profession) is serious, so extensive safeguards ought to
be  given.  Since  the  proceeding  is  analogous  to  a  criminal  trial  —  the
Board is determining whether the barber used his premises to commit a
crime — he has a strong claim of entitlement to the sorts of procedures
used  in  criminal  trials,  including  the  right  to  cross-examine  his
accusers. There's no guarantee that he would win with this due process
argument, but it's clearly the most likely to succeed of the four choices.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  U.S.  attorney  dropped  the  case  before  a  judgment  was
entered.

Article IV, § 1, states that full faith and credit shall be given by each
state  to  public  acts  and  judicial  proceedings  of  every  other  state.  By
extension of this principle, the states must give full faith and credit to
federal proceedings as well.

However,  the  decision  by  the  local  U.S.  attorney  not  to  prosecute
the  barber  was  not  a  judicial  decision  deserving  full  faith  and  credit,
because it was not the final outcome of a judicial proceeding. (The case
was dropped, not decided, and so there would be nothing to give full
faith and credit to.) Consequently, choice B is not correct.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  Article  III  has  nothing  to  do  with  state  proceedings,  and,
anyway,  this  is  not  the  sort  of  ‘‘penalty''  that  must  be  conferred  by  a
court rather than an agency.

Article  III  prescribes  the  judicial  power  of  the  United  States,  i.e.,
the  limits  of  the  power  of  the  federal  judiciary.  It  says  nothing  about
how the states must exercise their judicial power. Since this is a state
proceeding, Article III is irrelevant.

Furthermore,  even  if  this  were  a  federal  license-revocation
proceeding,  nothing  in  Article  III  specifies  that  the  license  could  only
be revoked by an Article III court rather than an administrative agency.
If this were a truly ‘‘penal'' proceeding (e.g., a proceeding to institute a
criminal conviction or a fine intended to punish), it would have to be in

399

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

an Article III court (i.e., before a judge with a lifetime term). But this is
a  non-penal  administrative  proceeding,  so  it  need  not  be  before  an
Article III court.

 (D) is not the best response,

because federal drug laws are not so extensive as to force aside state
laws.

Under the Supremacy Clause of Article IV, § 2, even absent explicit
language,  Congress's  intent  to  supersede  state  law  altogether  may  be
found  from  a  scheme  of  federal  regulation  so  pervasive  as  to  make
reasonable the inference that Congress left no room to supplement it.

However,  there's  nothing  in  the  facts  here  to  suggest  that  when
Congress made it a federal crime to sell cocaine, it intended to preempt
the states from also criminalizing cocaine sales. (Indeed, as to virtually
all  federal  drug  crimes,  the  states  have  concurrent  jurisdiction  to
criminalize  the  same  conduct.)  So  the  state  would  even  be  free  to
prosecute the barber for the state crime of cocaine selling. Beyond that,
the state proceeding here is a non-penal civil proceeding, so it certainly
wouldn't  be  preempted  by 
the  existence  of  a  federal  statute
criminalizing the same conduct.

 Answer 34

 (C) is the best response,

because the case is now moot.

A case is moot if it raised a justiciable controversy at the time the
complaint was filed but events occurring after the filing have deprived
the litigant of an ongoing stake in the controversy and it is not likely that
the case will be revived.

The  attorney  was  seeking  only  an  injunction  (not,  for  instance,
damages). And the facts tell us that this is the only criminal trial he was
counting on seeing via cable television. So unless this criminal trial has
a significant likelihood of continuing, there is no ongoing damage to the
attorney, and thus no need for an injunction. The facts tell us that there
were no obvious errors in the trial, so it's unlikely that the case will be
reversed and remanded for a new trial. Consequently, there is virtually
no possibility of new proceedings that could be televised, and thus no
live  controversy  about  whether  the  injunction  sought  by  the  attorney
should be granted.

400

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  likelihood  of  a  live  controversy  is  remote,  thus  dictating
dismissal rather than deferral.

It is appropriate for a court to defer decision in a case where later
events will or may likely occur that would make the case more suitable
for  decision  than  it  is  now.  So  if  there  were  a  good  likelihood  that  a
new  trial  would  occur,  deferral  might  be  the  right  course.  But  here,
we're  told  that  there  are  no  obvious  errors,  so  it's  unlikely  that  there
will be an appellate reversal and a new criminal trial. Since likelihood
of a new trial that would raise the ‘‘do we televise?'' issue is remote,
the court should dismiss rather than merely defer.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the state supreme court will not have occasion to say anything
about the case's merits.

The  attorney's  case  presents  a  pure  question  of 

federal
(constitutional) law. While principles of concurrent jurisdiction would
probably have permitted him to bring the case in state court, he didn't
choose  to  do  that.  Therefore,  the  state  supreme  court  will  never  have
occasion to express an opinion. In any event, this choice's statement that
‘‘state law of mootness governs suits in federal court . . .'' is basically
gibberish  —  it's  up  to  the  federal  courts  to  say,  as  a  federal
constitutional matter, when a controversy is moot.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  however  important  the  constitutional  question  raised  by  the
attorney, it's moot due to the fact that there's no longer a criminal trial
about which to grant the requested injunctive relief.

A  case  will  be  dismissed  as  moot  if  the  relief  sought  no  longer
makes sense. That's true even if, in the abstract, the case presents ‘‘an
important  constitutional  question.''  So  choice  D,  by  ignoring  the
mootness problem and relying solely on the importance of the issue, is
wrong.

 Answer 35

 (C) is the best response,

because employees of the federal government are not immune from state

401

taxes.

The  federal  government  is  immune  from  taxation  by  any  state.
Federal  immunity  from  state  taxation  exists  only  in  these  situations
where  the  ‘‘legal  incidence''  of  the  tax  is  on  the  United  States.
Employees  of  the  federal  government  are  not  immune  from  state
taxation. Graves v. New York Ex Rel. O'Keefe, 306 U.S. 466 (1939).
Since  the  legal  incidence  of  the  tax  here  is  on  the  employee,  not  the
government, there is no immunity from the tax. (If the tax were on the
deemed value of the business use of the auto, so that the United States
was  in  effect  being  taxed,  the  result  might  be  different.  But  the  facts
make  it  clear  that  it's  only  the  employee's  personal  use  that's  being
taxed, so the case is an easy one.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because a tax on federal employees is not a tax on the U.S. government.
The  federal  government  is  immune  from  taxation  by  any  state.
Federal  immunity  from  state  taxation  exists  only  in  these  situations
where the ‘‘legal incidence'' of the tax is on the United States. The tax
here  is  not  on  the  government  or  a  government  entity,  but  upon
employees  of  the  federal  government,  and  they  are  not  immune  from
state taxation.

 (B) is not the best response,

because only the value of the personal use is taxed, not the value of the
use generally.

The  federal  government  is  immune  from  taxation  by  any  state.
Federal  immunity  from  state  taxation  exists  only  in  these  situations
where  the  ‘‘legal  incidence''  of  the  tax  is  on  the  United  States.
Employees  of  the  federal  government  are  not  immune  from  state
taxation.

The state probably could not tax government employees for the use
of automobiles in discharge of government duties, because in that case
the legal incidence of the tax would be on the United States. But the tax
here applies only to the fair value of the personal use, not the use for
the  United  States'  benefit.  (The  fact  that  the  car  is  primarily  used  for
federal  government  purposes  is  irrelevant,  since  it's  only  the  value  of
the personal use that's being taxed.)

 (D) is not the best response,

402

because it reaches the right result but for the wrong reason.

If the state were to give federal employees a total tax exemption on
the value of the personal use of the car, this would probably not be an
equal  protection  violation.  That's  because  the  standard  would  be
whether there was a rational relation between the means chosen by the
state  (exemption)  and  some  legitimate  state  objective.  A  court  would
probably hold that it's rational for a state to conclude that state-federal
relations would benefit from this sort of exemption.

 Answer 36

 (D) is the best response,

because there is no right to a hearing unless one has been deprived of
liberty or property, and the driver hasn't been so deprived.

A  person  who  is  affected  by  governmental  action  doesn't  thereby
automatically  get  the  right  to  a  hearing.  Instead,  only  those  whose
‘‘property'' or ‘‘liberty'' are being affected have the right to due process
(and  even  then,  these  due  process  rights  won't  necessarily  entail  the
right  to  a  formal  hearing).  Here,  nothing  the  city  has  ever  done  has
created in the driver a property interest in being free of additional taxi
competition.  Indeed,  the  facts  demonstrate  the  contrary  —  there  is  no
limit to the number of licenses that may be issued, and the only required
qualifications  are  driving  ability  and  geographic  knowledge.  So  the
driver has not been deprived of a property (or liberty) interest, and the
court  will  never  even  reach  the  issue  of  what  procedures  (such  as  a
hearing) were due to him — none were.

 (A) is not the best response,

because this is not a correct statement of who gets the protection of due
process.

For the reason stated in the discussion of choice D above, choice A
is  exactly  wrong  about  when  the  due  process  clause  applies  —  only
those  deprived  of  ‘‘property''  or  ‘‘liberty''  by  the  government,  not  all
those  ‘‘adversely  affected  by  government  action,''  have  a  due  process
interest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the driver never had a right to a hearing at all.

For  the  reasons  stated  in  the  discussion  of  choice  D  above,  the

403

driver  had  no  due  process  rights  that  were  implicated  here,  and
therefore had no right to a hearing. Thus, the court would never reach
the issue of who may decide whether he gets a hearing

 (C) is not the best response,

because the fact that the driver once got the benefit of the ordinance has
nothing  to  do  with  whether  his  due  process  rights  have  been  violated
here.

The licensing ordinance might have been written in such a way that
the driver would get a property interest in not having new competition.
(For instance, this would probably be so if the ordinance set the number
of licenses at a fixed total, and charged a substantial fee for each one.)
In  that  event,  he  would  be  permitted  to  assert  his  due  process  claim
even  though  he  originally  benefitted  from  the  same  ordinance.  The
reason the driver loses is because he had no property interest in being
free  from  additional  competition  (see  the  discussion  of  choice  D
above), not because he previously benefitted from the ordinance.

 Answer 37

 (A) is the best response,

because  any  attempt  by  Congress  to  force  a  state  to  enact  particular
legislation would violate the Tenth Amendment.

Although the Tenth Amendment today doesn't pose much of a limit
for Congress, it does prevent Congress (or any other part of the federal
government)  from  compelling  a  state  to  enact  or  enforce  a  particular
law. See  N.Y.  v.  U.S.  (1992):  Under  the  Tenth  Amendment,  Congress
may  not  “commandee[r]  the  legislative  processes  of  the  States  by
directly  compelling  them  to  enact  and  enforce  a  federal  regulatory
program.” That's what Congress has purported to do here, by requiring
each  state  to  make  certain  conduct  a  crime.  (Congress  could  use  the
power of the purse to coerce states into acting by denying federal funds
to states that don't pass the statute. But that's not what Congress is doing
here.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  banning  controlled  substances  that  had  moved  in  interstate
commerce  does  have  a  sufficient  nexus  with  commerce  to  allow
congressional regulation.

404

The examiners are trying to trick you by making you think that U.S.
v. Lopez (1995) (Congress can't ban guns near schools, because there's
not enough connection to interstate commerce) applies. But the federal
statute in Lopez banned all guns — even those that had never travelled
in  interstate  commerce.  Had  it  banned  just  guns  that  had  moved  in
interstate  commerce,  the  result  in  Lopez  would  almost  certainly  have
been different.

However,  in  this  question  you  don't  need  to  determine  whether  a
direct  ban  by  Congress  on  drug  possession  or  sale  near  schools  (i.e.,
Congress  passes  a  statute  making  such  possession  a  federal  crime)
would  be  valid  under  Lopez.  That's  because  in  the  fact  pattern  here,
Congress  hasn't  done  the  banning  directly  —  instead,  it  has  tried  to
force  the  states  to  do  it.  And  such  a  “commandeering”  of  a  branch  of
state  government  to  achieve  a  federal  objective  violates  the  Tenth
Amendment, as described in choice A.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  jurisdictional  statement  doesn't  take  care  of  the  fact  that
Congress is unconstitutionally ordering states to enact statutes.

If  Congress  were  passing  a  statute  that  made  the  drug-related
conduct here a federal crime, the jurisdictional provision would indeed
be enough to create a sufficient nexus to interstate commerce. (See the
discussion of Lopez in choice B above.)

But that's not what Congress is doing. Instead, it's ordering states to
enact  statutes  containing  the  jurisdictional  provision.  And  with  or
without  jurisdictional  provisions,  ordering  a  state  to  enact  a  statute
violates the Tenth Amendment, as discussed in the analysis of choice A
above.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores the Tenth Amendment problem, and also incorrectly
asserts that there is a ‘‘General Welfare Clause.''

First, as discussed in choice A above, Congress violates the Tenth
Amendment when it orders a state to enact a particular statute. Second,
choice D suggests that there is an independent congressional power to
act for ‘‘the general welfare.'' This is not so — there's a power to ‘‘tax
and  spend  .  .  .  for  the  general  welfare,''  but  that's  not  what's  at  issue
here  (because  Congress  is  doing  pure  regulating,  not  taxing  or
spending). So this choice is wrong in both result and reasoning, and the

405

reasoning is wrong in two different respects.

 Answer 38

 (A) is the best response,

because it identifies most closely the situation in which ‘‘state action''
is involved.

The question here asks you for the facts under which the statute is
most likely to be constitutional. To determine this, you have to identify
first  why  the  statute  might  not  be  constitutional.  The  problem  is  the
‘‘state  action''  requirement  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  That  is,  the
action.
Fourteenth  Amendment  only  addresses  governmental 
Specifically, 
the  Equal  Protection  Clause  forbids  governmental
discrimination,  not  private  discrimination.  Thus,  the  correct  response
would have to involve ‘‘state action'' in promoting discrimination.

That's  what  choice  A  does.  A  public  school  is  an  agency  of  the
state,  and  as  such  any  action  taken  by  it  would  be  considered  ‘‘state
action.''  Here,  as  an  agent  of  the  school,  a  teacher's  discrimination  on
the  basis  of  race  would  be  considered  an  equal  protection  violation.
The  citizen's  actions,  in  threatening  the  teacher  with  violence  if  she
didn't comply, would satisfy the ‘‘interference'' part of the statute. As a
result,  the  statute  could  be  applied  to  the  citizen,  making  A  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  acts  the  citizen  encouraged  would  not  involve  ‘‘state
action.''

The question here asks you for the facts under which the statute is
most likely to be constitutional. To determine this, you have to identify
first  why  the  statute  might  not  be  constitutional.  The  problem  is  the
‘‘state  action''  requirement  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  That  is,  the
action.
Fourteenth  Amendment  only  addresses  governmental 
Specifically, 
the  Equal  Protection  Clause  forbids  governmental
discrimination,  not  private  discrimination.  Thus,  the  correct  response
would have to involve ‘‘state action'' in promoting discrimination.

Here, the actions of the black students, in refraining from attending
a  private  school,  would  not  be  considered  ‘‘state  action.''  Thus,  the
citizen's  actions,  in  threatening  them  with  violence  if  they  attended
class,  would  not  be  promoting  an  equal  protection  violation,  and  the

406

statute would not apply. Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  acts  the  citizen  encouraged  would  not  involve  ‘‘state
action.''

The question here asks you for the facts under which the statute is
most likely to be constitutional. To determine this, you have to identify
first  why  the  statute  might  not  be  constitutional.  The  problem  is  the
‘‘state  action''  requirement  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  That  is,  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  only  addresses  governmental 
action.
the  Equal  Protection  Clause  forbids  governmental
Specifically, 
discrimination,  not  private  discrimination.  Thus,  the  correct  response
would have to involve ‘‘state action'' in promoting discrimination.

Here,  the  bus  driver  works  for  a  local  church.  The  actions  of  the
church would not constitute ‘‘state action.'' Thus, the citizen's coercing
the bus driver into refusing to allow black children onto his bus would
not  be  ‘‘interfering''  with  a  right  conferred  by  the  Equal  Protection
Clause. Since C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  acts  the  citizen  encouraged  would  not  involve  ‘‘state
action.''

The question here asks you for the facts under which the statute is
most likely to be constitutional. To determine this, you have to identify
first  why  the  statute  might  not  be  constitutional.  The  problem  is  the
‘‘state  action''  requirement  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  That  is,  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  only  addresses  governmental 
action.
the  Equal  Protection  Clause  forbids  governmental
Specifically, 
discrimination,  not  private  discrimination.  Thus,  the  correct  response
would have to involve ‘‘state action'' in promoting discrimination.

Here,  the  official  coerced  was  a  federal  official,  not  a  state
official, and the Equal Protection Clause only applies to states, not the
federal government. Thus, any action taken by the federal official could
not  be  considered  an  equal  protection  violation.  Had  the  facts  been
different,  and  the  official  was  a  state  official  instead  of  a  federal
official,  the  ‘‘state  action''  requirement  would  be  met,  and  the  citizen
could be convicted under the statute. However, since the ‘‘state action''
requirement is missing, D is not the best response.

407

 Answer 39

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  Commission  is  a  temporary  agency  set  up  for  a  specific
purpose.

Creation  of  an  advisory  commission,  such  as  the  one  here,  falls
within  the  President's  executive  powers.  Congress  has  the  right  to
earmark  specified  federal  monies  to  be  spent  as  the  President  shall
determine.  Therefore,  nothing  about  this  arrangement  violates  any
Constitutional provision.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is not a correct statement of law.

The  President  does  not  have  ‘‘plenary  power  to  provide  for  the
health,  safety,  and  welfare  of  the  people  .  .  .  .''  For  instance,  the
President  does  not  have  power  to  spend  federal  money  for  what  he
determines to be the health needs of ‘‘the people.'' This answer ignores
both the source of the President's authority (the executive power, that is,
the  power  to  see  that  the  laws  are  carried  out)  and  the  need  for  all
funding to be appropriated by Congress.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states the effect of the Tenth Amendment.

The  Tenth  Amendment  states  that  the  powers  not  delegated  to  the
federal government by the Constitution, and not prohibited to the states,
are  reserved  to  the  states.  The  Tenth  Amendment  has  relatively  little
force today as a limit on federal power. (About the only force it has as
a limit on federal powers is to prevent Congress from directly forcing
the states to enact or enforce federal policies).

The Amendment does not mean that the federal government may not
exercise  power  over  a  ‘‘traditional  state  function.''  So  the  fact  that
vaccination has traditionally been a function handled by the states does
not  mean  that  the  Tenth  Amendment  bars  the  federal  government  from
taking action with respect to vaccinations.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  Congress  does  not  need  to  authorize  the  creation  of  a
temporary commission.

408

An  Advisory  Commission  on  Vaccination  is  not  a  new  federal
agency. It is an advisory group, set up for a specific purpose and having
a  temporary  existence.  The  President  does  not  need  congressional
approval  to  create  such  an  organization.  Nor  has  Congress  prohibited
its creation because, as the facts state, no federal statute authorizes or
prohibits this action.

 Answer 40

 (C) is the best response,

because the Thirteenth Amendment addresses private acts.

Here, Congress is trying to eliminate private discrimination through
this  statute.  That's  the  central  obstacle  to  the  validity  of  the  statute,
because  the  most  likely  source  of  constitutionality  for  statutes
eliminating  discrimination  is  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  which,
problematically,  only  eliminates  state  action 
in  promoting  or
authorizing  discrimination.  The  Thirteenth  Amendment  is,  in  fact,  the
only  constitutional  provision  explicitly  limiting  private  acts  by
individuals.  Under  it,  if  Congress  could  rationally  determine  that  the
conduct it is prohibiting imposes a ‘‘badge or incident'' of slavery on a
victim, the statute will be valid. Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co. (1968).
This  provision  is  exceptionally  broad,  giving  Congress  the  power  to
prohibit  virtually  all  racial  discrimination  against  blacks,  and  whites,
for that matter.

Here,  the  statute  will  serve  to  eliminate  racial  discrimination
against  blacks,  and  Congress  could  rationally  determine  that  when
people conspire to deny blacks housing, employment, or education due
to  their  race,  this  constitutes  a  ‘‘badge  or  incident''  of  slavery.  As  a
result, the statute will be valid, and the Thirteenth Amendment will be
the source of the validity. Since C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the Contracts Clause is a limitation on the states, not a source
of power for the federal government.

The Contracts Clause, Article I, § 10, of the Constitution, prohibits
states  from  passing  any  law  that  impairs  the  obligations  of  existing
contracts.  A  law  ‘‘impairs''  contracts  by  substantially  invalidating,
releasing,  or  extinguishing  obligations  under  a  contract,  or,
alternatively, derogating rights under a contract that are substantial.

409

Here, there is a federal law involved, not a state law. Furthermore,
the question is asking you for a basis on which the statute is justifiable,
not one on which it is unconstitutional. As a result, the Contracts Clause
cannot be the right answer, making A not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Welfare  Clause  could  not  be  a  source  of  constitutionality
for this statute.

The  Welfare  Clause,  Article  I,  §  8,  of  the  Constitution,  empowers
Congress  to  collect  taxes  and  spend  money  and  to  provide  for  the
general welfare, and to make all laws that are necessary and proper to
implement  those  powers.  The  statute  here  is  designed  to  eliminate
discrimination through regulating behavior. It doesn't address taxing or
spending,  so  the  Welfare  Clause  cannot  be  a  source  of  power  for  it.
Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because 
discrimination.

the  Fourteenth  Amendment  doesn't  address  private

Under  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  the  states  are  forbidden  from,
among other things, discriminating on the basis of race. If a state does
so,  an  equal  protection  violation  exists.  However,  one  of  the
requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment is state action. Here, on the
other  hand,  Congress  is  trying  to  eliminate  private  discrimination,
which  is  not  covered  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  Furthermore,  the
Fourteenth  Amendment  Equal  Protection  Clause  only  addresses  state
action, not federal action. As a result, the Fourteenth Amendment is not
a good source of constitutionality for the statute, making D not the best
response.

 Answer 41

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

 (A) is the best response,

because the rule would not survive strict scrutiny.

Equal protection requires race-based affirmative action plans to be
subject  to  the  same  strict  scrutiny  as  are  governmental  actions  that
intentionally  discriminate  against  racial  minorities.  Any  governmental
action  that  is  explicitly  race-based  must  be  ‘‘necessary''  to  achieve  a
‘‘compelling''  governmental  interest.  Minority  set-aside  programs

410

enacted by a city or state will be subjected to strict scrutiny and will
usually  be  found  unconstitutional  on  equal  protection  grounds.
Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co. (1989).

The  set-aside  plan  here  is  unconstitutional.  Although  the  water
district  claims  to  be  pursuing  the  objective  of  overcoming  past
discrimination, Richmond establishes that a desire to overcome broad,
historical, ‘‘societal'' discrimination is not a compelling governmental
interest.  Therefore, 
that  racial  minorities  have  been
discriminated  against  ‘‘in  this  country''  does  not  suffice  (and  the  facts
make it very clear that the community to be served by the water district
has never discriminated).

the  fact 

 (B) is not the best response,

because the Contracts Clause has nothing to do with the set-aside here.
The Contracts Clause protects solely against governmental actions
that have the effect of interfering with contractual obligations that were
undertaken  before  the  governmental  action.  Nothing  in  the  Clause
prevents  the  government  from  making  it  harder  for  people  to  make  a
certain  kind  of  contract  after  the  enactment.  Since  the  set-aside  here
would apply only to hiring and contracting occurring after the set-aside
was enacted, the Contracts Clause would have no application to these
facts.

 (C) is not the best response,

because racial set-asides have to pass a strict scrutiny test.

Equal protection requires race-based affirmative action plans to be
subject  to  the  same  strict  scrutiny  as  are  governmental  actions  that
intentionally discriminate against racial minorities. (See the discussion
of choice A above.) In other words, the Supreme Court takes the view
that  when  minority  groups  are  given  express,  racially  oriented
preferences,  they  are  not  receiving  ‘‘equal  protection''  —  they  are
instead receiving a preference, one that may well constitute a denial of
equal  protection  to  the  members  of  the  non-favored  (majority)  racial
group.  Here,  because  the  government  entity  giving  the  preference  has
not been shown to have discriminated in the past, the preference would
fail  the  required  strict  scrutiny.  So  choice  C  is  wrong  both  as  to  the
theory it espouses and as to the result it predicts.

 (D) is not the best response,

411

because  state  actions,  whether  involving  governmental  or  proprietary
functions, are reviewed under strict scrutiny.

The  examiners  are  hoping  you'll  think  about  the  equal  protection
voting  cases  (e.g.,  Ball  v.  James  (1981))  holding  that  where  a
governmental  unit  has  a  limited  purpose  which  disproportionately
affects only one group (e.g., landowners), the right to vote for positions
governing  that  unit  may  be  limited  to  the  affected  group.  So  here,  the
right  to  elect  members  of  the  water  district's  governing  board  may
indeed be limited to landowners.

But  once  the  district  is  formed,  it  can't  give  out  ‘‘goodies''  (staff
positions  and  private-sector  contracts)  on  a  racially  discriminatory
basis  unless  the  scheme  survives  strict  scrutiny.  For  the  reasons
described in choice C, the scheme here would fail that strict scrutiny.
The fact that this was a special-purpose body whose governors could
be  elected  solely  by  landowners  doesn't  change  this  result  in  the
slightest.

 Answer 42

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  state  may  not,  up  to  the  point  where  the  fetus  is  viable,
unduly  burden  a  woman's  fundamental  right  to  choose  whether  to
continue the pregnancy.

The Court has held that the right of privacy includes the right of a
woman to have an abortion under certain circumstances without undue
interference from the state. Up until the time the fetus is viable, a state
may adopt regulations protecting the mother's health and the life of the
fetus  only  if  the  regulation  does  not  impose  an  undue  burden  or
substantial  obstacle  to  the  woman's  right  to  have  an  abortion.  Then,
once the fetus becomes viable, the state's interest in the fetus's life can
override the woman's right to choose an abortion. Planned Parenthood
v. Casey (1992).

The  fetus  is  not  yet  viable  in  many  pregnancies  that  have  gone
beyond the first trimester. (Typically, viability occurs late in the second
or early in the third trimester.) Since the statute here forbids the mother
from  ending  such  a  post-first-trimester-but-not-yet-viable  pregnancy
unless  her  life  or  health  is  in  danger,  a  court  would  almost  certainly
hold that the statute ‘‘unduly burdens'' the mother's fundamental rights.

412

 
(A) is not the best response,

because,  prior  to  viability,  the  state  does  not  have  a  compelling  state
interest in preserving fetal life.

Under  Planned  Parenthood  v.  Casey  (1992),  a  woman's  right  to
reproductive choice — and to not be ‘‘unduly burdened'' in the exercise
of that reproductive choice — extends beyond the first trimester, all the
way to viability. Before viability, the state's interest in fetal life is not
compelling.  Therefore,  choice  A's  statement  that  before  viability  the
state can seek an ‘‘equitable balance'' between its compelling interest in
protecting fetal life and the woman's fundamental right to reproductive
choice is inconsistent with Casey, and thus wrong.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  fetus  doesn't  become  a  ‘‘person''  after  the  first  trimester,
merely a potential life that the state has an interest in protecting.

Even after the point of viability, the Supreme Court has never said
that the fetus is a ‘‘person'' whose right to life is protected by the Due
Process Clause. Furthermore, even if the Court had said this, choice B
would still be wrong, because that choice falsely states that the fetus is
a  person  when  the  first  trimester  is  over  even  if  the  fetus  is  not  yet
viable. (As applied to such cases the statute is in fact unconstitutional,
because the woman's right to abort a non-viable fetus can't be ‘‘unduly
burdened,''  and  an  outright  prohibition  of  pre-viability  abortions  not
needed  to  protect  that  woman's  life  or  health  would  certainly  be  an
undue burden.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  answer  is  based  on  equal  protection  analysis,  rather  than
the proper substantive-due-process analysis.

The  Court  has  never  used  equal  protection  analysis  in  abortion
cases.  If  it  did,  the  statute  here  would  probably  be  constitutional,
because  it  would  not  be  irrational  for  a  state  to  decide  that  abortions
after the end of the first trimester harm the state's interest in protecting
fetal  life  more  than  those  that  occur  during  the  first  trimester.  The
essence  of  the  Court's  analysis  of  abortion  rights  has  always  been
substantive  due  process,  not  equal  protection.  And,  under  that
substantive  due  process  analysis,  it's  the  existence  of  a  fundamental
right  to  reproductive  choice  prior  to  viability  that  is  the  focus  of  the
analysis.

413

 Answer 43

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  a  flaw  in  the  statute:  Congress  cannot
enlarge federal court jurisdiction to include advisory opinions.

Article  III,  §  2,  of  the  Constitution  gives  Congress  the  power  to
create federal courts beneath the Supreme Court, and also the power to
determine  the  jurisdiction  of  those  courts.  However,  there  is  a
limitation  on  this  power:  Congress  cannot  expand  federal  court
jurisdiction beyond the boundaries prescribed by Article III. The ‘‘case
and controversy'' requirement is one such boundary. Federal courts can
only  render  opinions  where  there  is  an  actual  controversy  —  they
cannot offer advisory opinions. That is, the matter in controversy must
be definite and concrete, touching the legal relations of parties having
adverse  legal  interests,  and  —  here's  the  problem  —  there  must  be  a
real  and  substantial  controversy  capable  of  specific  relief  through  a
decree of a conclusive character. Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Haworth
(1937).

Here, an advisory opinion is exactly what the statute calls for. The
federal courts are not being used to resolve disputes — rather, they are
rendering  opinions  that  will  be  taken  under  advisement  by  the
administrator  of  the  federal  agency  that  is  dispersing  the  funds  in
question.  Such  advisory  opinions  are  prohibited,  and  since  choice  D
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  fails  to  recognize  that  the  statute  expands  federal  court
jurisdiction beyond the bounds of Article III, and thus is invalid.

Article  III,  §  2,  of  the  Constitution  gives  Congress  the  power  to
create federal courts beneath the Supreme Court, and also the power to
determine  the  jurisdiction  of  those  courts.  As  choice  A  implicitly
recognizes,  one  of  the  bases  of  federal  court  jurisdiction  is  ‘‘federal
question'' jurisdiction — that is, cases that arise under the Constitution,
or  a  federal  law  or  treaty.  Where  federal  grant-in-aid  funds  are  in
question,  ‘‘federal  question'' 
in  fact,  exist.
However, this alone doesn't determine if the federal court can hear the
case. For instance, the plaintiff must have standing to present the claim
in question, and there must be a ‘‘case or controversy.'' This is where
choice  A  falls  down,  because  the  statute  here  improperly  authorizes

jurisdiction  would, 

414

federal  courts  to  render  advisory  opinions.  Under  this  statute,  the
federal courts are not being used to resolve disputes — rather, they are
rendering  opinions  that  will  be  taken  under  advisement  by  the
administrator  of  the  federal  agency  which  is  dispersing  the  funds  in
question.  Since  choice  A  doesn't  recognize  that  this  makes  the  statute
invalid, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

Congress  has  the  power  to  legislate,  and  this  power  includes  the
power to decide how federal funds will be spent. The President has the
power to execute such appropriations. However, the power to resolve
disputes  about  how  funds  are  distributed  would  not,  contrary  to  what
choice  B  suggests,  give  Congress  the  power  to  use  federal  courts  as
tribunals.  While  Congress  can  set  up  tribunals  to  resolve  disputes,  it
cannot use Article III courts for this purpose. To do so would require
federal  courts  to  render  advisory  opinions,  which  is  something
prohibited by Article III. Since choice B doesn't recognize this, it's not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the Eleventh Amendment would not bar suits under this statute.
The Eleventh Amendment, as a general matter, bars a citizen from
suing  a  state  in  federal  court  without  that  state's  consent.  One  of  the
exclusions to the Amendment is a suit by the federal government against
a state. Here, the lawsuits covered by the statute are between states and
the federal government. The Eleventh Amendment does not bar federal
court suits by the federal government against the states. Thus, the statute
here  cannot  be  unconstitutional  due  to  operation  of  the  Eleventh
Amendment.  Instead,  what  makes  this  statute  unconstitutional  is  that  it
authorizes  federal  courts  to  render  advisory  opinions,  which  they  are
prohibited from doing under Article III of the Constitution. Since choice
C doesn't recognize the correct basis for the statute's unconstitutionality,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 44

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  recognizes  the  central  reason  for  dismissing  the  suit:  it

415

involves a non-justiciable issue.

There  are  several  limitations  on  the  jurisdiction  of  federal  courts.
For instance, the plaintiff must have standing to press his claim, there
must  be  some  basis  for  federal  court  jurisdiction  (e.g.,  diversity,
federal question), there must be a ‘‘case or controversy,'' and the issue
that's involved here — a ‘‘political question'' — cannot be presented.

A  ‘‘political  question''  is  one  that  the  Constitution  commits  to
another  governmental  branch,  which  the  judicial  process  is  inherently
incapable  of  resolving  and  enforcing.  These  are  the  criteria  for
determining political questions:

1. A ‘‘textually demonstrable'' constitutional commitment of the issue

to the political branches;

2. Lack of manageable standards for judicial resolution;
3. A need for finality in the action of the political branches; and
4. Difficulty or impossibility of devising effective judicial remedies.
Foreign  relations  is  a  classic  source  of  ‘‘political  questions.''
Congress and the President control foreign affairs exclusively, and the
nature of foreign affairs is such that the judiciary cannot intrude. Here,
the researcher is seeking to forbid the President from recognizing a new
country,  due  to  its  totalitarian  government.  This  is  a  purely  political
question,  and  as  such  the  court  should  dismiss  the  suit.  Since  C
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the researcher does have standing to bring the action.

In  order  to  press  a  claim,  a  plaintiff  requires  standing.  Standing
requires that the action challenged must have caused, or is imminently
likely  to  cause,  an  injury  to  the  party  seeking  review.  Here,  if  the
President recognizes the new country (which he is empowered to do),
the  researcher's  contract  with  the  Department  of  Commerce  will
terminate. Thus, the researcher is imminently likely to suffer an injury
due  to  the  action  he's  challenging,  and  he  will  have  standing  on  that
basis. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because there is adversity between the parties.

Here,  the  researcher  is  bringing  suit  in  federal  court.  The  federal
court  requirements  for  jurisdiction,  found  in  Article  III  of  the
Constitution,  include  the  requirement  that  the  federal  courts  can  only

416

hear  ‘‘cases  and  controversies.''  One  element  of  a  ‘‘case  and
controversy'' is that the parties must have adverse legal interests. Thus,
B  is  correct  in  implying  that  adversity  is  a  requirement  of  a  federal
court suit — but it's not correct in stating that there's no adversity here.
The  President  wants  to  recognize  the  new  country,  and  the  researcher
doesn't  want  him  to  do  so.  Thus,  it  can't  be  the  lack  of  adversity  that
makes the suit improper. Rather, it's the fact that the conduct of foreign
relations is the basis of the suit, and this is a non-justiciable ‘‘political
question''  that  will  require  that  the  suit  be  dismissed.  Since  B  doesn't
recognize  that  adversity  exists  here,  and  it  ignores  the  real  reason  for
dismissing the suit, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the federal court will not hear the case on its merits.

There  are  several  limitations  on  the  jurisdiction  of  federal  courts.
For instance, the plaintiff must have standing to press his claim, there
must  be  some  basis  for  federal  court  jurisdiction  (e.g.,  diversity,
federal question), there must be a ‘‘case or controversy,'' and the issue
that's involved here — a ‘‘political question'' — cannot be presented.

A  ‘‘political  question''  is  one  that  the  Constitution  commits  to
another  governmental  branch,  which  the  judicial  process  is  inherently
incapable  of  resolving  and  enforcing.  These  are  the  criteria  for
determining political questions:

1. A ‘‘textually demonstrable'' constitutional commitment of the issue

to the political branches;

2. Lack of manageable standards for judicial resolution;
3. A need for finality in the action of the political branches; and
4. Difficulty or impossibility of devising effective judicial remedies.
Foreign  relations  is  a  classic  source  of  ‘‘political  questions.''
Congress and the President control foreign affairs exclusively, and the
nature of foreign affairs is such that the judiciary cannot intrude. Here,
the  researcher  is  asking  the  court  to  forbid  the  president  from
recognizing  a  new  country.  This  is  a  purely  political  question,  and  as
such  the  court  should  dismiss  the  suit.  Since  D  doesn't  recognize  this,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 45

 (B) is the best response,

417

because  free  exercise  rights  must  yield  to  a  rational  and  generally
applicable  law  even  if  that  law  proscribes  conduct  required  by
religion.

This  case  is  governed  by  Employment  Div.  v.  Smith  (1990),  in
which the Court held that ‘‘the right of free exercise does not relieve an
individual of the obligation to comply with a valid and neutral law of
general applicability on the ground that the law proscribes . . . conduct
that his religion prescribes.'' Here, the law states that ‘‘there must be an
autopsy''  (in  certain  cases),  and  the  parents  claim  that  their  religion
prohibits  autopsies.  So  Smith  applies:  We  have  a  ‘‘valid  and  neutral
law  of  general  applicability''  (i.e.,  a  law  that's  not  motivated  by  anti-
religious bias, that applies to all cases of non-natural death, and that's
rationally  related  to  the  legitimate  state  purpose  of  detecting  illegal
activity). That law is proscribing certain conduct (refusing an autopsy),
and it's applicable to conduct that the plaintiff's religion prescribes, or
requires  (refusing  an  autopsy).  So  Smith  requires  that  the  law  be
enforced notwithstanding the parents' objection, even though the effect
would be to impair their free exercise of their religion.

 (A) is not the best response,

because while the statute is constitutional, it is not constitutional for the
reason stated in this choice.

It's in a sense true that a ‘‘dead individual is not a person protected
by the due process clause. . . .'' But the parents' claim is not based on
their son's due process rights, but on their own free-exercise rights (as
made applicable to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment's Due
Process  Clause).  So  the  fact  that  their  son  has  no  relevant  rights  is
irrelevant. Instead, the statute is constitutional for the reason discussed
in the analysis of choice B above.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  strict  scrutiny  is  not  the  appropriate  standard  for  the  statute
here.

Employment Div. v. Smith (1990) says that where a valid, generally
applicable statute requires certain conduct, the statute must be obeyed
even by a person whose religion proscribes that conduct. So the Court
does  not  strictly  scrutinize  the  statute,  as  this  choice  implies  that  it
should. Instead, the Court gives just the lowest-level, mere-rationality
review, which the statute here easily passes.

418

 (D) is not the best response,

because mid-level review is not the appropriate standard for the statute
here.

Employment Div. v. Smith (1990) says that where a valid, generally
applicable statute requires certain conduct, the statute must be obeyed
even by a person whose religion proscribes that conduct. So the Court
does not give mid-level review to the statute, as this choice implies that
it should. Instead, the Court gives just the lowest-level, mere-rationality
review, which the statute here easily passes.

 Answer 46

 (D) is the best response,

because Congress provided clear standards for the contest.

The  General  Welfare  Clause,  Article  I,  §  8,  states  that  Congress
shall  have  power  to  ‘‘lay  and  collect  Taxes  .  .  .  to  pay  the  Debts  and
provide for the . . . general Welfare of the United States.'' This clause
gives Congress the substantive power to tax and spend, limited only by
the requirement that the taxing and spending be for the general welfare.
Congress  may  delegate  its  legislative  power  as  long  as  the  person  or
body  receiving  the  delegated  power  is  directed  to  conform  to  an
intelligible principle set forth by Congress.

The statute here is valid under these rules: (1) eradication of drug
abuse  would  contribute  to  the  ‘‘general  welfare,''  and  the  contest  is  a
rational way of using federal funds to generate ideas for doing this (it is
exceptionally rare for the Court to conclude that a particular taxing or
spending scheme doesn't bear the requisite connection to ‘‘the general
welfare'');  and  (2)  the  contest  rules,  and  the  structure  for  running  the
contest, are sufficiently specific that the requirement of an ‘‘intelligible
principle'' guiding the delegation would be found to be satisfied.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the contest's constitutionality is a simple matter to decide.

The requirement of a justiciable Article III controversy is deemed
to  carry  with  it  a  limitation  against  the  deciding  of  purely  ‘‘political
questions.''  The  court  will  leave  the  resolution  of  such  political
questions  to  the  other  departments  of  government.  The  primary
earmarks of a non-justiciable political question are: (1) the presence of

419

a ‘‘textually demonstrable'' constitutional commitment of the issue to the
political branches (Congress and the executive branch) for resolution;
(2) a need for the political branches' decision on the issue to be final,
and  not  subject  to  judicial  second-guessing;  (3)  a  lack  of  adequate
standards  for  judicial  resolution  of  the  issue;  and  (4)  the  presence  of
issues  that  are  too  controversial  or  could  involve  enforcement
problems.

None of these factors are present here. There is no reason why the
court  cannot  quickly  determine  that  the  spending  here  is  rationally
related to pursuit of the general welfare, and that the guidance given to
the contest administrators is reasonably specific.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the statute sets out very clear standards.

Congress  may  delegate  its  legislative  power  (here,  the  spending
power) as long as the person or body receiving the delegated power is
directed  to  conform  to  an  intelligible  principle  set  forth  by  Congress.
Here,  the  guidelines  for  awarding  the  prize  money  appropriated  by
Congress are very clearly set out in the statute, so there is no problem
of inappropriately vague delegation.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  statute  is  a  legitimate  use  of  Congress's  power  to
appropriate funds to end drug abuse.

The  General  Welfare  Clause,  Article  I,  §  8,  states  that  Congress
shall  have  power  to  ‘‘lay  and  collect  Taxes  .  .  .  to  pay  the  Debts  and
provide for the . . . general Welfare of the United States.'' This Clause
gives Congress the substantive power to tax and spend, limited only by
the requirement that the taxing and spending be reasonably related to the
pursuit  of  the  general  welfare.  The  requirement  that  the  taxing  and
spending  have  a  rational  relation  to  the  attainment  of  the  general
welfare  has  very  little  ‘‘bite''  —  the  Court  rarely  (if  ever)  concludes
that  a  particular  taxing  or  spending  scheme  doesn't  bear  the  requisite
connection  to  ‘‘the  general  welfare.''  Here,  given  the  size  of  the  drug
abuse  problem,  and  the  relatively  small  sum  proposed,  it's  wildly
unlikely that the court would conclude that the relationship between the
contest  and  the  elimination  of  drug  abuse  is  ‘‘too  tenuous  and
conjectural'' to pass muster.

420

 Answer 47

 (B) is the best response,

because the statements were made during the legislative process.

Article  I,  §  6,  states  that  for  any  speech  or  debate  in  either  the
House of Representatives or the Senate, members of Congress shall not
be  questioned  in  any  other  place.  This  is  the  ‘‘Speech  and  Debate
Clause.''  The  clause  clearly  applies  to  the  senator's  statement:  The
statement was made on the floor of the Senate, so it falls within even
the  most  narrowly  defined  construction  of  the  Speech  and  Debate
Clause.  (The  fact  that  the  speech  didn't  relate  to  current  legislation  is
irrelevant — as long as the words were spoken on the floor during the
session, that's enough.)

With respect to the senator's legislative assistant, the Clause itself,
by its literal terms, seems not to apply. But the Court has held that the
clause applies ‘‘not only to a Member but also to his aides insofar as
the  conduct  of  the  latter  would  be  a  protected  legislative  act  if
performed by the Member himself.'' Gravel v. U.S. (1972). Thus, since
the senator is covered, so is his legislative assistant.

Neither (A), (C), nor (D) is the best answer, since each asserts that
at least one of the defendants is not covered by the Speech and Debate
Clause.  Both  defendants  are  in  fact  covered,  as  explained  in  the
discussion of choice B above.

 Answer 48

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly recognizes that the statute here will be valid under
the ‘‘rational relation'' test.

Here, the statute is a state statute. In order to be valid, a state statute
must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers), it must
not  improperly  burden  a  person's  constitutional  rights,  and  it  must  not
unduly burden interstate commerce.

The  hunter's  claim  asserts  that  the  statute  is  an  equal  protection
violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  the  existence  of  a
classification  that  determines  people's  rights.  If  the  classification  is
‘‘suspect,''  or  determines  who  may  exercise  a  fundamental  right,  it's
subject to strict scrutiny. Suspect classifications are race and alienage;
the fundamental rights are the First Amendment rights, interstate travel,

421

voting, and privacy. Where the statute instead consists of only economic
or  social 
involving  a  suspect  classification  or
fundamental right, the ‘‘rational relation'' test will be used.

legislation  not 

Here,  the  statute  as  applied  distinguishes  between  those  who  may
and  may  not  transport  snipe  traps  through  the  middle  state:  common
carriers  are  not  prohibited  from  carrying  snipe  traps,  and  private
individuals  are.  This  does  not  involve  a  suspect  classification  or  a
fundamental  right,  so  it  will  be  subject  to  the  rational  relation  test.
Here, there is a rational basis on which to make the distinction, since
it's likely that common carriers would not have the middle state as their
destination, where a private person quite possibly could. Furthermore,
prohibiting  common  carriers  from  transporting  snipe  traps  through  the
middle  state  would  be  an 
interstate
commerce,  so  the  state  could  not  constitutionally  prohibit  common
carriers  from  transporting  snipe  traps.  Since  choice  B  recognizes  that
the  distinction  is  constitutional,  due  to  the  rational  basis  for
distinguishing  common  carriers  from  private  individuals,  it's  the  best
response.

impermissible  burden  on 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it doesn't address the constitutionality of the statute as applied
to the hunter.

Here, the statute is a state statute. In order to be valid, a state statute
must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers), it must
not  improperly  burden  a  person's  constitutional  rights,  and  it  must  not
unduly burden interstate commerce.

The  hunter's  claim  suggests  that  the  statute  is  an  equal  protection
violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  the  existence  of  a
classification  that  determines  people's  rights.  If  the  classification  is
‘‘suspect,''  or  determines  who  may  exercise  a  fundamental  right,  it's
subject to strict scrutiny. Suspect classifications are race and alienage;
the fundamental rights are the First Amendment rights, interstate travel,
voting,  and  privacy.  Where  the  statute  instead  is  only  economic  or
social  legislation,  the  ‘‘rational  relation''  test  will  be  used.  Here,  the
statute as applied distinguishes between who may transport snipe traps
through  the  middle  state:  common  carriers  are  not  prohibited  from
carrying snipe traps, and private individuals are. This does not involve
a suspect classification or a fundamental right, so it will be subject to
the  rational  relation  test.  Here,  there  is  a  rational  basis  on  which  to
make  the  distinction,  since  it's  likely  that  common  carriers  would  not

422

have the middle state as their destination, where a private person quite
possibly  could.  More  importantly,  prohibiting  common  carriers  from
transporting  snipe  traps  through  the  middle  state  would  be  an
impermissible  burden  on  interstate  commerce,  so  the  state  could  not
constitutionally prohibit common carriers from transporting snipe traps.
As a result, it's not the lack of permissible reasons why the hunter might
have  the  snipe  trap  that  makes  the  statute  constitutional,  but  rather  the
rational  reason  for  distinguishing  between  common  carriers  and
individuals  transporting  snipe  traps.  Since  choice  A  doesn't  recognize
this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it overstates the level of scrutiny to which the statute will be
subject.

Here, the statute is a state statute. In order to be valid, a state statute
must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers), it must
not  improperly  burden  a  person's  constitutional  rights,  and  it  must  not
unduly burden interstate commerce.

The  hunter's  claim  suggests  that  the  statute  is  an  equal  protection
violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  the  existence  of  a
classification  that  determines  people's  rights.  If  the  classification  is
‘‘suspect,''  or  determines  who  may  exercise  a  fundamental  right,  it's
subject to strict scrutiny. Suspect classifications are race and alienage;
the fundamental rights are the First Amendment rights, interstate travel,
voting,  and  privacy.  Where  the  statute  instead  is  only  economic  or
social  legislation,  the  ‘‘rational  relation''  test  will  be  used.  Here,  the
statute as applied distinguishes between who may transport snipe traps
through  the  middle  state:  common  carriers  are  not  prohibited  from
carrying snipe traps, and private individuals are. This does not involve
a suspect classification or a fundamental right, so it will be subject to
the rational relation test.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  thought  that  the  statute
impermissibly  burdens  private  individuals'  fundamental  right  to
interstate  travel.  However,  the  statute  doesn't  burden  interstate  travel,
just  the  transportation  of  snipe  traps.  The  hunter  was  free  to  travel
interstate,  it's  just  that  she  couldn't  possess  a  snipe  trap  in  the  middle
state. As a result, the right to interstate travel would not be called into
question.  Since  the  rational  basis  test  would  be  the  appropriate  test
here, and choice C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

423

 (D) is not the best response,

because the statute here doesn't burden the right to interstate travel.

Here, the statute is a state statute. In order to be valid, a state statute
must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers), it must
not  improperly  burden  a  person's  constitutional  rights,  and  it  must  not
unduly burden interstate commerce.

The  hunter's  claim  suggests  that  the  statute  is  an  equal  protection
violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  the  existence  of  a
classification  that  determines  people's  rights.  If  the  classification  is
‘‘suspect,''  or  determines  who  may  exercise  a  fundamental  right,  it's
subject to strict scrutiny. Suspect classifications are race and alienage;
the fundamental rights are the First Amendment rights, interstate travel,
voting,  and  privacy.  Where  the  statute  instead  is  only  economic  or
social  legislation,  the  ‘‘rational  relation''  test  will  be  used.  Here,  the
statute as applied distinguishes between who may transport snipe traps
through  the  middle  state:  common  carriers  are  not  prohibited  from
carrying snipe traps, and private individuals are. This does not involve
a suspect classification or a fundamental right, so it will be subject to
the rational relation test.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  thought  that  since  the
statute burdened the hunter's right to travel through the state with snipe
traps, it unconstitutionally burdened her fundamental right to interstate
travel. However, the statute doesn't really burden her right to interstate
travel  at  all.  When  you're  talking  about  impermissible  burdens  on
interstate travel, you're generally talking about waiting periods before
new  residents  may  receive  crucial  governmental  benefits  or  services.
Here, the hunter is free to move in and out of the middle state — she
just can't have a snipe trap while she's there. Since choice D incorrectly
states  that  the  hunter's  right  to  interstate  travel  is  burdened  by  this
statute, it's not the best response.

 Answer 49

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  central  reason  the  distribution  is
invalid: It amounts to a state authorization of discrimination.

In order to be valid, a state law must meet a three-part test:
1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and

424

that  determines  people's  rights.  Here, 

3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.
The  distribution  of  free  textbooks  satisfies  (1)  above:  The
distribution  would  be  an  exercise  of  the  state's  police  power,  since  it
aids the welfare of the public. The problem is the second element: The
distribution to the private school is a violation of the equal protection
provision  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  Equal  protection  is  triggered
the
by  a  classification 
classification  is  on  the  basis  of  color.  While  a  state  need  not  outlaw
private  acts  of  racial  discrimination,  the  state  cannot  authorize  or
encourage such acts; if they do, they are considered to have committed
state  action  in  support  of  the  private  act,  constituting  a  Fourteenth
Amendment  equal  protection  violation.  See,  e.g.,  Reitman  v.  Mulkey,
387  U.S.  369  (1967)  (where  a  state  amends  its  constitution  to  repeal
local  governments'  prior  right  to  ban  private  individuals'  right  to
discriminate  on  racial  or  other  grounds  in  the  sale  or  lease  of
residential  real  estate,  and  where  both  the  purpose  and  effect  of  the
amendment  are  to  “encourage”  such  discrimination,  the  amendment
constitutes  state  action,  making  the  amendment  a  violation  of  the
Fourteenth Amendment).

Here,  the  state's  distribution  of  free  textbooks  to  a  racially-
segregated  school  would  constitute  state  encouragement  of  racial
discrimination  in  violation  of  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth Amendment. Thus, the distribution will be invalid. Since D
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it's not factually true; education is aided by the free distribution
of textbooks.

In order to be valid, a state law must meet a three-part test:
1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.
Choice  A  addresses  the  first  element—a  legitimate  goal  of
government. The distribution of free textbooks would be an exercise of
the state's police power, because it aids the welfare of the public. The
problem is the second element: The distribution to the private school is
an  equal  protection  violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  a
classification that determines people's rights. Here, the classification is
on the basis of race. While states need not outlaw racial discrimination,
they cannot authorize or encourage it.

425

The  state's  distribution  of  free  textbooks  to  a  racially-segregated
school would constitute state encouragement of private discrimination.
Thus, the distribution will be invalid. Since choice A mischaracterizes
is
ignores 
the  facts  and 
unconstitutional, it's not the best response.

the  central  reason 

the  distribution 

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law.  States  may  aid  private  schools;  the
problem  here  is  that  such  a  distribution  would  foster  discrimination,
and thus would constitute an equal protection violation.

In order to be valid, a state law must meet a three-part test:
1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.
The  distribution  of  free  textbooks  would  be  an  exercise  of  the
state's  police  power,  because  it  aids  the  welfare  of  the  public.  The
problem is the second element: The distribution to the private school is
an  equal  protection  violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  a
classification that determines people's rights. Here, the classification is
on the basis of color. While states need not outlaw discrimination, they
cannot  authorize  or  encourage  it.  Distributing  free  textbooks  to  a
racially  segregated  school  would  encourage  discrimination.  Thus,  the
distribution will be invalid.

It's not the fact that the state is giving some sort of aid to a private
school  that  makes  the  distribution  invalid,  but  the  fact  that  the  state  is
encouraging  racial  segregation  by  means  of  the  distribution.  Since  B
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

The  Constitution  does  not  forbid  private  bias;  it  only  prevents
facilitating,  encouraging,  or  authorizing

from  enforcing, 

states 
discrimination. Shelly v. Kraemer (1948).

In order to be valid, a state law must meet a three-part test:
1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.
The  distribution  of  free  textbooks  would  be  an  exercise  of  the
state's  police  power,  because  it  aids  the  welfare  of  the  public.  The

426

problem is the second element: The distribution to the private school is
an  equal  protection  violation.  Equal  protection  is  triggered  by  a
classification that determines people's rights. Here, the classification is
on the basis of color. While states need not outlaw discrimination, they
cannot  authorize  or  encourage  it.  Distributing  free  textbooks  to  a
racially  segregated  school  would  encourage  discrimination.  Thus,  the
distribution  will  be  invalid.  Since  C  doesn't  recognize  this,  and
misstates the law, it's not the best response.

 Answer 50

 (B) is the best response,

because it's the only choice that adds a fact making the mathematician's
claim valid.

Under  these  facts,  you  have  a  state  activity  that  is  depriving  the
mathematician  of  what  looks  like  some  interest  or  right.  Thus,  what's
involved here is, at least on its face, a due process issue. Since what
the  mathematician  is  contesting  is  the  lack  of  some  process  before  he
was not rehired, the issue is more specifically procedural due process.
(Substantive  due  process  involves  a  law  limiting  a  right,  where,
depending  on  whether  the  right  is  fundamental,  either  the  “compelling
interest” or “rational relation” test will be used to determine the law's
validity.)
Under  procedural  due  process,  there  need  only  be  fair  process  if  the
right  being  deprived  is  a  property  right  (or  life  or  liberty).  Thus,  in
order  for  the  mathematician  to  prevail,  he'd  have  to  claim  he  had  a
property  right  in  his  state  employment.  This  demands  more  than  the
mere enjoyment of a benefit; an applicable federal, state, or municipal
law  must  recognize  a  legitimate  claim  to  the  benefit.  (For  instance,
there's a property interest in receiving a public education through high
school  and  in  receiving  continuing  welfare  benefits.)  As  to  public
employment—the  issue  under  these  facts—the  existence  of  a  property
interest will similarly be determined by applicable law.
There is a Supreme Court case that involves facts nearly identical to the
ones  here,  and  that  shows  why  the  mathematician's  “oral  promise  of
reemployment” argument might work. In Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U.S.
593 (1972), P was a professor at a public college that by state statute
was not allowed to award anyone official tenure. You would think that
the statute would automatically prevent P from establishing that he had

427

a property right in continued employment. But the Court held that if P
could show that under the unwritten “common law” of the state where
the  college  was  located,  employees  in  a  particular  college  have  the
unofficial  equivalent  of  tenure,  this  would  be  enough  to  give  P  a
“legitimate claim of entitlement” to reemployment. And, the Court said,
if P indeed had such a legitimate claim of entitlement to reemployment
(a matter to be determined at trial), he was entitled to procedural due
process  before  being  fired.  So  under  Perry,  the  mathematician  here
could argue that under state law (in this case, the common-law contract
doctrine of promissory estoppel), the oral promise of reemployment by
the president gave the mathematician a “legitimate claim of entitlement”
to  that  reemployment,  thereby  triggering  an  obligation  to  give  him
procedural due process. It's not clear that this argument will work (e.g.,
because  state  law  might  not  recognize  promissory  estoppel  on  these
facts),  but  of  the  four  choices,  it's  the  only  one  that  furnishes  the
mathematician  with  a  plausible  argument  about  why  state-law
principles gave him a legitimate claim of entitlement to continue in his
job for another year.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it relies on an irrelevant fact.

Under  these  facts,  you  have  a  state  activity  that  is  depriving  the
mathematician  of  what  looks  like  some  interest  or  right.  Thus,  what's
involved here is a due process issue. Since what the mathematician is
contesting  is  the  lack  of  some  process  before  he  was  not  rehired,  the
issue is more specifically procedural due process.

Under procedural due process, there need only be fair process if the
right  being  deprived  is  a  property  right  (or  life  or  liberty).  Thus,  in
order  for  the  mathematician  to  prevail,  he'd  have  to  claim  he  had  a
property  right  in  his  state  employment.  The  fact  that  tenured  teachers
are  no  more  qualified  than  the  mathematician  does  not  make  the
mathematician's  continued  employment  into  a  property  right,  and  as  a
result the choice relies on an irrelevant fact. Therefore, Choice A is not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  doesn't  address  the  central  issue  here  whether  the
mathematician had a property right in his public employment.

Under  these  facts,  you  have  a  state  activity  that  is  depriving  the

428

mathematician  of  what  looks  like  some  interest  or  right.  Thus,  what's
involved here is a due process issue. Since what the mathematician is
contesting  is  the  lack  of  some  process  before  he  was  not  rehired,  the
issue is more specifically procedural due process.

Under procedural due process, there need only be fair process if the
right  being  deprived  is  a  property  right  (or  life  or  liberty).  Thus,  in
order  for  the  mathematician  to  prevail,  he'd  have  to  claim  he  had  a
property right in his state employment. The fact that the mathematician
the
was 
mathematician's  interest  in  his  job  into  a  property  right.  Therefore,
Choice C is not the best response.

rehired  would  not 

teacher  not 

the  only 

transform 

 (D) is not the best response,

because it relies on an irrelevant fact.

Under  these  facts,  you  have  a  state  activity  that  is  depriving  the
mathematician  of  what  looks  like  some  interest  or  right.  Thus,  what's
involved here is a due process issue. Since what the mathematician is
contesting  is  the  lack  of  some  process  before  he  was  not  rehired,  the
issue is more specifically procedural due process.

Under procedural due process, there need only be fair process if the
right  being  deprived  is  a  property  right  (or  life  or  liberty).  Thus,  in
order  for  the  mathematician  to  prevail,  he'd  have  to  claim  he  had  a
property  right  in  his  state  employment.  To  have  a  property  right  in  a
benefit, you have to have more than the mere present enjoyment of that
benefit; an applicable federal, state, or municipal law must recognize a
legitimate claim to the benefit. (For instance, there's a property interest
in  receiving  a  public  education  or  in  continuing  to  receive  welfare
benefits.)  As  to  public  employment—the  issue  under  these  facts—the
existence  of  a  property  interest  will  similarly  be  determined  by
applicable law. As is discussed further in the treatment of Choice B, the
Supreme  Court  has  held  that  a  public  worker  would  have  a  property
right  in  continued  employment  if  he  could  show  that  under  unwritten
common-law  principles,  he  had  a  “legitimate  claim  of  entitlement”  to
that continued employment. But the special facts recited in this choice
—that the mathematician expected to remain at the college, and acted in
reliance  on  that  expectation  by  moving  his  parents—would  not  be
enough to give the mathematician a “legitimate claim of entitlement” to
reemployment  under  common-law  principles.  The  only  common-law
doctrine  that's  plausibly  relevant  here  is  promissory  estoppel,  but
nothing  in  this  choice  indicates  that  the  college  made  any  sort  of

429

promise  that  would  have  reasonably  justified  the  mathematician's
reliance, a requirement for that doctrine. So even though the argument in
Choice D involves reliance, the argument is far less likely to produce a
“legitimate” entitlement than the promise-based argument in Choice B.

 Answer 51

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the standard of review for this ordinance.
The ordinance is facially neutral since it does not, in its text, single
out women for disparate treatment. The issue is whether the fact that the
disparate effect that the law has on women, based on their percentage
of  the  child-care  workforce,  renders  the  ordinance  unconstitutional.
Absent evidence that the city intended to discriminate against women,
this  licensing  scheme  will  not  be  subject  to  any  heightened  level  of
review. Accordingly, a court will assess the ordinance under rationality
review  and  uphold  it  unless  it  is  not  rationally  related  to  a  legitimate
government interest. Since the protection of children is a legitimate city
interest  and  the  city  could  rationally  believe  that  the  licensing
requirements  will  help  further 
is
constitutional.

the  ordinance 

interest, 

that 

 (A) is not the best response,

because disparate impact, standing alone, does not cause a court to use
a heightened level of review.

In  order  to  trigger  a  heightened  level  of  scrutiny,  as  implied  by
choice A, a government action that has disparate impact on women must
constitute  sex  discrimination.  However,  disparate  impact,  absent
intent to discriminate, does not rise to the level of sex discrimination.
Accordingly,  a  court  assessing  the  constitutionality  of  this  ordinance
will  apply  rational  basis  review  and  will  uphold  the  statute  if  it  is
rationally related to a legitimate government interest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  freedom  to  contract  is  not  a  fundamental  right  triggering
heightened scrutiny.

Although  this  regulation  will  restrict  the  caregivers'  ability  to
contract  freely  for  their  babysitting  services,  a  court  assessing  the
constitutionality of the ordinance will apply rationality review because

430

the  freedom  to  contract  is  not  a  fundamental  right.  If  you  chose  this
response,  you  were  probably  thinking  of  the  Constitution's  Contracts
Clause, which bars the government from passing laws that retroactively
affect existing contractual rights. Since the effect of this ordinance will
only be felt prospectively, the Contracts Clause is not implicated.

 (C) is not the best response,

because a burden-balancing test is the incorrect method of review for
this ordinance.

The  proper  level  of  review  in  this  case  is  rational  basis  review.
The issue is whether the fact that the disparate effect that the law has on
women, based on their percentage of the child-care workforce, renders
the ordinance unconstitutional. Absent evidence that the city intended to
discriminate against women, this licensing scheme will not be subject
to any heightened level of review. Accordingly, a court will assess the
ordinance  under  rationality  review  and  uphold  it  unless  it  is  not
rationally  related  to  a  legitimate  government  interest.  Since  the
protection  of  children  is  a  legitimate  city  interest  and  the  city  could
rationally believe that the licensing requirements will help further that
interest, the ordinance is constitutional.

 Answer 52

 (A) is the best response,

because the purchase of cars is a commercial activity.

For a congressional statute to be constitutional, it must be enacted
pursuant to one of Congress's enumerated powers under Article I of the
Constitution. Choice A identifies the Commerce Clause as the source of
the power to enact this statute. Under the Commerce Clause (Article I, §
8, cl. 3), Congress has the power to “regulate commerce with foreign
nations,  and  among  the  several  states.”  Congress's  powers  under  the
Commerce Clause are read quite broadly by courts, and on the MBE it
should always be the first of the enumerated powers you consider when
approaching  a  problem.  Here,  the  statute  falls  within  the  commerce
power because the large-scale purchase of cars has a significant effect
on interstate commerce.

Now, what about the Tenth Amendment? Essentially the only real-
world  effect  of  the  Tenth  Amendment  is  to  prohibit  the  federal
government from commandeering the lawmaking power of state or local

431

legislatures. So, for example, Congress could not pass an act requiring
all  of  the  states  to  pass  laws  mandating  the  purchase  of  electric  cars.
However,  the  directive  in  this  statute  is  generally  applicable  since  it
applies to all owners of large fleets of cars, not only to governmental
owners. Since it is a direct regulation that is generally applicable, and
does not commandeer the legislative function of the local government, it
does not violate the Tenth Amendment.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the city is seeking an injunction.

The federal government has sovereign immunity from suits seeking
compensatory  damages.  However,  there  is  no  bar  against  a  plaintiff
seeking injunctive relief against the federal government or its officers.
Here,  we  are  told  that  the  city  “sought  an  injunction  prohibiting
enforcement  of  the  statute.”  Since  the  city  is  not  seeking  monetary
relief,  its  suit  is  not  barred  by  the  federal  government's  sovereign
immunity.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  statute  is  applicable  to  both  private  and  governmental
entities.

Essentially the only real-world effect of the Tenth Amendment is to
prohibit  the  federal  government  from  commandeering  the  lawmaking
power  of  state  or  local  legislatures.  So,  for  example,  Congress  could
not  pass  an  act  requiring  all  of  the  states  to  pass  laws  mandating  the
purchase  of  electric  cars.  However,  the  directive  in  this  statute  is
generally  applicable  since  it  applies  to  all  owners  of  large  fleets  of
cars,  not  only  to  governmental  owners.  Since  it  is  a  direct  regulation
that  is  generally  applicable,  and  does  not  commandeer  the  legislative
function  of  the  local  government,  it  does  not  violate  the  Tenth
Amendment.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  this  exercise  of  commerce  power  is  not  in  violation  of  the
Tenth Amendment.

The  Tenth  Amendment  reserves  to  the  states  all  legislative  power
not specifically provided to the federal government in the Constitution.
However, the commerce power is a specifically enumerated power of
Congress (Article I, § 8, cl. 3). Essentially the only real-world effect of

432

the  Tenth  Amendment  is  to  prohibit  the  federal  government  from
commandeering the lawmaking power of state or local legislatures, but
that  has  not  occurred  in  this  situation.  The  directive  in  this  statute  is
generally  applicable  since  it  applies  to  all  owners  of  large  fleets  of
cars,  not  only  to  governmental  owners.  Since  it  is  a  direct  regulation
that  is  generally  applicable  and  does  not  commandeer  the  legislative
function  of  the  local  government,  it  does  not  violate  the  Tenth
Amendment.
