QUESTIONS

CONTRACTS

 NOTE:  For  ease  of  study,  we've  put  all  questions  involving  Sales  (i.e.,
UCC Article 2) at the end of the section, beginning with Question 37.

 Question 1

Before putting her home up for sale, a homeowner painted the living room
ceiling to conceal major water damage caused by a leaking roof that had not
yet  been  repaired.  On  the  first  day  the  home  was  offered  for  sale,  the
homeowner  gave  a  buyer  a  personal  tour.  The  homeowner  made  no
statements  at  all  regarding  the  water  damage  or  the  roof.  Without
discovering the water damage or the leaking roof and without consulting a
lawyer,  the  buyer  immediately  agreed  in  writing  to  buy  the  home  for
$200,000.

Before the closing date, the buyer discovered the water damage and the
leaking  roof.  The  cost  of  repair  was  estimated  at  $22,000.  The  buyer  has
refused to go through with the purchase.

If  the  homeowner  sues  the  buyer  for  breach  of  contract,  is  the

homeowner likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because no contract was formed since the buyer did not have a real

opportunity to understand the essential terms of the contract.

(B) No, because the homeowner concealed evidence of the water damage

and of the leaking roof.

(C) Yes, because the homeowner made no affirmative statements of fact

about the water damage or the leaking roof.

(D) Yes, because the buyer acted unreasonably by failing to employ an

inspector to conduct an independent inspection of the home.

 Question 2

An  engineer  entered  into  a  written  contract  with  an  owner  to  serve  in  the
essential  position  of  on-site  supervisor  for  construction  of  an  office
building. The day after signing the contract, the engineer was injured while
bicycling  and  was  rendered  physically  incapable  of  performing  as  the  on-

458

 
site  supervisor.  The  engineer  offered  to  serve  as  an  off-site  consultant  for
the same pay as originally agreed to by the parties.

Is  the  owner  likely  to  prevail  in  an  action  against  the  engineer  for

damages resulting from his failure to perform under the contract?

 (A) No, because the engineer offered a reasonable substitute by offering to

serve as an off-site consultant.

(B) No, because the engineer's physical ability to perform as on-site

supervisor was a basic assumption of the contract.

(C) Yes, because the engineer breached the contract by disappointing the

owner's expectations.

(D) Yes, because the engineer's duty to perform was personal and absolute.

 Question 3

An experienced rancher contracted to harvest his neighbor's wheat crop for
$1,000  “when  the  crop  [was]  ripe.”  In  early  September,  the  neighbor  told
the  rancher  that  the  crop  was  ripe.  The  rancher  delayed  because  he  had
other  customers  to  attend  to.  The  neighbor  was  concerned  that  the  delay
might cause the crop to be lost, for hailstorms were common in that part of
the  country  in  the  fall.  In  fact,  in  early  October,  before  the  crop  was
harvested, it was destroyed by a hailstorm.

Is the rancher liable for the loss?

 (A) No, because no time for performance was established in the contract.
(B) No, because the neighbor failed to tell the rancher that the crop might be

destroyed by a hailstorm.

(C) Yes, because at the time the contract was made, the rancher had reason

to foresee the loss as a probable result of his breach.

(D) Yes, because a party who undertakes a contractual obligation is liable

for all the consequences that flow from his breach.

 Question 4

A niece had worked in her aunt's bookstore for many years. The bookstore
business,  which  was  housed  in  a  building  that  the  aunt  leased,  was
independently appraised at $200,000. The aunt decided to retire. She wrote
to  the  niece,  expressing  her  affection  for  the  niece  and  offering  to  sell  her
the  bookstore  business  for  $125,000  if  the  landlord  would  agree  to  a
transfer of the lease. The letter also specified when the aunt would transfer

459

the business. The niece wrote back accepting her aunt's offer. In a phone call
to the niece, the aunt stated that the landlord had approved the transfer of the
lease and that she would now ask her attorney to draft a written contract so
that there would be a record of the terms. Before the attorney had finished
drafting the document, the aunt changed her mind about selling the business
and informed the niece of her decision.

In an action for breach of contract brought by the niece against her aunt,

is the niece likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the motivation for the transfer of the business was the

aunt's affection for her niece, not the price.

(B) No, because the promised consideration was inadequate in light of the

market value of the business.

(C) Yes, because the condition concerning the landlord's assent to the
transfer of the lease was beyond the control of either party.

(D) Yes, because the document being drafted by the attorney was merely a

record of an agreement already made, not a condition to it.

 Question 5

An actor straight out of drama school and an agent entered into a one-year
written  contract  that  described  the  services  the  agent  would  provide.
Because he was eager for work, the actor agreed, in the contract, to pay the
agent 15 percent of his yearly earnings. At the end of the year, the actor was
so  pleased  with  his  many  roles  that  he  gave  the  agent  20  percent  of  his
earnings. After the first contract had expired, the actor and the agent decided
to continue working together. They photocopied their old contract, changed
the  date,  and  signed  it.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  a  dispute  arose  as  to  what
percentage  of  earnings  the  actor  owed.  It  is  a  trade  practice  in  the  acting
profession for actors to pay their agents 10 percent of their yearly earnings,
payable at the end of the year.

What percentage of the actor's earnings is a court most likely to award

the agent?

 (A) 20 percent, because course of dealing is given greater weight than trade

usage.

(B) 15 percent, because it was an express term of the contract.
(C) 10 percent, because trade usage is the applicable default rule.
(D) Nothing, because the contract is too indefinite.

460

 Question 6

A bank agreed to lend a merchant $10,000 for one year at 8% interest. The
loan  proceeds  were  to  be  disbursed  within  two  weeks.  The  merchant
intended to use the loan proceeds to purchase a specific shipment of carpets
for resale at an expected profit of $5,000 but said nothing about these plans
to the bank. The bank failed to disburse the proceeds and refused to assure
the  merchant  that  it  would  do  so.  The  merchant  was  able  to  secure  a  loan
from another lender at 10% interest for one year. However, by the time the
merchant started the application process for a substitute loan, it was too late
to pursue the opportunity to buy the shipment of carpets.

In  an  action  against  the  bank  for  breach  of  contract,  which  of  the

following amounts is the merchant likely to recover?

 (A) Nothing, because lost opportunities are not foreseeable.
(B) Nothing, because the parties failed to tacitly agree that the merchant
would be entitled to damages in the event of a breach by the bank.
(C) The difference in cost over time between a loan at 10 percent and a loan

at 8 percent.

(D) $5,000, the merchant's foreseeable loss.

 Question 7

A  janitorial  service  contracted  in  writing  with  a  hospital  for  a  one-year
term. Under the terms of the contract, the janitorial service agreed to clean
the  hospital  daily  in  accordance  with  the  hygiene  standards  of  the  city's
health code. Because the janitorial service did not clean a patient's room in
accordance  with  the  required  hygiene  standards,  the  patient  contracted  an
infection  that  required  continued  hospitalization.  In  addition  to  suing  the
hospital, the patient sued the janitorial service for breach of contract.

Which of the following statements is most accurate with respect to the

breach of contract claim against the janitorial service?

 (A) The janitorial service is liable to the patient as a matter of public

policy, because it violated the city's health code.

(B) The patient is an intended third-party beneficiary under the contract,
because the janitorial service's promise was intended to benefit all
hospital patients.

(C) The patient has no claim for breach of contract against the janitorial

service, because she is an incidental beneficiary.

461

(D) The patient cannot sue on the contract, because she was not named in the

contract.

 Question 8

A developer contracted in writing to sell to a buyer a house on a one-acre
lot for $100,000. The developer told the buyer that the lot abutted a national
park  and  that  the  water  for  the  house  came  from  a  natural  artesian  spring.
The developer knew that both of these representations were important to the
buyer  and  that  both  were  false.  The  buyer  moved  into  the  house  and  eight
months later learned that a private golf course was being constructed on the
adjacent  land  and  that  the  water  for  his  house  was  piped  in  from  the  city
reservoir. The buyer immediately sued the developer to avoid the contract.

The  construction  of  the  golf  course  will  probably  increase  the  market
value of the buyer's property, and the water from the city reservoir exceeds
all established standards for drinking water.

Is the buyer likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because eight months exceeds a reasonable time for contract

avoidance.

(B) No, because the developer's misstatements caused no economic harm to

the buyer.

(C) Yes, because the contract was void ab initio.
(D) Yes, because the buyer retained the power to avoid the contract due to

fraud.

 Question 9

A  seller  entered  into  a  contract  to  sell  to  a  buyer  a  house  for  a  price  of
$150,000.  The  contract  contained  the  following  clause:  “This  contract  is
conditional on the buyer's securing bank financing at an interest rate of 7%
or  below.”  The  buyer  did  not  make  an  application  for  bank  financing  and
therefore  did  not  secure  it,  and  refused  to  proceed  with  the  purchase.  The
seller sued the buyer for breach of contract.

Is the seller likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the buyer did not secure bank financing.
(B) No, because the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer any

obligation to apply for bank financing.

(C) Yes, because a court will excuse the condition to avoid a

462

disproportionate forfeiture.

(D) Yes, because a court will imply a term imposing on the buyer a duty to

use reasonable efforts to secure bank financing.

 Question 10

A computer retail outlet contracted to service a bank's computer equipment
for  one  year  at  a  fixed  monthly  fee  under  a  contract  that  was  silent  as  to
assignment or delegation by either party. Three months later, the retail outlet
sold the service portion of its business to an experienced and well-financed
computer service company. The only provision in the agreement between the
retail  outlet  and  the  computer  service  company  relating  to  the  outlet's
contract  with  the  bank  stated  that  the  outlet  “hereby  assigns  all  of  its
computer service contracts to [the computer service company].”

The  computer  service  company  performed  the  monthly  maintenance
required  under  the  service  contract.  Its  performance  was  defective,
however, and caused damage to the bank's operations.

Whom can the bank sue for damages arising from the computer service

company's defective performance?

 (A) The retail outlet only, because the computer service company made no

promises to the bank.

(B) Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because the

bank has not released the outlet and the bank is an intended beneficiary
of the outlet's agreement with the computer service company.

(C) Either the retail outlet or the computer service company, because since
each has the right to enforce the bank's performance of its contract with
the retail outlet, mutuality of remedy renders either potentially liable for
the defective performance.

(D) The computer service company only, because it is a qualified and a

financially responsible supplier of computer services.

 Question 11

The  mother  of  a  son  and  a  daughter  was  dying.  The  daughter  visited  her
mother in a hospice facility and said, “You know that I have always been the
good  child,  and  my  brother  has  always  been  the  bad  child.  Even  so,  you
have  left  your  property  in  the  will  to  us  fifty-fifty.  But  it  would  be  really
nice if you would sell me the family home for $100,000.”

“I don't know,” said the mother. “It is worth a lot more than that — at

463

least $250,000.”

“That  is  true,”  said  the  daughter.  “But  I  have  always  been  good  and
visited you, and my brother has never visited you, so that ought to be worth
something. And besides, if you won't sell me the house for that price, maybe
I won't visit you anymore, either.”

“Oh,  I  wouldn't  want  that,”  said  the  mother,  and  she  signed  a  contract

selling the house to her daughter for $100,000.

Shortly  thereafter,  the  mother  died.  When  her  son  found  out  that  the
house had been sold and was not part of his mother's estate, he sued to have
the contract avoided on behalf of the mother.

On what ground would the contract most likely be avoided?

 (A) Duress.
(B) Inadequate consideration.
(C) Mistake.
(D) Undue influence.

 Question 12

A  borrower  owed  a  lender  $50,000  due  on  March  1.  On  January  10,  the
lender telephoned the borrower and said that he would discharge the debt if
the borrower would promise to pay the lender $45,000 by January 15. The
borrower responded, “I will attempt to get the money together.” On January
11, the lender again telephoned the borrower and said that he had changed
his mind and would expect the borrower to make full payment on March 1.
On  January  15,  the  borrower  tendered  $45,000  as  full  payment,  which  the
lender  refused  to  accept.  On  March  1,  the  borrower  refused  the  lender's
demand for $50,000, and the lender sued for that amount.

Which of the following statements best supports the lender's position?

 (A) The borrower's January 10 statement was not a return promise, and
therefore the lender effectively revoked his offer on January 11.
(B) The January 10 telephone conversation between the lender and the

borrower created an executory accord and therefore did not operate as a
discharge of the $50,000 debt.

(C) The lender's offer to discharge the debt was a gift promise and therefore

was not binding on the lender.

(D) The lender's promise to discharge the $50,000 debt was not enforceable

because it was not in writing.

464

 Question 13

A famous chef entered into a written agreement with a well-known interior
decorator, who was respected for his unique designs. In that agreement, the
decorator  agreed,  for  a  fixed  fee,  to  design  the  interior  of  the  chef's  new
restaurant and, upon the chef's approval of the design plan, to decorate and
furnish  the  restaurant  accordingly.  The  agreement  was  silent  as  to
assignment  or  delegation  by  either  party.  Before  beginning  work,  the
decorator  sold  his  business  to  his  son  under  an  agreement  in  which  the
decorator  assigned  to  his  son.  The  son  agreed  to  complete  the  chef-
decorator contract. The son was also an experienced decorator of excellent
repute,  advised  the  chef  of  the  assignment,  and  supplied  the  chef  with
information  confirming  both  the  son's  financial  responsibility  and  past
commercial success.

Is the chef obligated to permit the decorator's son to perform the chef-

decorator agreement?

 (A) Yes, because the agreement contained no prohibition against assignment

or delegation.

(B) Yes, because the chef received adequate assurances of the decorator's

son's ability to complete the job.

(C) No, because the decorator's duties were of a personal nature, involving

his reputation, taste, and skill.

(D) No, because the decorator's purported delegation to his son of his

obligations to the chef effected a novation.

 Question 14

In  a  written  contract,  an  architect  agreed  to  draw  up  plans  for  and  to
supervise construction of a client's new house. In return, the client agreed to
pay the architect a fee of $10,000 to be paid upon the house's completion.
After  completion,  the  client  claimed  erroneously  but  in  good  faith  that  the
architect's  plans  were  defective.  The  client  orally  offered  to  pay  the
architect  $7,500  in  full  settlement  of  the  claim  for  the  fee.  The  architect
orally  accepted  that  offer  despite  the  fact  that  the  reasonable  value  of  his
services was in fact $10,000. The client paid the architect $7,500 pursuant
to their agreement.

The architect subsequently sued the client for the remaining $2,500. In a
preliminary finding, the trier of fact found that there were no defects in the
architect's plans. Will the architect be likely to prevail in his action against

465

the client for $2,500?

 (A) Yes, because payment of $7,500 cannot furnish consideration for the

architect's promise to surrender his claim.

(B) Yes, because the oral agreement to modify the written contract is not

enforceable.

(C) No, because the architect's promise to accept $7,500 became binding

when the client made the payment.

(D) No, because the architect's acceptance of partial payment constituted a

novation.

 Question 15

A homeowner and a contractor entered into a contract for the construction of
a  home  for  the  price  of  $300,000.  The  contractor  was  to  earn  a  profit  of
$10,000  for  the  job.  After  the  contractor  had  spent  $45,000  on  labor  and
materials, including $5,000 on oak flooring not yet installed, the homeowner
informed the contractor that the homeowner had lost his job and could not
pay  for  any  services.  The  homeowner  told  the  contractor  to  stop  working
immediately.  The  reasonable  market  value  of  the  labor  and  materials
provided  by  the  contractor  at  that  point,  including  the  oak  flooring,  was
$40,000.  The  contractor  used  the  $5,000  worth  of  oak  flooring  on  another
job.

In an action by the contractor against the homeowner for damages, which
of the following would be the largest amount of damages recoverable by the
contractor?

 (A) $40,000, the reasonable value of the services the contractor had

provided.

(B) $40,000, the contractor's construction costs.
(C) $50,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000
profit minus the $5,000 saved by reusing the oak flooring on another
job.

(D) $55,000, the contractor's construction costs of $45,000 plus the $10,000

profit.

 Question 16

A vendor and a purchaser each signed a memorandum which stated that the
vendor agreed to sell and the purchaser agreed to purchase a tract of land
and that the contract should be closed and conveyance made and accepted

466

‘‘by tender of general warranty deed conveying a good and marketable title''
on a date specified. The memorandum signed by the parties contains all of
the elements deemed essential and necessary to satisfy the Statute of Frauds
applicable to the transaction except that there was omission of a recitation
of  the  agreed-upon  purchase  price.  The  vendor  has  refused  to  perform  the
contract, and in action by the purchaser for specific performance, the vendor
relies  upon  the  Statute  of  Frauds  as  a  defense.  If  the  purchaser  offers
evidence, in addition to the written memorandum, that the parties discussed
and  agreed  upon  a  purchase  price  of  $35,000  just  prior  to  signing,  the
purchaser should

 (A) succeed, because the vendor is estopped to deny that such agreed-upon
price is a fair and equitable one, which will be implied by law as a
term of the written memorandum.

(B) succeed, because the law implies that the parties contracted for the

reasonable market value of the land, although the price paid may not
necessarily be that orally agreed upon.

(C) fail, because the price agreed upon is an essential element of the

contract and must be in writing.

(D) fail, because the evidence does not show that the agreed-upon price is

in fact the reasonable market value of the land.

 Question 17

In a single writing, a painter contracted with a farmer to paint three identical
barns  on  her  rural  estate  for  $2,000  each.  The  contract  provided  for  the
farmer's payment of $6,000 upon the painter's completion of the work on all
three barns. The painter did not ask for any payment when the first barn was
completely painted, but she demanded $4,000 after painting the second barn.

Is the farmer obligated to make the $4,000 payment?

 (A) No, because the farmer has no duty under the contract to pay anything to

the painter until all three barns have been painted.

(B) No, because the painter waived her right, if any, to payment on a per-
barn basis by failing to demand $2,000 upon completion of the first
barn.

(C) Yes, because the contract is divisible.
(D) Yes, because the painter has substantially performed the entire contract.

 Question 18

467

While  waiting  in  line  to  open  an  account  with  a  bank,  a  customer  read  a
poster  on  the  bank's  wall  that  said,  ‘‘New  Customers!  $25  FOR  5
MINUTES. If you stand in line for more than five minutes, we will pay you
$25! We like happy customers! (This offer may be withdrawn at any time.)''
The customer started timing his wait and just as five minutes was about to
pass,  the  bank  manager  tore  the  poster  down  and  announced,  ‘‘The  $25
stand-in-line promotion is over.'' The customer waited in line for ten more
minutes before being served.

In  the  customer's  action  against  the  bank  for  $25,  will  the  customer

prevail?

 (A) No, because the bank withdrew its offer before the customer completed

the requested performance.

(B) No, because the bank's statement was a non-binding gift promise.
(C) Yes, because the bank could not revoke its offer once the customer had

commenced performance.

(D) Yes, because the customer's presence in line served as notice to the

bank that he had accepted.

 Question 19

In  September  2010,  a  student,  23  years  old  and  unmarried,  was  beginning
his third year of law school. At that time he entered into a written lease with
a  landlord  for  the  lease  of  an  apartment  for  the  nine-month  school  year
ending on May 31, 2011, at $650 a month, payable in advance on the first
day  of  each  month.  The  student  paid  the  rent  through  December  1,  but  did
not pay the amount due on January 1, nor has he paid any since.

On  January  15,  2011,  the  landlord  threatened  to  evict  the  student  if  he
did not pay the rent. That night the student called his father and told him that
he  did  not  have  the  money  with  which  to  pay  the  rent  nor  did  he  have  the
money with which to pay his tuition for the second semester. The student's
father  told  the  student  that  if  he  agreed  not  to  marry  until  he  finished  law
school, he would pay his tuition, the $650 rent that was due January 1, the
rent for the rest of the school year, and $200 a month spending money until
the student graduated. The student, who was engaged to be married at that
time, agreed that he would not marry until after he graduated. On January 16,
the student's father wrote to the landlord the following signed letter, which
the landlord received on January 17: ‘‘Because of the love and affection that
I bear my son, if you do not evict him, I will pay the rent he now owes you
and will pay you his $650 rent on the first day of each month through May

468

2011.  If  I  do  not  hear  from  you  by  January  25,  I  will  assume  that  this
arrangement is all right with you.'' The landlord did not reply to the father's
letter and he did not evict the student. The student's father died suddenly on
January 26. The student continued to live in the apartment through May 31,
2011,  but  paid  no  more  rent.  He  did  not  marry  and  graduated  from  law
school. His father had paid the student's tuition for the spring semester, but
had paid no money to either the landlord or the student. The student's claim
against  his  father's  estate  having  been  denied  by  the  executor,  the  student
brought suit against the estate in June 2011, asking for a judgment of $800
($200  spending  money  for  each  of  the  months,  February  through  May).  In
this action, the student probably will be

 (A) successful.
(B) unsuccessful, because the student's contract with his father was illegal.
(C) unsuccessful, because the student's father's death terminated the offer.
(D) unsuccessful, because the student's contract with his father was not in

writing and signed by his father.

 Question 20

A  chef  purchased  the  front  portion  of  the  land  needed  for  a  restaurant  he
desired to build and operate, but the back portion was the subject of a will
dispute  between  a  brother  and  his  sister.  The  sister's  attorney  advised  her
that  her  claim  was  doubtful.  The  chef,  knowing  only  that  the  unresolved
dispute existed, agreed in a signed writing to pay the sister $6,000, payable
$1,000  annually,  in  exchange  for  a  quitclaim  deed  (a  deed  containing  no
warranties) from the sister, who promptly executed such a deed to the chef
and received the chef's first annual payment. Shortly thereafter, the probate
court handed down a decision in the brother's favor, ruling that the sister had
no  interest  in  the  land.  This  decision  has  become  final.  The  chef
subsequently defaulted when his second annual installment came due.

In  an  action  against  the  chef  for  breach  of  contract,  the  sister  will

probably

 (A) lose, because she was aware at the time of the agreement with the chef

that her claim to the property quitclaimed was doubtful.

(B) lose, because the sister suffered no legal detriment in executing the

quitclaim deed.

(C) win, because the chef bargained for and received in exchange a

quitclaim deed from the sister.

469

(D) win, because the chef, by paying the first $1,000 installment, is

estopped to deny that his agreement with the sister is an enforceable
contract.

 Question 21

the  company's  president  about 

A manager, aged 60, who had no plans for early retirement, had worked for
a  company  for  20  years  as  a  managerial  employee-at-will  when  he  had  a
conversation  with 
the  manager's
postretirement  goal  of  extensive  travel  around  the  United  States.  A  month
later,  the  president  handed  the  manager  a  written,  signed  resolution  of  the
company's  board  of  directors  stating  that  when  and  if  the  manager  should
decide  to  retire,  at  his  option,  the  company,  in  recognition  of  his  past
service, would pay him a $2,000-per-month lifetime pension. (The company
had  no  regularized  retirement  plan  for  at-will  employees.)  Shortly
immediately  bought  a  $30,000
thereafter, 
recreational  vehicle  for  his  planned  travels.  After  receiving  the  promised
$2,000 monthly pension from the company for six months, the manager, now
unemployable elsewhere, received a letter from the company advising him
that  the  pension  would  cease  immediately  because  of  recessionary  budget
constraints  affecting  in  varying  degrees  all  managerial  salaries  and
retirement pensions.

the  manager  retired  and 

In  a  suit  against  the  company  for  breach  of  contract,  the  manager  will

probably

 (A) win, because he retired from the company as bargained-for

consideration for the company's promise to him of a lifetime pension.

(B) win, because he timed his decision to retire and to buy the recreational
vehicle in reasonable reliance on the company's promise to him of a
lifetime pension.

(C) lose, because the company's promise to him of a lifetime pension was

an unenforceable gift promise.

(D) lose, because he had been an employee-at-will throughout his active

service with the company.

 Question 22

In exchange for a valid and sufficient consideration, a man orally promised
his neighbor, who had no car and wanted a minivan, ‘‘to pay to anyone from
whom you buy a minivan within the next six months the full purchase-price
thereof.''  Two  months  later,  the  neighbor  bought  a  used  minivan  on  credit

470

from a dealership for $8,000. At the time, the dealership was unaware of the
man's earlier promise to the neighbor, but learned of it shortly after the sale.

Can the dealership enforce the man's promise to the neighbor?

 (A) Yes, under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(B) Yes, because the dealership is an intended beneficiary of the man-

neighbor contract.

(C) No, because the man's promise to the neighbor is unenforceable under

the suretyship clause of the Statute of Frauds.

(D) No, because the dealership was neither identified when the man's

promise was made nor aware of it when the minivan sale was made.

 Question 23

When  a  student  finished  college,  her  father  handed  her  a  signed
memorandum stating that if she would go to law school for three academic
years,  he  would  pay  her  room,  board,  and  tuition  and  would  ‘‘give  her  a
$1,000  bonus''  for  each  ‘‘A''  she  got  in  law  school.  Her  father  paid  her
tuition, room, and board for her first year but died just before the end of that
year. Subsequently, the student learned that she had received two ‘‘A's'' in
the second semester. The executor of her father's estate has refused to pay
her anything for the two ‘‘A's'' and has told her that the estate will no longer
pay her tuition, room, and board in law school.

In an action against her father's estate for $2,000 on account of the two
‘‘A's,''  if  the  only  defense  raised  is  lack  of  consideration,  the  student
probably will

 (A) succeed under the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
(B) succeed on a theory of bargained-for exchange for her father's promise.
(C) not succeed, because the $1,000 for each ‘‘A'' was promised only as a

bonus.

(D) not succeed, because a student was already legally obligated to use her

best efforts in law school.

 Question 24

A  wealthy  widow,  wishing  to  make  a  substantial  and  potentially  enduring
gift  to  her  beloved  adult  stepson,  established  with  a  bank  a  passbook
savings account by an initial deposit of $10,000.

The  passbook  was  issued  solely  in  the  stepson's  name;  but  the  widow

471

retained  possession  of  it,  and  her  stepson  was  not  then  informed  of  the
savings  account.  Subsequently,  the  widow  became  disgusted  with  her
stepson's behavior and decided to give the same savings account solely to
her beloved adult daughter. As permitted by the rules of the bank, the widow
effected  this  change  by  agreement  with  the  bank.  This  time  she  left
possession  of  the  passbook  with  the  bank.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  stepson
learned  of  the  original  savings  account  in  his  name  and  the  subsequent
switch to the daughter's name. If the stepson now sues the bank for $10,000
plus accrued interest, will the action succeed?

 (A) Yes, because the stepson was a third-party intended beneficiary of the

original widow-bank deposit agreement.

(B) Yes, because the stepson was a constructive assignee of the widow's

claim, as depositor, to the savings account.

(C) No, because the stepson never obtained possession of the passbook.
(D) No, because the stepson's rights, if any, to the funds on deposit were
effectively abrogated by the second widow-bank deposit agreement.

 Question 25

A  fifty-year-old  uncle  wrote  to  his  adult,  unemployed  niece  and  said:  ‘‘If
you come and live with me and take care of me and my farm for the rest of
my  life,  I  will  leave  the  farm  to  you  in  my  will.''  The  niece  immediately
moved in with her uncle and took care of him and the farm until the uncle
was killed instantly in an automobile accident two weeks later. By his will,
the  uncle  left  his  entire  estate,  including  the  farm,  to  his  unmarried  sister.
The farm was reasonably worth $75,000.

Which of the following best states the rights of the niece and the uncle's

estate (or sister)?

 (A) The niece is entitled to receive the reasonable value of her two weeks
services only, because two weeks service would be inadequate
consideration for the conveyance of the farm.

(B) The niece is entitled to receive the reasonable value of her two weeks

services only, because the uncle's letter was an invalid promise to make
a will.

(C) The niece is entitled to receive a conveyance of the farm, because the
letter and her services created a valid contract between her and her
uncle.

(D) The estate (or sister) has the right to rescind the contract, if any, because

472

the uncle's death within two weeks after the agreement was a
circumstance apparently unforeseen by the parties at the time they
entered into the agreement.

 Question 26

In  March,  when  a  student  was  17,  an  electronics  store  delivered  to  him  a
television set. At that time the student agreed in writing to pay $400 for the
set on July 1 when he would reach his eighteenth birthday. Eighteen is the
applicable  statutory  age  of  majority,  and  on  that  date  the  student  was  to
receive the proceeds of a trust. On July 1, when the reasonable value of the
television set was $250, the student sent the electronics store a signed letter
stating, ‘‘I'll only pay you $300; that is all the set is worth.''

In an action against the student for money damages on July 2, what is the

maximum amount that the electronics store will be entitled to recover?

 (A) Nothing.
(B) $250, the reasonable value of the set.
(C) $300, the amount the student promised to pay in his letter of July 1.
(D) $400, the original sale price.

 Question 27

On  April  1,  a  landowner  and  an  investor  signed  a  writing  in  which  the
landowner,  ‘‘in  consideration  of  $100  to  be  paid  to  the  landowner  by  the
investor,'' offered the investor the right to purchase the landowner's farm for
$100,000  within  30  days.  The  writing  further  provided,  ‘‘This  offer  will
become effective as an option only if and when the $100 consideration is in
fact paid.'' On April 20, the landowner, having received no payment or other
communication from the investor, sold and conveyed the farm to a developer
for  $120,000.  On  April  21,  the  landowner  received  a  letter  from  the
investor enclosing a cashier's check for $100 payable to the landowner and
stating,  ‘‘I  am  hereby  exercising  my  option  to  purchase  the  farm  and  am
prepared to close whenever you're ready.''

Which  of  the  following,  if  proved,  best  supports  the  investor's  suit

against the landowner for breach of contract?

 (A) The investor was unaware of the sale to the developer when the

landowner received the letter and check from the investor on April 21.
(B) On April 15, the investor decided to purchase the farm, and applied for

473

and obtained a commitment from a bank for a $75,000 loan to help
finance the purchase.

(C) When the April 1 writing was signed, the landowner said to the

investor, ‘‘Don't worry about the $100; the recital of ‘$100 to be paid'
makes this deal binding.''

(D) The landowner and the investor are both professional dealers in real

estate.

 Question 28

A  landowner  and  a  contractor  entered  into  a  written  contract  under  which
the contractor agreed to build a building and pave an adjacent sidewalk for
the  landowner  at  a  price  of  $200,000.  Later,  while  construction  was
proceeding,  the  landowner  and  the  contractor  entered  into  an  oral
modification  under  which  the  contractor  was  not  obligated  to  pave  the
sidewalk,  but  still  would  be  entitled  to  $200,000  upon  completion.  The
contractor  completed  the  building.  The  landowner,  after  discussions  with
his  landscaper,  demanded  that  the  contractor  pave  the  adjacent  sidewalk.
The contractor refused.

Has the contractor breached the contract?

 (A) No, because the oral modification was in good faith and therefore

enforceable.

(B) Yes, because a discharge of a contractual obligation must be in writing.
(C) Yes, because the parol evidence rule bars proof of the oral

modification.

(D) Yes, because there was no consideration for the discharge of the

contractor's duty to pave the sidewalk.

 Question 29

On  May  1,  an  uncle  mailed  a  letter  to  his  adult  nephew  that  stated:  ‘‘I  am
thinking  of  selling  my  pickup  truck,  which  you  have  seen  and  ridden  in.  I
would  consider  taking  $7,000  for  it.''  On  May  3,  the  nephew  mailed  the
following  response:  ‘‘I  will  buy  your  pickup  for  $7,000  cash.''  The  uncle
received this letter on May 5 and on May 6 mailed a note that stated: ‘‘It's a
deal.''  On  May  7,  before  the  nephew  had  received  the  letter  of  May  6,  he
phoned his uncle to report that he no longer wanted to buy the pickup truck
because his driver's license had been suspended.

Which of the following statements concerning this exchange is accurate?

474

 (A) There is a contract as of May 3.
(B) There is a contract as of May 5.
(C) There is a contract as of May 6.
(D) There is no contract.

 Question 30

An innkeeper, who had no previous experience in the motel or commercial
laundry  business  and  who  knew  nothing  about  the  trade  usages  of  either
business, bought a motel and signed an agreement with a laundry company
for  the  motel's  laundry  services.  The  one-year  agreement  provided  for
‘‘daily  service  at  $500  a  week.''  From  their  conversations  during
negotiation, the laundry company knew that the innkeeper expected laundry
services seven days a week. When the laundry company refused to pick up
the motel's laundry on two successive Sundays and indicated that it would
not ever do so, the innkeeper canceled the agreement. The laundry company
sued  the  innkeeper  for  breach  of  contract.  At  trial,  clear  evidence  was
introduced to show that in the commercial laundry business ‘‘daily service''
did not include service on Sundays.

Will the laundry company succeed in its action?

 (A) No, because the laundry company knew the meaning the innkeeper

attached to ‘‘daily service'' and, therefore, the innkeeper's meaning will
control.

(B) No, because the parties attached materially different meanings to ‘‘daily

service'' and, therefore, no contract was formed.

(C) Yes, because the parol evidence rule will not permit the innkeeper to

prove the meaning she attached to ‘‘daily service.''

(D) Yes, because the trade usage will control the interpretation of ‘‘daily

service.''

 Question 31

On  May  1,  a  seller  and  a  buyer  entered  into  a  written  contract,  signed  by
both  parties,  for  the  sale  of  a  tract  of  land  for  $100,000.  Delivery  of  the
deed and payment of the purchase price were scheduled for July 1. On June
1,  the  buyer  received  a  letter  from  the  seller  repudiating  the  contract.  On
June  5,  the  buyer  bought  a  second  tract  of  land  at  a  higher  price  as  a
substitute for the first tract. On June 10, the seller communicated a retraction
of the repudiation to the buyer.

475

The buyer did not tender the purchase price for the first tract on July 1,

but subsequently sued the seller for breach of contract.

Will the buyer likely prevail?

 (A) No, because the seller retracted the repudiation prior to the agreed time

for performance.

(B) No, because the buyer's tender of the purchase price on July 1 was a
constructive condition to the seller's duty to tender a conveyance.
(C) Yes, because the seller's repudiation was non-retractable after it was

communicated to the buyer.

(D) Yes, because the buyer bought the second tract as a substitute for the

first tract prior to the seller's retraction.

 Question 32

A  carpenter  contracted  with  a  homeowner  to  remodel  the  homeowner's
home  for  $10,000,  to  be  paid  on  completion  of  the  work.  On  May  29,
relying  on  his  expectation  that  he  would  finish  the  work  and  have  the
homeowner's  payment  on  June  1,  the  carpenter  contracted  to  buy  a  car  for
‘‘$10,000  in  cash,  if  payment  is  made  on  June  1;  if  payment  is  made
thereafter,  the  price  is  $12,000.''  The  carpenter  completed  the  work
according  to  specifications  on  June  1  and  demanded  payment  from  the
homeowner  on  that  date.  The  homeowner,  without  any  excuse,  refused  to
pay. Thereupon, the carpenter became very excited, suffered a minor heart
attack,  and,  as  a  result,  incurred  medical  expenses  of  $1,000.  The
reasonable value of the carpenter's services in remodeling the homeowner's
home was $13,000.

In  an  action  by  the  carpenter  against  the  homeowner,  which  of  the

following should be the carpenter's measure of recovery?

 (A) $10,000, the contract price.
(B) $11,000, the contract price plus $1,000 for the medical expenses

incurred because the homeowner refused to pay.

(C) $12,000, the contract price plus $2,000, the bargain that was lost
because the carpenter could not pay cash for the car on June 1.
(D) $13,000, the amount the homeowner was enriched by the carpenter's

services.

 Question 33

During negotiations to purchase a used car, a buyer asked a dealer whether

476

the  car  had  ever  been  in  an  accident.  The  dealer  replied:  ‘‘It  is  a  fine  car
and has been thoroughly inspected and comes with a certificate of assured
quality.  Feel  free  to  have  the  car  inspected  by  your  own  mechanic.''  In
actuality,  the  car  had  been  in  an  accident  and  the  dealer  had  repaired  and
repainted  the  car,  successfully  concealing  evidence  of  the  accident.  The
buyer  declined  to  have  the  car  inspected  by  his  own  mechanic,  explaining
that he would rely on the dealer's certificate of assured quality. At no time
did the dealer disclose that the car had previously been in an accident. The
parties then signed a contract of sale. After the car was delivered and paid
for, the buyer learned about the car's involvement in a major accident.

If the buyer sues the dealer to rescind the transaction, is the buyer likely

to succeed?

 (A) No, because the buyer had the opportunity to have the car inspected by

his own mechanic and declined to do so.

(B) No, because the dealer did not affirmatively assert that the car had not

been in an accident.

(C) Yes, because the contract was unconscionable.
(D) Yes, because the dealer's statement was intentionally misleading and the

dealer had concealed evidence of the accident.

 Question 34

An elderly widower lived alone on a small farm, which he owned. Except
for the farm, including the house and its furnishings, and the usual items of
personal  clothing  and  similar  things,  the  widower  owned  substantially  no
property. Under proper management, the farm was capable of producing an
adequate  family  income.  Because  of  the  usual  deterioration  accompanying
old age, the widower was unable to do farm work or even to provide for his
own  personal  needs.  The  widower  entered  into  an  oral  contract  with  his
nephew by which the widower agreed to convey the farm to his nephew and
his  nephew  agreed  to  move  into  the  house  with  the  widower,  operate  the
farm, and take care of the widower for the rest of his life. The oral contract
was silent as to when the land was to be conveyed. The nephew, who lived
about 50 miles away where he was operating a small business of his own,
terminated his business and moved in with the widower. With the assistance
of his wife, the nephew gave the widower excellent care until the widower
died intestate about five years after the date of the contract. In his final years
the widower was confined to his bed and required much personal service of
an  intimate  and  arduous  sort.  The  widower  was  survived  by  his  only  son,

477

who was also the widower's sole heir and next of kin. The son resided in a
distant  city  and  gave  his  father  no  attention  in  his  father's  final  years.  The
son  showed  up  for  the  widower's  funeral  and  demanded  that  the  nephew
vacate  the  farm  immediately.  Upon  the  nephew's  refusal  to  do  so,  the
widower's  son  brought  an  appropriate  action  for  possession.  The  nephew
answered by way of a counterclaim to establish his right to possession and
title to the farm.

If the court's decision is in favor of the nephew, it will be because

 (A) the land is located in a state where the Statute of Frauds will not be
applied if there has been such part performance as will result in an
irreparable hardship if the contract is not performed.

(B) the land is located in a state where the Statute of Frauds will not be

applied if there has been such part performance that is by its very nature
unequivocally referable to the contract.

(C) the brother is precluded by the ‘‘clean hands'' doctrine from enforcing

his claim against the nephew.

(D) the blood relationship of uncle–nephew is sufficient to remove the

necessity for any writing to satisfy the Statute of Frauds.

 Question 35

A seller and a buyer entered into a contract obligating the seller to convey
title to a parcel of land to the buyer for $100,000. The agreement provided
that the buyer's obligation to purchase the parcel was expressly conditioned
upon  the  buyer's  obtaining  a  loan  at  an  interest  rate  no  higher  than  ten
percent. The buyer was unable to do so, but did obtain a loan at an interest
rate  of  10.5  percent  and  timely  tendered  the  purchase  price.  Because  the
value  of  the  land  had  increased  since  the  time  of  contracting,  the  seller
refused to perform. The buyer sued the seller.

Will the buyer prevail?

 (A) No, because an express condition will only be excused to avoid

forfeiture.

(B) No, because the contract called for a loan at an interest rate not to

exceed ten percent and it could not be modified without the consent of
the seller.

(C) Yes, because the buyer detrimentally changed position in reliance on the

seller's promise to convey.

(D) Yes, because the buyer's obtaining a loan at an interest rate no higher

478

than ten percent was not a condition to the seller's duty to perform.

 Question 36

A  manufacturer  of  computers  pays  its  salespeople  a  salary  of  $1,000  per
month  and  a  commission  of  five  percent  on  billings  actually  rendered  for
machines  they  sell.  The  manufacturer's  sales  people  are  employed  at  will
under written agreements that provide that in order to receive a commission
the  sales  person  must  be  in  the  employment  of  the  manufacturer  when  the
bill is sent to the customer.

In  2010,  a  salesman  worked  for  eight  months  to  get  an  order  from  a
customer for a large $750,000 computer. He consulted extensively with the
customer's  top  executives  and  worked  with  its  operating  personnel  to
develop  detailed  specifications  for  the  new  equipment.  He  also  promised
the customer, with the manufacturer's knowledge and approval, to assist the
customer  for  six  months  after  installation  in  order  to  make  the  equipment
work.

On January 1, 2011, the customer signed an order, and on March 1 the
computer was installed. On March 15, the manufacturer fired the salesman
on  the  stated  ground  that  he  had  failed  to  meet  his  2009  and  2010  sales
quotas.  The  salesman  thought  that  the  manufacturer  was  correct  in  this
statement. A replacement salesperson was thereupon assigned to service the
customer's account. On March 31, the manufacturer billed the customer for
the computer.
Assuming 

the  salesman's
employment  was  not  wrongful,  if  he,  after  demand  and  refusal,  sues  the
manufacturer for the customer's sale commission, which of the following is
the most likely to result?

the  manufacturer's 

termination  of 

that 

 (A) The salesman will win, because he had procured the sale of the

computer.

(B) The salesman will win, because he had promised the customer to assist

in making the equipment work.

(C) The manufacturer will win, because the replacement salesperson is

entitled to the commission on a quantum meruit basis.

(D) The manufacturer will win, because the salesman was not employed by

the manufacturer when the customer was billed for the computer.

 Question 37

A  wholesaler  contracted  in  a  signed  writing  to  sell  to  a  bakery  10,000

479

pounds  of  flour  each  week  for  10  weeks,  the  flour  to  be  delivered  to  the
bakery on Mondays and payment to be made on Wednesdays of each week.
The  bakery  did  all  of  its  weekly  bread  baking  on  Tuesdays.  On  Monday
morning of the first week, the wholesaler tendered delivery of 8,000 pounds
of  flour  to  the  bakery,  and  the  bakery  accepted  it  on  the  wholesaler's
assurance  that  the  remaining  2,000  pounds  would  be  delivered  later  that
evening, which it was. The bakery paid for both deliveries on Wednesday.
On Monday of the second week, the wholesaler tendered delivery of 5,000
pounds of flour to the bakery and said that the remaining 5,000 pounds could
not  be  delivered  on  Monday  but  would  be  delivered  by  Wednesday.  The
bakery rejected the tender.

Was  the  bakery  legally  justified  in  rejecting  the  tender  of  the  5,000

pounds of flour?

 (A) Yes, because the bakery was legally entitled to reject any tender that did

not conform perfectly to the contract.

(B) Yes, because the tender was a substantial impairment of that installment

and could not be cured.

(C) No, because the tender was not a substantial impairment of the entire

contract, and the wholesaler had given assurance of a cure.

(D) No, because by accepting the first 8,000 pounds on Monday of the first
week, the bakery had waived the condition of perfect tender and had not
reinstated it.

 Question 38

A buyer sent a seller an offer to buy 50 tons of cotton of a specified quality.
The offer contained no terms except those specifying the amount and quality
of  the  cotton.  The  seller  then  sent  an  acknowledgment  by  fax.  The
acknowledgment  repeated  the  terms  of  the  buyer's  offer  and  stated  that
shipment  would  occur  within  five  days.  Among  12  printed  terms  on  the
acknowledgment was a statement that any dispute about the cotton's quality
would  be  submitted  to  arbitration.  Neither  the  buyer  nor  the  seller  said
anything further about arbitration. The seller shipped the cotton, and it was
accepted by the buyer. A dispute arose between the buyer and the seller as
to the quality of the cotton, and the seller asserted that the dispute had to be
submitted to arbitration. The buyer instead sued the seller in court.

In that suit, which of the following arguments best supports the seller's

position that the buyer must submit the dispute to arbitration?

480

 (A) Arbitration is a more efficient method of resolving disputes than

resolving them in court.

(B) The provision for arbitration did not contradict any term in the buyer's

offer.

(C) The provision for arbitration did not materially alter the parties'

contract.

(D) The seller's acknowledgment containing a provision for arbitration
constituted a counteroffer that was accepted by the buyer when it
accepted delivery of the cotton.

 Question 39

A lawn service company agreed in writing to purchase from a supplier all
of its requirements for lawn care products during the next calendar year. In
the writing, the supplier agreed to fulfill those requirements and to give the
company a 10 percent discount off its published prices, but it reserved the
right to increase the published prices during the year. After the parties had
performed  under  the  agreement  for  three  months,  the  supplier  notified  the
company that it would no longer give the company the 10 percent discount
off the published prices.

Does the company have a viable claim against the supplier for breach of

contract?

 (A) Yes, because part performance of the agreement by both parties made it

enforceable for the full year.

(B) Yes, because the company's agreement to buy all of its lawn care
products from the supplier made the agreement enforceable.

(C) No, because the supplier could, and did, revoke its offer with respect to

future deliveries.

(D) No, because the absence of a minimum quantity term rendered the

company's promise illusory.

 Question 40

On June 1, a general contractor and a subcontractor entered into a contract
under  which  the  subcontractor  agreed  to  deliver  all  of  the  steel  joists  that
the  general  contractor  required  in  the  construction  of  a  hospital  building.
The  contract  provided  that  delivery  of  the  steel  joists  would  begin  on
September 1.

Although 

the  general  contractor  had  no  reason 

to  doubt 

the

481

subcontractor's ability to perform, the general contractor wanted to be sure
that the subcontractor was on track for delivery in September. He therefore
wrote  a  letter  on  July  1  to  the  subcontractor  demanding  that  the
subcontractor  provide  assurance  of  its  ability  to  meet  the  September  1
deadline. The subcontractor refused to provide such assurance.

The  general  contractor  then  immediately  obtained  the  steel  joists  from

another supplier.

If the subcontractor sues the general contractor for breach of contract, is

the subcontractor likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the subcontractor anticipatorily repudiated the contract

when it failed to provide adequate assurance.

(B) No, because the contract failed to specify a definite quantity.
(C) Yes, because a demand for assurance constitutes a breach of contract
when the contract does not expressly authorize a party to demand
assurance.

(D) Yes, because the subcontractor's failure to provide assurance was not a
repudiation since there were no reasonable grounds for the general
contractor's insecurity.

 Question 41

A farmer contracted to sell 100,000 bushels of wheat to a buyer. When the
wheat  arrived  at  the  destination,  the  buyer  discovered  that  the  farmer  had
delivered  only  96,000  bushels.  The  buyer  sued  the  farmer  for  breach  of
contract. At the trial of the case, the court found that the written contract was
intended  as  a  complete  and  exclusive  statement  of  the  terms  of  the
agreement.  The  farmer  offered  to  prove  that  in  the  wheat  business,  a
promise  to  deliver  a  specified  quantity  is  considered  to  be  satisfied  if  the
delivered  quantity  is  within  5  percent  of  the  specified  quantity.  The  buyer
objected to the offered evidence.

Is the court likely to admit the evidence offered by the farmer?

 (A) No, because the offered evidence is inconsistent with the express

language of the agreement.

(B) No, because the written contract was totally integrated.
(C) Yes, because the offered evidence demonstrates that the farmer

substantially performed the contract.

(D) Yes, because the offered evidence explains or supplements the

agreement by usage of trade.

482

 Question 42

A seller entered into an agreement to sell a machine to a buyer for $5,000.
At  the  time  of  the  order,  the  buyer  gave  the  seller  a  down  payment  of
$1,000. The buyer then built a foundation for the machine at a cost of $250.
The seller failed to deliver the machine. The buyer made reasonable efforts
to find a similar machine and bought one for $5,500 that did not fit on the
foundation. The buyer sued the seller for breach of contract.

Which  of  these  amounts  claimed  by  the  buyer,  if  any,  could  best  be

described as restitution?

 (A) The $250 cost of the foundation.
(B) The $500 difference in price.
(C) The $1,000 down payment.
(D) None of the claimed amounts.

 Question 43

On December 15, a lawyer received from a stationer an offer consisting of
its catalog and a signed letter stating, ‘‘We will supply you with as many of
the items in the enclosed catalog as you order during the next calendar year.
We assure you that this offer and the prices in the catalog will remain firm
throughout the coming year.''

No  other  correspondence  passed  between  the  stationer  and  the  lawyer
until the following April 15 (four months later), when the stationer received
from the lawyer a faxed order for ‘‘100 reams of your paper, catalog item
#101.'' Did the lawyer's April 15 fax constitute an effective acceptance of
the stationer's offer at the prices specified in the catalog?

 (A) Yes, because the stationer had not revoked its offer before April 15.
(B) Yes, because a one-year option contract had been created by the

stationer's offer.

(C) No, because under applicable law the irrevocability of the stationer's

offer was limited to a period of three months.

(D) No, because the lawyer did not accept the stationer's offer within a

reasonable time.

 Question 44

A buyer and a seller entered into a contract for the sale of 10,000 novelty
bracelets. The seller had the bracelets in stock. The contract specified that

483

the  seller  would  ship  the  bracelets  by  a  third-party  carrier.  However,  the
contract did not specify either who was to pay the costs of carriage or the
place of tender for the bracelets.

On the above facts, when would the risk of loss of the bracelets pass to

the buyer?

 (A) When the contract was made.
(B) When the bracelets were identified to the contract by the seller,

assuming the goods conformed to the contract.

(C) When the bracelets were delivered to a carrier and a proper contract for

their carriage was made.

(D) When the bracelets were unloaded on the buyer's premises by the

carrier.

 Question 45

On July 15, in a writing signed by both parties, a furniture store agreed to
deliver  to  a  pharmacist  on  August  15  five  storage  cabinets  from  inventory
for  a  total  price  of  $5,000  to  be  paid  on  delivery.  On  August  1,  the  two
parties orally agreed to postpone the delivery date to August 20. On August
20, the furniture store tendered the cabinets to the pharmacist, who refused
to  accept  or  pay  for  them  on  the  ground  that  they  were  not  tendered  on
August 15, even though they otherwise met the contract specifications.

Assuming  that  all  appropriate  defenses  are  seasonably  raised,  will  the
furniture  store  succeed  in  an  action  against  the  pharmacist  for  breach  of
contract?

 (A) Yes, because neither the July 15 agreement nor the August 1 agreement

was required to be in writing.

(B) Yes, because the August 1 agreement operated as a waiver of the August

15 delivery term.

(C) No, because there was no consideration to support the August 1

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
agreement.

(D) No, because the parol evidence rule will prevent proof of the August 1

agreement.

 Question 46

A farmer contracted in writing to deliver to a baker 100 bushels of wheat on
August 1 at $3.50 a bushel. Because his suppliers had not delivered enough

484

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

wheat  to  him  by  that  time,  the  farmer  on  August  1  only  had  95  bushels  of
wheat with which to fulfill his contract with the baker.

If the farmer tenders 95 bushels of wheat to the baker on August 1, and
the  baker  refuses  to  accept  or  pay  for  any  of  the  wheat,  which  of  the
following  best  states  the  legal  relationship  between  the  farmer  and  the
baker?

 (A) The farmer has a cause of action against the baker, because the farmer

has substantially performed his contract.

(B) The farmer is excused from performing his contract because of

impossibility of performance.

(C) The baker has a cause of action against the farmer for the farmer's

failure to deliver 100 bushels of wheat.

(D) The baker is obligated to give the farmer a reasonable time to attempt to

obtain the other five bushels of wheat.

 Question 47

On  June  1,  a  seller  received  a  mail  order  from  a  buyer  requesting  prompt
shipment of a specified computer model at the seller's current catalog price.
On  June  2,  the  seller  mailed  to  the  buyer  a  letter  accepting  the  order  and
assuring the buyer that the computer would be shipped on June 3. On June 3,
the seller realized that he was out of that computer model and shipped to the
buyer a different computer model and a notice of accommodation. On June
5,  the  buyer  received  the  seller's  June  2  letter  and  the  different  computer
model, but not the notice of accommodation.

At  that  juncture,  which  of  the  following  is  a  correct  statement  of  the

parties' legal rights and duties?

 (A) The buyer can either accept or reject the different computer model and

in either event recover damages, if any, for breach of contract.

(B) The buyer can either accept or reject the different computer model, but

if he rejects it, he will thereby waive any remedy for breach of contract.

(C) The seller's prompt shipment of nonconforming goods constituted an
acceptance of the buyer's offer, thereby creating a contract for sale of
the replacement computer model.

(D) The seller's notice of accommodation was timely mailed and his

shipment of the different computer model constituted a counteroffer.

 Question 48

485

By  the  terms  of  a  written  contract  signed  by  both  parties  on  January  15,  a
computer retailer agreed to sell from its inventory a particular ICB personal
computer to a law firm for $3,000, and the law firm agreed to pick up and
pay  for  the  computer  at  the  company's  store  on  February  1.  The  law  firm
unjustifiably  repudiated  on  February  1.  Without  notifying  the  law  firm,  the
retailer subsequently sold at private sale that same ICB computer to a bank,
who  paid  the  same  price  ($3,000)  in  cash.  The  ICB  computer  model  in
question  is  a  popular  product.  The  retailer  can  buy  from  the  manufacturer
more ICB units than the retailer can sell.

If the retailer sues the law firm for breach of contract, the retailer will

probably recover

 (A) nothing, because it received a price on resale equal to the contract price

that the law firm had agreed to pay.

(B) nothing, because the retailer failed to give the law firm proper notice of

the retailer's intention to resell.

(C) the retailer's anticipated profit on the sale to the law firm plus incidental

damages, if any, because the retailer lost that sale.

(D) $3,000 (the contract price), because the law firm intentionally breached

the contract by repudiation.

 Question 49

A plumbing company, in a signed writing, contracted with a landlord for the
sale to the landlord of 50 identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25
sets to be delivered on March 1, and the remaining 25 sets on April 1. The
agreement  did  not  specify  the  place  of  delivery,  or  the  time  or  place  of
payment.

Which of the following statements is correct?

 (A) The plumbing company must tender 25 sets to the landlord at the

landlord's place of business on March 1, but does not have to turn them
over to the landlord until the landlord pays the contract price for the 25
sets.

(B) The plumbing company has no duty to deliver the 25 sets on March 1 at
the plumbing company's place of business unless the landlord tenders
the contract price for the 25 sets on that date.

(C) The plumbing company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, and the

landlord must pay the contract price for the 25 sets within a reasonable
time after their delivery.

486

(D) The plumbing company must deliver 25 sets on March 1, but the
landlord's payment is due only upon the delivery of all 50 sets.

 Question 50

A dry goods retailer telephoned a towel manufacturer and offered to buy for
$5 each a minimum of 500 and a maximum of 1,000 large bath towels, to be
delivered  in  30  days.  The  manufacturer  orally  accepted  this  offer  and
promptly  sent  a  letter  to  the  retailer,  which  the  retailer  received  two  days
later. The letter read: ‘‘This confirms our agreement today by telephone to
sell you 500 large bath towels for 30-day delivery.'' The letter was signed
by  the  manufacturer.  Twenty-eight  days  later,  the  manufacturer  tendered  to
the retailer 1,000 (not 500) conforming bath towels, all of which the retailer
rejected  because  it  had  found  a  better  price  term  from  another  supplier.
Because  of  a  glut  in  the  towel  market,  the  manufacturer  cannot  resell  the
towels except at a loss.

In a suit by the manufacturer against the retailer, which of the following

will be the probable decision?

 (A) The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 1,000 towels, because the

retailer ordered and the manufacturer tendered that quantity.

(B) The manufacturer can enforce a contract for 500 towels, because the

manufacturer's letter of confirmation stated that quantity term.

(C) There is no enforceable agreement, because the retailer never signed a

writing.

(D) There is no enforceable agreement, because the manufacturer's letter of

confirmation did not state a price term.

 Question 51

A buyer mailed a signed order to a seller that read: ‘‘Please ship us 10,000
widgets at your current price.'' The seller received the order on January 7
and that same day mailed to the buyer a properly stamped, addressed, and
signed letter stating that the order was accepted at the seller's current price
of  $10  per  widget.  On  January  8,  before  receipt  of  the  seller's  letter,  the
buyer telephoned the seller and said, ‘‘I hereby revoke my order.'' The seller
protested  to  no  avail.  The  buyer  received  the  seller's  letter  on  January  9.
Because  of  the  buyer's  January  8  telephone  message,  the  seller  never
shipped the goods.

Under the relevant and prevailing rules, is there a contract between the

487

buyer and the seller as of January 10?

 (A) No, because the order was an offer that could be accepted only by
shipping the goods; and the offer was effectively revoked before
shipment.

(B) No, because the buyer never effectively agreed to the $10 price term.
(C) Yes, because the order was, for a reasonable time, an irrevocable offer.
(D) Yes, because the order was an offer that the seller effectively accepted

before the buyer attempted to revoke it.

 Question 52

A buyer ordered a new machine from a manufacturer. The machine arrived
on time and conformed in all respects to the contract. The buyer, however,
rejected  the  machine  because  he  no  longer  needed  it  in  his  business  and
returned the machine to the manufacturer. The manufacturer sold many such
machines each year and its factory was not operating at full capacity.

In an action by the manufacturer against the buyer for breach of contract,
which  of  the  following  is  NOT  a  proper  measure  of  the  manufacturer's
damages?

 (A) The contract price of the machine.
(B) The difference between the contract price and the market price of the

machine.

(C) The difference between the contract price and the price obtained from a

proper resale of the machine.

(D) The profit the manufacturer would have made on the sale of the machine

to the buyer.

 Question 53

A new business enterprise about to commence the manufacture of clothing,
entered into a written agreement to purchase all of its monthly requirements
of a certain elasticized fabric for a period of three years from a textile mill
at a specified unit price and agreed-upon delivery and payment terms. The
agreement also included a covenant that the parties not assign this contract.

The textile mill promptly made an ‘‘assignment of the contract'' to a bank
as  security  for  a  $100,000  loan.  The  clothing  company  subsequently
ordered, took delivery of, and paid the mill the agreed price ($5,000) for its
requirement of the fabric for the first month of its operation.

488

Which of the following accurately states the legal effect of the covenant

not to assign the contract?

 (A) The covenant made the assignment to the bank ineffective.
(B) The covenant had no legal effect.
(C) The textile mill's assignment was a breach of its contract with the

clothing company but was nevertheless effective to transfer to the bank
the mill's rights against the clothing company.

(D) By normal interpretation, a covenant against assignment in a sale-of-

goods agreement applies only to the buyer, not the seller.

489

ANSWERS

CONTRACTS

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

490

 
ANSWERS

CONTRACTS

 Answer 1

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  expresses  the  reason  for  which  the  buyer  is  entitled  to
rescind the contract.

If  one  party's  assent  to  a  contract  is  induced  by  a  material
misrepresentation  by  the  other,  on  which  the  recipient  is  justified  in
relying, the contract is voidable by the recipient. Rest. 2d of Contracts
§  164(1).  Normally,  a  party's  silent  failure  to  mention  a  fact  will  not
constitute  a  misrepresentation  as  to  that  fact.  But  intentional  acts  of
concealment  are  deemed  to  be  equivalent  to  misrepresentations.  See
Rest.  2d  §  160:  “Action  intended  or  known  to  be  likely  to  prevent
another from learning a fact is equivalent to an assertion that the fact
does  not  exist.”  So  when  the  homeowner  painted  the  ceiling  for  the
purpose of concealing the water damage, this was affirmative conduct
intended  to  prevent  the  buyer  from  learning  about  the  damage,  and
therefore was the equivalent of an affirmative statement that there was
no  water  damage.  Consequently,  the  buyer  is  entitled  to  avoid  the
contract  for  misrepresentation,  either  in  his  own  action  to  rescind  the
contract, or (as here) as a defense to the homeowner's damage action.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is not factually or legally correct.

Factually,  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  buyer  did  not  “understand
the  essential  terms”  of  the  contract.  Furthermore,  even  if  the  buyer
didn't understand the essential terms, this fact would not necessarily be
grounds for the buyer to avoid the contract — for instance, if the buyer
failed  to  understand  the  essential  terms  because  he  was  given  the
contract and failed to read it closely, this would not entitle him to avoid
the contract. The real problem here is misrepresentation.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  lack  of  an  affirmative  misstatement  in  words  is  not

491

dispositive.

an 

requires 

that  B  have  made 

It's true that, normally, A's right to avoid a contract on account of B's
misrepresentation 
explicit
misrepresentation, and B's  mere  failure  to  disclose  a  known  fact  will
not constitute a misrepresentation. But where B takes a physical act for
the  purpose  of  concealing  a  fact,  the  act  is  considered  to  be  the
equivalent of an affirmative representation that the fact does not exist.
(See  the  fuller  discussion  of  this  principle  in  Choice  B.)  So  the
homeowner,  by  painting  over  the  water  damage  for  the  purpose  of
concealing it, will be treated as having in effect made a representation
that there was no such damage, triggering the buyer's right to avoid for
misrepresentation.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the buyer's failure to inspect does not make a legal difference
to the outcome.

When one party makes a misrepresentation that induces the other to
enter a contract, the latter does not lose the right to avoid the contract
for misrepresentation merely because he failed to take advantage of an
opportunity to investigate. See Rest. 2d § 172, Comment b (in case of a
misrepresentation,  “The  recipient  is  generally  entitled  to  rely  on  the
maker's assertions . . . without undertaking an investigation as to their
truthfulness.”). So even though the buyer had the opportunity to employ
an inspector, his failure to do so did not affect his right to rescind for
misrepresentation.  (As  discussed  in  Choice  B,  the  homeowner's
concealment of the damage was equivalent to a misrepresentation that
no such damage existed.)

 Answer 2

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly applies the defense of impracticability.

The  facts  here  present  a  classic  scenario  for  the  defense  of
impracticability. As the Restatement puts it, “Where, after a contract is
made, a party's performance is made impracticable without his fault by
the  occurrence  of  an  event  the  non-occurrence  of  which  was  a  basic
assumption  on  which  the  contract  was  made,  his  duty  to  render  that
performance  is  discharged,  unless  the  language  or  the  circumstances
indicate the contrary.” Rest. 2d of Contracts § 261. Here, at the time the

492

contract was made, it was a basic assumption on the part of both parties
that the engineer would continue to be physically capable of performing
the job according to the contract specifications. His injury, by making
him  physically  incapable  of  doing  the  job,  was  therefore  an  event  the
non-occurrence of which was a basic assumption on which the parties
contracted. Since there are no “language or circumstances indicat[ing]
the  contrary”  (i.e.,  indicating  that  the  parties  didn't  intend  for
impracticability to operate in circumstances like these), the engineer is
discharged from his duty to perform, and will not be liable for breach.

Notice, by the way, that this answer choice correctly indicates that
the  defense  of  impracticability  applies,  even  though  the  choice  never
mentions the word “impracticability.” It's up to you to notice that this
choice  includes  the  key  phrase  “basic  assumption  of  the  contract,”
which is always an essential element of the impracticability defense.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  engineer's  offer  did  not  solve  the  problem  posed  by  his
inability to perform.

The parties contracted for the engineer to provide on-site services.
A post-contract offer by one party to perform less than is required by
the original contract does not excuse that party's failure to perform as
originally  specified.  And  that's  true  even  if  the  proposed  substituted
performance  is  perfectly  reasonable  —  the  other  party  is  entitled  to
insist on the contracted-for performance, unless some special doctrine
provides  otherwise.  (Here,  what  gets  the  engineer  off  the  hook  is  not
the  doctrine  of
his  offer  of  a  substituted  performance,  but 
impracticability.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because the engineer was not in breach.

This  choice  is  not  correct  for  the  same  reason  that  choice  B  is
correct  —  the  defense  of  impracticability  prevents  the  engineer  from
being  in  breach  even  though  the  engineer's  inability  to  perform  the
contracted-for  services  has  disappointed  the  reasonable  expectations
that the owner had when entering the contract.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  falsely  suggests  that  the  engineer  breached  by  trying  to
delegate.

493

In this choice, by referring to the engineer's duty as “personal,” the
examiners  are  trying  to  make  you  think  of  the  rule  that  says  that  a
contract to perform personal services is normally not delegable by the
person  who  is  to  perform  the  services.  And  it's  true  that  the  engineer
would not have been permitted to delegate performance of the duties to
some  other  engineer,  no  matter  how  well  qualified,  unless  the  owner
consented. But the engineer here was not trying to delegate, so the non-
delegability  of  his  services  is  irrelevant.  Furthermore,  this  choice  is
inaccurate  in  stating  that  the  engineer's  duty  was  “absolute”  —  the
doctrine  of  impracticability,  since  it  applies,  prevents  the  duty  from
being absolute.

 Answer 3

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  foreseeability  of  the  loss  is  what  makes  the  loss
recoverable.

This  question  involves  application  of  an  aspect  of  the  Hadley  v.
Baxendale  doctrine.  As  the  Restatement  puts  the  general  Hadley
principle,  “Damages  are  not  recoverable  for  loss  that  the  party  in
breach  did  not  have  reason  to  foresee  as  a  probable  result  of  the
breach  when  the  contract  was  made.”  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  351(1).
That section goes on to specify the two situations in which loss will be
deemed  foreseeable.  One  of  these  two  situations  is  where  the  loss
follows from the breach “as a result of special circumstances, beyond
the  ordinary  course  of  events,  that  the  party  in  breach  had  reason  to
know.”  Section  351(2)(b).  This  “had  reason  to  know  of  special
circumstances”  provision  applies  here.  That's  because  (1)  we're  told
that  the  rancher  was  “experienced”  (and  the  matters  in  which  he's
experienced  include  the  local  conditions,  since  what  he's  agreed  to
harvest is his neighbor's crop, not some far-away crop); and (2) we're
told that autumn hailstorms are “common” in that area of the country. So
the  fact  that  the  neighbor  didn't  expressly  warn  the  rancher  of  the
hailstorm danger doesn't matter — the rancher still had “reason to know
of the special circumstances.”

 (A) is not the best response,

because the contract did establish a time for performance.

It's  true  that  the  contract  did  not  specify  a  particular  date  for  the

494

harvest. But the clause saying that the work was to be done “when the
crop  [was]  ripe”  gave  sufficient  guidance  about  the  time  for
performance.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it cites a fact that is not dispositive.

It's  true  that  under  the  doctrine  of  Hadley  v.  Baxendale,  the  non-
breaching party may not recover losses that the breaching party did not
have reason to foresee, as of the time the contract was made, would be
a probable result of breach. Rest. 2d of Contracts § 351(1). But there
are  multiple  ways  in  which  the  breaching  party  may  have  reason  to
foresee a particular type of loss, and a warning from the non-breaching
party is only one of these. Thus, Rest. § 351(2)(b) imposes liability for
losses  stemming  from  breach  “as  a  result  of  special  circumstances,
beyond  the  ordinary  course  of  events,  that  the  party  in  breach  had
reason to know.” And the breaching party may have “reason to know”
of  the  special  circumstances  even  without  a  warning  from  the  non-
breaching  party.  As  is  discussed  in  more  detail  in  Choice  C,  here  the
rancher,  because  of  his  experience,  had  reason  to  know  about  the
hailstorm danger, even though the neighbor didn't warn him of it.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it overstates the scope of a breaching party's liability.

It's  true  that  normally,  the  breaching  party  will  be  liable  for  the
consequences  flowing  from  his  breach.  But  under  the  doctrine  of
Hadley v. Baxendale,  the  non-breaching  party  may  not  recover  losses
that the breaching party did not have reason to foresee, as of the time
the contract was made, would be a probable result of breach. Rest. 2d
of  Contracts  §  351(1).  This  choice,  by  indicating  that  a  contracting
party is liable for “all the consequences” of his breach, overstates such
a  party's  liability.  So  even  though  this  choice  reaches  the  correct
outcome (rancher is liable), it does so by overly broad reasoning.

 Answer 4

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  indicates  that  the  original  informal  agreement  is
enforceable.

If  the  parties  reach  (perhaps  orally)  what  would  otherwise  be  a

495

binding agreement, the fact that they further agree that the contract will
be embodied in a not-yet-drafted writing does not prevent the original
agreement  from  being  binding.  And  that's  true  even  if  the  anticipated
writing  is  never  prepared.  See  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  27:
“Manifestations of assent that are in themselves sufficient to conclude a
contract  will  not  be  prevented  from  so  operating  by  the  fact  that  the
parties  also  manifest  an  intention  to  prepare  and  adopt  a  written
memorial thereof; but the circumstances may show that the agreements
are  preliminary  negotiations.”  Here  the  very  detailed  back-and-forth
discussions between the parties indicate that the parties intended to be
bound  as  of  the  time  of  the  phone  call;  there  is  nothing  in  the
circumstances to show that the “manifestations of assent” were merely
“preliminary negotiations.”

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  presence  of  a  discounted  price  does  not  affect  the
enforceability of the agreement.

If  the  aunt  had  promised  to  make  a  true  gift  of  the  business  to  the
niece,  the  absence  of  consideration  would  prevent  the  promise  from
being enforceable. But as long as there is some sort of a bargain, the
fact that one party was in part motivated by affection for the other party
does not prevent consideration from existing. See Rest. 2d of Contracts
§  79,  Comment  c:  “Ordinarily  .  .  .  courts  do  not  inquire  into  the
adequacy  of  consideration.  .  .  .  [This  principle]  is  also  applied  even
when it is clear that the transaction is a mixture of bargain and gift.” If
the discount from market value had been so great that it indicated that
there  was  merely  a  pretense  of  a  bargain  (e.g.,  sale  of  a  $200,000
business  for  $2),  the  promise  would  be  unenforceable  for  lack  of
consideration.  But  the  37  percent  percent  discount  here  is  not  nearly
great enough to indicate the total absence of a bargained-for exchange,
so the consideration requirement was satisfied.

 (B) is not the best choice,

because the court will not inquire into the relative equivalence between
the business's market value and the price agreed upon.

Ordinarily,  courts  do  not  inquire  into  whether  the  values  being
exchanged are even approximately equal — that's what is meant by the
(correct)  saying  that  “courts  don't  inquire  into  the  adequacy  of  the
consideration.” See Rest. 2d of Contracts § 79: “If the requirement of

496

consideration  is  met,  there  is  no  additional  requirement  of  .  .  .  (b)
equivalence in the values exchanged[.]” The aunt clearly bargained for
the exchange of her business for a $125,000 payment, and that bargain
was  enough  to  satisfy  the  consideration  requirement,  even  though  the
market  value  of  what  the  aunt  gave  up  was  greater  than  the  value  of
what she received. If the discount from market value had been so great
that  it  indicated  that  there  was  merely  a  pretense  of  a  bargain  (e.g.,  a
99.9%  discount),  that  fact  might  demonstrate  a  lack  of  consideration,
which would make the agreement unenforceable. But the discount here
is not nearly great enough to indicate the total absence of a bargained-
for exchange.

 (C) is not the best choice,

because it cites a legally-irrelevant fact.

It's  true  that  the  effectiveness  of  the  deal  proposed  by  the  aunt's
original offer was conditional on the landlord's approval. But the fact
that this condition (which was not within the control of either party) had
not  yet  been  satisfied  when  the  niece  wrote  her  letter  did  not  prevent
that  letter  from  acting  as  an  acceptance.  Binding  contracts  are  often
entered into but made subject to the fulfillment of a later condition that
is not within the control of either party. Once the landlord approved, the
condition  was  satisfied,  and  the  aunt  lost  her  right  to  undo  the
arrangement.

 Answer 5

 (B) is the best response,

because express terms control over terms of usage.

First, notice that this is not a contract governed by the UCC, which
contains very specific rules about priority among express terms, trade
usage,  etc.  But  in  non-UCC  cases,  courts  tend  to  follow  the  same
priority rules as used in the UCC. Those rules attach the most weight to
express terms. See Rest. 2d of Contracts § 203(b): “In the interpretation
of a promise or agreement or a term thereof, the following standards of
preference  are  generally  applicable:  .  .  .  (b)  express  terms  are  given
greater weight than course of performance, course of dealing, and usage
of trade[.]” Since the first contract contained the 15 percent figure as an
express  term,  and  since  the  parties  photocopied  that  contract  to  make
the  template  for  the  present  contract,  the  15  percent  figure  became  an

497

express term of the present contract. Therefore, that 15 percent express
term prevails over any alternative meaning, including course of dealing
(which probably doesn't apply anyway; see the discussion of Choice A
below) or trade usage.

 (A) is not the best choice,

because no course of dealing has been established here, and even if it
had been, it would have yielded to the express term.

A “course of dealing” is “a sequence of previous conduct between
the  parties  to  an  agreement  which  is  fairly  to  be  regarded  as
establishing  a  common  basis  of  understanding  for  interpreting  their
expressions and other conduct.” Rest. 2d of Contracts § 223(1). As the
reference  to  “sequence”  indicates,  a  single  prior  instance  of  conduct
would not suffice to create a course of dealing. And there's nothing to
indicate  that  the  parties  were  “establishing  a  common  basis  of
understanding”  that  future  payments  would  also  be  20  percent.
Furthermore, since the parties photocopied the prior agreement, and the
prior agreement contained the 15 percent clause, the 15 percent became
an express term, which would have given that term priority even if the
20 percent was a course of dealing (which it wasn't).

 (C) is not the best choice,

because trade usage would not be controlling usage on these facts.

As among express terms, course of performance, course of dealing,
and trade usage, trade usage has the lowest (not highest) priority. Rest.
2d of Contracts § 203(b). So if the case involves either an express term,
a course of performance or a course of dealing, the presence of a trade
usage on the same issue will be irrelevant. That's the case here, since
the  parties'  use  of  the  first  agreement  as  a  template  meant  that  the
express  15  percent  term  from  that  first  agreement  became  an  express
term in the new contract.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because the contract has enough detail to avoid being too indefinite.

It's true that even though the parties have intended to contract, their
agreement will be unenforceable if its terms are unduly indefinite. Or,
as the Restatement puts it, to be enforceable the contract's terms must be
“reasonably  certain.”  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  33(1).  The  terms  are
“reasonably  certain”  if  they  “provide  a  basis  for  determining  the

498

existence  of  a  breach  and  for  giving  an  appropriate  remedy.”  Id.  at  §
33(2).  This  is  a  fairly  easy-to-satisfy  requirement,  and  it  is  certainly
met here. The writing specifies the duration, describes the services to
be  rendered,  and  sets  forth  the  method  of  computing  the  agent's  fee
(15%  of  the  actor's  earnings);  those  details  are  sufficient  to  allow  a
court  to  determine  whether  the  agent  has  performed  the  specified
services, and to calculate damages if the actor breaches by not paying.

 Answer 6

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  the  limits  on  a  borrower's  right  to  recover
damages for breach of a loan commitment.

The non-breaching party's right to recover damages is limited by the
doctrine of Hadley v. Baxendale. As the Hadley doctrine is articulated
by  the  Restatement,  “Damages  are  not  recoverable  for  loss  that  the
party in breach did not have reason to foresee as a probable result of
the breach when the contract was made.” Rest. 2d of Contracts § 351.
In the case of a contract to lend money, the lender is usually entitled to
presume that an alternative source of loan money is readily available,
unless  the  borrower  has  brought  home  to  the  lender  at  the  time  of  the
loan  contract  the  borrower's  likely  inability  to  borrow  elsewhere.
Nothing in these facts indicates that the merchant gave the bank reason
to  believe  that  the  merchant  wouldn't  be  able  to  promptly  borrow
elsewhere.  Furthermore,  the  merchant  didn't  mention  to  the  bank  the
entire proposed carpet-resale transaction that the merchant intended, so
the bank had no idea of the probability that these profits would be lost
if the bank breached. So for two different reasons, the damages from the
lost resale profits are ones that the bank “did not have reason to foresee
as  a  probable  result  of  the  breach.”  On  the  other  hand,  it  was
reasonably foreseeable to the bank that if it breached, the best available
alternative  lender  might  charge  a  higher  rate  of  interest,  so  the  extra
interest cost to the merchant is recoverable.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  although  the  statement  it  makes  is  often  correct,  this  choice
does not deal with the “extra interest cost” problem.

It is true that often, the value of a “lost opportunity” to make a profit
will  be  found  to  be  too  speculative  to  be  recovered,  or  will

499

alternatively  be  found  to  be  the  sort  of  special  damage  that  is  not
recoverable  because  the  breaching  party  was  not  aware  of  the
likelihood  that  it  would  occur  in  the  event  of  breach.  In  the  case  of  a
contract to lend money, the lender is ordinarily entitled to presume that
the borrower will find an alternative source of funding, so that no loss
of  opportunity  will  occur  in  the  event  the  lender  breaches.  That's  the
case here. On the other hand, the lender should reasonably expect that
an  alternative  loan  would  cost  a  higher  rate  of  interest,  so  the  lender
will be responsible for these increased interest costs. Since this choice
does  not  contemplate  recovery  of  the  increased  interest  costs,  it's  not
the best choice.

 (B) is not the best response,

because courts reject the tacit agreement test.

There was a time when some courts held that a party should not be
held  liable  for  consequential  damages  unless,  at  the  time  he  made  the
contract, he was found to have made a “tacit agreement” to assume the
risk  of  that  liability.  Farnsworth,  §  12.14.  But  modern  courts  (and  the
UCC, by the way) have generally rejected the tacit-agreement test. Id.
Therefore, if there is no evidence either way about whether the parties
intended  the  non-breaching  party  to  be  able  to  recover  consequential
damages,  that  party  is  entitled  to  do  so  (subject,  of  course,  to  the
foreseeability limitations of Hadley v. Baxendale).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the $5,000 loss was not a “foreseeable loss.”

Under the principle of Hadley v. Baxendale, the breaching party is
responsible only for those types of damages that, as of the making of the
contract,  he  had  reason  to  foresee  as  a  likely  result  of  breach.  In  the
case  of  a  contract  to  lend  money,  the  lender  is  usually  entitled  to
presume  that  an  alternative  source  of  loan  money  will  be  readily
available,  unless  the  borrower  has  brought  home  to  the  lender  at  the
time  of  the  loan  contract  the  borrower's  likely  inability  to  borrow
elsewhere.  Nothing  in  these  facts  indicates  that  the  merchant  gave  the
bank reason to believe that the merchant wouldn't be able to promptly
borrow  elsewhere.  Furthermore,  the  merchant  didn't  mention  to  the
bank the entire proposed carpet-resale transaction, so the bank had no
reason  to  foresee  that  the  resale  profits  would  be  lost  if  the  bank
breached.  Therefore,  the  $5,000  in  lost  profits  was,  for  two  different

500

reasons,  not  foreseeable  to  the  bank,  preventing  the  bank  from  being
liable for the merchant's loss of those profits.

 Answer 7

 (C) is the best response,

because there is no affirmative evidence that the hospital intended the
contract to benefit hospital patients.

Since  the  patient  was  not  a  party  to  the  contract  between  the
janitorial service and the hospital, she would have to recover, if at all,
on a third-party-beneficiary theory. A non-party who is found to be an
“intended beneficiary” of the contract may recover, but a non-party who
is  found  to  be  merely  an  “incidental  beneficiary”  may  not  recover.
According  to  the  Restatement  and  the  prevailing  modern  view,  the
decision  whether  the  beneficiary  was  intended  or  incidental  is  to  be
made  principally  by  looking  at  the  intent  of  the  promisee  (here,  the
hospital).  See,  e.g.,  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  302(b):  putting  aside  the
creditor-beneficiary  scenario  (not  present  here),  the  beneficiary  is  an
intended  one  only  if  “the  circumstances  indicate  that  the  promisee
intends 
the  promised
performance.” So, unless there is affirmative evidence that the hospital
intended  to  give  its  patients  the  benefit  of  the  promise  (an  intent  that
would presumably have to include an intent to give the patient the right
to  sue  the  janitorial  service  if  it  didn't  perform),  each  patient  would
merely be an incidental beneficiary.

the  beneficiary 

the  benefit  of 

to  give 

Here,  the  only  circumstances  we're  told  about  suggest  that  the
hospital was mainly or exclusively concerned with fulfilling its duty of
hygiene under the city's health code, not with giving patients a right of
action if the janitorial service did not perform. While the question is a
close  one  —  there  is  a  plausible  argument  that  the  hospital  had  a
secondary desire to make sure that its patients benefited from hygienic
rooms  —  the  slightly-better  prediction-of-outcome  is  the  one  made  in
this  choice.  (In  any  event,  we  can  say  that  this  is  the  choice  that  the
National Conference of Bar Examiners, the drafters of this question, say
is the right answer.)

 (A) is not the correct response,

because it is not a legally-correct statement.

As  between  the  original  parties  to  the  contract,  the  fact  that  the

501

janitorial service violated the health code would demonstrate a breach
by  the  service,  since  it  expressly  contracted  to  do  the  cleaning  in  the
manner specified by the health code. But in a suit by a stranger to the
contract, it would not be enough for the plaintiff to show a breach —
the plaintiff would have to show that, even though she was a non-party,
she is entitled to sue as an intended beneficiary under the law of third-
party  beneficiaries.  Since  this  choice  does  not  refer  to  the  rules
governing third-party beneficiaries, it cannot be the best choice.

 (B) is not the correct response,

because it draws a factual assertion that is not justified by the statement
of facts.

If  the  circumstances  justified  the  conclusion  that  the  hospital,  in
making the contract, intended to supply a benefit to all hospital patients,
this  would  be  the  correct  answer  —  each  patient  would  be  an
“intended”  beneficiary  (rather  than  an  “incidental”  one),  and  intended
beneficiaries  may  sue  for  breach.  But  for  the  reasons  discussed  more
fully in Choice C, a court would be (slightly) more likely to conclude
that  there  is  insufficient  evidence  that  the  hospital  had  a  conscious
intent  to  benefit  patients,  as  opposed  to  an  intent  to  satisfy  the
requirements of the health code.

 (D) is not correct,

because  it  overlooks  the  possibility  that  an  unnamed  person  can
nonetheless be an intended beneficiary.

It simply is not correct to state, as this choice does, that a party who
is “not named in the contract” is automatically stripped of the right to
sue. A person may be an “intended beneficiary” even though she is not
specifically named in the contract, if the circumstances are such that it
can be inferred that the promisee intended to benefit either that person
or members of a class to which that person belonged. See Rest. 2d of
Contracts  §  308:  “It  is  not  essential  to  the  creation  of  a  right  in  an
intended beneficiary that he be identified when a contract containing the
promise is made.” So, for instance, if there were affirmative evidence
that the hospital intended to benefit all of its patients, the fact that this
particular patient was not named would not be fatal to her third-party-
beneficiary  claim.  The  problem,  rather,  is  that  there  is  (probably)  not
sufficient  evidence  that  the  hospital  intended  to  benefit  patients  as  a
class when it made the contract.

502

 Answer 8

 (D) is the best response,

because  a  person  who  is  induced  to  enter  a  contract  by  means  of  a
fraudulent misrepresentation has the power to avoid the contract.

is 

induced  by  either  a 

Where one party induces the other to enter into a contract by making
a  fraudulent  or  material  misrepresentation,  the  latter  may  avoid  the
contract.  Thus  the  Restatement  says  that  “If  a  party's  manifestation  of
fraudulent  or  a  material
assent 
misrepresentation  by  the  other  party  upon  which  the  recipient  is
justified in relying, the contract is voidable by the recipient.” Rest. 2d
of Contracts § 164(1). Here, all the required elements are present: (1)
We  know  that  the  buyer  was  “induced”  by  the  misrepresentations,
because we are told that these representations “were important” to the
buyer. (It's not necessary that the misrepresentations have been the “but
for”  cause  of  the  plaintiff's  decision  to  enter  the  contract;  all  that's
required is that the misrepresentation “substantially contributed” to the
plaintiff's  decision.  Rest.  2d  §  167.)  (2)  We  know 
the
representations  here  were  fraudulent,  because  we're  told  that  the
developer knew that they were false. (Therefore, under the Restatement
test  the  misrepresentations  do  not  even  have  to  be  “material,”  though
the ones here pretty clearly are material.) (3) The buyer was “justified”
in relying on the statements, because the case does not involve any of
the special situations that pose problems of the justifiability of reliance
(e.g.,  certain  assertions  of  opinion,  assertions  as  to  matters  of  law,
etc.),  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  facts  to  indicate  that  the  buyer  was
foolish to rely on the assertions. So the buyer was entitled to avoid the
contract for fraud.

that 

The fact that the buyer did not suffer pecuniary harm is irrelevant,

as is discussed in Choice B.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer  acted  promptly  upon  learning  of  the  statements'
falsity.

It's  true  that  where  a  person  is  fraudulently  induced  to  enter  a
contract, that person's power of avoidance can be lost by undue delay.
However,  the  “avoidance  clock”  does  not  start  to  run  until  the  time
when the victim learns of the fraud. See Rest. 2d of Contracts § 381(2):
“The  power  of  a  party  to  avoid  a  contract  for  misrepresentation  or

503

mistake is lost if after he knows of a fraudulent misrepresentation . . .
he  does  not  within  a  reasonable  time  manifest  to  the  other  party  his
intention  to  avoid  it.”  Since  the  buyer  here  sued  for  avoidance
“immediately”  upon  learning  of  the  fraud,  the  fact  that  eight  months
elapsed between the fraud and the suit doesn't matter.

 (B) is not the best response,

because economic harm is not a requirement for an action to avoid on
account of fraud.

The requirements for avoidance of a contract for fraud are as stated
in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (D).  These  requirements  do  not  include  a
requirement  that  the  victim  have  suffered  economic  harm.  In  fact,  the
person seeking avoidance does not need to show any sort of harm at all,
economic or otherwise. See Rest. 2d § 164, Comment c.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the contract was not void, merely voidable.

“Void  ab  initio”  means  “void  from  the  outset.”  Where  a  party  is
induced to make a contract on account of a misrepresentation that meets
the requirements stated above, the contract is merely “voidable” at the
victim's option, not “void from the outset.” So, for instance, if the buyer
here  had  decided  that  he  wanted  to  go  through  with  the  contract,  the
developer  would  not  have  been  permitted  to  escape  the  contract  by
claiming that it was void ab initio.

 Answer 9

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  buyer  lost  the  right  to  rely  on  non-occurrence  of  the
condition  due  to  his  failure  to  make  reasonable  efforts  to  obtain  the
financing.

To begin with, “Every contract imposes upon each party a duty of
good  faith  and  fair  dealing  in  its  performance  and  its  enforcement.”
Rest. 2d of Contracts § 205. Where a duty of one party is subject to the
occurrence of a condition and that party's cooperation is necessary for
the  condition  to  occur,  a  court  will  typically  conclude  that  such
cooperation is part of that party's duty of good faith. See Rest. 2d § 245,
Comment a. That's the case here: The buyer's duty was conditional upon
receipt  of  financing,  and  that  financing  could  not  occur  without  the

504

cooperation  of  the  buyer  (by  his  making  an  application).  So  the  court
will  find  an  implied  term  requiring  the  buyer  to  make  a  good-faith
application for the financing. Since the buyer did not fulfill this duty to
make  good-faith  efforts,  he  has  breached.  Furthermore,  “Where  a
party's  breach  by  non-performance  contributes  materially  to  the  non-
occurrence  of  a  condition  of  one  of  his  duties,  the  non-occurrence  is
excused.” Rest. 2d § 245. See also Illustr. 3 to § 245, which is exactly
on  point  (buyer's  failure  to  make  mortgage  application  causes  him  to
lose the benefit of the mortgage-financing contingency in the contract).
So when the buyer failed to make reasonable efforts to get financing, he
lost the right to assert the lack of bank financing as the non-occurrence
of a condition to his duty to close.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it ignores the significance of the buyer's failure to make good
faith efforts to get the financing.

A  performance  that  is  subject  to  an  express  condition  cannot
become  due  unless  the  condition  is  either  satisfied  or  excused.  Here,
because the buyer will be held to have owed a duty to make good-faith
efforts  to  obtain  the  financing,  his  lack  of  such  efforts  will  cause  the
condition to be excused. The problem with this choice is that it ignores
the fact that the lack of financing would be excused due to the buyer's
conduct.

 (B) is not correct,

because  even  though  no  obligation  to  apply  for  the  financing  was
expressly stated in the contract, the buyer had an implied obligation to
apply for it.

As  is  more  extensively  discussed  in  Choice  D,  every  contract
contains  an  implicit  obligation  of  good  faith.  Where  a  party's  duty  is
conditional  upon  the  occurrence  of  an  event,  that  party's  duty  of  good
faith  will  typically  be  held  to  include  an  implied  obligation  to  make
reasonable efforts to see that the condition is satisfied. That's the case
here. So even though the contract did not expressly impose on the buyer
an  obligation  to  seek  bank  financing,  the  contract  will  be  found  to
contain an implied obligation on the buyer's part to do so.

 (C) is not correct,

because it reaches the right result based on incorrect legal reasoning.

505

It's true that courts can and often do excuse the non-occurrence of a
condition  in  order  to  avoid  forfeitures.  See,  e.g.,  Rest.  2d  §  229:  “To
the  extent  that  the  non-occurrence  of  a  condition  would  cause
disproportionate  forfeiture,  a  court  may  excuse  the  non-occurrence  of
that  condition  unless  its  occurrence  was  a  material  part  of  the  agreed
exchange.”  But  here,  excusing  the  non-occurrence  of  the  financing
condition  would  not  subject  the  seller  to  any  significant  forfeiture  —
there's no indication that depriving the seller of the right to insist on a
closing  would  cause  him  any  disproportionate  loss.  (He  can  sell  the
house to someone else, presumably for about the same price.) The non-
occurrence of the financing condition will indeed be excused, but this
will  happen  because  the  buyer  breached  his  implied  duty  to  try  to
satisfy the condition (by applying for financing), not because the court's
refusal  to  excuse  the  condition  would  cause  the  seller  to  suffer  a
forfeiture.

 Answer 10

 (B) is the best response,

because a delegation does not release the delegator, and the delegate is
deemed to have promised to perform the delegated services.

First, let's look at whether the retail outlet may be sued. The outlet
effectively delegated to the computer service company the outlet's duty
to  perform  for  the  bank.  This  happened  automatically  when  the  outlet
said  that  it  “assigns  all  of  its  computer  service  contracts[.]”  That's
because  an  assignment  “of  the  contract”  automatically  includes  a
delegation of duties. See Rest. 2d § 328(1): “Unless the language or the
circumstances indicate the contrary . . . an assignment of ‘the contract'
or  of  ‘all  my  rights  under  the  contract'  or  an  assignment  in  similar
general terms is an assignment of the assignor's rights and a delegation
of  his  unperformed  duties  under  the  contract.”  But  a  delegation  of
duties  does  not,  unless  the  obligee  expressly  agrees,  release  the
assignor/delegator. See Rest. 2d § 318(3): “Unless the obligee agrees
otherwise,  neither  delegation  of  performance  nor  a  contract  to
assume  the  duty  made  with  the  obligor  by  the  person  delegated
discharges  any  duty  or  liability  of  the  delegating  obligor.”  So  even
though  the  outlet  successfully  delegated  its  duties,  and  the  service
company assumed them, the outlet remained liable to the bank, because
the  bank  did  not  specifically  agree  to  release  the  outlet  from  these

506

liabilities.

Now, let's look at whether the service company is liable. When a
contracting party assigns “the contract” to an assignee, and the assignee
accepts  the  assignment,  the  assignee  is  deemed  to  have  promised  to
perform the assignor's duties, and the obligee is an intended beneficiary
of that implied promise. Rest. 2d § 328(2). So when the outlet assigned
all  of  its  service  contracts,  and  the  service  company  accepted  the
assignment, the service company was deemed to have made a promise
those
to  perform 
contracts,  and  the  bank  was  deemed  to  be  an  intended  beneficiary  of
that promise of performance by the service company. Since an intended
beneficiary of a promise may sue the promisor for breach, the bank may
recover against the service company.

the  outlet's  not-yet-performed  services  under 

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  concludes  that  the  service  company  made  no
promise to the bank.

As is discussed more fully in Choice B, when the service company
accepted  the  assignment  of  the  contracts,  it  was  deemed  to  have
promised  to  perform  the  assignor's  (the  outlet's)  duties  under  those
contracts, and the obligee (the bank) was an intended beneficiary of that
promise.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the retail outlet lost its right to enforce the bank's performance,
and in any event there is no relevant doctrine of “mutuality of remedy”
applicable here.

First,  this  choice  is  not  correct  in  saying  that  the  retail  outlet  still
has  the  right  to  enforce  the  bank's  performance  of  the  contract.  The
outlet lost its right to enforce performance when it made the assignment.
See Rest. 2d § 317(1): “An assignment of a right is a manifestation of
the assignor's intention to transfer it by virtue of which the assignor's
right  to  performance  by  the  obligor  is  extinguished  in  whole  or  in
part  and  the  assignee  acquires  a  right  to  such  performance.”  Second,
even  as  to  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  service  company,  it  is  not
because  the  service  company  is  liable  to  the  bank  that  the  bank
therefore  gets  the  right  to  sue  the  service  company  by  virtue  of
“mutuality  of  remedy”  —  the  reason  the  bank  can  recover  against  the
service company is because the bank is an intended beneficiary of the

507

service company's implied promise to the outlet that it would perform
the outlet's remaining duties.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly concludes that the outlet does not remain liable.

When  an  existing  party  with  remaining  obligations  makes  an
assignment  and  delegation, 
the
that  party 
assignee/delegate doesn't perform. The fact that the assignee/delegate is
qualified and financially responsible is part of what makes the contract
assignable  in  the  first  place,  but  this  fact  does  nothing  to  change  the
general  rule  that  an  assignment  does  not  release  the  assignor  from
liability to the obligee, except in the special situation where the obligee
expressly agrees to such a release (which didn't happen here).

remains 

liable 

if 

 Answer 11

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  daughter  used  her  domination  of  the  mother  in  order  to
unfairly persuade her to make the sale.

One  of  the  grounds  for  avoiding  a  contract  is  that  it  has  been
induced by undue influence. Undue influence exists where one party to
the contract is subjected to “unfair persuasion,” which can stem either
from the “domination” of the victim by the persuader, or from the fact
that the victim is “by virtue of the relation between [the victim and the
persuader] . . . justified in assuming that [the persuader] will not act in
a  manner  inconsistent  with  [the  victim's]  welfare.”  Rest.  2d  of
Contracts  §  177(1).  Here,  both  sources  of  unfair  persuasion  were
arguably  present:  (1)  the  mother's  illness,  together  with  the  daughter's
threat  not  to  visit  her  when  the  mother  was  vulnerable,  allowed  the
daughter  to  “dominate”  the  mother;  and  (2)  the  mother-daughter
relationship justified the mother in assuming that the daughter would not
act  in  a  way  inconsistent  with  the  mother's  welfare  (welfare  that
arguably included treating the two children equally). It's not certain that
the undue influence ground will succeed, but it is the only one that has a
reasonable prospect of success.

 (A) is not the best response,

because duress requires an improper threat.

Duress  in  inducing  a  contract  is  certainly  a  ground  for  avoiding  a

508

contract. However, duress as a grounds for avoidance will be found to
exist  only  where  the  victim's  agreement  to  make  the  contract  was
“induced by an improper threat by the other party that leaves the victim
no reasonable alternative.” Rest. 2d § 175(1). Various types of threats
may be “improper,” including, inter alia, threats to commit what would
be a crime or tort, threats to bring a criminal prosecution, and threats to
do something that is a “use of power for illegitimate ends.” Rest. 2d §
176. But the only threat made here was the daughter's threat not to visit
her  mother  anymore.  And  that  threat,  while  inconsiderate,  would
probably not be deemed sufficiently “improper.” (Also, the threat was
not  so  coercive  as  to  leave  the  mother  with  “no  reasonable
alternative.”)

 (B) is not the best response,

because a bargained-for exchange was present.

As  is  often  said,  “Courts  do  not  inquire  into  the  adequacy  of  the
consideration.” That is, as long as there is a real bargain, the fact that
the two things being exchanged are of materially different market value
does not prevent consideration from being present. Therefore, a sale for
less than market value, brought about by a mixture of bargain and gift,
will not reflect a lack of consideration.

 (C) is not the best response,

because no mistake was present here.

A  contract  can  indeed  be  avoided  for  either  mutual  or  unilateral
mistake,  under  the  right  circumstances.  However,  a  “mistake”  is
defined as “a belief that is not in accord with the facts.” Rest. 2d § 151.
There is no indication here that the mother's decision to accede to the
sale request was brought about by any belief on the mother's part that
was not in accordance with the facts.

 Answer 12

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  borrower's  response  was  too  equivocal  to  constitute  an
acceptance.

The lender made an offer that sought acceptance in the form of the
borrower's  promise  to  make  early  payment,  not  an  acceptance  in  the
form  of  performance  (i.e.,  the  actual  making  of  the  early  payment).

509

Therefore,  the  offer  could  only  be  accepted  by  a  promise.  (I.e.,  in
classical  terms,  the  offer  was  for  a  bilateral  contract,  not  for  a
unilateral one). When the borrower responded, “I will attempt to get the
money together,” this was not a promise of early payment — it did not
represent  the  type  of  clear  commitment  required  for  an  acceptance.
Consequently,  the  offer  remained  revocable  unless  and  until  it  was
accepted  by  a  promise  of  early  payment.  On  January  11,  the  lender
rightfully  exercised  his  power  of  revocation,  by  saying  that  he  had
changed his mind. Therefore, no contract requiring the lender to take the
lesser  sum  ever  came  into  existence,  and  the  borrower's  January  15
tender of the lesser sum had no effect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because no executory accord ever came into existence.

An  executory  accord  is  a  type  of  contract:  One  party  promises  to
render a substitute performance in lieu of the one originally promised,
and  the  other  party  agrees  to  accept  that  substitute  performance  in
discharge  of  the  original  duty.  An  executory  accord  requires  the  same
process  of  mutual  assent  as  any  other  contract  or  modification  of  a
contract.  No  such  mutual  assent  occurred  here,  because  although  the
lender offered to take the lesser amount in return for an earlier payment,
the  borrower  never  accepted  that  offer  (as  is  discussed  more  fully  in
choice A).

 (C) is not the best response,

because 
consideration had it been accepted.

the 

lender's  promise  would  have  been  supported  by

In  this  choice,  the  examiners  are  trying  to  make  you  think  that  this
fact  pattern  involves  the  pre-existing  duty  rule:  The  idea  is  that  the
borrower  is  merely  promising  to  pay  what  he  already  owes  (indeed,
less  than  he  already  owes),  and  under  the  pre-existing  duty  rule  a
promise  to  do  what  one  is  already  obligated  to  do  cannot  be
consideration for the other party's promise of a modification. But in the
scenario  in  which  a  creditor  promises  to  take  a  smaller  amount  than
already  due,  there  is  an  important  exception  to  the  pre-existing  duty
rule: If the debtor promises to make payment earlier than required, that
promise  of  early  repayment  does  constitute  consideration  for  the
creditor's promise to accept the lesser amount. So if the borrower had
in fact promised to make payment earlier than originally required, the

510

pre-existing  duty  rule  would  not  have  applied,  and  there  would  have
been  consideration  for  the  lender's  promise  to  take  the  lesser  amount.
What prevents the lender from being bound is not lack of consideration,
but the fact that the borrower never actually promised to make earlier
payment.

 (D) is not the best response,

because nothing required that the lender's promise be in writing.

If there had been a contract between the borrower and the lender for
earlier  payment  of  the  lesser  amount,  that  contract  would  not  have
fallen within any Statute of Frauds provision. It would not, for instance,
have involved a suretyship arrangement, the sale of an interest in land,
a promise that could not be fully performed within a year, or the sale of
goods  having  a  value  of  more  than  $500.  Therefore,  had  there  been
mutual  assent  to  the  lesser-but-earlier-payment  arrangement,  the  fact
that the arrangement was oral would not have prevented it from being
enforceable.  (The  problem,  as  discussed  in  choice  A,  is  that  the
borrower never accepted the lender's offer.)

 Answer 13

 (C) is the best response,

because contracts involving artistic services are not delegable.

Delegation is a transfer of one's duties under a contract. Assignment
is  a  transfer  of  one's  rights  under  a  contract.  If  a  party  to  a  contract
wishes to have another person perform his duties under the contract, he
delegates them. There are certain kinds of duties that are non-delegable.
In general a duty or performance is delegable unless the obligee has a
substantial  interest  in  having  the  delegator  perform.  Rest.  2d  of
Contracts § 318(2). (See also UCC § 2-210(1) for contracts involving
the sale of goods.) Contracts that call for the promissor's use of his own
particular  skills  are  normally  not  delegable.  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §
318(2),  cmt.  C.  Thus,  contracts  involving  artistic  performances  or
professional services are generally not delegable.

Here,  the  chef  hired  the  decorator  because  of  his  own  particular,
personal skills. Therefore, the rule that duties involving performance by
a  specified  skilled  person  are  not  delegable  applies.  Thus,  when  the
decorator  sold  his  decorating  business  to  his  son,  the  chef  was  not
obligated  to  permit  the  decorator's  son  to  perform  the  chef-decorator

511

contract,  even  though  the  decorator's  son  was  also  an  experienced
decorator of excellent repute.

 (A) is not the best response,

because there would be no need for a non-delegation clause.

Delegation is a transfer of one's duties under a contract. There are
certain kinds of duties that are non-delegable, including tasks that call
for  the  promissor's  use  of  his  own  particular  skills.  Thus,  contracts
involving  artistic  performances  or  professional  services  are  not
delegable.

The agreement between the chef and the decorator would not have
to contain a prohibition on delegation, because contracts involving the
use  of  particular  skills  or  artistic  performances,  such  as  the  design  of
the interior of the chef's new restaurant, are not delegable.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the choice would be the chef's.

Delegation is a transfer of one's duties under a contract. There are
certain  kinds  of  duties  that  are  non-delegable.  In  general  a  duty  or
performance is delegable unless the obligee has a substantial interest in
having the delegator perform. Contracts that call for the promissor's use
of  his  own  particular  skills,  such  as  contracts  involving  artistic
performances or professional services, are normally not delegable.

Under  this  rule,  the  chef  is  not  obligated  to  permit  the  decorator's
son to perform the chef-decorator agreement. And that's true no matter
how great the son's ability to do the job.

 (D) is not the best response,

because only the chef, not the decorator, could effect a novation.

Delegation is a transfer of one's duties under a contract. If a party to
a contract wishes to have another person perform his duties under the
contract,  he  delegates  them.  If  the  obligee  under  the  original  contract,
the person to whom the duty was owed, agrees to relieve the obligor of
all  liability  after  the  delegation,  a  novation  is  said  to  have  occurred.
The  effect  of  a  novation  is  to  substitute  for  the  original  obligor  a
stranger to the original contract.

Here,  the  decorator's  purported  delegation  to  his  son  of  his
obligations did not effect a novation. For a novation to occur, the chef,
who was the person to whom the decorator's duty of design was owed,

512

would have had to agree to relieve the decorator — the obligor — of
all liability. It would not be in either the decorator's or his son's power
to effect a novation by themselves.

 Answer 14

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly states that the architect's acceptance of the $7,500
payment prevents him from any further recovery.

The  doctrine  of  accord  and  satisfaction  will  prevent  the  architect
from  further  recovery.  An  ‘‘accord''  is  an  agreement  under  which  a
party  to  a  contract  agrees  to  accept,  as  complete  satisfaction  of  the
contract, some performance different from that originally due under the
contract.  ‘‘Satisfaction''  is  performance  of  the  accord,  and  once
satisfaction  takes  place,  both  the  accord  and  the  original  contractual
duty are discharged. Here, there was a good-faith (although mistaken)
dispute  as  to  whether  the  architect  had  produced  defective  plans.  The
‘‘accord'' was the client's offer to pay $7,500 for the settlement of the
claim.  ‘‘Satisfaction''  of  the  accord  occurred  when  the  architect
accepted  the  payment.  As  a  result,  the  original  obligations  under  the
contract were discharged, and the client is not liable for the remaining
$2,500.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the debt was subject to a good-faith dispute.

The  pre-existing  duty  rule  will  prevent  partial  payment  of  a
liquidated debt from discharging the obligation to pay the remainder of
the  debt.  However,  because  the  debt  in  this  situation  is  subject  to  a
good-faith dispute, the client's promise not to pursue his claim provides
the  consideration  required  to  support  the  architect's  acceptance  of  a
lesser  fee.  The  compromise  of  the  claim  in  this  manner  constitutes
accord  and  satisfaction,  as  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  choice  C,
above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the contract was fully performed.

The  Statute  of  Frauds,  which  requires  certain  contracts  and
modifications  to  be  in  writing  to  be  enforceable,  can  be  used  as  a
defense by a party seeking to avoid performing under an oral contract.

513

However, since this defense is a challenge to enforceability, it may no
longer  be  asserted  once  the  performances  due  under  the  contract  are
complete. Here, all performances due are complete: the plans are done
and money has already changed hands. As a result, the Statute of Frauds
may no longer be asserted as a defense by the architect.

 (D) is not the best response,

because there has been no novation.

A novation occurs when the parties to a contract agree that one of
them will be replaced by a third party (or potentially that both will be
replaced  by  other  parties).  Since  there  has  been  no  substitution  of  a
third  party  for  either  the  architect  or  the  client,  no  novation  has
occurred.

 Answer 15

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly calculates the contractor's expectation damages.

The  most  common  measure  of  damages  sought  by  a  party  as  the
result of the other party's breach is expectation damages, which seek to
put the non-breaching party in the same position as he would have been
had  there  been  no  breach.  What  the  contractor  expected  from  this  job
was  to  make  a  profit  of  $10,000.  To  find  the  amount  of  damages,  we
must first figure out where the contractor stands now. At the moment, he
has already expended $40,000 on labor and $5,000 on the oak flooring,
for  a  total  of  $45,000  in  construction  costs.  However,  he  has  saved
$5,000  on  another  job  by  using  the  flooring  there.  As  a  result,  the
contractor  has  expended  a  net  of  $40,000.  In  order  to  put  him  in  the
same  position  as  he  would  have  been  had  there  been  no  breach
($10,000 ahead), he will need to be awarded $50,000.

Alternatively,  this  result  can  be  derived  using  the  formula  for

expectation damages:

Expectation  Damages  =  Amount  of  loss  (expenditures  and  other

loss) + Expected profit − Amount saved as a result of the breach

Here, the formula would work out as follows:
$50,000  =  $45,000  loss  (the  expenditures)  +  $10,000  (expected

profit) − $5,000 (saved by reusing the flooring)

 (A) is not the best response,

514

because restitution does not provide as great a recovery as expectation
damages.

A non-breaching party may sue for restitution, which is measured by
the  amount  of  benefit  that  has  been  conferred  on  the  breaching  party.
Notably, this does not allow the plaintiff to recover expected profits, so
it  is  unlikely  to  afford  the  plaintiff  the  greatest  measure  of  damages
when  expectation  damages  are  available  (a  possible  exception  being
when the contract would have resulted in the non-breaching party losing
money).  Here,  the  homeowner  (the  breaching  party)  has  received  a
benefit  of  $40,000  (the  reasonable  value  of  the  labor  provided  to  the
homeowner).  However,  this  is  less  than  the  amount  recoverable  in
expectation damages (see the discussion of choice C above), so it is an
incorrect answer to this question.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  reliance  damages  do  not  provide  as  great  a  recovery  as
expectation damages.

A  non-breaching  party  may  seek  reliance  damages,  which  aim  to
repay the plaintiff for expenses that he has undergone in reliance on the
breaching party's promise. Notably, this does not allow the plaintiff to
recover  expected  profits,  so  it  is  unlikely  to  afford  the  plaintiff  the
greatest measure of damages when expectation damages are available.
Here,  the  contractor  has  expended  $45,000  in  costs  (labor  plus
materials), but has recouped $5,000 of that cost by using the flooring on
another  job.  As  a  result,  reliance  damages  would  be  $40,000.
However, as discussed in the analysis of choice C above, expectation
damages  are  available  and  would  result  in  the  contractor  obtaining  a
greater award.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it miscalculated expectation damages.

The  most  common  measure  of  damages  sought  by  a  party  as  the
result of the other party's breach is expectation damages, which seek to
put the non-breaching party in the same position as he would have been
had  there  been  no  breach.  What  the  contractor  expected  from  this  job
was  to  make  a  profit  of  $10,000.  To  find  the  amount  of  damages,  we
must first figure out where the contractor stands now. At the moment, he
has already expended $40,000 on labor and $5,000 on the oak flooring,
for  a  total  of  $45,000  in  construction  costs.  However,  he  has  saved

515

$5,000  on  another  job  by  using  the  flooring  there.  As  a  result,  the
contractor  has  expended  a  net  of  $40,000.  In  order  to  put  him  in  the
same  position  as  he  would  have  been  had  there  been  no  breach
($10,000 ahead), he will need to be awarded $50,000.

 Answer 16

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  missing  price  term  will  render
the agreement unenforceable.

Contracts for the sale of an interest in land fall within the Statute of
Frauds,  and  thus  require  a  writing  in  order  to  be  enforceable  (unless
they  are  partially  performed).  In  order  to  suffice,  the  writing  must
specify with reasonable certainty:
1. the contract's subject matter;
2. the parties' identities;
3. promises, by whom and to whom made, and essential terms and

conditions; and

4. the signature of the party to be charged (the one who denies the

contract's existence).

In  many  states,  the  contract  requires  a  recital  of  consideration  as

well.

Under these facts, the price would be considered an essential term,
so  the  written  agreement  would  be  unenforceable  without  it.  Since  C
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the price term, since it's ‘‘essential,'' would not be implied by
the court.

Contracts for the sale of an interest in land fall within the Statute of
Frauds,  and  thus  require  a  writing  in  order  to  be  enforceable  (unless
they're  partially  performed).  In  order  to  suffice,  the  writing  must
specify with reasonable certainty:
1. the contract's subject matter;
2. the parties' identities;
3. promises, by whom and to whom made, and essential terms and

conditions; and

4. the signature of the party to be charged (the one who denies the

contract's existence).

516

In many states, the contract requires a recital of the consideration,

as well.

Under these facts, the price would be considered an essential term,

so the written agreement would be unenforceable without it.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  of  the
modern trend concerning reliance. In a growing number of states, and
under  the  Restatement,  the  court  will  estop  a  party  from  asserting  the
Statute of Frauds as a defense due to the other party's reliance. Rest. 2d
of Contracts § 139. According to the Restatement, enforcing a promise
that is within the Statute of Frauds, due to reliance, depends on several
factors:

1. the availability of other remedies (in particular, restitution);
2. the extent to which the promisee's detrimental reliance was

foreseeable and reasonable, and how substantial the reliance was;
and

3. the extent to which the reliance itself, and other evidence, agrees

with the oral agreement.

Under these facts, there's no evidence of any reliance at all; and if
there were, and the majority of states followed the rule on reliance, the
court would have to determine what the agreed price was, not whether
it was fair and equitable.

Since A fails to realize that the contract is not enforceable without

the price term, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it reflects the UCC rule, not the common law.

Here,  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  an  interest  in  land  is  involved.
Article  2  of  the  UCC  only  covers  transactions  in  goods.  Thus,  the
common law controls.

Contracts for the sale of an interest in land fall within the Statute of
Frauds,  and  thus  require  a  writing  in  order  to  be  enforceable  (unless
they  are  partially  performed).  In  order  to  suffice,  the  writing  must
specify with reasonable certainty:
1. the contract's subject matter;
2. the parties' identities;
3. promises, by whom and to whom made, and essential terms and

conditions; and

4. the signature of the party to be charged (the one who denies the

contract's existence).

In  many  states,  the  contract  requires  a  recital  of  consideration  as

517

well.

Under these facts, the price would be considered an essential term,

so the written agreement would be unenforceable without it.

If you chose this response, you were thinking of the UCC Statute of
Frauds,  which  is  considerably  more  liberal  than  the  common  law.
Under UCC § 2-201, the writing must:

1. be evidence of a contract (i.e., it must provide a basis for
believing that the offered oral evidence rests on a real
transaction);
2. be signed; and
3. show quantity.
Thus, price; time and place of payment or delivery; warranties; and
quality  of  goods  may  all  be  missing,  leaving  the  contract  enforceable
nonetheless, although the more missing terms there are, the less likely it
is the parties intended to be bound.

Here, under the UCC, the contract would be enforceable, although
the  court  would  include  the  price  as  the  parties  intended  it  (not
reasonable market value). However, B fails to recognize that the UCC
does not apply to these facts, and since the controlling rule at common
law is different, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because although its result is correct, its reasoning is irrelevant.

As a general rule, parties are free to set the terms of their agreement
as they see fit. Barring fraud, their agreed-upon price may represent a
bargain to one party, while leaving the agreement enforceable.

Choice D, in fact, reaches the correct conclusion, but the reason for
the conclusion is that, since price is an essential term and the contract is
covered  by  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  the  contract  will  be  unenforceable
without a writing.

Contracts for the sale of an interest in land fall within the Statute of
Frauds,  and  thus  require  a  writing  in  order  to  be  enforceable  (unless
they  are  partially  performed).  In  order  to  suffice,  the  writing  must
specify with reasonable certainty:
1. the contract's subject matter;
2. the parties' identities;
3. promises, by whom and to whom made, and essential terms and

conditions; and

4. the signature of the party to be charged (the one who denies the

contract's existence).

518

In  many  states,  the  contract  requires  a  recital  of  consideration  as

well.

Under these facts, the price would be considered an essential term,
so  the  written  agreement  would  be  unenforceable  without  it.  Since  D
ignores this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 17

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  contract  did  not  alter  the  default  rule  that  where  one
performance  takes  time  and  the  other  doesn't,  the  former  must  be
completed before the latter.

Rest. 2d § 234(2), on order of performances, says that ‘‘where the
performance  of  only  one  party  under  .  .  .  an  exchange  [of  promises]
requires  a  period  of  time,  his  performance  is  due  at  an  earlier  time
than  that  of  the  other  party,  unless  the  language  or  circumstances
indicate the contrary.'' Since the painter's performance (painting) took a
‘‘period  of  time,''  and  the  farmer's  performance  (payment)  didn't,  this
rule applies, and meant that the painter had to fully perform before the
farmer's  performance  was  due,  unless  ‘‘the  language  or  circumstances
indicate  the  contrary.''  Nothing  in  the  contract  language  or  the
circumstances  indicated  the  contrary.  (Indeed,  the  document  says
explicitly  that  payment  is  due  upon  ‘‘completion  of  the  work  on  all
three barns,'' making the case especially easy.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  (1)  nothing  in  these  circumstances  indicates  that  the  painter
ever  had  a  right  to  payment  on  a  per-barn  basis;  and  (2)  even  if  the
painter  had  such  a  right,  her  failure  to  demand  payment  after  the  first
barn  would  not  be  a  waiver  of  her  right  to  demand  payment  after  the
second barn.

Under the analysis of choice A above, the painter never had a right
to payment on a per-barn basis. (She might have negotiated such a right,
of course, but she didn't.) So there couldn't have been any waiver.

Furthermore, even if the painter did have such a right, it's unlikely
that her failure to exercise it after the first barn would cost her the right
to  demand  payment  after  the  second.  That's  so  because  even  if  the
painter  was  held  to  have  ‘‘waived''  the  right  to  demand  payment  on  a
barn-by-barn basis when she didn't demand payment after the first one

519

and went on working, that waiver was revocable at any time before the
farmer  materially  relied  on  it.  Therefore,  when  the  painter  demanded
full  payment  for  two  barns  after  the  second  one  was  done,  she  would
have  been  making  an  enforceable  revocation  of  any  waiver  that  might
have  occurred  (since  there's  no  indication  that  the  farmer  could  have
materially relied on the waiver).

 (C) is not the best response,

because the contract is not divisible, since the parties did not agree that
painting  of  a  single  barn  and  payment  of  $2,000  were  agreed
equivalents.

If  indeed  this  contract  was  ‘‘divisible,''  this  choice  would  be
correct.  As  the  Restatement  puts  the  idea  (while  not  using  the  word
‘‘divisible''), ‘‘If the performances to be exchanged under an exchange
of  promises  can  be  apportioned  into  corresponding  pairs  of  part
performances  so  that  the  parts  of  each  pair  are  properly  regarded  as
agreed equivalents, a party's performance of his part of such a pair has
the same effect on the other's duties to render performance of the agreed
equivalent as it would have if only that pair of performances had been
promised.'' Rest. § 240.

The problem for the painter is that, here, the painting of each barn
and  payment  for  that  barn  are  not  ‘‘properly  regarded  as  agreed
equivalents,''  because  the  contract  established  that  payment  was  due
after the painting of all three barns. In other words, the contract was not
in fact set up by the parties as a divisible one.

 (D) is not the correct response,

because  performance  of  two-thirds  of  the  work  would  not  constitute
substantial performance.

If the painter had truly ‘‘substantially performed,'' she would indeed
be entitled to the contract price, less damages for her less-than-perfect
performance.  But  two-thirds  performance  is  very  unlikely  to  be  found
to  constitute  substantial  performance.  Furthermore,  the  question  asks
you whether she's entitled to be paid $4,000, not whether she's entitled
to  payment  of  any  amount.  So  even  if  the  court  found  that  she'd
substantially  performed,  the  painter  would  be  entitled  only  to  the
contract price less damages for the non-performance, and that wouldn't
necessarily come out at the full $6,000 amount less exactly $2,000 for
the  unpainted  last  barn.  (For  instance,  the  farmer  might  now  have  to

520

spend more than $2,000 to get the last barn painted by itself, leading to
damages equaling this greater amount.)

 Answer 18

 (C) is the best response,

because the bank's unilateral offer was irrevocable once the customer
started to stand in line.

An offer is unilateral if it allows acceptance only by performing the
requested act. Here, the bank's offer of $25 is unilateral since it is only
acceptable  by  actually  standing  in  line  for  five  minutes,  not  by
promising  to  do  so.  A  unilateral  offer  becomes  irrevocable  once  the
offeree begins performance. As a result, the offer from the bank to the
customer  became  irrevocable  the  moment  the  customer  got  in  line.
Since the offer was irrevocable, the bank manager's attempt to revoke it
was  ineffective.  The  statement  on  the  sign  that  ‘‘This  offer  may  be
withdrawn at any time'' has no effect.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the bank could not revoke its offer after the customer began to
stand in line.

An offer is unilateral if it allows acceptance only by performing the
requested act. Here, the bank's offer of $25 is unilateral since it is only
acceptable  by  actually  standing  in  line  for  five  minutes,  not  by
promising  to  do  so.  A  unilateral  offer  becomes  irrevocable  once  the
offeree begins performance. As a result, the offer from the bank to the
customer  became  irrevocable  the  moment  the  customer  got  in  line.
Since the offer was irrevocable, the bank manager's attempt to revoke it
was ineffective. Whether the customer had completed his five minutes
of waiting is irrelevant, since the period of irrevocability began when
he commenced performance.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the bank's offer was not a gift promise.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  supported  by
consideration. A party to a contract can provide consideration by either
doing something he is not legally obliged to do, or by refraining from
doing something he is legally permitted to do. There is no requirement
that  the  bargained-for  consideration  provide  any  benefit  to  the  other

521

party.  Here,  the  customer  furnished  consideration  by  standing  in  line,
which he was not obliged to do. As a result, the contract between the
bank (promising $25 to customers who stand in line for more than five
minutes) and the customer (standing in line) was binding.

 (D) is not the best response,

because a unilateral offer can only be accepted by full performance.

An offer is unilateral if it allows acceptance only by performing the
requested act. Here, the bank's offer of $25 is unilateral since it is only
acceptable  by  actually  standing  in  line  for  five  minutes,  not  by
promising  to  do  so.  A  unilateral  offer  becomes  irrevocable  once  the
offeree begins performance. As a result, the offer from the bank to the
customer  became  irrevocable  the  moment  the  customer  got  in  line.
Since the offer was irrevocable, the bank manager's attempt to revoke it
was  ineffective.  While  this  answer  comes  to  the  right  conclusion,  the
timing is incorrect. The unilateral offer is only accepted by completing
the  requested  performance  (standing  in  line  for  five  minutes).  At  the
time the bank manager attempted to revoke the offer, five minutes had
not  passed,  so  the  offer  had  not  yet  been  accepted.  However,  as
discussed above, it was irrevocable, and when the customer completed
his five-minute wait, his acceptance was complete.

 Answer 19

 (A) is the best response,

because it's the only option that recognizes that the student's claim will
succeed.

Under  these  facts,  there  are  a  few  major  obstacles  the  student's
claim  would  have  to  overcome.  First,  you  may  have  noticed  the
unconventional consideration in the contract — the father gets nothing
but  peace  of  mind  out  of  the  deal.  Second,  the  contract  involves
delaying  marriage,  and  that  brings  up  public  policy  concerns.  Finally,
there's a Statute of Frauds gloss, since the payment of another's debts is
involved  (to  the  extent  of  the  rent  provision,  not  the  spending-money
provision).

As  to  the  consideration  issue,  consideration  requires  a  bargained-
for exchange, as well as either detriment to the promisee or benefit to
the  promisor  (or  typically  both).  While  the  student  (as  promisee)
clearly  suffered  a  detriment  by  delaying  his  wedding,  it's  not  as  clear

522

what  the  benefit  to  his  father  (as  promisor)  was.  As  a  matter  of  fact,
peace  of  mind  or  personal  satisfaction  is  sufficient  to  qualify  as  a
benefit.  Thus,  the  student's  father's  ensuring  that  his  son  complete
school  before  being  distracted  by  a  wedding  would  be  sufficient  to
support a contract. Furthermore, since the student delayed the marriage
at  his  father's  request,  it  was  ‘‘bargained  for.''  As  a  result,  there's  no
problem with consideration.

As to the public policy concerns, it's only contracts in derogation
of  marriage  that  are  considered  illegal  (and  thus  enforceable).  If  his
father had offered to pay the student to divorce, instead of to delay his
marriage, such an agreement would be unenforceable. As it is, there's
no public policy problem with the contract.

Finally, there's no Statute of Frauds problem, because the spending-
money  agreement  doesn't  fall  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and  thus  is
enforceable without a writing. It's the promise to pay the student's rent
that's  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  as  a  promise  to  pay  the  debt  of
another.  But  that's  not  the  issue  here,  so  the  contract  is  enforceable
without a writing.

Since choice A correctly characterizes the contract as enforceable,

it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the contract was not illegal.

A contract is illegal if it is contrary to public policy when made (it
need not involve criminal or tortious conduct). Such contracts include
contracts  that  are  usurious,  or  obstruct  justice,  defraud  a  third  party,
involve the commission of crimes or torts, or — the one you probably
thought  of  if  you  chose  this  response  —  contracts  in  derogation  of
marriage.  However,  contracts  in  derogation  of  marriage  involve  a
divorce  (e.g.,  ‘‘Divorce  that  bum  and  I'll  give  you  $100,000'').  Here,
the  student's  father  only  wanted  the  student  to  postpone  his  wedding
until  graduation.  Thus,  the  contract  was  not  illegal  and,  in  fact,  was
enforceable.  Since  there  was  a  bargained-for  exchange,  and  detriment
to the promisee (the student — in terms of delaying his marriage) and
benefit to the promisor (his father — in terms of personal satisfaction),
the contract was supported by consideration. Furthermore, it didn't fall
within the Statute of Frauds (as to the spending-money provision), so it
would be enforceable without a writing. Since B incorrectly states that
the  contract  was  illegal  and  thus  unenforceable,  it's  not  the  best
response.

523

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  it  correctly  states  a  theoretical  rule  —  death  of  an
offeror terminates the offer — it does not apply here, because there was
already an enforceable contract when the student's father died, and so
the enforceability of the offer is irrelevant.

A  contract  requires  an  offer,  acceptance,  and  consideration  (or
some substitute for consideration). Here, the student's father offered to
pay  the  student's  rent  and  give  him  spending  money  if  he  delayed  his
marriage.  The  student  did  so,  and  this  was  his  detriment  (and  his
father's benefit, in terms of personal satisfaction), so the contract was
supported by consideration and, thus, enforceable. The student's father's
death  after  the  contract  was  created  would  not  discharge  his  (or  his
estate's)  duty  of  performance,  because  his  estate  can  carry  out  the
payment — his personal contribution is not necessary to the contract. (If
it  were,  as,  say,  he  was  to  paint  the  student's  portrait,  it  would  be
discharged by his death.) Since choice C mischaracterizes the contract
as  being  only  at  the  offer  stage,  and  not  an  intact  contract,  it's  not  the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the contract is enforceable without a writing.

Choice  D  suggests  that  the  contract  is  not  enforceable  because  it
falls  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and  thus,  in  general,  requires  a
writing. This is a bit sneaky because the part of the contract to which
the  student's  claim  refers  —  the  agreement  to  provide  $100  spending
money every month — does not  fall  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and
thus  is  enforceable  without  a  writing!  It's  the  part  of  the  contract
addressing  the  student's  father's  agreement  to  pay  the  student's  rent
which must be in writing to be enforceable, since it's an agreement to
pay the debt of another, and as such falls within the Statute of Frauds.

Since the agreement that forms the basis of the student's claim, the
spending-money  agreement,  does  not  fall  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,
and D fails to recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 20

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  chef's  promise  of  payment  to  the  sister  was  supported  by

524

consideration.

When  the  sister  issued  the  quitclaim  deed,  she  was  effectively
settling — by assigning to the chef — her claim against the property. So
the question is whether one who promises to make payment in exchange
for the surrender of an invalid claim has received consideration. (If the
chef didn't receive consideration in return for his promise, that promise
wouldn't be enforceable.)

The  answer  is  that  the  surrender  of  the  claim  that  turns  out  to  be
invalid nonetheless constitutes consideration if either  (1)  the  claim  is
in fact doubtful because of uncertainty as to the facts or the law; or (2)
the surrendering party believes that the claim may be valid. Rest. 2d §
74(1).  Here,  (1)  was  the  case  (since  the  sister's  attorney  told  her  that
her  claim  was  doubtful,  not  that  it  was  definitely  invalid).  Since  the
sister's surrender of the claim in a bargained-for exchange in return for
the  chef's  promise  of  payment  constituted  consideration,  the  chef's
promise is enforceable.

 (A) is not the best response,

because surrender of a claim that the claimant believes to be doubtful
(but not definitely invalid) constitutes consideration.

If the sister had known that her claim was totally invalid at the time
she surrendered it (by issuing the quitclaim deed), her surrender would
not  be  consideration  for  the  chef's  promise,  and  his  promise  would
therefore  be  unenforceable.  But  the  mere  fact  that  the  sister  knew  that
her  claim  was  doubtful  —  as  opposed  to  invalid  —  is  not  enough  to
prevent  her  surrender  from  being  consideration.  For  a  more  complete
discussion of when surrender of an invalid claim will be consideration,
see the analysis of choice C above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  surrender  of  a  possibly  valid  claim  does  constitute  legal
detriment.

If  the  sister  had  surrendered  a  claim  that  she  knew  was  definitely
invalid,  that  surrender  (by  issuance  of  the  quitclaim  deed)  would
indeed not be a ‘‘legal detriment'' — she would not have worsened her
legal  position.  But  because  what  the  sister  surrendered  was  a
‘‘doubtful''  claim  rather  than  a  claim  she  knew  to  be  invalid,  her
surrender  is  deemed  to  constitute  consideration.  See  the  complete
analysis in the discussion of choice C above.

525

 (D) is not the best response,

because there would be no estoppel here.

This choice seems to be suggesting that there is no consideration to
support the chef's promise, but that the doctrine of promisory estoppel
would  apply  to  make  the  promise  binding  without  consideration.
However,  this  analysis  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  as  described  in
choice C, the sister's surrender of her doubtful claim was consideration
for the chef's return promise; and (2) if the surrender of the claim wasn't
consideration,  promissory  estoppel  wouldn't  apply  because  there's  no
indication  that  the  sister  relied  to  her  detriment  on  the  promise  (and
reasonable reliance is a pre-condition to the application of promissory
estoppel).

 Answer 21

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  manager's  reasonable  reliance  caused  the  company's
promise, though not supported by consideration, to be binding under the
doctrine of promissory estoppel.

The company's promise was not supported by consideration, since
the  manager  didn't  confer  any  benefit  to  the  company,  or  undergo  any
legal  detriment,  in  exchange  for  the  promise.  (See  the  discussion  of
choice  A  below  for  more  details  about  why  this  is  so.)  However,  the
doctrine of promissory estoppel applies to make the company's promise
enforceable even without consideration.

Rest. 2d § 90(a) (the most famous section in the entire Restatement)
says that ‘‘[a] promise which the promisor should reasonably expect to
induce  action  or  forbearance  on  the  part  of  the  promisee  or  a  third
person and which does induce such action or forbearance is binding if
injustice  can  be  avoided  only  by  enforcement  of  the  promise.''  This
section applies here.

It was reasonably foreseeable to the company that, when it made the
‘‘you'll  get  a  pension  if  you  retire''  offer  to  the  manager,  he  would  or
might rely on it by retiring, rather than staying on or taking another job.
The  promise,  then,  did  in  fact  induce  the  foreseeable  reliance:  The
manager relied by not only retiring but by buying the RV and not taking
another position somewhere else. Furthermore, that reliance has made
the  manager  unemployable  elsewhere,  so  that  without  enforcement  of
the  manager  won't  have  any  means  of  support.
the  promise 

526

Consequently, all the requirements of promissory estoppel are satisfied,
making the promise enforceable despite the lack of consideration.

Notice,  by  the  way,  that  neither  the  correct  choice  nor  any  other
choices  here  mentions  the  doctrine  of  promissory  estoppel.  That's
typical  of  MBE  fact  patterns  where  the  correct  answer  is  promissory
estoppel: The examiners try to allude to the doctrine without mentioning
it explicitly, because they believe that mentioning it will tip you off and
make the question too easy.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the company did not bargain to have the manager retire.

A  promise  or  act  (here,  the  manager's  retirement)  can  be
consideration  for  a  counter-promise  only  if  the  promise  or  act  was
‘‘bargained for or given in exchange'' for the counter-promise. So here,
the  manager's  retirement  would  be  consideration  for  the  promise  of  a
pension only if the company bargained for that retirement, or received it
in  exchange  for  the  promise.  But  here,  there  is  no  indication  that  the
company  was  bargaining  for  his  retirement,  or  that  it  promised  the
pension  in  exchange  for  that  retirement.  (Apparently  the  board  of
directors didn't care too much whether the manager stayed on the job or
retired, as evidenced by the fact that the resolution said that the pension
would be payable whenever the manager, at his own option, made the
decision  to  retire.)  Consequently,  the  manager's  retirement  was  not
consideration  for  the  company's  pension  promise,  making  choice  A
wrong.  (In  reality, 
is  enforceable  even  without
consideration, as described in choice B.)

the  promise 

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  the  promise  of  a  pension  was  an  otherwise-
unenforceable promise to make a gift, it became enforceable under the
doctrine  of  promissory  estoppel  once  the  manager  relied  on  it  to  his
detriment.

A  promise  to  make  a  gift  can  become  enforceable  when  the
promisee foreseeably relies on it to his detriment, and injustice can be
avoided only by enforcing the promise. (See the discussion of choice B
above.)  Since  choice  C  asserts  that  the  promise  is  unenforceable,  it's
wrong.

 (D) is not the best response,

527

because the promise became enforceable via the doctrine of promissory
estoppel, notwithstanding the manager's at-will status.

It's true that the company could simply have fired the manager at any
time  without  any  pension  payments  or  other  payments.  But  once  the
company made its promise to pay a pension and the manager reasonably
relied on it, the fact that the manager was an at-will employee ceased to
matter  —  the  doctrine  of  promissory  estoppel  made  the  promise
binding.

 Answer 22

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  dealership  meets  all  the  requirements  necessary  to  be  an
intended beneficiary.

For a third party to be an intended beneficiary, it must first of all be
the  case  that  giving  him  the  right  to  sue  would  be  appropriate  to
effectuate  the  intentions  of  the  parties.  If  he  meets  this  test,  he  must
further  fit  into  one  of  the  two  following  categories:  (1)  either  the
performance of the promise will satisfy an obligation of the promisee to
pay money to the beneficiary; or (2) the circumstances indicate that the
promisee  intends  to  give  the  beneficiary  the  benefit  of  the  promised
performance.

The  dealership  meets  these  requirements,  and  is  thus  an  intended
beneficiary of the man's promise. First, giving the dealership the right
to sue would effectuate the intentions of the parties — the man intended
to help his neighbor get a minivan by his promise to pay, and letting the
seller  sue  on  the  promise  is  consistent  with  that  intention.  Next,  the
neighbor (the promisee), has promised to pay money to the dealership
(the  beneficiary),  so  enforcing  the  promise  satisfies  alternate  test  (1)
above.  Having  met  the  requirements  of  an  intended  beneficiary,  the
dealership can enforce the man's promise to his neighbor.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  dealership  was  not  a  party  to  the  man's  promise  to  his
neighbor.

The essence of the promissory estoppel idea is that the maker of a
promise may be bound by that promise, even though it is not supported
by  consideration,  if  the  promisee  relies  upon  that  promise  to  his
detriment,  and  the  promisor  should  have  foreseen  the  reliance.  The

528

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

doctrine gives only the promisee the right to sue.

For  the  dealership  to  enforce  the  man's  promise  to  his  neighbor
under a promissory estoppel theory, some promise would have to have
been  made  to  the  dealership,  since  only  the  promisee  may  sue.  The
man's promise was made only to his neighbor, not to the neighbor and
the dealership. (In fact, the dealership did not even learn of the promise
made by the man until it sold the minivan to the neighbor.) So while the
dealership  can  enforce  the  man's  promise,  it  cannot  do  so  for  the
reasons stated.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the man made no promise to the dealership.

The Statute of Frauds requires that certain types of contracts be in
writing. One type of agreement that has to be in writing in order to be
enforceable is a suretyship agreement, which is the promise to pay the
debt of another.

The man's promise does not fall within the suretyship clause of the
Statue of Frauds, because he did not make a promise to the dealership.
For the man to be a surety of the neighbor, he would have had to make a
promise to the dealership (the creditor), which he didn't do. So the fact
that he promised the neighbor (the debtor) that he would make good on
the debt is irrelevant for purposes of the suretyship provision.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  intended  beneficiaries  do  not  have  to  be  identified  or  aware
that a promise was made.

For a third party to be an intended beneficiary, it must first of all be
the  case  that  giving  him  the  right  to  sue  would  be  appropriate  to
effectuate  the  intentions  of  the  parties.  If  he  meets  this  test,  he  must
further  fit  into  one  of  the  two  following  categories:  either  (1)  the
performance of the promise will satisfy an obligation of the promisee to
pay money to the beneficiary; or (2) the circumstances indicate that the
promisee  intends  to  give  the  beneficiary  the  benefit  of  the  promised
performance.

There is no requirement that the intended beneficiary be identified
when the promise is made, or that he be aware that it was made at any
particular  moment.  Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  dealership  was  neither
identified nor aware of the promise when it was made, is irrelevant —
the dealership meets all the requirements of an intended beneficiary and

529

so would be able to sue to enforce the man's promise to his neighbor.

 Answer 23

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the ‘‘A'' provision is an enforceable
promise.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  an  agreement  must  be  supported  by
consideration,  or  a  substitute  for  consideration  (e.g.,  promissory
estoppel). Consideration requires a bargained-for exchange, and either
detriment  to  the  promisee  or  benefit  to  the  promisor  (and  typically
both).  Here,  the  father  made  an  offer  to  the  student  proposing  a
unilateral contract — that is, he requested in return her performance, in
the  form  of  attending  law  school  for  three  years.  The  student,  as
promisee,  suffered  a  detriment  by  doing  something  she  wasn't  legally
obligated to do — attending law school. Her father enjoyed a benefit,
in the form of personal satisfaction due to his daughter's attending law
school,  and  presumably  being  able  to  brag  about  this  to  all  of  his
buddies.  Finally,  by  performing  at  her  father's  request,  the  student
satisfied the bargain element of consideration.

Note that the father's promise had two elements — paying expenses
and  paying  $1,000  for  every  ‘‘A.''  The  father's  calling  the  ‘‘A''
provision a bonus doesn't make it a gratuitous promise. The fact is, it
was part and parcel of the offer the student accepted by attending law
school  and  earning  ‘‘A's.''  Presumably,  the  student  worked  harder  at
law  school  than  she  might  have  otherwise,  knowing  each  ‘‘A''  would
mean $1,000 to her, in response to her father's promise. Her extra effort
alone  would  be  sufficient  to  provide  consideration  for  the  ‘‘A''
provision. Since B recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  there's  consideration  to  support  a  contract,  and  as  a  result
there's no need to turn to promissory estoppel.

To  be  enforceable,  an  agreement  must  be  supported  by
consideration  (or  a  substitute  for  consideration).  Promissory  estoppel
is a substitute for consideration, used to avoid injustice. It is triggered
by a gratuitous promise that is likely to, and does, induce the promisee's
detrimental  reliance.  What  distinguishes  promissory  estoppel  from
consideration is the bargained-for exchange. Here, the father bargained

530

for — and got — the student to attend law school. Stated differently, the
student's  detriment,  going  to  law  school,  was  at  her  father's  request.
Thus,  there  was  detriment  to  the  student,  in  attending  law  school,  and
benefit to her father, in the form of personal satisfaction, thus satisfying
the detriment and/or benefit element of consideration. Say the facts had
been different, and her father had promised to give the student $10,000
as  a  gift,  knowing  she  wanted  to  go  to  law  school.  Relying  on  the
promise,  the  student  enrolled  in  law  school.  Here,  there's  no  bargain,
but  her  father's  promise  to  give  the  student  $10,000  would  be
enforceable  on  promissory  estoppel  grounds,  since  his  promise  was
likely to, and did, result in the student's reliance.

However, the facts as presented in the question indicate a bargain.
the  presence  of  consideration  precludes  application  of

Since 
promissory estoppel, A isn't the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the bonus for the ‘‘A's'' was part of what the student bargained
for,  and  thus  the  promise  to  pay  for  the  ‘‘A's''  would  be  supported  by
consideration.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  an  agreement  must  be  supported  by
consideration  (or  some  substitute  for  consideration).  Consideration
requires bargained-for exchange and either detriment to the promisee or
benefit to the promisor (and typically, both).

Here, the father made an offer to the student proposing a unilateral
contract — he wanted the student to perform in return for his promise,
namely, to attend law school for three years.

The promise the father made had two elements: paying the student's
expenses, and paying her $1,000 for every ‘‘A.'' The father's calling the
‘‘A'' provision a bonus doesn't make it a gratuitous promise. The fact is,
it was part and parcel of the offer the student accepted by attending law
school, and earning ‘‘A's.''

What  C  suggests  is  that  the  ‘‘A''  bonus  was  a  gratuitous  promise.
Say, however, the facts were different, and her father didn't make any
promise  to  the  student  until  after  the  first  year  of  law  school,  during
which  she  earned  two  A's.  At  a  party  shortly  after  the  first  year,  her
father  told  the  student,  ‘‘In  consideration  of  your  earning  two  A's,  I
promise  to  give  you  $2,000.''  This  would  be  gratuitous  because  there
was  no  bargain,  and  it  didn't  induce  any  requested  detriment  in  the
student, as promisee.

In  the  facts  in  the  question,  the  student's  attending  law  school  and

531

earning  the  ‘‘A's''  was  in  response  to  her  father's  entire  promise,
including the ‘‘A'' bonus. Since C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  student  was  under  no  duty  to  use  her  best  efforts  in  law
school.

What choice D suggests is that the student was under a pre-existing
duty to perform, and thus she didn't suffer any detriment in response to
her  father's  promise,  making  the  promise  ‘‘illusory''  (unsupported  by
consideration).  In  fact,  no  such  duty  existed;  the  student  hadn't  even
applied to law school when her father made his offer.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  an  agreement  must  be  supported  by
consideration,  or  a  substitute  for  consideration  (e.g.,  promissory
estoppel). Consideration requires a bargained-for exchange, and either
detriment  to  the  promisee  or  benefit  to  the  promisor  (and  typically,
both).  Here,  the  father  made  an  offer  to  the  student  proposing  a
unilateral contract — that is, he requested her performance in return, in
the  form  of  attending  law  school  for  three  years.  The  student,  as
promisee,  suffered  a  detriment  by  doing  something  she  wasn't  legally
obligated to do — attending law school. Her father enjoyed a benefit,
in the form of personal satisfaction due to his daughter's attending law
school,  and  presumably  being  able  to  brag  about  this  to  all  of  his
buddies.  Finally,  by  performing  at  her  father's  request,  the  student
satisfied the bargain element of consideration.

Say  the  facts  were  different,  and  once  the  student  was  in  law
school, her father told her, ‘‘I'll only continue to pay your expenses if
you maintain a 4.0 average.'' Here, her father was already contractually
there's  no  additional
bound  by  his  first  promise,  and  since 
consideration  for  this  latter  request,  it's  unenforceable  due  to  a  pre-
existing  duty.  (Under  the  UCC,  the  rule  is  different:  modifications  are
enforceable,  without  consideration,  as  long  as  they're  made  in  good
faith.)

Incidentally, the ‘‘best efforts'' language of choice D is the language
sometimes  used  to  make  an  otherwise  illusory  promise  enforceable.
Say  the  student  quit  law  school  and  decided  to  become  a  stand-up
comic. Her father agreed to use his best efforts to promote her, in return
for 10 percent of her earnings. Without the ‘‘best efforts'' provision, her
father  would  have  a  completely  unrestricted  right  to  renege  on  his
promise,  and  thus  there'd  be  no  consideration.  The  ‘‘best  efforts''

532

provision  restricts  his  freedom  of  action,  and 
consideration.

thus  supplies

In any case, under the facts in the question, the student performed in
response  to  her  father's  request,  which  forms  the  basis  of  an
enforceable contract. Since D ignores this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 24

 (D) is the best response,

because it implicitly recognizes that the stepson's rights as an intended
third-party beneficiary under the original widow-bank agreement hadn't
‘‘vested,'' so he couldn't block the modification.

When  two  parties  form  an  agreement,  two  types  of  third-party
beneficiaries  may  be  created:  intended  beneficiaries  and  incidental
beneficiaries. Only intended beneficiaries have enforceable rights. An
intended  beneficiary  is  one  whom  the  promisee  (here,  the  widow)
intends  to  benefit  from  the  promisor's  (here,  the  bank's)  performance;
all others are incidental beneficiaries. Here, since the widow intended
her stepson to benefit from the savings account at the bank, the stepson
was an intended beneficiary.

Having established that, you have to determine when the stepson's
rights  would  ‘‘vest,''  such  that  the  agreement  couldn't  be  modified  or
rescinded without his consent. This traditionally depended on whether
the stepson was a donee or creditor beneficiary. Since the widow didn't
owe her stepson a prior duty that setting up the savings account would
discharge,  he  was  a  donee  beneficiary.  Traditionally,  a  donee
beneficiary's  rights  only  vested  on  justified  detrimental  reliance  or
when he manifested assent to the agreement, which could be implied to
occur as soon as he had knowledge of it. However, most modern courts
agree  with  the  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  311,  which  ignores  the
donee/creditor  distinction  and,  rather,  views  the  rights  of  both  as
vesting when one of these three events occurs:

1. The beneficiary manifests assent to the promise;
2. The beneficiary sues to enforce the promise; or
3. The beneficiary justifiably relies on the promise to his detriment.
Here, the stepson didn't even know about the contract when it was

modified, so he can't contest the modification.

Note that even if the widow had transferred the account to him after
she created it — thus making him an assignee — she could still have

533

rescinded  it,  because  the  assignment  was  revocable.  The  things  most
likely to make it irrevocable — foreseeable reliance by the stepson, or
transferring to him the bank book, or his paying for the assignment, or
his receiving performance from the bank as obligor — hadn't occurred.
Thus,  even  if  you  mischaracterized  the  stepson  as  an  assignee,  you'd
still select choice D, the correct response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  stepson  is  an  intended  beneficiary  to  the  original
widow-bank  deposit  agreement,  his  rights  under  the  contract  did  not
‘‘vest''  before  the  account  was  transferred  to  the  daughter.  Thus,  the
stepson couldn't stop the transfer.

Under these facts, the original agreement, under which the stepson
would gain any rights, was between the widow and the bank. There are
two ways a third party can gain rights under a contract: as an intended
beneficiary, or as an assignee. The difference is that the rights of third-
party  beneficiaries  are  created  in  the  contract,  whereas  an  assignment
involves a subsequent transfer of rights under a contract.

Since  the  original  passbook  account  was  entered  in  the  stepson's
name, he could be considered an intended beneficiary. That's because,
as to the bank's duty, the widow is the promisee, and her intent was that
her stepson benefit from the bank's performance under the contract. As
an  intended  beneficiary,  the  stepson  had  enforceable  rights  under  the
contract,  such  that  once  his  rights  vested,  the  contract  couldn't  be
modified  or  rescinded  without  his  consent.  ‘‘Vesting''  is  the  key  here.
Traditionally, the time of vesting depends on whether the beneficiary is
a creditor or a donee beneficiary. One is a creditor beneficiary only if
the  promisor's  duty  (here,  the  bank's)  will  discharge  a  duty  the
promisee  (the  widow)  previously  owed  the  beneficiary.  Here,  the
widow owes her stepson nothing, so if he's an intended beneficiary at
all, he must be a donee beneficiary.

Traditionally, the rule on vesting for a donee beneficiary is that his
rights only vest on justified detrimental reliance or when he manifests
assent  to  the  agreement,  which  can  be  implied  to  occur  as  soon  as  he
has knowledge of it. However, most modern courts agree with the Rest.
2d of Contracts § 311, which ignores the donee/creditor distinction and,
rather,  views  the  rights  of  both  as  vesting  when  one  of  these  three
events occurs:

1. The beneficiary manifests assent to the promise;
2. The beneficiary sues to enforce the promise; or

534

3. The beneficiary justifiably relies on the promise to his detriment.
Here, the widow modified the contract — to make her daughter the
beneficiary — before her stepson even knew about the account. Thus,
he  couldn't  prevent  the  transfer,  and  is  left  with  no  rights  under  the
contract.  Since  choice  A  ignores  the  vesting  issue,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the stepson could not be considered an assignee of any kind of
the savings account, and even if he could, his right was validly revoked
by the transfer to the widow's daughter.

A constructive assignment occurs when a fraudulent or preferential
transfer  is  converted,  pursuant  to  statute,  into  an  assignment  that
benefits  creditors.  Here,  since  the  stepson  was  not  a  creditor  of  the
widow, there could be no constructive assignment to him.

What  choice  B  seeks  to  do  with  the  ‘‘constructive''  language  is  to
avoid  a  missing  element  of  a  regular  assignment  under  these  facts.  In
order to transfer rights under an existing contract, the assignor (here, the
widow)  must  clearly  intend  to  transfer  her  rights  to  a  third  party,  the
rights  must  be  identified,  and  the  intent  must  be  addressed  to  the
assignee  or  his  representative,  who  must  accept  the  assignment
(although acceptance of a beneficial assignment is normally presumed).
Here,  the  stepson  didn't  know  about  the  transfer,  so  there's  no
assignment.  Apart  from  that,  the  transfer  here  would  not  be  an
assignment, because an assignment involves the transfer of rights under
an already-existing contract. Here, the stepson's rights were created in
the original agreement between the widow and the bank. Thus, if he has
any  rights  at  all,  they're  due  to  his  status  as  an  intended  third-party
beneficiary, not as an assignee.

In fact, the stepson will not prevail in his claim, because his rights
under the agreement had not vested before the widow modified it. As a
donee  beneficiary  (since  the  widow  owed  him  no  preexisting  duty,
which  the  deposit  would  discharge),  he  would  at  least  have  had  to
know  about  the  contract  in  order  for  his  rights  to  vest,  and  here,  he
took  place.  Since  choice  B
didn't,  when 
mischaracterizes the stepson, and arrives at the wrong result, it's not the
best response.

the  modification 

 (C) is not the best response,

535

because  it  presupposes  the  stepson  was  an  assignee,  where  in  fact  he
was only a third-party beneficiary to the widow-bank agreement.

What  choice  C  impliedly  addresses  is  the  revocability  of  an

assignment. In general, assignments are revocable, unless:

1. The assignee gave valuable consideration for the assignment;
2. The assignee has relied on the assignment to his detriment, and
such reliance should have been foreseeable to the assignor;
3. The assignee has received payment or performance from the

obligor; or

4. A symbol of the assignment (e.g., a bank book) has been

transferred.

Thus,  if  the  transaction  here  had  involved  an  assignment  to  the
stepson, the widow's failure to give him the passbook would make the
assignment revocable. However, what makes choice C incorrect is that
the stepson wasn't an assignee under the widow-bank contract. In order
to  transfer  rights  under  an  existing  contract,  the  assignor  (here,  the
widow)  must  clearly  intend  to  transfer  her  rights  to  a  third  party,  the
rights  must  be  identified,  and  the  intent  must  be  addressed  to  the
assignee  or  his  representative,  who  must  accept  the  assignment
(although acceptance of a beneficial assignment is normally presumed).
Here,  the  stepson  didn't  know  about  the  transfer,  so  there's  no
assignment.  Apart  from  that,  the  transfer  here  would  not  be  an
assignment, because an assignment involves the transfer of rights under
an already-existing contract. Here, the stepson's rights were created in
the original agreement between the widow and the bank. Thus, if he has
any  rights  at  all,  they're  due  to  his  status  as  an  intended  third-party
beneficiary, not as an assignee.

In fact, the stepson will not prevail in his claim, because his rights
under the agreement had not vested before the widow modified it. As a
donee  beneficiary  (since  the  widow  owed  him  no  preexisting  duty,
which  the  deposit  would  discharge),  he  would  at  least  have  had  to
know  about  the  contract  in  order  for  his  rights  to  vest,  and  here,  he
didn't, when the modification took place.

Thus, even though C arrives at the correct result, it mischaracterizes

the stepson, so it can't be the best response.

 Answer 25

 (C) is the best response,

536

because it correctly identifies that the niece will be entitled to the farm
due to a valid, enforceable contract with her uncle.

Under these facts the uncle made his niece an offer, in his letter —
that  is,  a  promise  to  do  something  in  return  for  something  else.  He
promised to will the farm to his niece in return for her caring for him
and the property for the rest of his life. Since he sought performance in
return, not a promise, he proposed a unilateral, not a bilateral, contract.
By  moving  in  with  him  and  commencing  taking  care  of  him  and  the
property, his niece accepted his offer. By remaining at the farm until his
death,  she  fully  performed  under  the  contract,  thus  entitling  her  to  the
uncle's  return  performance:  transferring  the  farm  to  her.  Since  C
identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the consideration would be adequate to support the contract.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  an  agreement  must  be  supported  by
consideration,  or  some  substitute  for  consideration  (e.g.,  promissory
estoppel). Consideration requires a bargained-for exchange and either
detriment to the promisee or benefit to the promisor, and typically both.
Here, as to the promise to transfer the farm, the uncle is the promisor
and the niece is the promisee. By coming to take care of the uncle, the
niece  created  a  binding,  unilateral  contract.  However,  the  issue  here
isn't  whether  there  was  consideration  at  all  —  the  niece  clearly
suffered some detriment and the uncle enjoyed a benefit — but whether
the consideration was adequate to support a transfer of the farm.

Consideration is only inadequate if it doesn't represent the ‘‘price''
of the bargain; that is, there's a donative promise in the guise of a legal,
enforceable one. That's not the case here. The uncle intended to will the
farm to his niece only if she moved in, cared for him, and maintained
the  property  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  Both  of  them  clearly  saw  her
performance as the ‘‘price'' of the bargain. The fact that he lived only
two  weeks  doesn't  make  otherwise  satisfactory  consideration,
unsatisfactory. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the uncle's promise was not an invalid promise to make a will,
but an enforceable, contractual promise.

Here, the uncle made his niece an offer — that is, a promise to do
something in return for something else. He promised to will the farm to

537

her in return for her caring for him and the property for the rest of his
life. Since he sought performance in return, not a promise, he proposed
a  unilateral  contract.  The  niece  accepted  by  moving  in  with  him  and
taking care of him and the farm. By remaining at the farm until his death,
the  niece  was  entitled  to  return  performance:  conveyance  of  the  farm.
Thus, what makes the promise binding is that it was performance owed
to the niece under a contract — it wasn't just a promise to make a will.
Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  uncle's  untimely  demise  would  not  make  an  otherwise
enforceable contract unenforceable.

One  of  the  underlying  purposes  of  a  contract  is  the  allocation  of
risk. Here, by entering into a contract to take care of the uncle for the
rest of his life, the niece took on the risk that her uncle might live for
many decades to come. By the same token, the uncle ran the risk that he
might  die  imminently,  making  the  deal  for  the  farm  a  much  less
attractive one for his estate. While the parties may not have foreseen the
uncle's  death  two  weeks  hence  when  they  made  the  contract,  death  is
not  an  event  that  could  be  considered  unforeseeable,  so  as  to  excuse
performance under the contract.

The language in choice D concerning ‘‘unforeseen'' circumstances is
the language of impossibility and frustration, two means of discharging
contractual duties.

Under 

the  doctrine  of 

impossibility,  where  circumstances
unanticipated by the parties make contract performance vitally different
from what the parties contemplated, their duties under the contract are
discharged,  unless  the  adversely  affected  party  assumed  the  risk  the
contingency  might  happen.  Frustration  of  purpose  relieves  a  duty  to
perform if the purpose of the contract is destroyed by a supervening act
or  event  that  was  unforeseeable  when  the  parties  entered  into  the
contract.  Here  again,  if  the  risk  is  considered  foreseeable,  a  court
would assign the risk to one party or the other. Neither of these would
apply here, because the niece was able to perform under the contract;
it's  only  that  her  length  of  service  was  briefer  than  either  party
anticipated.  However,  she  contracted  to  take  care  of  her  uncle  for  the
rest of his life, and she did so, so she's entitled to the farm.

Even if the uncle's death was unforeseeable, assuming the contract
itself  was  valid,  rescission  by  the  estate  would  not  be  an  available
remedy.  Rescission  by  one  party  requires,  in  general,  mistake  (under

538

limited circumstances), fraud, or duress. None of these exist here. The
closest  ground  would  be  mutual  mistake,  whereby  the  parties  made
some mistake as to a basic assumption of fact. However, the length of
the  uncle's  life  would  be  a  matter  of  prediction,  not  fact,  when  the
contract  was  entered  into.  Thus,  unilateral  rescission  would  not  be  a
remedy.

In fact, the niece is entitled to the farm because she performed under

the contract. Since D doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 26

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  electronics  store  can  only
recover to the extent the student ratified the contract when he reached
age 18: $300.

Under  these  facts,  the  student  entered  into  a  contract  for  a  non-
necessary item — a television set — when he was a minor. As a result,
his initial promise was voidable at his option due to his incapacity to
contract. Thus, had the student not ratified the contract when he reached
the  age  of  majority,  he  could  have  avoided  the  contract  all  together
(although  the  electronics  store  could  seek  return  of  the  set  via
restitution,  if  it  was  still  in  the  student's  possession  when  he
disaffirmed the contract). By ratifying the contract when he reached 18,
the  student  made  the  original  promise  to  pay  enforceable,  but  only  to
the extent he ratified it: $300.

Incidentally, note that the student wrote the letter to the electronics
store on his eighteenth birthday. This is relevant, in that, had he kept the
television for some time thereafter, this could be considered ratification
by conduct manifesting such an intent, and he could have been liable for
the  entire  $400.  Similarly,  had  he  failed  to  disaffirm  within  a
reasonable  time  after  reaching  18,  this  could  be  considered  a
ratification  of  his  original  promise.  Thus,  by  sending  the  letter,  the
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
student avoided the promise to pay $400. Since C recognizes this, it's
the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  electronics  store  will  be  able  to  recover  damages  to  the
extent the student ratified the contract when he reached 18: $300.

Under  these  facts,  the  student  entered  into  a  contract  for  a  non-

539

necessary item — a television set — when he was a minor. As a result,
his initial promise was voidable at his option due to his incapacity to
contract. Thus, had the student not ratified the contract when he reached
the  age  of  majority,  he  could  have  avoided  the  contract  all  together
(although  the  electronics  store  could  seek  return  of  the  set  via
restitution,  if  it  was  still  in  the  student's  possession  when  he
disaffirmed the contract).

However, what this ignores is that the student ratified the contract
when  he  reached  18.  Thus,  the  promise  to  pay  would  be  enforceable
without consideration or promissory estoppel, but only to the extent the
student  ratified  the  contract  —  that  is,  $300.  Since  A  ignores  the  fact
that the student ratified the contract when he reached 18, it's not the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it understates the electronics store's damages: it will be able to
recover to the extent the student ratified the contract at age 18 — that is,
$300.

Under  these  facts,  the  student  entered  into  a  contract  for  a  non-
necessary item — a television set — when he was a minor. As a result,
his initial promise was voidable at his option due to his incapacity to
contract. Thus, had the student not ratified the contract when he reached
the  age  of  majority,  he  could  have  avoided  the  contract  all  together
(although  the  electronics  store  could  seek  return  of  the  set  via
restitution,  if  it  was  still  in  the  student's  possession  when  he
disaffirmed  the  contract).  However,  by  ratifying  the  contract  when  he
reached 18, the student made the original promise to pay enforceable to
the extent he reaffirmed it: $300.

If you chose this response, you were thinking of the rule relating to
‘‘necessaries.'' When a minor contracts to purchase necessaries, he may
be  bound  to  pay  for  the  reasonable  value  of  those  items.  Necessaries
are  those  things,  including  clothing,  shelter,  food,  or  other  items,
necessary to sustain the minor, considering his age and station in life. If
you chose this response, it's fair to say that a lot of people would agree
that a television would be more necessary than food, shelter, or clothing
— especially if it has a remote control. Alas, the law wouldn't consider
a television a ‘‘necessary,'' so the reasonable value rule wouldn't apply.
Since choice B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

540

 
(D) is not the best response,

because it overstates the electronics store's damages; the student is only
liable to the extent he ratified the contract: $300.

Under  these  facts,  the  student  entered  into  a  contract  for  a  non-
necessary item — a television set — when he was a minor. As a result,
his initial promise was voidable at his option due to his incapacity to
contract. Thus, had the student not ratified the contract when he reached
the  age  of  majority,  he  could  have  avoided  the  contract  all  together
(although  the  electronics  store  could  seek  return  of  the  set  via
restitution,  if  it  was  still  in  the  student's  possession  when  he
disaffirmed  the  contract).  If  you  chose  this  response,  you  probably
thought  that  ratification  means  the  whole  obligation  is  revivified  —
however, that's not the rule. Say the facts were different, and the student
didn't disaffirm the contract within a reasonable time after reaching 18.
This  would  be  considered  a  ratification  of  the  original  promise,  and
he'd be obligated to pay the $400. In other words, a ratification needn't
be express; conduct manifesting intent, or failure to disaffirm within a
reasonable time after reaching majority, can do the trick as well. Since
D overstates the actual damages here, it's not the best response.

 Answer 27

 (A) is the best response,

because the investor still had the power of acceptance on April 21.

The statement in the document that the offer ‘‘will become effective
as  an  option  only  if  and  when  the  $100  consideration  is  in  fact  paid''
will  be  enforced.  However,  even  before  payment  of  the  $100,  the
landowner had made both an offer to sell the property, and an offer to
grant  an  option.  Each  of  those  offers  remained  open  unless  something
happened to either terminate it or cause it to be accepted.

The landowner's sale of the property to the developer on April 20
did  not  terminate  either  offer,  because  this  inconsistent  sale  could
terminate the offers only if it was a revocation, and a revocation does
not  become  effective  until  received  by  the  offeree.  So  the  revocation
could  not  have  become  effective  until  the  investor  learned  of  the
inconsistent sale, which (according to choice A) had not yet happened
by  the  time  the  investor  accepted  the  option  offer  by  delivering  his
check  to  the  landowner.  Once  that  happened,  the  offer  to  sell  the
property became temporarily irrevocable under the option.

541

 (B) is not the best response,

because  actions  taken  in  preparation  to  perform  cannot  keep  open  a
revoked offer.

An offeree can make an offer temporarily irrevocable if the offeree
makes preparations that are not explicitly required by the contract but
that  are  necessary  before  performance  can  begin.  The  Restatement  (in
§  87(2))  provides  that  an  offer  which  the  offeror  should  reasonably
expect  to  induce  action  or  forbearance  of  substantial  character  on  the
part  of  the  offeree  before  acceptance,  and  which  does  induce  such
action  or  forbearance,  is  binding  as  an  option  contract  to  the  extent
necessary  to  avoid  injustice.  But  there  are  two  problems  for  the
investor  with  this  approach:  (1)  it's  highly  unlikely  that  the  effort  in
applying for a loan constitutes action of a ‘‘substantial character''; and
(2) it's also highly unlikely that enforcing the contract at all would be
‘‘necessary  to  avoid  injustice,''  in  view  of  the  trivial  reliance  interest
that the investor has here.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  investor's  evidence  would  not  change  the  requirement  of
the contract.

In general, a party's oral statement, made prior to or simultaneously
with the signing of the document, that a clause of the document doesn't
mean  what  it  seems  to  mean  won't  be  effective  to  vary  the  contract.
(This stems from the parol evidence rule.) Since the document clearly
says  that  the  option  won't  be  binding  without  actual  payment  of  the
$100,  the  landowner's  statement  to  the  contrary  won't  change  this.  (If
the investor can show that the landowner intentionally mislead him, the
investor might have a claim for fraud. But if the landowner was simply
mistaken about the law on recitals of consideration, his oral statement
will have no legal effect.)

The  examiners  are  trying  to  confuse  you,  thinking  that  you  may
remember the general rule that where a contract recites the existence of
consideration, the court won't ordinarily insist on proof that the recited
consideration wasn't paid. But here, the document deals expressly with
the issue by not simply reciting that consideration ‘‘has been paid,'' but
by explicitly saying that ‘‘consideration hasn't been paid and the option
contract  won't  be  binding  until  consideration  is  paid.''  So  here,  the
general  rule  that  the  court  will  not  go  behind  recitations  of
consideration won't apply.

542

 (D) is not the best response,

because option contracts for the sale of real estate need consideration
to be binding.

The examiners are trying to trick you, by inducing you to think that
this contract is covered by the special UCC rule on firm offers. It's true
that  UCC  §  2-205  says  that  ‘‘[a]n  offer  by  a  merchant  to  buy  or  sell
goods in a signed writing which by its terms gives assurance that it will
be held open is not revocable, for lack of consideration, during the time
stated. . . .'' But the UCC applies only to contracts for the sale of goods,
not  real  estate.  There's  no  comparable  firm-offer  provision  in  the
general  common-law  principles  that  deal  with  real  estate.  Therefore,
the fact that both parties are ‘‘professional dealers in real estate'' makes
no difference.

 Answer 28

 (D) is the best response,

because the modification is ineffective.

At  common  law,  in  order  to  be  effective,  a  modification  must  be
supported by consideration. In this case, the modification would allow
the contractor to reap an additional benefit (the release of his obligation
to  pave  the  sidewalk)  without  offering  any  return  promise.  Since  the
contractor  has  not  provided  consideration  for  the  release,  the
modification  will  be  ineffective  under  the  pre-existing  duty  rule,  and
the landowner may elect to enforce the original contract as written.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the contract is not for the sale of goods.

At common law, a modification must be supported by consideration
in order to be effective. An exception exists for sales of goods, where
the  UCC  provides  that,  under  certain  circumstances,  a  good-faith
modification may be effective even absent consideration. However, the
UCC  is  inapplicable  to  this  situation  since  the  construction  contract
primarily  calls  for  the  provision  of  a  service,  not  the  sale  of  goods.
Accordingly,  since  the  contractor  has  not  provided  any  consideration
for the release of his obligation to pave the sidewalk, the modification
relieving him of that duty is ineffective, and the landowner can insist on
full performance.

543

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is too broad.

In general, contracts or modifications do not need to be in writing in
order to be enforceable. The exception is for contracts that fall within
the  Statute  of  Frauds  (suretyship,  interests  in  land,  promises  in
consideration  of  marriage,  performance  impossible  within  one  year,
and  sales  of  goods  valued  over  $500).  A  modification  must  be  in
writing if, as modified, the contract is within the statute of frauds. Since
the  landowner-contractor  agreement  does  not  fall  within  any  of  these
categories,  the  contract  and  its  modifications  do  not  need  to  be  in
writing.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  attempted  modification  occurred  after  the  original  written
agreement.

The parol evidence rule generally bars introduction of evidence of
prior oral understandings to interpret a later written agreement. While
there are many exceptions and nuances to this rule, they do not need to
be  reached  here  because  of  the  timing  of  the  attempted  oral
modification.  The  statements  at  issue  were  made  after  the  written
contract was entered into, so introduction of the oral statements will not
be  barred  by  the  parol  evidence  rule.  However,  as  noted  in  the
explanation of choice D above, the modification will still be ineffective
because it was unsupported by consideration.

 Answer 29

 (C) is the best response,

because acceptances are effective when mailed.

In order to analyze questions that ask you to determine the time at
which  a  contract  becomes  effective,  it  is  important  to  examine  each
communication one at a time. The uncle's May 1 letter, which said he
was  “thinking  of  selling”  his  pickup  truck,  is  not  an  offer,  because  it
does not create a power of acceptance in his nephew. Instead, it is more
accurately categorized as a solicitation for an offer, because it indicates
that  he  would  only  “consider”  a  $7,000  offer,  not  that  he  would
certainly accept it. The nephew's May 3 letter stating, “I will buy your
pickup  for  $7,000  cash,”  is  an  offer,  because  the  uncle  would

544

reasonably believe that he has the power to say “it's a deal” and form a
binding  contract.  This  is  exactly  what  he  did  in  his  letter  of  May  6,
which  accepted  the  nephew's  offer.  Under  the  mailbox  rule,  an
acceptance  is  effective  as  soon  as  the  offeree  places  the  letter  in  the
mail. As a result, the contract was formed on May 6.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the May 1 letter was not an offer.

In order to analyze questions that ask you to determine the time at
which  a  contract  becomes  effective,  it  is  important  to  examine  each
communication one at a time. The uncle's May 1 letter, which said he
was  “thinking  of  selling”  his  pickup  truck,  is  not  an  offer,  because  it
does not create a power of acceptance in his nephew. Instead, it is more
accurately categorized as a solicitation for an offer, because it indicates
that  he  would  only  “consider”  a  $7,000  offer,  not  that  he  would
certainly accept it. The nephew's May 3 letter stating, “I will buy your
pickup  for  $7,000  cash,”  is  an  offer,  because  the  uncle  would
reasonably believe that he has the power to say “it's a deal” and form a
binding  contract.  This  is  exactly  what  he  did  in  his  letter  of  May  6,
which  accepted  the  nephew's  offer.  Under  the  mailbox  rule,  an
acceptance  is  effective  as  soon  as  the  offeree  places  the  letter  in  the
mail. As a result, the contract was formed on May 6.

 (B) is not the best response,

because on May 5 the uncle had not yet accepted the nephew's offer.

In order to analyze questions that ask you to determine the time at
which  a  contract  becomes  effective,  it  is  important  to  examine  each
communication one at a time. The uncle's May 1 letter, which said he
was  “thinking  of  selling”  his  pickup  truck,  is  not  an  offer,  because  it
does not create a power of acceptance in his nephew. Instead, it is more
accurately categorized as a solicitation for an offer, because it indicates
that  he  would  only  “consider”  a  $7,000  offer,  not  that  he  would
certainly accept it. The nephew's May 3 letter stating, “I will buy your
pickup  for  $7,000  cash,”  is  an  offer,  because  the  uncle  would
reasonably believe that he has the power to say “it's a deal” and form a
binding  contract.  This  is  exactly  what  he  did  in  his  letter  of  May  6,
which  accepted  the  nephew's  offer.  Under  the  mailbox  rule,  an
acceptance  is  effective  as  soon  as  the  offeree  places  the  letter  in  the

545

 
mail. As a result, the contract was formed on May 6.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the nephew did not attempt to revoke his offer until after it had
been accepted.

In order to analyze questions that ask you to determine the time at
which  a  contract  becomes  effective,  it  is  important  to  examine  each
communication one at a time. The uncle's May 1 letter, which said he
was  “thinking  of  selling”  his  pickup  truck,  is  not  an  offer,  because  it
does not create a power of acceptance in his nephew. Instead, it is more
accurately categorized as a solicitation for an offer, because it indicates
that  he  would  only  “consider”  a  $7,000  offer,  not  that  he  would
certainly accept it. The nephew's May 3 letter stating, “I will buy your
pickup  for  $7,000  cash,”  is  an  offer,  because  the  uncle  would
reasonably believe that he has the power to say “it's a deal” and form a
binding  contract.  This  is  exactly  what  he  did  in  his  letter  of  May  6,
which  accepted  the  nephew's  offer.  Under  the  mailbox  rule,  an
acceptance  is  effective  as  soon  as  the  offeree  places  the  letter  in  the
mail  (rather  than  when  it  is  received).  As  a  result,  the  contract  was
formed on May 6. Generally, an offer can be revoked at any time before
it is accepted. Since there was already a binding contract on May 6, the
nephew's  attempt  to  revoke  the  offer  on  May  7  was  too  late,  and
therefore ineffective.

 Answer 30

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  laundry  company  knew  of  the  meaning  the  innkeeper
attached to the term “daily service.”

Generally  the  parol  evidence  rule  prohibits  consideration  of  prior
extrinsic  evidence  when  the  parties  have  entered  into  a  final  written
agreement.  However,  when  there  is  an  ambiguity  in  the  meaning  of  a
material term in a contract, a court may consider extrinsic evidence in
determining  the  proper  meaning.  This  may  take  the  form  of  usage  of
trade,  course  of  dealing,  or  course  of  performance,  with  the  most
specific  form  being  preferred.  However,  when  the  two  parties  attach
different meanings to the term at the time the agreement was made — in
this instance, the first knew the meaning attached by the second while
the  second  did  not  know  the  meaning  intended  by  the  first  —  the

546

meaning  attached  by  the  party  unaware  of  the  difference  (here,  the
second party) will control. In this case, the innkeeper did not know of
the custom in the industry that “daily service” did not include Sundays.
However, the laundry company was aware that the innkeeper expected
service  on  Sundays.  As  a  result,  the  innkeeper's  interpretation  will
control and the laundry company's action will fail.

 (B) is not the best response,

because a contract was formed.

In order for a contract to be formed, there must be a meeting of the
minds between the parties regarding the material terms of the contract.
Therefore, in cases where there is a mutual mistake about the meaning
of a material term to the contract, it may be that no meeting of the minds
has  occurred  and  no  contract  was  formed.  Raffles  v.  Wichelhaus
(1864).  However,  in  this  case,  the  misunderstanding  was  unilateral.
While  the  innkeeper  had  no  knowledge  of  the  meaning  attached  to  the
term “daily service” by the laundry company, the converse was not true.
When two parties to a contract attach different meanings to a material
term  in  the  contract,  and  only  one  party  knows  of  the  difference,  a
contract  will  be  formed  and  the  meaning  of  the  disputed  term  will  be
that supplied by the unaware party. In this case, the result is that there is
a contract for laundry service and Sundays are included within the term
“daily service.”

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  parol  evidence  rule  does  not  prohibit  introduction  of
extrinsic evidence when there is an ambiguity concerning the meaning
of a material term in a written contract.

Generally  the  parol  evidence  rule  prohibits  consideration  of  prior
extrinsic  evidence  when  the  parties  have  entered  into  a  final  written
agreement.  However,  when  there  is  an  ambiguity  in  the  meaning  of  a
material term in a contract, a court may consider extrinsic evidence in
determining  the  proper  meaning.  This  may  take  the  form  of  usage  of
trade,  course  of  dealing,  or  course  of  performance,  with  the  most
specific  form  being  preferred.  However,  when  the  two  parties  attach
different meanings to the term at the time the agreement was made — in
this instance, the first knew the meaning attached by the second while
the  second  did  not  know  the  meaning  intended  by  the  first  —  the
meaning  attached  by  the  party  unaware  of  the  difference  (here,  the

547

second party) will control. In this case, the innkeeper did not know of
the custom in the industry that “daily service” did not include Sundays.
However, the laundry company was aware that the innkeeper expected
service  on  Sundays.  As  a  result,  the  innkeeper's  interpretation  will
control and the laundry company's action will fail.

 (D) is not the best response,

because, while trade usage may be used to resolve an ambiguity in the
definition of a material term in a written contract, the innkeeper will be
able  to  introduce  the  more  specific  evidence  that  indicates  that  her
meaning of the term “daily service” should control.

Generally  the  parol  evidence  rule  prohibits  consideration  of  prior
extrinsic  evidence  when  the  parties  have  entered  into  a  final  written
agreement.  However,  when  there  is  an  ambiguity  in  the  meaning  of  a
material term in a contract, a court may consider extrinsic evidence in
determining  the  proper  meaning.  This  may  take  the  form  of  usage  of
trade,  course  of  dealing,  or  course  of  performance,  with  the  most
specific  form  being  preferred.  However,  when  the  two  parties  attach
different meanings to the term at the time the agreement was made — in
this instance, the first knew the meaning attached by the second while
the  second  did  not  know  the  meaning  intended  by  the  first  —  the
meaning  attached  by  the  party  unaware  of  the  difference  (here,  the
second party) will control. In this case, the innkeeper did not know of
the custom in the industry that “daily service” did not include Sundays.
However, the laundry company was aware that the innkeeper expected
service  on  Sundays.  As  a  result,  the  innkeeper's  interpretation  will
control and the laundry company's action will fail.

 Answer 31

 (D) is the best response,

because the buyer purchased the second tract.

Generally,  when  a  party  repudiates,  that  party  may  retract  that
repudiation  at  any  time.  However,  the  right  to  retract  the  repudiation
ends once the non-repudiating party has materially changed its position
in reliance on the repudiation. In this problem, the buyer learned of the
seller's  repudiation  on  June  1st  and  four  days  later  purchased  a
substitute tract. The buyer would not have done so but for the seller's
indication that he did not intend to go through with his obligations under

548

the contract. At the point the buyer purchased the substitute plot, he had
materially  changed  his  position,  and  the  seller's  repudiation  became
non-retractable.  Since  the  seller's  attempted  retraction  was  not  until
five days after the substitute tract, the retraction was ineffective.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the seller's repudiation became final when the buyer purchased
the substitute tract.

Generally,  when  a  party  repudiates,  that  party  may  retract  that
repudiation  at  any  time.  However,  the  right  to  retract  the  repudiation
ends once the non-repudiating party has materially changed its position
in reliance on the repudiation. In this problem, the buyer learned of the
seller's  repudiation  on  June  1st  and  four  days  later  purchased  a
substitute tract. The buyer would not have done so but for the seller's
indication that he did not intend to go through with his obligations under
the contract. At the point the buyer purchased the substitute plot, he had
materially  changed  his  position,  and  the  seller's  repudiation  became
non-retractable.  Since  the  seller's  attempted  retraction  was  not  until
five days after the substitute tract, the retraction was ineffective.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the seller's repudiation relieved the buyer of his obligation to
tender payment.

Generally,  the  obligations  to  tender  payment  and  convey  land  in  a
real  estate  conveyance  contract  are  conditions  simultaneous  to  each
other.  However,  in  this  problem,  the  buyer  was  relieved  of  his
obligation  to  perform  his  obligations  since  the  seller  had  repudiated
(anticipatorily  breached) 
the  contract.  The  seller's  repudiation
combined  with  the  buyer's  purchase  of  the  substitute  tract  made  the
seller's  repudiation  final.  From  that  point  onward,  the  buyer  had  the
right  to  sue  the  seller  for  breach  and  the  buyer's  obligation  to  tender
payment on the closing date was discharged.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  repudiation  was  retractable  until  the  buyer  purchased  the
substitute tract.

Generally,  when  a  party  repudiates,  that  party  may  retract  that
repudiation  at  any  time.  However,  the  right  to  retract  the  repudiation
ends once the non-repudiating party has materially changed its position

549

in reliance on the repudiation. In this problem, the buyer learned of the
seller's  repudiation  on  June  1st  and  four  days  later  purchased  a
substitute tract. The buyer would not have done so but for the seller's
indication that he did not intend to go through with his obligations under
the contract. At the point the buyer purchased the substitute plot, he had
materially  changed  his  position,  and  the  seller's  repudiation  became
non-retractable.  Since  the  seller's  attempted  retraction  was  not  until
five days after the substitute tract, the retraction was ineffective.

 Answer 32

 (A) is the best response,

because the other harms to the carpenter are unrecoverable in a contract
action.

The homeowner breached the contract by not paying promptly upon
the  carpenter's  completion  of  the  work.  As  a  result,  the  carpenter  can
sue for the contract price (here $10,000) plus any damages that would
have  been  foreseeable  by  the  homeowner  at  the  time  of  the  breach.
Aside  from  non-payment,  the  carpenter  has  suffered  two  harms:  the
medical  bills  and  the  lost  discount  on  the  car  he  had  contracted  to
purchase.  However,  neither  of  these  is  recoverable  because  the
homeowner could not have foreseen them. A reasonable person would
not expect non-payment on a contract to cause the payee to have a heart
attack,  and  the  homeowner  was  not  on  notice  of  the  prompt  payment
provision in the carpenter's contract to purchase the car. As a result, the
only item for which the carpenter can recover is the amount due under
the terms of the contract with the homeowner.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the carpenter's heart attack was not foreseeable.

The homeowner breached the contract by not paying promptly upon
the  carpenter's  completion  of  the  work.  As  a  result,  the  carpenter  can
sue for the contract price (here $10,000) plus any damages that would
have  been  foreseeable  by  the  homeowner  at  the  time  of  the  breach.
Assuming  that  the  carpenter  could  show  that  his  heart  attack  was  a
result of the homeowner's breach, his medical bills would still not be
recoverable  since  the  heart  attack  was  not  foreseeable.  A  reasonable
person would not expect non-payment on a contract to cause the payee
to have a heart attack. As a result, the only item for which the carpenter

550

can recover is the amount due under the terms of the contract with the
homeowner, and he should recover $10,000.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the homeowner did not know of the discount provision.

The homeowner breached the contract by not paying promptly upon
the  carpenter's  completion  of  the  work.  As  a  result,  the  carpenter  can
sue for the contract price (here $10,000) plus any damages that would
have  been  foreseeable  by  the  homeowner  at  the  time  of  the  breach.
Although the fact that the carpenter was unable to take advantage of the
prompt payment discount in the contract for the purchase of the car was
a  direct  result  of  the  homeowner's  non-payment,  it  will  still  not  be
recoverable, since the homeowner was not on notice of the provision.
As  a  result,  the  only  item  for  which  the  carpenter  can  recover  is  the
amount due under the terms of the contract with the homeowner, and he
should recover $10,000.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the claim is liquidated.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  likely  based  your  choice  on  the
amount  of  benefit  received  by  the  homeowner  as  a  result  of  the
carpenter's work. This would be an appropriate measure of damages in
a case in which an unjust enrichment claim is available. However, an
important limitation on the scope of unjust enrichment claims is that the
amount  recovered  cannot  exceed  the  contract  price  when  the  only
obligation  under  the  contract  left  unperformed  is  the  payment  of  a
liquidated  sum.  Since  the  carpenter  has  completed  his  work,  the  only
action  that  the  contract  still  obliges  anyone  to  perform  is  the
homeowner's  payment  of  the  contract  price.  Here,  the  contract  price
($10,000)  is  lower  than  the  value  received  by  the  homeowner
($13,000), so the carpenter will be limited in his suit to a recovery of
$10,000.

 Answer 33

 (D) is the best response,

because the dealer intentionally misled the buyer.

In the event that a seller convinces a buyer to purchase goods based
on  the  seller's  intentional  material  misrepresentation,  the  buyer  may

551

elect to void the contract of sale. Here, the buyer specifically asked the
dealer whether the car had been in any accidents and the dealer made
statements that were clearly intended to cause the buyer to believe that
it had not, even though the dealer knew that was not the case. Although
the  seller  did  not  explicitly  state  that  the  car  had  never  been  in  an
accident, the context of his statements (in response to a direct question)
would  cause  a  reasonable  person  hearing  them  to  believe  that  the  car
was  accident-free.  The  context  also  indicates  that  the  dealer's  silence
was an intentional deception, since he had also repaired and repainted
the car to conceal evidence of the past accident. As to the materiality
requirement, the fact that a car had been in an accident would clearly be
a  piece  of  information  that  would  be  an  important  concern  to  an
individual deciding whether or not to purchase a car. Accordingly, the
buyer may void the contract and rescind the sale.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  seller  made  a  material  misrepresentation  in  an  effort  to
induce the buyer to purchase the car.

In the event that a seller convinces a buyer to purchase goods based
on  the  seller's  intentional  material  misrepresentation,  the  buyer  may
elect to void the contract of sale. Here, the buyer specifically asked the
dealer whether the car had been in any accidents and the dealer made
statements that were clearly intended to cause the buyer to believe that
it had not, even though the dealer knew that was not the case. Although
the  seller  did  not  explicitly  state  that  the  car  had  never  been  in  an
accident, the context of his statements (in response to a direct question)
would  cause  a  reasonable  person  hearing  them  to  believe  that  the  car
was  accident-free.  The  context  also  indicates  that  the  dealer's  silence
was an intentional deception, since he had also repaired and repainted
the  car  to  conceal  evidence  of  the  past  accident.  Although  the  seller
offered the buyer the opportunity to have his own mechanic examine the
car, there was no obligation for her to do so. Absent such an obligation,
the  buyer  is  entitled  to  rely  on  the  seller's  statements  regarding  the
condition of the car. As to the materiality requirement, the fact that a car
had  been  in  an  accident  would  clearly  be  a  piece  of  information  that
would be an important concern to an individual deciding whether or not
to  purchase  a  car.  Accordingly,  the  buyer  may  void  the  contract  and
rescind the sale.

552

 
(B) is not the best response,

because  the  dealer's  statements,  taken  in  context,  were  intended  to
imply that the car had never been in an accident.

In the event that a seller convinces a buyer to purchase goods based
on  the  seller's  intentional  material  misrepresentation,  the  buyer  may
elect to void the contract of sale. Here, the buyer specifically asked the
dealer whether the car had been in any accidents and the dealer made
statements that were clearly intended to cause the buyer to believe that
it had not, even though the dealer knew that was not the case. Although
the  seller  did  not  explicitly  state  that  the  car  had  never  been  in  an
accident, the context of his statements (in response to a direct question)
would  cause  a  reasonable  person  hearing  them  to  believe  that  the  car
was  accident-free.  The  context  also  indicates  that  the  dealer's  silence
was an intentional deception, since he had also repaired and repainted
the car to conceal evidence of the past accident. As to the materiality
requirement, the fact that a car had been in an accident would clearly be
a  piece  of  information  that  would  be  an  important  concern  to  an
individual deciding whether or not to purchase a car. Accordingly, the
buyer may void the contract and rescind the sale.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the evidence is insufficient to support a claim that the contract
was unconscionable.

In  order  for  a  contract  to  be  unconscionable,  it  must  have  unfair
terms that were agreed to as a result of an unfair bargaining process. In
general,  more  than  mere  misrepresentation  on  the  part  of  one  party  is
needed to show unconscionability. Unconscionability will generally be
found only in cases where no reasonable person would have agreed to
the  terms  of  the  contract  after  fair  negotiations.  There  will  normally
have  to  be  grossly  unfair  terms  in  the  contract  and  the  bargaining
process  would  have  to  be  characterized  by  a  substantial  inequality  in
bargaining  power.  Here,  the  buyer  could  have  had  his  own  mechanic
examine  the  car,  so  there  was  a  procedural  safeguard  to  protect  the
buyer  from  the  dealer's  advantage  in  knowledge.  On  the  MBE,  you
should  be  very  careful  before  selecting  unconscionability  as  a
justification for voiding a contract because of the high hurdles that must
be cleared in order to prove the defense. It is much more likely that an
easier–to–prove defense to enforcement, such as inducement by fraud,
is available.

553

 Answer 34

 (A) is the best response,

because it provides a sound basis for enforcing the oral contract.

The principal obstacle for the nephew under these facts is finding a
way to enforce the land sale contract even though it was oral. That is,
he wants to prove that when the widower bought the farm, the nephew
got the farm. The problem is, land sale contracts are within the Statute
of  Frauds,  meaning  that  they  must  be  in  writing  to  be  enforceable.
(While  Statutes  of  Frauds  vary  from  state  to  state,  land  sale  contracts
are traditionally covered.)

Since the contract here required a writing, if the nephew prevailed,
it means he offered some basis on which the writing requirement would
be excused. Furthermore, note that the nephew would want the contract
enforced,  not  just  quasi-contractual  recovery  (which  would  give  him
only the reasonable value of his services).

Choice A offers just such a basis, by providing reasoning that some
states  view  as  a  valid  excuse  from  complying  with  the  Statute  of
Frauds.  Courts  are  becoming  more  willing  to  apply  the  reliance
doctrine to Statute of Frauds problems, such that where a buyer relies
on  the  contract  and  performs  under  it  on  that  basis,  the  other  party  is
estopped from pleading the Statute of Frauds, and the performing party
(here, the nephew) can recover on the contract. Thus, while land sale
contracts  traditionally  required  payment  plus  some  action  explainable
only by the contract's existence, modern courts are allowing payment to
suffice  based  on  reliance.  While  you  couldn't  say  this  was  a  general
rule, choice A specifically conditions the recovery on the action being
in a state that does recognize the reliance doctrine. This, coupled with
the fact that no other choice would result in the nephew's being able to
enforce the contract, makes A the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because although it states a theoretically correct rule of law, it would
not  apply  to  these  facts;  and  beyond  that,  it  wouldn't  give  the  nephew
the remedy he wants (enforcing the contract) but rather would result in
recovery under quasi-contract (the reasonable value of his services).

Under  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  certain  types  of  contracts  must  be  in
writing  in  order  to  be  enforceable.  While  the  contracts  covered  vary
somewhat  from  state  to  state,  such  contracts  typically  include,  among

554

others, those contracts incapable of performance in less than one year;
contracts  in  consideration  of  marriage;  contracts  for  the  sale  of  an
interest  in  land;  and  sale  of  goods  and  securities  as  covered  by  the
UCC.  As  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  an  interest  in  land,  the  contract
between the widower and his nephew would have to comply with the
Statute of Frauds.

However,  there  are  circumstances  where  compliance  with  the
Statute  of  Frauds  will  be  excused.  Typically,  this  will  occur  where
excuse  is  the  only  way  to  avoid  undue  hardship  or  fraud.  Choice  B
states the traditional rule: Under a land sale contract, where the buyer
pays in whole or in part, the seller's promise to sell is only enforceable
if  there  is  other  conduct  unequivocally  referable  to  the  agreement  —
that  is,  the  only  explanation  for  the  payment  and  acts  is  the  contract's
existence. For instance, if a buyer pays and constructs buildings on the
land, this would unequivocally suggest a land sale contract. However,
under  these  facts,  the  nephew  could  have  performed  services  for  the
widower with the expectation of payment, not necessarily conveyance
of the land. Thus, the “unequivocal referability” would be missing. Not
only  that,  but  using  this  argument  would  only  give  the  nephew  the
reasonable value of his services, not the farm itself (and it's the farm he
wants). Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the “clean hands” doctrine is irrelevant to these facts.

The “clean hands” doctrine is only relevant where a plaintiff seeks
specific performance of a contract. Under that doctrine, a plaintiff will
be denied specific performance if he's guilty of any inequitable conduct
with  respect  to  the  transaction  in  controversy.  There  are  two  reasons
why  this  won't  apply  here.  First,  the  widower's  son  is  not  seeking
specific  performance  of  a  contract;  instead,  his  is  a  standard  legal
claim  for  possession  of  land.  Second,  while  the  son  may  have  been
something  of  a  jerk  for  ignoring  his  father  in  his  twilight  years,  this
wouldn't rise to the level of inequity. Thus, the “clean hands” doctrine
wouldn't be relevant to a court's decision in the nephew's favor. Since
C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it offers an exception to the Statute of Frauds that does not, in
fact, exist.

555

Under  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  certain  types  of  contracts  must  be  in
writing to be enforceable. While the contracts covered vary from state
to  state,  contracts  for  the  sale  of  interests  in  land  are  traditionally
covered.  Thus,  the  contract  between  the  widower  and  his  nephew
would  be  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and  would  generally  require  a
writing to be enforceable.

However,  there  are  circumstances  where  compliance  with  the
Statute  of  Frauds  will  be  excused.  Typically,  this  will  occur  where
excuse  is  the  only  way  to  avoid  undue  hardship  or  fraud.  The  mere
existence  of  any  familial  relationship  would  not  provide  an  excuse
from satisfying the Statute of Frauds. Instead, the source of the excuse
under these facts is that the nephew would suffer undue hardship if the
contract weren't enforced. Since choice D doesn't recognize this, it's not
the best response.

 Answer 35

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  interest  rate  condition  was  intended  to  only  benefit  the
buyer.

While the general rule is that express conditions in a contract will
be strictly enforced, there is an important exception for cases in which
a condition is only intended to benefit one party to the contract. In such
cases,  that  party  always  has  the  power  to  waive  the  condition.  The
waiver  need  not  be  express,  but  rather  may  be  inferred  by  the
circumstances. Here, the provision that made the buyer's obligation to
purchase  the  parcel  conditional  on  his  obtaining  a  loan  at  an  interest
rate no higher than ten percent was designed to protect the buyer in the
event that he could not obtain such a loan. (The seller has no reason to
care  what  interest  rate  the  buyer  gets.)  Since  the  buyer  tendered  the
purchase price, he was clearly willing to go through with the sale even
though  he  was  unable  to  get  a  loan  at  a  specified  rate.  From  this
conduct, a court would certainly infer that the buyer intended to waive
the  condition.  Accordingly,  the  seller  cannot  use  the  failure  of  the
condition as a means of avoiding the contract.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is an incorrect statement of law.

The problem with choice A is the word “only.” It is true that a court

556

will avoid applying the “strict compliance” rule in situations where a
forfeiture  would  result  (i.e.,  one  party  has  relied  on  the  bargain  and
insisting  on  strict  compliance  would  cause  him  to  fail  to  receive  the
expected benefit of his bargain). However, this is not the only case in
which a court will not enforce strict compliance. In particular, as is the
situation in this case, a court will allow a party to waive a condition if
the  condition  was  included  in  the  contract  solely  to  benefit  the  party
seeking to waive it. The waiver need not be express, but rather may be
inferred by the circumstances.

 (B) is not the best response,

because there was no attempt to modify the contract.

The  issue  of  this  problem  is  not  modification  of  the  contract,  but
rather the waiver of an express condition. A modification is a change in
the  obligations  of  one  or  both  of  the  parties  to  a  contract.  Here,  the
parties  are  not  disputing  whether  or  not  the  obligations  under  the
contract  have  been  changed.  Instead,  the  dispute  is  over  whether  the
seller can refuse to perform because the buyer was unable to obtain a
loan  at  or  below  a  ten  percent  interest  rate,  which  was  an  express
condition in the contract. The seller is unable to enforce this condition
because  it  was  included  in  the  contract  solely  for  the  benefit  of  the
buyer (to protect him in case he could not get a satisfactory loan). When
an  express  condition  protects  only  one  party  to  a  contract,  that  party
may  elect  to  waive  the  condition  and  insist  on  the  other  party's
performance even if the condition has not been satisfied.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it raises an irrelevant concern.

The  issue  in  this  case  is  whether  the  seller  can  refuse  to  perform
because the buyer was unable to obtain a loan at or below a ten percent
interest rate, which was an express condition in the contract. The seller
is  unable  to  enforce  this  condition  because  it  was  included  in  the
contract  solely  for  the  benefit  of  the  buyer  (to  protect  him  in  case  he
could not get a satisfactory loan). When an express condition protects
only one party to a contract, that party may elect to waive the condition
and insist on the other party's performance even if the condition has not
been  satisfied.  While  it  is  certainly  true  that  the  buyer  detrimentally
changed his position in reliance on the seller's promise to convey (by
taking  a  loan),  that  is  irrelevant  to  whether  or  not  the  contract  is

557

enforceable.  If  the  contract  was  not  enforceable,  and  the  buyer  was
attempting to sue under a promissory estoppel theory, then the concern
would  be  relevant.  However,  since  the  buyer  will  be  able  to  enforce
the contract, he will not have to rely on promissory estoppel.

 Answer 36

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  addresses  the  central  reason  that  the  salesman  will  not  be
entitled to the commission.

There  are  two  key  points  here:  the  provisions  of  the  original

contract, and the fact that the termination wasn't wrongful.

Under the original contract, the manufacturer was free to terminate
the salesman at any time. Furthermore, the salesman's being employed
when the bill was sent to the customer was an express condition of the
duty to pay the commission. As a result, in the absence of a bad-faith
termination,  the  contract  terms  would  control  in  determining  the
salesman's  right  to  the  commission.  Here,  you're  told  specifically  that
the  termination  wasn't  wrongful.  Thus,  the  termination  was  within  the
manufacturer's  rights,  and  it  can't  be  a  source  of  liability  for  the
company.

Furthermore, the salesman was paid a salary for the time he put in,
and  thus  the  manufacturer  didn't  receive  something  for  nothing.  A
primary  purpose  of  contracts  is  to  allocate  risks.  Here,  the  salesman
knew  what  he  bargained  for  and  undertook  the  risk  he  might  be
rightfully terminated before the bill was sent. The thing that makes this
question tough is that your gut feeling is that the salesman deserves the
commission.  This  answer  indicates,  as  do  so  many  MBE  questions,
why it's so important to analyze MBE questions coldly and impartially.
Since  D  recognizes  that  the  salesman  isn't  entitled  to  the  commission
and the central reason why, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  existence  of  an  express  condition  that  was  not
satisfied under these facts.

The  contract  between  the  manufacturer  and  the  salesman  required
that the salesman be employed when the bill is sent to a customer in
order  to  receive  a  commission  from  that  sale.  Thus,  eligibility  to

558

 
receive a commission is expressly conditioned on the salesman's being
employed when the bill is sent. Here, the salesman was fired on March
15, and the bill was sent on March 31. Thus, an express condition was
not met, and the salesman is not entitled to the commission. (Note that
the salesman is trying to recover under the contract, since he's seeking
the sales commission, not the reasonable value of his services.)

If you chose this response, it's probably because your gut feeling is
that the salesman should be paid. Probably, if you were the salesman,
you'd  stuff  a  raw  potato  up  the  exhaust  pipe  of  your  former  boss's
Mercedes  —  right?  If  you  feel  this  way,  there's  an  important  fact  you
overlooked:  The  termination  wasn't  wrongful.  Had  the  manufacturer
acted in bad faith, the result would have been entirely different. In fact,
another  significant  point  is  that  the  salesman  was  also  receiving  a
salary.  Thus,  when  the  salesman  entered  the  employment  agreement,
terminable  at  the  manufacturer's  will  and  with  the  commission-only-
when-billed  provision,  he  got  what  he  bargained  for.  Since  A
mistakenly  states 
the  sales
commission, it's not the best response.

the  salesman  should  recover 

that 

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  salesman's  promise  to  help  the  customer  will  not  be
relevant to his claim against the manufacturer.

The salesman's promise to the customer will not determine his right
to the sales commission. Instead, you have to look at the manufacturer's
and the salesman's rights and duties under the employment contract and
determine if there is some basis on which the salesman is entitled to the
sales commission. The original contract was terminable at will, so the
manufacturer could fire the salesman on the spot, anytime. Furthermore,
the contract makes employment on the date the customer is sent a bill an
express  condition  of  the  duty  to  pay  the  salesman  a  commission.  Of
course,  if  the  manufacturer  acted  wrongfully  or  in  bad  faith,  the
salesman would prevail. But this question tells you specifically that the
termination  wasn't  wrongful.  The  salesman  was  terminated  March  15,
and  the  bill  was  sent  March  31;  thus,  he's  not  entitled  to  the  sales
commission.

A wrinkle here is that the manufacturer knew the salesman promised
the customer that he'd assist for six months after installation in getting
the system going. Thus, the salesman could argue that the manufacturer
was  estopped  from  firing  him  for  that  period.  However,  the  facts
specifically tell you that the termination was within the manufacturer's

559

rights,  so  estoppel  can't  apply.  Since  B  attaches  significance  to  the
salesman's promise to the customer, where little actually exists, B isn't
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  facts.  If  quantum  meruit  were  applicable
(which  it  isn't),  it  would  mean  the salesman  should  get  paid,  not  his
replacement.

Quantum  meruit  (“what  the  thing's  worth”)  is  the  measure  of
recovery  under  quasi-contract.  Quasi-contract  is  typically  applied
where plaintiff confers a benefit on the defendant, under circumstances
where  defendant  would  be  unjustly  enriched  if  he  were  allowed  to
retain the benefit without paying for it. The problem with applying this
here is that there is a contractual provision that controls, and so there is
no  basis  for  referring  to  quasi-contract.  Under  the  contract  here,  the
manufacturer  was  entitled  to  fire  the  salesman  at  any  time.  The
salesman's  employment  at  the  time  a  customer  is  billed  is  an  express
condition to his being paid a commission. Most importantly, you're told
that  the  salesman's  termination  wasn't  wrongful.  Thus,  the  salesman's
right to the commission can be determined within the four corners of the
contract, without falling back on quasi-contract.

Assuming arguendo  that  quasi-contract  were  applicable,  it  would
result  in  the  salesman  being  paid,  not  his  replacement,  since  it's  the
salesman's  work  with  the  customer  that  resulted  in  the  benefit  to  the
manufacturer.  Thus,  even  if  quasi-contract  were  appropriate  here,
choice C misapplies it, so it's not the best response.

 Answer 37

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  captures  the  rule  on  when  defective  installments
may be rejected.

In sale-of-goods cases, it is actually harder for the buyer under an
installment contract to reject a nonconforming tender than for the buyer
in  a  one-shot  (non-installment)  contract.  Rejection  in  installment
contracts  is  handled  by  a  special  code  section,  §  2-612(2),  which
begins  by  saying  that  “the  buyer  may  reject  any  installment  which  is
non-conforming if  the  non-conformity  substantially impairs  the  value
of  that  installment  and  cannot  be  cured[.]”  The  final  clause  of  that

560

section  then  adds  a  proviso  dealing  further  with  cure:  If  the  non-
conformity of the installment does  not  substantially  impair  the  value
of the whole contract, then “if . . . the seller gives adequate assurance
of [the non-conformity's] cure the buyer must accept that installment.”
Applying  §  2-612(2)  to  these  facts:  (1)  The  non-conformity
certainly  substantially  impaired  the  value  of  the  installment,  since  50
percent of the required poundage was missing. (2) The non-conformity
couldn't be “cured” here, since a cure would require that the shortfall
be made up by the time of the weekly baking on Tuesday morning, and
the  seller  was  merely  committing  to  make  up  the  shortfall  on
Wednesday,  which  would  be  too  late  to  be  useful.  (3)  For  the  same
reason as (2), the seller's assurances of cure were not “adequate,” since
the  make-up  delivery  would  arrive  too  late  for  the  week's  baking.  So
Choice  B  correctly  explains  why  the  requirements  for  the  buyer  to
reject under § 2-612(2), first clause, are satisfied.

 (A) is not the best choice,

because  the  perfect  tender  rule  that  it  recites  does  not  apply  to  these
facts.

In  one-shot  (non-installment)  cases,  UCC  §  2-601  essentially
applies  (though  with  some  important  exceptions)  the  “perfect  tender”
rule  —  the  buyer  can  reject  the  whole  delivery,  or  any  commercial
units, if the goods “fail in any respect to conform to the contract[.]” But
§  2-601  explicitly  says  that  it  does  not  apply  to  installment  contracts,
and  the  contract  here  is  an  installment  contract.  As  is  described  in
Choice B, in installment contracts the buyer may reject the installment
only  if  the  non-conformity  “substantially  impairs”  the  value  of  the
installment.

 (C) is not the best choice,

because it relies on two irrelevant facts.

First, the installment buyer is permitted, by § 2-601(2), to reject a
non-conforming installment if the non-conformity substantially impairs
the  value  of  that installment  —  there  is  no  requirement  that  the  non-
conformity also impair the value of the entire contract. (Impairment of
the value of the entire contract matters only if the buyer wants to cancel
the  whole  contract,  not  merely  reject  the  installment;  see  §  2-601(3).)
Second, the wholesaler's assurances of cure are irrelevant here — to be
a true “cure,” the promised delivery would have to be in time for the

561

weekly baking session, and here the promised delivery would, even if
it happened, be a day too late. Therefore, the assurances of cure were
not “adequate,” as § 2-601(2) requires.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because  the  bakery's  acceptance  of  the  non-conformity  of  the  first
installment did not affect its right to reject the second installment.

It's  true  that  even  where  a  non-conformity  in  one  installment
substantially  impairs  the  value  of  the  whole  contract,  the  buyer  loses
his right to cancel the whole contract (and is deemed to “reinstate the
contract”)  if  he  accepts  the  non-conforming  installment  without
promptly  notifying  the  seller  of  the  cancellation.  UCC  §  2-612(3).  So
here,  if  the  shortage  in  the  first  installment  had  substantially  impaired
the value of the whole contract (which it probably did not), the bakery's
willingness to accept the late evening delivery would have wiped out
any right the bakery might have had to cancel the whole contract at that
point.  But  acceptance  of  one  non-conforming  installment  does  not
constitute  a  waiver  of  the  buyer's  right  to  reject  any  later  installment
whose nonconformity substantially impairs the value of that installment.
So  nothing  the  bakery  did  in  connection  with  the  first  installment
limited its right to reject the second non-conforming installment.

 Answer 38

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  arbitration  clause  was  a  proposal  for  an  additional  term,
which automatically became part of the contract if it was not a material
alteration.

This  is  a  classic  battle-of-the-forms  problem  under  the  UCC.
Because  the  buyer's  offer  was  silent  on  the  issue  of  whether  disputes
were  to  be  arbitrated,  the  arbitration  clause  contained  in  the  seller's
acknowledgment (i.e., the seller's acceptance) was what the UCC refers
to  as  an  “additional”  term.  Under  §  2-207(2),  in  a  contract  between
merchants, the acceptance's proposed additional terms become part of
the contract unless one of three things happens: (1) the offer expressly
limits  acceptance  to  the  term  of  the  offer;  (2)  the  proposed  term
materially  alters  the  contract;  or  (3)  the  offeror  promptly  notifies  the
offeree of an objection to the proposed term. (It's clear that both parties
are  “merchants,”  because  non-merchants  don't  buy  or  sell  50  tons  of

562

cotton.)

Here,  it's  clear  that  event  (1)  didn't  happen  (the  buyer's  offer  said
nothing to indicate that the seller could only accept by agreeing to the
terms of the offer and making no other changes or proposals). Similarly,
it's clear that (3) didn't happen, since the buyer never responded with
an  objection  (or  any  other  comment)  about  the  proposed  arbitration
clause. So the arbitration clause became part of the contract as long as
(2)  didn't  happen,  i.e.,  as  long  as  the  clause  is  not  deemed  to  have
materially altered the contract. Courts have generally split on the issue
of  whether  an  arbitration  clause  materially  alters  a  contract.  But  this
choice  is  correct  in  stating  that  the  seller's  best argument  is  to  assert
that  the  arbitration  clause  did  not  pose  a  material  alteration  —  the
seller  has  a  plausible  chance  of  convincing  the  court  that  this  is  true,
and if the seller is able to do so, he automatically wins the case (i.e.,
he's  entitled  to  arbitration).  By  contrast,  none  of  the  other  arguments,
even  if  factually  correct,  will  result  in  victory  for  the  seller  on  this
point.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states a fact that, even if true, is irrelevant.

Even  if  arbitration  were  a  more  efficient  dispute  resolution
mechanism  (which  may  or  may  not  be  true),  arbitration's  relative
efficiency  is  not  the  governing  standard  for  assessing  whether  the
arbitration  provision  became  a  term  of  the  parties'  agreement.  Rather,
the issue is determined by UCC § 2-207(2)'s detailed provisions about
when a proposed “additional” term in the acceptance becomes part of
the  agreement.  And  the  relative  efficiency  of  the  proposed  additional
term is not one of the factors to be considered under § 2-207(2).

 (B) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  correctly  states  a  fact,  it  draws  an  unwarranted
conclusion from that fact.

It's true that the provision for arbitration did not contradict any term
in  the  buyer's  offer,  since  the  buyer's  offer  was  entirely  silent  about
whether there should be arbitration. But this choice falsely implies that
where the acceptance proposes a term that does not contradict any term
in the offer, the term proposed in the acceptance automatically becomes
part of the contract. UCC § 2-207(2) contains detailed provisions about
when  a  proposed  “additional”  (i.e.,  non-contradicting)  term  in  the

563

acceptance  becomes  part  of  the  agreement;  sometimes  the  additional
term does not do so.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  is  based  on  the  incorrect  premise  that  the  seller's  response
was a counter-offer.

If  the  case  was  to  be  resolved  by  common-law  principles,  this
choice's assertion that the seller's response was a counter-offer would
be  factually  correct.  That's  because,  under  the  common  law's  “mirror
image”  rule,  an  additional  material  term  in  a  response  to  an  offer
constitutes  a  counter-offer.  However,  UCC  Article  2  governs  this
transaction  because  it  involves  a  sale  of  goods.  Under  UCC  §  2-207,
the presence of an additional term does not turn what would otherwise
be an acceptance into a counter-offer: § 2-207(1) says that “A definite
and  seasonable  expression  of  acceptance  or  a  written  confirmation
which is sent within a reasonable time operates as an acceptance even
though  it  states  terms  additional  to  or  different  from  those  offered  or
agreed upon, unless acceptance is expressly made conditional on assent
to  the  additional  or  different  terms.”  Since  the  “acceptance  .  .  .
expressly  made  conditional  on  assent”  language  does  not  apply  here,
the  presence  of  the  proposed  additional  term  did  not  stop  the  seller's
acknowledgment from serving as an acceptance and forming a contract.
Furthermore, the buyer's silent acceptance of the goods does not, under
§ 2-207, mean that the buyer is deemed to have accepted the arbitration
clause.  The  agreement  was  complete  as  soon  as 
the  seller's
acknowledgment  clause  was  sent,  and  no  later  conduct  by  the  buyer
(e.g.,  his  “accepting”  the  delivery  by  not  sending  the  goods  back)
changed the terms of that already-completed agreement.

 Answer 39

 (B) is the best response,

because the contract qualifies as an enforceable requirements contract
under the UCC.

UCC  §  2-306  authorizes  requirements  and  output  contracts.  The
contract here is enforceable, because the company's promise to buy all
of  its  requirements  for  lawn  care  products  during  the  coming  year
furnished  consideration  for  the  supplier's  promise  to  give  it  a  10
percent  discount  off  its  published  prices.  Although  the  terms  of  the

564

agreement  gave  the  supplier  the  discretion  to  increase  the  published
prices during the year, nothing in the contract gave the supplier the right
to  discontinue  the  10  percent  discount  from  the  published  prices.
Therefore, the supplier's refusal to continue giving the discount was a
breach.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the fact that the parties partly performed is irrelevant.

The fact that the parties have partly performed an agreement matters
in some scenarios. For instance, an oral agreement that would normally
fall within the Statute of Frauds and thus be unenforceable may become
enforceable  based  on  part  performance.  But  the  contract  here  was  in
writing, and met the criteria for a requirements contract under the UCC.
Therefore, the supplier was required to honor the 10 percent discount
throughout the coming year. And that is true without respect to whether
there had been any part performance.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the supplier had no right of revocation at the time in question.

“Revocation” refers to the offeror's right to cancel his offer up until
the  time  a  contract  has  been  formed  by  mutual  assent  (i.e.,  by
acceptance).  Once  the  contract  is  formed,  the  offeror  no  longer  has  a
right of revocation. If the agreement here could properly be construed
as a series of offers to make individual one-delivery contracts, then the
supplier might indeed have had the right of revocation described in this
choice. But this “series of offers” interpretation is not correct here; the
parties  made  a  single  contract  to  cover  all  of  the  company's
requirements  for  lawn  care  products  during  the  coming  year,  not  a
series of possible future contracts.

 (D) is not the correct response,

because  the  absence  of  a  minimum  quantity  term  did  not  affect  the
enforceability of the contract.

UCC  §  2-306(1)  makes  requirements  (and  output)  contracts
enforceable. If the parties choose to impose a minimum-quantity term in
a requirements contract, that term will be enforced. But as long as the
buyer  is  promising  to  buy  all  his  requirements  for  a  certain  type  of
product, the fact that the contract does not establish a minimum quantity
does  not  prevent  the  contract  from  being  enforceable.  (§  2-306(2)

565

imposes on the buyer an obligation to “use best efforts to promote the
sale  of  the  goods,”  thus  preventing  the  buyer's  promise  from  being
illusory  and  therefore  preventing  the  seller  from  having  a  lack-of-
consideration defense.)

 Answer 40

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly construes the limits on the general contractor's right
to demand assurances of performance.

This  is  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  goods,  so  the  scope  of  a  party's
right  to  demand  assurances  of  performance  is  specified  in  UCC  §  2-
609(1). That section says, in part, that “When reasonable grounds for
insecurity  arise  with  respect  to  the  performance  of  either  party  the
other  may  in  writing  demand  adequate  assurance  of  due  performance
and  until  he  receives  such  assurance  may  if  commercially  reasonable
suspend  any  performance  for  which  he  has  not  already  received  the
agreed  return.”  By  negative  implication,  if  reasonable  grounds  for
insecurity  concerning  the  performance  of  the  other  party  have  not  yet
arisen, the first party does not have a right to demand assurances. Since
we're expressly told that “the general contractor had no reason to doubt
the  subcontractor's  ability  to  perform,”  we  know  that  reasonable
grounds  for  insecurity  had  not  yet  arisen.  Therefore,  the  general
contractor  had  no  right  to  demand  assurances,  and  the  subcontractor
was  not  required  to  provide  them.  When  he  didn't  provide  them,  this
was  not  a  repudiation  or  breach  of  the  contract,  so  the  general
contractor  had  no  right  to  suspend  (let  alone  cancel)  the  contract  or
obtain the supplies from someone else.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the subcontractor was not required to provide assurances.

There  are  indeed  circumstances  in  which  a  contracting  party's
failure to provide adequate assurance of performance upon request by
the  other  party  will  constitute  an  anticipatory  repudiation.  But  under
UCC § 2-609(1), the party who wishes to demand assurances may do
so only “when reasonable grounds for insecurity arise with respect to
the performance of [the other] party.” Since we're told that the general
contractor had no reason to doubt the subcontractor's ability to perform,
the  general  contractor  had  no  right  to  demand  assurances,  and  the

566

subcontractor's  failure 
anticipatory repudiation.

 (B) is not the best response,

to  provide 

them  was 

therefore  not  an

because  the  absence  of  a  stated  quantity  did  not  matter  in  this
requirements contract.

The  subcontractor  promised 

the  general
contractor's requirements for steel joists that would be required in the
construction  of  the  building.  Therefore,  this  was  a  valid  requirements
contract under UCC § 2-306(1), and that's true even though the contract
did not state a definite quantity or even a minimum quantity.

to  deliver  all  of 

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  although  it  reaches  the  correct  conclusion,  it  misstates  the
legal effect of the contract's silence on the right to demand assurances.

Both at common law and under the UCC, if the contract is silent on
the  issue,  either  party  has  the  right  to  demand  assurances  of
performance  from  the  other,  if  (and  only  if)  the  demanding  party  has
reasonable  grounds  for  feeling  insecure  about  whether  the  other  party
will perform. So if the general contractor had had reasonable grounds
for insecurity about whether the subcontractor would perform, the fact
that the contract document did not expressly give the general contractor
a  right  to  demand  assurances  would  not  have  transformed  his  demand
into a breach. The problem with the general contractor's demand here is
that he did not in fact have reasonable grounds for insecurity.

 Answer 41

 (D) is the best response,

because even a total integration may be supplemented or explained by a
trade usage.

First, notice that this agreement, since it is for the sale of goods, is
governed  by  Article  2  of  the  UCC.  Article  2's  version  of  the  parol
evidence rule makes it clear that even a term in a total integration may
be supplemented or explained by a trade usage. When the sub-sections
of § 2-202 are viewed together, the result is that even where the writing
is  a  total  integration  (i.e.,  it  was  “intended  .  .  .  as  a  complete  and
exclusive  statement  of  the  terms  of  the  agreement,”  §  2-202(b)),  the
meaning of terms in it may still be “explained or supplemented (a) by

567

course  of  performance,  course  of  dealing,  or  usage  of  trade[.]”  (But
express  terms  in  the  total  integration  may  not  be  “contradicted”  by
evidence of prior agreements, or of simultaneous oral agreements; also,
even “consistent additional terms” may not be shown if the integration
is total.)

According  to  most  courts,  a  trade  usage  will  be  viewed  as
permissibly  “explaining”  or  “supplementing”  a  term  in  a  total
integration, as long as the usage doesn't represent a “total negation” of
the  writing.  The  5%-leeway  trade  usage  would  likely  not  be  found  to
“totally  negate”  the  quantity  term  of  the  writing,  but  rather,  to  merely
“explain” the precise meaning of that term.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  offered  evidence  is  not  inconsistent  with  the  express
language of the agreement.

Under  UCC  §  2-202,  evidence  of  trade  usage  may  be  used  to
“explain” or “supplement” the meaning of a term, even a term contained
in  a  total  integration.  However,  that  provision  says  that  no  form  of
evidence  (trade  usage  or  otherwise)  may  “contradict”  such  a  writing.
But  by  the  prevailing  view,  only  evidence  that  “totally  negates”  a
written  term  will  be  deemed  to  be  contradictory.  Here,  the  writing
contains the quantity term, but does not say anything about how one is to
interpret the meaning of the stated quantity. So it's likely that the court
would conclude that the 5 percent-leeway usage is a non-contradictory
and permissible “explanation” of the quantity term.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  agreement  was  totally  integrated  doesn't
prevent admission of the proposed evidence.

UCC § 2-202 says that although a writing is either partly or totally
integrated (i.e., the writing is what the section calls a “writing intended
by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to
such terms as are included therein”), a term in it may be “explained” or
“supplemented” (though not “contradicted”) by a trade usage. And even
the fact that the writing was a total integration (i.e., was, as we're told,
“intended  as  a  complete  and  exclusive  statement  of  the  terms  of  the
agreement,”  mirroring  language  in  §  2-202(b))  doesn't  preclude  the
court  from  considering  a  trade  usage  that  merely  “explains”  a  written
term. As is discussed in Choice A, since the trade usage here does not

568

“totally  negate”  the  written  quantity  term,  it's  admissible  as  an
explanation of the written term's meaning.

 (C) is not the best response,

because substantial performance by the farmer would not be sufficient.

tender”  rule,  not 

This is a non-installment contract (i.e., a “one-shot” contract). UCC
§  2-601,  which  applies  to  non-installment  contracts,  says  that  “if  the
goods  or  the  tender  of  delivery  fail  in  any  respect  to  conform  to  the
contract,” the buyer may “reject the whole.” This section thus applies
the  “perfect 
the  more-forgiving  substantial-
performance  standard.  So  even  though  the  farmer  probably  did
substantially  perform,  that  fact  alone  will  not  entitle  him  to  establish
that  the  buyer  breached  by  rejecting  the  shipment.  Furthermore,  the
question  asks  you  whether  the  proffered  trade-usage  evidence  will  be
admitted, and the fact that the farmer may or may not have substantially
performed is irrelevant to that question.

 Answer 42

 (C) is the best response,

because restitution is designed to reverse unjust enrichment.

A party's “restitution interest” is defined as his “interest in having
restored to him any benefit that he has conferred on the other party.”
Rest. 2d of Contracts § 344(c). Of the three sums laid out by the buyer,
the only one that took the form of a benefit conferred on the other party
was  the  $1,000  down  payment.  Under  UCC  §  2-711(1),  if  the  seller
fails to make delivery, the buyer is entitled to various items of damage
“in addition to recovering so much of the price as has been paid[.]” So
in  addition  to  such  expectation-interest  damages  as  the  cost  of  cover,
the buyer will be entitled to restitution of the down payment.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not represent any benefit conferred on the seller.

A party's restitution interest is the party's interest in having restored
to him any benefit that he has conferred on the other party. Rest. 2d §
344(c). The cost of the foundation was not a sum that was paid to the
seller,  and  it  did  not  benefit  the  seller.  Therefore,  it  is  not  part  of  the
buyer's  restitution  interest  (though  it  would  be  recoverable  as  a
component of his expectation interest).

569

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not represent any benefit conferred on the seller.

A party's restitution interest is the party's interest in having restored
to him any benefit that he has conferred on the other party. Rest. 2d §
344(c). The $500 price differential, although paid out by the buyer, did
not  confer  any  benefit  on  the  seller,  so  it  can't  be  part  of  the  buyer's
restitution interest (though it would be recoverable as a component of
his expectation interest).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer's  restitution  interest  includes  the  $1,000  down
payment.

This  choice  is  wrong  because  choice  C  is  correct  —  the  buyer's
restitution interest consists of his interest in recovering any benefit he
conferred  on  the  other  party,  an  interest  that  would  encompass  the
$1,000 down payment.

 Answer 43

 (A) is the best response,

because,  although  the  offer  was  no  longer  irrevocable  on  April  15,  it
had not been revoked, and was therefore capable of being accepted.

UCC  §  2-205  allows  merchants  to  make  ‘‘firm  offers,''  i.e.,  offers
that  are  irrevocable  for  a  limited  period  even  without  consideration.
Section 2-205 says that the period of irrevocability ‘‘in no event may . .
.  exceed  three  months.''  So  by  April  15,  the  offer  was  no  longer
irrevocable, and the stationer was therefore free to revoke it.

But the stationer did not in fact revoke. (The revocation could only
have occurred if the lawyer had learned that the stationer was no longer
sticking to the offer.) Nor did the offer lapse on account of the passage
of time, because the circumstances indicate that a ‘‘reasonable time for
acceptance'' was any time during the following year. There is no other
event that caused the offer to terminate. Consequently, the lawyer's fax
was a valid acceptance.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  at  the  time  of  acceptance  this  was  not  an  option  contract  any

570

more.

For the reasons stated in the analysis of choice A above, the period
of  irrevocability  —  i.e.,  the  period  during  which  there  was  an  option
contract  —  was  only  three  months,  not  one  year.  So  the  lawyer's
acceptance  was  effective  not  because  there  was  an  option  contract  at
the  time  he  accepted,  but  because  the  non-option-contract  offer  was
unrevoked  as  of  the  moment  of  his  acceptance  (as  described  in  the
discussion of choice A above).

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  the  stationer's  offer  was  irrevocable  for  only  three
months,  it  was  still  in  force  (though  revocable)  when  the  lawyer
accepted.

It's true that, as this choice states, an offer by a merchant under § 2-
205  may  remain  ‘‘firm,''  i.e.,  irrevocable,  only  for  three  months,  at  a
maximum. But after that time expires, a firm offer doesn't automatically
terminate,  it  merely  becomes  revocable.  The  stationer  didn't  exercise
its right to terminate the offer, so it was still in force when the lawyer
accepted it on April 15.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  in  this  case  a  reasonable  time  for  acceptance  was  the  entire
year.

It's  true  that,  as  this  choice  suggests,  an  offer  that  has  no  express
acceptance deadline will lapse after a ‘‘reasonable time.'' But here, the
letter's reference to ‘‘the next calendar year'' indicates that a reasonable
time  for  acceptance  was  the  entire  next  year.  After  three  months,  the
stationer had the right to termination by revocation, but it didn't do so.
Since  there  was  no  termination  by  lapse  of  a  reasonable  time  for
acceptance, the April 15 acceptance occurred while the offer was still
open, and was therefore effective.

 Answer 44

 (C) is the best response,

because unless a sales contract expressly provides otherwise, the risk
of loss passes when the goods are shipped.

Because  the  subject  of  this  contract  is  the  sale  of  goods  (the
bracelets), Article 2 of the UCC applies. UCC § 2-509 provides that, as

571

a default rule, when a third-party carrier is used, the risk of loss of the
goods passes to the buyer upon the seller's delivery of the goods to the
carrier.  The  parties  to  the  contract  are  free  to  alter  this  allocation  of
risk by providing otherwise in the contract. However, since the contract
of sale is silent on this matter, § 2-503 will apply, and the risk of loss
passed when the bracelets were delivered to the carrier.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the risk of loss passed when the seller delivered the bracelets
to the carrier.

Because  the  subject  of  this  contract  is  the  sale  of  goods  (the
bracelets), Article 2 of the UCC applies. UCC § 2-509 provides that, as
a default rule, when a third-party carrier is used, the risk of loss of the
goods passes to the buyer upon the seller's delivery of the goods to the
carrier.  The  parties  to  the  contract  are  free  to  alter  this  allocation  of
risk by providing otherwise in the contract. However, since the contract
of sale is silent on this matter, § 2-503 will apply, and the risk of loss
passed when the bracelets were delivered to the carrier.

 (B) is not the best response,

because identification of goods to the contract does not cause the risk of
loss to shift from seller to buyer.

Because  the  subject  of  this  contract  is  the  sale  of  goods  (the
bracelets), Article 2 of the UCC applies. UCC § 2-509 provides that, as
a default rule, when a third-party carrier is used, the risk of loss of the
goods passes to the buyer upon the seller's delivery of the goods to the
carrier.  The  parties  to  the  contract  are  free  to  alter  this  allocation  of
risk by providing otherwise in the contract. However, since the contract
of sale is silent on this matter, § 2-503 will apply, and the risk of loss
passed when the bracelets were delivered to the carrier.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the risk of loss had already passed to the buyer when the seller
delivered the bracelets to the carrier.

Because  the  subject  of  this  contract  is  the  sale  of  goods  (the
bracelets), Article 2 of the UCC applies. UCC § 2-509 provides that, as
a default rule, when a third-party carrier is used, the risk of loss of the
goods passes to the buyer upon the seller's delivery of the goods to the
carrier.  The  parties  to  the  contract  are  free  to  alter  this  allocation  of

572

risk by providing otherwise in the contract. However, since the contract
of sale is silent on this matter, § 2-503 will apply, and the risk of loss
passed when the bracelets were delivered to the carrier.

 Answer 45

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  UCC  allows  the  attempt  at  modification  to  serve  as  a
waiver.

Waiver  is  a  party's  manifestation  of  willingness  to  forego  the
benefit of a condition that occurs after the contract is formed but before
the condition fails to occur. So here, the pharmacist's oral agreement on
August  1  that  the  cabinets  didn't  have  to  be  delivered  until  August  20
meets the requirement of a waiver.

The real issue in this question is the effect of the Statute of Frauds.
Under § 2-201(1), a sales contract for $500 or more must be supported
by a signed writing.

The question is whether, in a contract that falls within § 2-201(1)'s
Statute of Frauds requirement (because it's for more than $500) and that
initially satisfies that requirement, any modification must be in writing.
Section 2-209(3), on modifications, says that ‘‘the requirements of the
statute of frauds section . . . must be satisfied if the contract as modified
is  within  its  provisions.''  Courts  are  in  confusion  about  whether  and
when this sentence requires the modification itself to be in writing. But
on  these  facts  it  doesn't  matter,  because,  according  to  §  2-209(4),
‘‘[a]lthough an attempt at modification or rescission does not satisfy the
requirements of [the Statute of Frauds], it can operate as a waiver.'' So
the  pharmacist's  oral  promise  to  take  a  later  delivery,  although  oral,
will still act as a waiver. Although the pharmacist might have had the
power to retract the waiver (see § 2-209(5), allowing retraction unless
retraction would be ‘‘unjust in view of a material change of position in
reliance  on  the  waiver''),  there's  no  indication  in  these  facts  that  the
pharmacist  ever  retracted.  So  he's  bound  by  the  waiver,  and  the
furniture store will win.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the July 15 contract would have to be in writing per the Statute
of  Frauds,  but  the  oral  change  would  nonetheless  be  binding  as  a
waiver.

573

Under  §  2-201(1),  a  sales  contract  for  $500  or  more  must  be
supported by a signed writing. So this contract had to be in writing, as
it was. Consequently, choice A is flatly wrong.

The furniture store will win, but not for the reason given. Instead, it
will win because the August 1 agreement (whether or not it had to be in
writing to be a full, non-retractable change to the agreement) served as
a waiver, and, as described in the analysis of choice B above, waivers
will be enforced even though they are oral.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  UCC  does  not  require  consideration  for  agreements
modifying a preexisting contract.

See  §  2-209  (1):  ‘‘An  agreement  modifying  a  contract  within  this

Article needs no consideration to be binding.''

 (D) is not the best response,

because the parol evidence rule does not apply.

The parol evidence rule as integrated into the UCC holds that where
a  writing  is  a  final  expression  of  the  parties'  agreement  (i.e.,  an
integration),  it  may  not  be  contradicted  by  evidence  of  any  prior
agreement,  whether  written  or  oral,  nor  of  any  oral  agreement  that  is
contemporaneous with the writing.

The August 1 agreement occurred after, not before or simultaneous
with, the execution of the signed writing. Therefore, the parol evidence
rule has no application on the issue of whether the August 1 agreement
is enforceable though an oral agreement.

 Answer 46

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly states that the baker has a valid claim against the
farmer for breach of contract.

Under UCC § 2-601, the buyer, in a single delivery (not installment)
contract, has the right to reject the goods if they ‘‘fail in any respect to
conform to the contract.'' However, the seller will have the right to cure
defects,  under  §  2-508,  under  two  circumstances,  as  long  as  seller
notifies buyer of his intent to cure:

1. The time for performance has not run out, and the seller can cure

within that time; or

574

2. The seller has reason to believe that the buyer would accept non-
conforming goods — in which case the seller can go reasonably
beyond the time allowed for performance in curing the defects.
Here, neither of these exceptions will apply. The contract called for
the  farmer  to  deliver  on  August  1,  which  he  did;  thus,  there's  no  time
left  for  performance.  Second,  there's  nothing  in  these  facts  to  give  the
farmer a reasonable belief that the baker would accept non-conforming
goods. As a result, the general rule will apply, and the baker will have
a claim for breach (since the baker rightfully rejected the goods). Since
C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not reflect the UCC view on performance.

Under  the  UCC,  the  general  rule  is  that  the  buyer  in  a  single
delivery  contract  has  the  right  to  reject  the  goods  if  they  ‘‘fail  in  any
respect to conform to the contract.'' UCC § 2-601. In fact this is not the
panacea it seems, since the seller has a right to cure defects, pursuant to
§ 2-508, if he notifies the buyer of the intent to cure, and:

1. The time for performance has not run out, and the seller can cure

within that time; or

2. The seller has reason to believe that the buyer would accept non-
conforming goods — in which case the seller can go reasonably
beyond the time allowed for performance in curing the defects.
Neither  of  these  exceptions  would  benefit  the  farmer  under  these
facts, because the time for performance expired the same day the farmer
delivered the defective shipment, and there's nothing under these facts
to  give  the  farmer  a  reasonable  belief  the  baker  would  accept  non-
conforming goods. Thus, the baker would have a valid claim against the
farmer for failure to deliver the 100 bushels of wheat.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  thinking  of  the  common-law
rule, under which a minor contractual breach (which is what this would
be  considered)  does  not  relieve  the  aggrieved  party  of  his  duty  to
perform; instead, he must perform and sue for damages. However, since
a  transaction  in  goods  is  involved  here,  the  UCC  controls,  and  since
choice A doesn't reflect the UCC stance, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the farmer would not be excused from performing on grounds
of impossibility.

575

Under  UCC  §  2-613,  a  seller  can  only  avoid  a  contract  due  to
impossibility if the goods are identified when the contract is made, and
the goods are destroyed, through no fault of either party, before the risk
of loss passes to the buyer. Here, the goods weren't identified when the
contract was made; the contract was for any 100 bushels of wheat.

Instead, the farmer will be liable to the baker for failure to deliver
the  wheat,  since  the  time  for  performance  ended  the  day  the  farmer
delivered the 95 bushels to the baker, and the farmer had no reason to
believe the baker would give him extra time in which to cure the defect.
Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the baker had no duty to give the farmer the opportunity to cure
the defect.

The general rule is that, in single delivery contracts (not installment
contracts), the buyer has the right to reject the goods if they ‘‘fail in any
respect  to  conform  to  the  contract.''  UCC  §  2-601.  This  isn't  quite  as
strict as it sounds, because the seller has a right to cure defects under
one  of  two  exceptions  from  §  2-608,  as  long  as  the  seller  notifies  the
buyer of his intent to cure:

1. The time for performance has not run out, and the seller can cure

within that time; or

2. The seller has reason to believe that the buyer would accept non-
conforming goods — in which case the seller can go reasonably
beyond the time allowed for performance in curing the defects.
Here,  neither  one  of  these  would  apply  so  as  to  give  the  farmer  a
chance to cure. First, the contract called for delivery on August 1, and
the farmer delivered the defective shipment on August 1, so the time for
performance had run out. Second, under these facts, the farmer had no
grounds to believe the baker would accept a defective shipment. Thus,
the baker had no obligation to accept the shipment.
If you chose this response, you may have been thinking of a buyer's
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
obligation under an installment contract, not a single delivery contract
like the one involved here. Where installment contracts are concerned,
the  buyer  can  only  reject  non-conforming  installments  if  the  non-
conformity  substantially  impairs  the  value  of  that  installment  and  the
defect  can't  be  cured.  If  the  seller  gives  adequate  assurances  of  cure,
the  buyer  must  accept  the  installment.  Thus,  under  an  installment
contract, the farmer could have additional time to get his hands on more
wheat,  and  the  baker  probably  would  have  to  accept  the  95  bushels.

576

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

However, since the rule for single-delivery contracts is different, and a
single delivery contract is involved here, D isn't the best response.

 Answer 47

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  seller  accepted  the  buyer's  offer  by  promising  to  sell  the
specific computer.

In  a  sales  contract,  the  UCC  provides  that  an  order  (offer)  can  be
accepted  either  by  shipping  goods  (either  conforming  or  non-
conforming) or by promising to do so. UCC § 2-206(1)(b). The seller's
June 2 letter, promising to ship the computer the next day, was therefore
the seller's acceptance of the buyer's offer to purchase. On June 3, the
seller shipped a different computer (a non-conforming good). Because
the contract had been accepted on June 2, the shipment, even though it
was  accompanied  by  the  letter,  was  not  an  accommodation  shipment.
Instead,  the  non-conforming  shipment  was  a  breach.  In  the  event  of  a
breach by shipment of non-conforming goods, the seller may accept or
reject the shipment, and in either event sue for damages.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the seller breached the contract.

In  a  sales  contract,  the  UCC  provides  that  an  order  (offer)  can  be
accepted  either  by  shipping  goods  (either  conforming  or  non-
conforming) or by promising to do so. UCC § 2-206(1)(b). The seller's
June 2 letter, promising to ship the computer the next day, was therefore
the seller's acceptance of the buyer's offer to purchase. On June 3, the
seller shipped a different computer (a non-conforming good). Because
the contract had been accepted on June 2, the shipment, even though it
was  accompanied  by  the  letter,  was  not  an  accommodation  shipment.
Instead,  the  non-conforming  shipment  was  a  breach.  In  the  event  of  a
breach by shipment of non-conforming goods, the seller may accept or
reject the shipment, and in either event sue for damages.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer's  offer  had  already  been  accepted  before  the  seller
sent the non-conforming computer.

In  a  sales  contract,  the  UCC  provides  that  an  order  (offer)  can  be
accepted  either  by  shipping  goods  (either  conforming  or  non-

577

conforming) or by promising to do so. UCC § 2-206(1)(b). The seller's
June 2 letter, promising to ship the computer the next day, was therefore
the  seller's  acceptance  of  the  buyer's  offer  to  purchase.  The  contract
was thus formed on June 2, the day before the shipment.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer's  offer  had  already  been  accepted  before  the  seller
sent the non-conforming computer.

In  a  sales  contract,  the  UCC  provides  that  an  order  (offer)  can  be
accepted  either  by  shipping  goods  (either  conforming  or  non-
conforming) or by promising to do so. UCC § 2-206(1)(b). The seller's
June 2 letter, promising to ship the computer the next day, was therefore
the  seller's  acceptance  of  the  buyer's  offer  to  purchase.  The  contract
was thus formed on June 2, the day before the shipment. If you selected
choice D, you were probably thinking that the seller's shipment of the
non-conforming computer was an accommodation shipment. Under the
UCC  §  2-206(1)  (b),  in  response  to  an  order,  a  seller  may  send  non-
conforming goods. If the seller also notifies the buyer that the goods are
meant as an accommodation, then the shipment is not an acceptance and
breach,  but  rather  a  counteroffer,  which  the  buyer  may  accept  by
accepting  the  goods.  This  is  not  the  case  here,  because  the  seller  had
already accepted the buyer's offer by sending the June 2 letter.

 Answer 48

 (C) is the best response,

because the retailer is a ‘‘lost volume'' seller.

A ‘‘lost volume'' seller is one who can obtain as many items from a
supplier as she can sell. When the customer of such a seller breaches
his  contract,  and  the  seller  resells  the  item  to  another  customer  at  the
same price, the seller will end up making one fewer sale because of the
breach. This is because the new customer would have bought the item
anyway,  regardless  of  whether  the  first  customer  had  breached.
Damages  available  to  a  lost  volume  seller  under  the  UCC  are  the
profits,  including  reasonable  overhead,  which  the  seller  would  have
made from full performance by the buyer, together with any incidental
damages. UCC § 2-708(2).

The retailer is a ‘‘lost volume'' seller, because as the facts state, the
company  can  buy  more  ICB  personal  computers  than  it  can  sell.  The

578

retailer  contracted  with  the  law  firm  for  the  sale  of  an  ICB  personal
computer for $3,000. The law firm repudiated and the retailer sold at
private sale the same specific computer to the bank, who paid the same
price.  The  retailer  did  not  lose  any  money  on  the  sale  of  the  specific
computer, but as a lost volume seller, the retailer made one fewer sale.
The retailer's damages would include the profit from the lost sale to the
law firm plus any incidental damages.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  damages  to  a  ‘‘lost  volume''  seller  include  lost  profits  and
incidental damages.

A ‘‘lost volume'' seller is one who can obtain as many items from a
supplier as she can sell. When the customer of such a seller breaches
his  contract,  and  the  seller  resells  the  item  to  another  customer  at  the
same price, the seller will end up making one fewer sale because of the
breach. This is because the new customer would have bought the item
anyway,  regardless  of  whether  the  first  customer  had  breached.
Damages  available  to  a  lost  volume  seller  under  the  UCC  are  the
profits,  including  reasonable  overhead,  which  the  seller  would  have
made from full performance by the buyer, together with any incidental
damages.

The retailer is a ‘‘lost volume'' seller, because as the facts state, the
retailer can buy more ICB personal computers than it can sell. So the
fact that the retailer sold the unit in question to a different buyer for the
same  price  is  irrelevant  —  the  company  has  still  lost  one  net  sale.
Under  the  UCC,  damages  available  to  a  ‘‘lost  volume''  seller  include
the  profits  from  the  seller's  lost  sale  (to  the  law  firm)  plus  any
incidental damages.

 (B) is not the best response,

because notice of intent to resell is not required where the recovery is
on a ‘‘lost volume'' basis.

When  the  seller  elects  the  remedy  of  ‘‘cover''  —  i.e.,  the  right  to
resell  and  collect  the  difference  between  the  resale  price  and  the
(higher) contract price — and the resale is at a private sale, the seller
is required to give the buyer ‘‘reasonable notification of his intention to
resell.'' UCC § 2-706(3). Since we're told here that the retailer's sale to
the  bank  is  ‘‘at  private  sale,''  the  retailer  would  be  required  to  give
notice of intent to resell to the law firm if the retailer wanted to recover

579

the resale/contract-price differential under § 2-706(3).

However, the retailer is not recovering on this resale/contract-price
basis.  That's  because  that  basis  would  give  it  $0.  Instead,  it's
recovering  its  lost  profits  as  a  lost  volume  seller  under  §  2-708(2).
(See the discussion of choice C above for an analysis.) There's no pre-
sale notice requirement for recoveries on this lost-volume basis.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  damages  available  to  a  lost  volume  seller  are  not  the
contract price.

As  the  discussion  of  choice  C  above  describes,  the  retailer  is  a
‘‘lost  volume''  seller,  who  has  lost  one  net  sale  and  is  entitled  under
UCC  §  2-708(2)  to  the  profits  that  it  would  have  made  from  full
performance  by  the  buyer,  together  with  any  incidental  damages.
Nothing  in  the  UCC  provides  for  a  different  measure  of  damages  —
such  as  the  full  contract  price  —  merely  because  the  buyer  has
‘‘unjustifiably repudiated.'' (Giving the retailer the entire contract price
would obviously over-compensate it, since it has avoided having to pay
the wholesale purchase price to the manufacturer.)

 Answer 49

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  answer  correctly  states  the  UCC's  non-carrier  rules  for
delivery and payment.

Under  the  UCC,  non-carrier  cases  are  those  instances  where  the
parties  did  not  intend  that  the  goods  be  moved  by  carrier.  That  is  the
case here, since there's no indication that either party thought a carrier
would  be  used.  In  non-carrier  cases,  unless  the  contract  provides
otherwise, ‘‘payment is due at the time and place at which the buyer is
to receive the goods.'' UCC § 2-310(A). In other words, this was to be
a  cash  sale,  with  payment  due  when  the  goods  were  delivered.
Furthermore, under § 2-308(a), the place for delivery was ‘‘the seller's
place of business. . . .'' So if the landlord didn't tender cash on March 1
at the seller's place of business, the plumbing company had no duty to
deliver  the  goods.  (Nor  was  the  landlord  entitled  to  wait  until  all  50
sets  of  fixtures  had  been  delivered  —  see  the  discussion  of  choice  D
below.)

580

 (A) is not the best response,

because delivery would not be to the landlord's place of business.

Under § 2-308(a), unless the contract provided otherwise (which it
didn't) the place for delivery was ‘‘the seller's place of business. . . . ''
Since  choice  A  says  that  the  sets  of  fixtures  must  be  delivered  at  the
landlord's place of business, it's wrong.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  payment  is  due  concurrently  with  the  plumbing  company's
delivery.

Under UCC § 2-310(a), unless otherwise agreed, ‘‘payment is due
at  the  time  and  place  at  which  the  buyer  is  to  receive  the  goods  even
though the place of shipment is the place of delivery.'' Since the parties
made no plans for shipment by common carrier, the place for delivery
was  the  seller's  premises  (see  discussion  of  choice  A  above).
Therefore,  payment  was  due  concurrently  with  delivery  —  i.e.,  the
buyer  was  not  entitled  to  even  brief  credit.  (Nor  was  the  landlord
entitled to wait until all 50 sets of fixtures had been delivered — see
the discussion of choice D below.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because payment is due only on the 25 sets of fixtures delivered.

Under  UCC  §  2-307,  unless  otherwise  agreed,  ‘‘where  the
circumstances give either party the right to make or demand delivery in
lots the price if it can be apportioned may be demanded for each lot.''
Since the agreement contemplates that delivery would occur separately
for each of the two lots, and since the price can easily be apportioned
(because the sets of fixtures are usable independently of each other), the
quoted  provision  applies.  Therefore,  the  plumbing  company  was
entitled to demand that payment for the first 25 sets be made at the time
these sets were delivered.

 Answer 50

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  confirmation  sent  by  the  manufacturer  became  binding  on
the retailer when he failed to object.

In sales-of-goods cases, a writing signed by the party against whom

581

enforcement  is  sought  is  required  for  contracts  aggregating  $500  or
more.  UCC  §  2-201(1)(first  sentence).  However,  there  is  a  very
important exception: A merchant who receives  a  signed  confirmation
from  the  other  party  will  be  bound  by  it  just  as  if  he  had  signed  it,
unless the recipient of the confirmation objects within ten days. UCC §
2-201(2).

Both the retailer, a dry goods retailer, and the manufacturer, a towel
manufacturer, are merchants. The manufacturer confirmed in writing the
agreement it reached with the retailer on the phone. Under § 2-201(2),
if the retailer did not want to enter into a contract under those terms, the
retailer  was  obligated  to  object  in  writing  within  ten  days.  Since  the
retailer did not object, the contract is enforceable under the terms listed
in the confirmation.

The  fact  that  the  retailer  originally  offered  to  buy  somewhere
between 500 and 1,000 towels is irrelevant. Under the last sentence of
§  2-201(1),  where  a  memorandum  (writing)  of  the  agreement  exists,
‘‘the contract is not enforceable . . . beyond the quantity of goods shown
in such writing.'' Since under § 2-201(2) the confirmation serves as the
type of memorandum required in § 2-201(1), the 500-unit quantity listed
in  the  confirmation  is  the  maximum  quantity  for  which  the  contract  is
enforceable.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the written confirmation stated a term of 500 towels.

As  described  more  fully  in  the  last  sentence  of  the  discussion  of
choice  B  above,  the  contract  was  not  enforceable  beyond  the  quantity
stated in the confirmation. UCC §§ 2-201(1) and (2).

 (C) is not the best response,

because as a confirmation between merchants, the agreement does not
need to be signed.

Under  UCC  §  2-201(2),  a  merchant  who  receives  a  signed
confirmation from the other party will be bound by it just as if he had
signed  it,  unless  the  recipient  of  the  confirmation  objects  in  writing
within  ten  days.  Since  both  the  manufacturer  and  the  retailer  were
merchants, when the retailer failed to object in writing within ten days
of getting the manufacturer's signed letter (a confirmation), the retailer
is bound even though he never signed a writing.

582

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  absence  of  a  price  term  from  the  memorandum  will  not
make a contract unenforceable.

In sales-of-goods cases, a memorandum is required if the total sale
amount is $500 or more. But the memorandum need not recite all terms;
according  to  the  last  sentence  of  §  2-201(1),  ‘‘[a]  writing  is  not
insufficient because it omits or incorrectly states a term agreed upon. . .
.  ''  So  the  fact  that  the  price  was  omitted  is  irrelevant.  (The
manufacturer  will  be  permitted  to  prove  that  the  parties  orally  agreed
on the $5 price.)

 Answer 51

 (D) is the best response,

because the seller's acceptance was effective on dispatch.

First, the buyer's signed order was an offer. How could this offer be
accepted?  Well,  under  UCC  §  2-206(1),  ‘‘[u]nless  otherwise
unambiguously  indicated  by  the  language  or  circumstances  .  .  .  (b)  an
order or other offer to buy goods for prompt or current shipment shall
be construed as inviting acceptance either by a prompt promise to ship
or by the prompt or current shipment of conforming or non-conforming
goods[.]''  So  this  order  authorized  the  seller  to  accept  by  either
promising to ship or shipping.

Next,  we  have  to  figure  out  whether  and/or  when  the  seller
accepted  that  offer.  Acceptance  by  mail  was  reasonable  under  the
circumstances (see § 2-206(1) (a): Acceptance normally may be made
‘‘in any manner and by any medium reasonable in the circumstances.'').
The  ‘‘mailbox  rule''  (a  common-law  rule  that  applies  in  the  UCC
context  because  nothing  in  Article  2  displaces  it,  and  under  §  1-103
common-law rules apply in the UCC unless expressly displaced by the
Code)  states  that  acceptance  is  effective  immediately  upon  proper
dispatch.  The  Second  Restatement  states  the  rule  this  way:  ‘‘An
acceptance  made  in  a  manner  and  by  a  medium  invited  by  an  offer  is
operative and completes the manifestation of mutual assent as soon as
put out of the offeree's possession,  without  regard  to  whether  it  ever
reaches the offeror.'' Rest. 2d § 63(A). So under this common-law rule,
the  seller  accepted  by  mailing,  since  at  that  moment  the  acceptance
document (his letter) was ‘‘put out of the offeree's possession.''

Since  there  was  a  contract  at  the  moment  the  seller  mailed  the

583

acceptance  on  January  7,  the  buyer's  purported  January  8  revocation
was ineffective.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  offer  could  be  accepted  by  a  promise  to  ship,  not  just  by
shipment.

Under  UCC  §  2-206(1)  (quoted  more  fully  in  the  discussion  of
choice D above), the buyer's order authorized acceptance ‘‘either by a
prompt  promise  to  ship  or  by  the  prompt  or  current  shipment  of
conforming  or  non-conforming  goods[.]''  So  although  the  seller  could
have  accepted  by  shipment,  he  was  alternatively  entitled  to  accept  by
promising to ship, which he did. Therefore, choice A is wrong. (Since
acceptance occurred at the moment of promise by the seller — i.e., the
mailing  of  the  acceptance  letter  —  the  bargain  was  concluded  before
the buyer could revoke the next day.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  seller's  order,  although  it  supplied  a  price  not  previously
mentioned by the buyer, was effective as an acceptance.

The  buyer's  offer  indicated  his  willingness  to  buy  at  the  seller's
‘‘current price.'' Therefore, although the seller's reply document was the
first to mention the $10 price (and although the buyer never expressly
committed  to  the  $10  price),  since  the  $10  was  indeed  the  seller's
current price, the seller's reply matched the offer well enough to qualify
as an acceptance.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  nothing  made  the  buyer's  offer  irrevocable  for  any  length  of
time.

Offers  ordinarily  are  not  irrevocable.  It's  true  that  UCC  §  2-205
irrevocable  ones)  even  without
authorizes  ‘‘firm  offers''  (i.e., 
consideration for the irrevocability. But under § 2-205, an offer is not
‘‘firm''  unless  it  ‘‘by  its  terms[,]  gives  assurance  that  it  will  be  held
open[.]''  Nothing  in  the  buyer's  order  ‘‘by  its  terms''  gave  that
assurance.  Therefore,  the  buyer  had  the  usual  common-law  right  to
revoke before acceptance. (His problem was that his revocation didn't
happen  until  after  the  acceptance,  for  the  reason  described  in  the
discussion of choice D above.)

584

 Answer 52

 (A) is the best response,

because the buyer returned the machine.

A seller will have an action for the price if the buyer has accepted
the  goods,  the  goods  are  lost  or  damaged  after  the  risk  of  loss  has
passed  to  the  buyer,  or  if  the  seller  is  unable  to  resell  the  rejected
goods.  None  of  these  have  taken  place  in  this  situation;  the  buyer
rejected  the  machine  and  returned  it,  without  damage,  to  the
manufacturer.  In  addition,  since  the  manufacturer  sells  many  identical
machines  each  year,  it  should  be  able  to  resell  the  returned  one.  (See
UCC § 2-709.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the buyer can recover the market/contract price differential.

UCC § 2-708(1) provides that if a buyer either does not accept the
goods or repudiates the contract, the seller may recover “the difference
between the market price at the time and place for tender and the unpaid
contract price.” Since the buyer has wrongfully rejected the goods, this
measure of damages will be available to the manufacturer.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the buyer wrongfully rejected the machine.

UCC § 2-706(1) provides that if a buyer wrongfully rejects goods,
“the seller may resell the goods concerned or the undelivered balance
thereof. Where the resale is made in good faith and in a commercially
reasonable  manner  the  seller  may  recover  the  difference  between  the
resale  price  and  the  contract  price.”  Since  the  buyer  wrongfully
rejected  the  machine,  the  manufacturer  may  resell  the  machine  and
recover  from  the  buyer  the  difference  in  the  price  obtained  for  the
machine and the contract price.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the manufacturer is a lost volume seller.

A lost volume seller is a seller who is not operating at full capacity.
As a result, if a buyer wrongfully rejects the sold item, the seller will
have  lost  a  sale.  (It  would  not  make  the  seller  whole  to  resell  the
returned  item  because,  had  the  buyer  not  rejected  the  item,  the  seller

585

would have made the profit on two sales rather than only one.) UCC §
2-708(2)  provides  that  in  the  event  of  a  buyer's  wrongful  rejection  of
goods, a lost volume seller may recover the profits it would have made
on the sale.

 Answer 53

 (B) is the best response,

because the covenant will have no legal effect — the assignment will
be valid and the textile mill will not be liable for breach of contract.

Under the UCC, barring circumstances to the contrary, a prohibition
against  assigning  the  contract  prevents  only  delegating  duties,  not
assigning  rights.  UCC  §  2-210(4).  Furthermore,  barring  circumstances
to the contrary (“as in an assignment for security”), an “assignment of
the contract” is a delegation of performance of the duties of the assignor
as well as an assignment of his rights. UCC § 2-210(5). Here, the mill,
by “assigning the contract” to the bank as security for a loan, assigned
only its rights under the contract (not its duties) — that is, its right to
payment from the clothing company, in the form of a security interest to
the bank.

An  assignment  by  a  seller  of  his  right  to  payment,  as  is  the  case
here, is automatically allowed regardless of a provision in the contract
prohibiting  assignment.  UCC  §  2-210(2),  which  provides  for
exceptions to the general rule allowing assignment in the sale of goods
(such  as  not  allowing  an  assignment  that  would  materially  change  the
duty  of  the  other  party),  is  now  subject  to  §  9-406(d),  which  makes
rights to payments for goods sold (or the creation of a security interest
in 
freely  alienable
notwithstanding a contrary agreement or rule of law. Section 9-406(d)
provides  that  those  anti-assignment  clauses  are  “ineffective,”  meaning
that “the clause is of no effect whatsoever; the clause does not prevent
the assignment from taking effect between the parties and the prohibited
assignment does not constitute a default” under the contract. § 9-406(d),
cmt. 5.

the  payments),  whether  or  not  earned, 

In the case of a security interest in a seller's interest, as is the case
here,  UCC  §  2-210(3)  does  provide  for  damages,  but  only  where
enforcement of the security interest actually resulted in the delegation of
material performance by the seller, which has not occurred under these
facts.

586

Since  Choice  B  correctly  recognizes  that  the  covenant  will  not  be

valid, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  assignment  was  effective  despite  the  existence  of  the
covenant.

As shown by the analysis in choice B above, the mill, by “assigning
the contract” to the bank as security for a loan, assigned only its rights
under the contract (not its duties) — that is, its right to payment from the
clothing  company,  in  the  form  of  a  security  interest  to  the  bank.  As
further  discussed  in  choice  B  above,  UCC  §  9-406(d)  provides  that  a
clause  prohibiting  such  an  assignment  doesn't  prevent  the  assignment
from  taking  effect  and  the  prohibited  assignment  does  not  constitute  a
default under the contract. § 9-406(d), cmt. 5.

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  although  it  correctly  states  that  the  assignment  will  be
effective, it incorrectly states that the mill will be liable for breach of
contract.

As shown by the analysis in choice B above, the mill, by “assigning
the contract” to the bank as security for a loan, assigned only its rights
under the contract (not its duties) — that is, its right to payment from the
clothing  company,  in  the  form  of  a  security  interest  to  the  bank.  As
further  discussed  in  choice  B  above,  UCC  §  9-406(d)  provides  that  a
clause  prohibiting  such  an  assignment  doesn't  prevent  the  assignment
from  taking  effect  and  the  prohibited  assignment  does  not  constitute  a
default under the contract. § 9-406(d), cmt. 5.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

Under  the  UCC,  a  prohibition  against  assignment  in  the  contract
would  apply  to  both  buyer  and  seller.  UCC  §  2-210.  Instead,  what's
central  to  resolving  this  question  is  determining  how  a  court  would
interpret the prohibition against assignment.

As shown by the analysis in choice B above, the mill, by “assigning
the contract” to the bank as security for a loan, assigned only its rights
under the contract (not its duties) — that is, its right to payment from the
clothing  company,  in  the  form  of  a  security  interest  to  the  bank.  As
further  discussed  in  choice  B  above,  UCC  §  9-406(d)  provides  that  a 
clause  prohibiting  such  an  assignment  doesn't  prevent  the  assignment
from  taking  effect  and  the  prohibited  assignment  does  not  constitute  a
default under the contract. § 9-406(d), cmt. 5.
