QUESTIONS

PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM

Question 151

On March 1, a seller orally agreed to sell his land to a buyer for $46,000 to
be  paid  on  March  31.  The  buyer  orally  agreed  to  pay  $25,000  of  the
purchase price to a creditor in satisfaction of a debt that the seller said he
had promised to pay the creditor.

On  March  10,  the  buyer  dictated  the  agreement  to  his  secretary  but
omitted all reference to the payment of the $25,000 to the creditor. In typing
the  agreement,  the  secretary  mistakenly  typed  in  $45,000  rather  than
$46,000  as  the  purchase  price.  Neither  the  buyer  nor  the  seller  carefully
read the writing before signing it on March 15. Neither noticed the error in
price and neither raised any question concerning omission of the payment to
the creditor.

Which of the following would be most important in deciding an action

by the creditor against the buyer for $25,000?

 (A) Whether the buyer-seller agreement was completely integrated.
(B) Whether the buyer was negligent in not having carefully read the written

agreement.

(C) Whether the seller was negligent in not having carefully read the written

agreement.

(D) Whether the creditor was a party to the contract.

 Question 152

A  seller  who  owned  land  in  fee  simple  entered  into  a  valid  written
agreement to sell the land to a buyer by installment purchase. The contract
stipulated that the seller would deliver to the buyer, upon the payment of the
last  installment  due,  ‘‘a  warranty  deed  sufficient  to  convey  a  fee  simple
title.'' The contract contained no other provision that could be construed as
referring to title.

The  buyer  entered  into  possession  of  the  land.  After  making  10  of  the
300 installment payments obligated under the contract, the buyer discovered
that  there  was  outstanding  a  valid  and  enforceable  mortgage  on  the  land,
securing the payment of a debt in the amount of 25 percent of the purchase
price that the buyer had agreed to pay. There was no evidence that the seller
had  ever  been  late  in  payments  due  under  the  mortgage  and  there  was  no
evidence  of  any  danger  of  insolvency  of  the  seller.  The  value  of  the  land
was then four times the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage.

The buyer quit possession of the land, stopped making payments on the
contract, and demanded that the seller repay the amounts that the buyer had
paid under the contract. After the seller refused the demand, the buyer sued

1313

the seller to recover damages for the seller's alleged breach of the contract.

In such action, should damages be awarded to the buyer?

 (A) Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an

obligation to convey marketable title is implied.

(B) Yes, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a mortgage
and the outstanding mortgage impairs the buyer's equity of redemption.

(C) No, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a security

device.

(D) No, because the time for the seller to deliver marketable title has not

arrived.

 Question 153

A state statute divides murder into degrees. First degree murder is defined
as  murder  with  premeditation  and  deliberation  or  a  homicide  in  the
commission of arson, rape, robbery, burglary or kidnapping. Second degree
murder is all other murder at common law.

In  which  of  the  following  situations  is  a  defendant  most  likely  to  be

guilty of first degree murder?

 (A) Immediately after being insulted by an acquaintance, the defendant takes

a knife and stabs and kills the acquaintance.

(B) Angered over having been struck by a bicyclist, the defendant buys rat
poison and puts it in the bicyclist's coffee. The bicyclist drinks the
coffee and dies as a result.

(C) Intending to injure his co-worker, the defendant lies in wait and, as the

co-worker comes by, the defendant strikes him with a broom handle. As
a result of the blow, the co-worker dies.

(D) The defendant, highly intoxicated, discovers a revolver on a table. He
picks it up, points it at the babysitter, and pulls the trigger. The gun
discharges, and the babysitter is killed.

 Question 154

In  2010,  a  utility  constructed  a  new  plant  for  the  generation  of  electricity.
The  plant  burns  lignite,  a  low-grade  fuel,  which  is  available  in  large
quantities.  Although  the  plant  was  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  best
practicable  technology,  the  plant  emits  a  substantial  quantity  of  invisible
fumes.  The  only  way  the  utility  can  reduce  the  fumes  is  by  the  use  of
scrubbing  equipment  that  would  cost  $50  million  to  install  and  would

1314

increase  the  retail  price  of  generated  electricity  by  50  percent  while
reducing the volume of fumes by only 20 percent. Because of the expense of
such  equipment  and  its  relative  ineffectiveness,  no  other  generating  plants
burning lignite use such equipment.

The  plant  is  located  in  a  sparsely  settled  rural  area,  remote  from  the
large city served by the utility. A farmer owned a farm adjacent to the plant.
He  had  farmed  the  land  for  40  years  and  lived  on  the  premises.  The
prevailing winds carried fumes from the new plant over the farmer's land.
His 2010 crop was less than half the average size of his crop in each of the
five  years  immediately  preceding  the  construction  of  the  plant.  It  can  be
established that the fumes caused the crop reduction.

The farmer's hay fever, from which he had long suffered, became worse
in 2011. Physicians advised him that the lignite fumes were affecting it and
that serious lung disease would soon result unless he moved away from the
plant. He did so, selling his farm at its reasonable market value, which was
then $10,000 less than before the construction of the plant.

If  the  farmer  asserts  a  claim  based  on  nuisance  against  the  utility  for

damages for personal injuries, will the farmer prevail?

 (A) No, because there is no practicable way for the utility to reduce the

fumes.

(B) No, because the utility's acts constituted a public nuisance.
(C) Yes, because the farmer's personal injuries were within the scope of the

liability imposed on the utility.

(D) Yes, because the generation of electricity is an ultrahazardous activity.

 Question 155

A  collector  bought  from  a  gallery  a  painting  correctly  described  in  the
parties' signed contract as a ‘‘one-of-a-kind self-portrait'' by a famous artist
who  had  recently  died.  The  contract  price  was  $100,000  in  cash,  payable
one month after a truck carrier delivered the painting to the collector.

The  painting  was  damaged  in  transit.  The  collector  timely  rejected  it
after  inspection  and  immediately  notified  the  gallery  of  the  rejection.  The
gallery then sold the painting to a third party. It informed the collector that it
would  pick  up  the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  Two  weeks  later,
before the gallery picked up the painting, the collector sold the painting to
an art admirer for $120,000 cash, after notifying her about the damage.

If  the  collector's  sale  of  the  painting  was  NOT  an  acceptance  of  the
goods,  what  is  the  maximum  amount  that  the  gallery  is  entitled  to  recover

1315

from the collector?

 (A) $120,000 (damages for conversion).
(B) $100,000 (the collector-gallery contract price).
(C) $20,000 (the excess of the market price over the contract price).
(D) Only the allowance of lost profit to the gallery as a volume dealer.

 Question 156

A plaintiff sues a defendant for a libelous letter received by an investigator.
The authenticity and contents of the letter are disputed.

The plaintiff's attorney asks the investigator to testify that, a week before
receiving the libelous letter, he had written to the defendant inquiring about
the plaintiff.

The testimony is

 (A) admissible, provided this inquiry was made in the regular course of the

investigator's business.

(B) admissible, without production of the inquiry letter or the showing of its

unavailability.

(C) inadmissible, unless the plaintiff's attorney has given the defendant

notice of the investigator's intended testimony.

(D) inadmissible, unless the inquiry letter itself is shown to be unavailable.

 Question 157

A realty company acquired a large tract of land upon which it developed a
mobile  home  subdivision.  The  tract  was  divided  into  60  lots,  appropriate
utilities were installed, and a plat of the entire tract, including a Declaration
of  Restrictions,  was  properly  drawn  and  recorded.  The  Declaration  of
Restrictions  included  the  following:  ‘‘3.  Ownership  and/or  occupancy  are
restricted  to  persons  21  years  of  age  or  over;  one  family  per  lot.''  As  the
separate  lots  were  sold,  the  deed  to  each  lot  included  the  following
provision:  ‘‘As  shown  on  recorded  plat  [properly  identified  by  page  and
plat book reference] and subject to the restrictions therein contained.'' One
of the lots was purchased by a carpenter, who now resides in a mobile home
on the lot together with his wife and two children, aged 11 and 13. Other lot
owners  in  the  subdivision  brought  action  against  the  carpenter  to  enjoin
further occupancy by the children under 21 years of age. If judgment is for
the  carpenter,  the  issue  that  most  likely  will  determine  the  case  will  be
whether

1316

 (A) the mobile home is treated as personalty or realty.
(B) the restriction constitutes an unlawful restraint on alienation.
(C) enforcement of the restriction is considered a violation of the Equal

Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.

(D) the terms of the restriction are expressly repeated verbatim in the

carpenter's deed.

 Question 158

In  the  application  for  a  life  insurance  policy,  a  woman  answered  in  the
negative  the  question,  ‘‘Have  you  ever  had  any  heart  disease?''  Both  the
application and the insurance policy that was issued provided: ‘‘Applicant
warrants the truthfulness of the statements made in the application and they
are made conditions to the contract of insurance.'' Unknown to the woman,
she had had a heart disease at a very early age.

If the question is raised in an action against the insurance company, how
is  the  court  likely  to  construe  the  clause  dealing  with  the  truthfulness  of
statements in the application?

 (A) The clause is a condition, and because the condition was not met, the

company will not be liable.

(B) The clause is a condition, but it will be interpreted to mean,

‘‘truthfulness to the best of my knowledge.''

(C) The clause is not a condition, and therefore the company may be liable

even though the woman's statement was not true.

(D) The clause is not a condition but is a promise, and therefore the

company will have a cause of action against the woman's estate for any
losses it suffered because of her misstatement.

 Question 159

Plaintiff  owns  a  luncheonette  called  the  Healthy  Home.  Defendant  runs  a
company that sells baked goods that it labels as “organic.” Plaintiff entered
into  a  contract  with  Defendant  for  the  weekly  delivery  of  organic  oatmeal
cookies.  After  several  such  deliveries,  Plaintiff  learned  that  the  “organic”
cookies  were  really  repackaged  highly-processed  cookies  that  Defendant
bought in bulk from a foreign wholesale company. Plaintiff sued Defendant
in  federal  court,  alleging  diversity  jurisdiction.  The  complaint  included  a
proper jurisdictional statement and alleged that (1) Defendant entered into a
contract  with  Plaintiff  to  weekly  deliver  thirty  pounds  of  organic  oatmeal

1317

cookies;  and  (2)  Defendant  instead  knowingly  delivered  non-organic
cookies; (3) Defendant consequently engaged in fraud. The complaint made
no other statements regarding Defendant's conduct or state of mind.

Before answering, Defendant moved to dismiss the complaint for failing

to state a claim. The court will most likely

 (A) grant the motion because the complaint fails to plead Defendant's

alleged special matters.

(B) deny the motion because Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff can

prove no set of facts in support of the fraud claim.

(C) deny the motion because Defendant was required to move for judgment

on the pleadings.

(D) grant the motion because the complaint improperly joins a contract

claim with a tort claim.

 Question 160

A  defendant  was  tried  for  the  murder  of  a  victim.  The  alleged  killing
followed a barroom argument. The prosecution, in its case in chief, offered
evidence  that  the  defendant  acted  without  having  been  threatened  by  the
victim.  In  his  case  in  chief,  the  defendant  called,  as  his  first  witness,  a
friend  of  the  defendant  to  testify  to  the  defendant's  reputation  in  his
community as ‘‘a peaceable man.''

The testimony is

 (A) admissible as tending to prove the defendant is believable.
(B) admissible as tending to prove the defendant is innocent.
(C) inadmissible, because the defendant has not testified.
(D) inadmissible, because reputation is not a proper way to prove character.

 Question 161

In  2003,  a  man  was  appointed  to  a  tribunal  established  pursuant  to  a
congressional  act.  The  tribunal's  duties  were  to  review  claims  made  by
veterans  and  to  make  recommendations  to  the  Veterans  Administration  on
their  merits.  Congress  later  abolished  the  tribunal  and  established  a
different format for review of such claims. The man was offered a federal
administrative position in the same bureau at a lesser salary. He thereupon
sued the government on the ground that Congress may not remove a federal
judge  from  office  during  good  behavior  nor  diminish  his  compensation

1318

during continuance in office. Government attorneys filed a motion to dismiss
the action.

The court should

 (A) deny the motion because of the independence of the federal judiciary

constitutionally guaranteed by Article III.

(B) deny the motion, because the man has established a property right to his

federal employment of the tribunal.

(C) grant the motion, because the man lacked standing to raise the question.
(D) grant the motion, because the man was not a judge under Article III and

is not entitled to life tenure.

 Question 162

In 1975, a cattle company paid $30,000 for a 150-acre tract of agricultural
land well suited for a cattle feed lot. The tract was ten miles from the city,
which  was  then  a  community  of  50,000  people,  and  five  miles  from  the
nearest home. By 2011, the city limits extended to the cattle company's feed
lot,  and  the  city  had  a  population  of  350,000.  About  10,000  people  lived
within three miles of the cattle feeding operation. The cattle company land
is  outside  the  city  limits  and  no  zoning  ordinance  applies.  The  cattle
company  land  is  now  worth  $300,000,  and  $25,000  has  been  invested  in
buildings and pens.

The  cattle  company,  conscious  of  its  obligations  to  its  neighbors,  uses
the best and most sanitary feed lot procedures, including chemical sprays, to
keep  down  flies  and  odors,  and  frequently  removes  manure.  Despite  these
measures,  residents  of  the  city  complain  of  flies  and  odors.  An  action  has
been filed by five individual homeowners who live within half a mile of the
cattle  company  feed  lot.  The  plaintiffs'  homes  are  valued  currently  at
$25,000  to  $40,000  each.  Flies  in  the  area  are  five  to  ten  times  more
numerous than in other parts of the city, and extremely obnoxious odors are
frequently carried by the wind to the plaintiffs' homes. The flies and odors
are a substantial health hazard.

If plaintiffs assert a claim based on public nuisance, the plaintiffs will

 (A) prevail if the plaintiffs sustained harm different from that suffered by the

public at large.

(B) prevail if the cattle company's acts interfered with any person's

enjoyment of his property.

(C) not prevail, because only the state may bring an action based on public

1319

nuisance.

(D) not prevail, because the plaintiffs came to the nuisance.

 Question 163

A  drug  dealer  agreed  with  another  individual  to  purchase  heroin  from  the
individual  in  order  to  sell  it  on  a  city  street  corner.  Unknown  to  the  drug
dealer,  the  other  individual  was  an  undercover  police  officer  whose  only
purpose was to arrest distributors of drugs. The drug dealer made a down
payment for the heroin and agreed to pay the remainder after he sold it on
the street. As soon as the undercover officer handed over the heroin, other
officers moved in and arrested the dealer.

The jurisdiction follows the common-law approach to conspiracy.
Could  the  dealer  properly  be  convicted  of  conspiring  to  distribute

drugs?

 (A) No, because there was no overt act.
(B) No, because there was no plurality of agreement.
(C) Yes, because neither an overt act nor plurality of agreement is required

under common law.

(D) Yes, because the dealer believed all the elements of conspiracy were

present and cannot take advantage of a mistake of fact or law.

 Question 164

A  mother,  the  owner  in  fee  simple  of  a  parcel  of  land,  by  quitclaim  deed
conveyed  the  parcel  to  her  daughter,  who  paid  no  consideration  for  the
conveyance. The deed was never recorded. About a year after the delivery
of  the  deed,  the  mother  decided  that  this  gift  had  been  ill-advised.  She
requested  that  her  daughter  destroy  the  deed,  which  her  daughter  dutifully
and voluntarily did. Within the month following the destruction of the deed,
both the mother and daughter were killed in a common disaster. Each of the
successors in interest claimed title to the parcel. In an appropriate action to
determine the title to the parcel, the probable outcome will be that

 (A) the mother was the owner of the parcel, because her daughter was a
donee and therefore could not acquire title by quitclaim deed.
(B) the mother was the owner of the parcel, because title to the parcel
reverted to her upon the voluntary destruction of the deed by her
daughter.

(C) the daughter was the owner of the parcel, because her destruction of the

1320

deed to the parcel was under the undue influence of her mother.

(D) the daughter was the owner of the parcel, because the deed was merely
evidence of her title, and its destruction was insufficient to cause title to
pass back to her mother.

 Question 165

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct a garage
for  a  homeowner  for  $10,000.  Nothing  was  stated  in  the  parties'
negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of
the work.

After completing 25 percent of the garage according to the homeowner's
specifications,  the  builder  demanded  $2,000  as  a  reasonable  progress
payment. The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.

If  each  party  sues  the  other  for  breach  of  contract,  which  of  the

following will the court decide?

 (A) Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from

the other.

(B) Only the builder is in breach and is liable for the homeowner's

damages, if any.

(C) Only the homeowner is in breach and is liable for the builder's

damages, if any.

(D) Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.

 Question 166

Plaintiff heads a company that sells photography equipment. Defendant, an
individual  who  owns  a  film  school,  bought  five  hundred  cameras  from
Plaintiff.  Defendant  received  the  cameras  but  refused  to  pay,  insisting  that
the  goods  did  not  meet  industry  standards.  Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in
federal  district  court  for  breach  of  contract,  invoking  the  court's  diversity
jurisdiction. Plaintiff knows from publicly available sources that Defendant
has  purchased  studio  lighting  from  a  particular  lighting  company.  Plaintiff
wants  to  find  out,  through  discovery,  whether  Defendant  also  defaulted  on
that contract.

Which  statement  best  describes  whether  Plaintiff  may  get  discovery

about any contract between Defendant and the lighting company?

 (A) Plaintiff may, during a deposition of Defendant, ask about the lighting

1321

contract so long as the information is not privileged, is relevant to a
claim or defense in the case, and is proportional to the needs of the
case.

(B) Plaintiff may not, during a deposition of Defendant, ask about the
lighting contract if the answer would not be admissible at trial.
(C) Plaintiff may propound interrogatories to the lighting company asking

about the company's contracts with Defendant, if that information would
be relevant to a claim or defense in the case.

(D) Plaintiff is entitled to receive a copy of the lighting contract as a part of

automatic initial disclosure from Defendant.

 Question 167

A pedestrian sued a driver for injuries suffered in a hit-and-run accident. At
trial, the pedestrian called a witness who testified that he saw the accident
and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license number into his
properly operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no
longer remembered the number.

May the tape recording be played?

 (A) Yes, as a present sense impression only.
(B) Yes, as a recorded recollection only.
(C) Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.
(D) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

 Question 168

Acting  on  an  anonymous  telephone  call,  police  went  to  a  defendant's
apartment,  knocked  on  the  door,  and  demanded  to  search  it  for  narcotics.
When the defendant refused, the police forced the door open and placed him
under arrest. As they were removing him from the apartment, the defendant
offered  to  give  the  officers  ‘‘valuable  information''  in  exchange  for  his
release.  Before  he  could  say  anything  else,  the  defendant  was  given
Miranda warnings by the police. Thereafter, he told the police that he had
stored some heroin in his friend's apartment and that he and his friend had
been  going  to  sell  it.  The  heroin  was  recovered,  and  the  defendant  was
prosecuted for conspiracy to sell narcotics and for possession of narcotics.
At  his  trial,  the  defendant  moved  to  suppress  his  statements.  Which  of  the
following  is  the  defendant's  best  argument  in  support  of  the  motion  to
suppress?

1322

 (A) The defendant is entitled to know the identity of his accuser, and the

state cannot supply this information.

(B) The police should have given the defendant Miranda warnings prior to
entry into the apartment, and the warnings were ineffectual once the
defendant offered to give the police information.

(C) The defendant was intimidated by the forced entry into the apartment,

and since the statements were involuntary and coerced, their use against
him would violate due process of law.

(D) The statements were fruits of an unlawful arrest, and though the

Miranda warnings may have been sufficient to protect his right against
self-incrimination, they were not sufficient to purge the taint of the
illegal arrest.

 Question 169

A  woman  occupied  an  apartment  in  a  building  owned  by  a  landlord.  She
paid  rent  of  $125  in  advance  each  month.  During  the  second  month  of
occupancy,  the  woman  organized  the  tenants  in  the  building  as  a  tenants'
association  and  the  association  made  demands  of  the  landlord  concerning
certain  repairs  and  improvements  the  tenants  wanted.  When  the  woman
tendered rent for the third month, the landlord notified her that rent for the
fourth  and  subsequent  months  would  be  $200  per  month.  The  woman
protested and pointed out that all other tenants paid rent of $125 per month.
Thereupon,  the  landlord  gave  the  required  statutory  notice  that  the  tenancy
was being terminated at the end of the third month.

By an appropriate proceeding, the woman contests the landlord's right to

terminate. If the woman succeeds, it will be because

 (A) a periodic tenancy was created by implication.
(B) the doctrine prohibiting retaliatory eviction is part of the law of the

jurisdiction.

(C) the $200 rent demanded violates the agreement implied by the rate

charged to other tenants.

(D) the law implies a term of one year in the absence of any express

agreement.

 Question 170

Congressional committees heard testimony from present and former holders
of  licenses  issued  by  state  vocational  licensing  boards.  According  to  the

1323

the  boards  had  unfairly  manipulated 

their  disciplinary
testimony, 
proceedings  in  order  to  revoke  the  licenses  of  some  license  holders  as  a
means of protecting favored licensees from competition.

In response, Congress enacted a statute prescribing detailed procedural
requirements  for  the  disciplinary  proceedings  of  all  state  vocational
licensing  boards.  For  example,  the  statute  required  the  state  boards  to
provide licensees with adequate notice and opportunity for an adjudicatory
hearing in all disciplinary proceedings. The statute also prescribed criteria
for  the  membership  of  all  state  vocational  licensing  boards  that  were
designed to ensure that the boards were likely to be neutral.

Which  of  the  following  provides  the  best  source  of  authority  for  this

federal statute?

 (A) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, § 8.
(C) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV, § 2.
(D) The Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

 Question 171

A  photographer  lent  200  of  his  photographic  prints  to  a  museum  to  be
featured in an upcoming exhibit. The museum agreed to return all prints in
the  same  condition  as  it  received  them.  Due  to  staff  error,  the  museum
instead  sent  the  prints  to  a  recycling  bin,  where  they  were  compressed
beyond recognition. The photographer sued the museum in federal court for
breach of contract, alleging diversity jurisdiction, and sought to recover the
market value of the 200 prints. The evidence presented to the jury showed
that none of the photographer's photo prints throughout his career had ever
sold  for  more  than  $500  a  print.  No  motions  were  made  by  either  side
before the case went to the jury. The jury returned a verdict of $1 million.
The  judge  mentally  agreed  with  the  jury  that  the  museum  ought  to  be  held
liable  but  believed  that  the  jury's  award  reflected  an  arithmetic  error  and
that the jurors had intended to issue a verdict of $100,000 in damages rather
than $1 million.

After  judgment  was  entered  on  the  jury's  verdict  for  the  photographer,
the  museum  made  a  motion  for  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law,  by  which  it
asked the judge to set the judgment at $100,000 rather than $1 million. What
action can the judge take, if any, that is procedurally proper, is not wasteful
of judicial resources, and will correct the judgment to or near the $100,000
that the judge believes the jury intended?

1324

 (A) The judge should grant the museum's motion and enter judgment for

$100,000.

(B) The judge on her own initiative should conditionally order a new trial

unless the photographer agrees to a reduction of the damages to
$100,000, an amount set by the court.

(C) The judge on her own initiative should order a new jury trial solely on

the issue of damages.

(D) The judge must deny the museum's motion because the Seventh

Amendment requires that the judge accept the jury's damage award
without adjustment.

 Question 172

A  plaintiff  purchased  a  suit  of  thermal  underwear  made  of  synthetic
materials and manufactured by a company. While attempting to stamp out a
fire,  the  plaintiff's  thermal  underwear  caught  fire  and  burned  in  a  melting
fashion up to his waist. He suffered a heart attack a half hour later. In a suit
against  the  company,  the  plaintiff  alleged  that  negligence  and  breach  of
warranty caused both the burn and the heart attack.

The  plaintiff  testified  that  his  purchase  of  the  underwear  occurred  on
April 17th, a fact of minor importance in the case. He stated that he could
identify  the  date  because  his  secretary  had  taken  the  day  off  to  attend  the
first game of the baseball season and he had checked his company's payroll
records  to  verify  the  date.  The  clothing  company  moves  to  strike  the
testimony as to the date. The motion should be

 (A) sustained, because the best evidence of the information contained in the

payroll records is the records themselves.

(B) sustained, because the plaintiff's testimony is based upon hearsay

declarations contained in the payroll records.

(C) overruled if the judge has personal knowledge of the date on which the

baseball season opened.

(D) overruled, because the payroll records relate to a collateral matter.

 Question 173

On March 1, a programmer orally agreed with a department store to write a
set of programs for the store's computer and to coordinate the programs with
its billing methods. A subsequent memo, signed by both parties, provided in
its entirety:

1325

‘‘The store will pay the programmer $20,000 in two equal installments
within  one  month  of  completion  if  the  programmer  is  successful  in
shortening by one-half the processing time for the financial transactions now
handled on the store's computer system; the programmer is to complete by
July 1. This agreement may be amended only by a signed writing.''

On June 6, the programmer demanded $10,000, saying the job was one-
half done. After the store denied liability, the parties orally agreed that the
store  should  deposit  $20,000  in  escrow,  pending  completion  to  the
satisfaction  of  the  store's  computer  systems  manager.  The  escrow  deposit
was  thereupon  made.  On  July  5,  the  programmer  completed  the  programs,
having used an amount of time in which it could have earned $18,000 had it
devoted  that  time  to  other  jobs.  Tests  by  the  programmer  and  the  store's
computer  systems  manager  then  showed  that  the  computer  programs,  not
being perfectly coordinated with the store's billing methods, cut processing
time  by  only  47  percent.  They  would,  however,  save  the  store  $12,000  a
year.  Further,  if  the  store  would  spend  $5,000  to  change  its  invoice
preparation  methods,  as  recommended  by  the  programmer,  the  programs
would cut processing time by a total of 58 percent, saving the store another
$8,000 a year.

The  store's  computer  systems  manager  refused  in  good  faith  to  certify
satisfactory completion. The store requested the escrow agent to return the
$20,000 and asserted that nothing was owed to the programmer even though
it has continued to use the programs.

If the store denies liability on the ground that the programmer had orally
agreed  to  coordinate  with  the  store's  methods  of  accounting,  and  the
programmer seeks in litigation to bar introduction of that agreement because
of the Parol Evidence Rule, the store's most effective argument is that

 (A) the Parol Evidence Rule does not bar the introduction of evidence for

the purpose of interpreting a written agreement.

(B) the memorandum was not a completely integrated agreement.
(C) the store detrimentally relied on the oral promise of coordination in

signing the memorandum.

(D) the memorandum was not a partially integrated agreement.

 Question 174

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100
cars  had  to  ensure  that  at  least  10  percent  of  those  cars  were  electric
powered.

1326

A city filed suit in federal district court against the federal official who
enforced  this  requirement.  The  city  sought  an  injunction  prohibiting
enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Should the court grant the injunction?

 (A) No, because the statute is valid under the Commerce Clause and does

not violate the Tenth Amendment.

(B) No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot

be sued without its explicit consent.

(C) Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under

the Tenth Amendment.

(D) Yes, because as applied to state and local governments, the statute

exceeds Congress's power under the Commerce Clause.

 Question 175

A lumber supplier agreed to sell and a furniture manufacturer agreed to buy
all of the lumber that the manufacturer required over a two-year period. The
sales contract provided that payment was due 60 days after delivery, but that
a 3 percent discount would be allowed if the manufacturer paid within ten
days  of  delivery.  During  the  first  year  of  the  contract,  the  manufacturer
regularly  paid  within  the  ten-day  period  and  received  the  3  percent
discount.  Fifteen  days  after  the  supplier  made  its  most  recent  lumber
delivery to the manufacturer, the supplier had received no payment from the
manufacturer.  At  this  time,  the  supplier  became  aware  of  rumors  from  a
credible source that the manufacturer's financial condition was precarious.
The  supplier  wrote  the  manufacturer,  demanding  assurances  regarding  the
manufacturer's  financial  status.  The  manufacturer  immediately  mailed  its
latest audited financial statements to the supplier, as well as a satisfactory
credit report prepared by the manufacturer's banker. The rumors proved to
be  false.  Nevertheless,  the  supplier  refused  to  resume  deliveries.  The
manufacturer sued the lumber supplier for breach of contract.

Will the manufacturer prevail?

 (A) No, because the contract was unenforceable, since the manufacturer had

not committed to purchase a definite quantity of lumber.

(B) No, because the supplier had reasonable grounds for insecurity and was
therefore entitled to cancel the contract and refuse to make any future
deliveries.

(C) Yes, because the credit report and audited financial statements provided

1327

adequate assurance of due performance under the contract.

(D) Yes, because the supplier was not entitled to condition resumption of

deliveries on the receipt of financial status information.

 Question 176

A  state  legislature  passed  a  statute  providing  that  juries  in  criminal  trials
were to consist of 6 rather than 12 jurors, and providing that jury verdicts
did not have to be unanimous but could be based on 5 votes out of 6 jurors.
A defendant was tried for murder. Over his objection, he was tried by a jury
composed of 6 jurors. The jurors found him guilty by a vote of 5 to 1 and,
over  the  defendant's  objection,  the  court  entered  a  judgment  of  conviction,
which  was  affirmed  on  appeal  by  the  state  supreme  court.  The  defendant
seeks to overturn his conviction in a habeas corpus action in federal court,
claiming  his  constitutional  rights  were  violated  by  allowing  a  jury  verdict
that was not unanimous and by allowing a jury composed of fewer than 12
members.

How is the federal court likely to rule in this action?

 (A) It will set aside the conviction, because the jury was composed of

fewer than 12 members.

(B) It will set aside the conviction, because the 6-person jury verdict was

not unanimous.

(C) It will set aside the conviction for both reasons.
(D) It will uphold the conviction.

 Question 177

National  regulation  of  predatory  wild  animals  on  federal  lands  is  most
likely

 (A) constitutional, because the protection of wild animals is important to the

general welfare.

(B) constitutional, because Congress has authority to make regulations

respecting federal property.

(C) unconstitutional, because wild animals as defined by state common law

are not federal property.

(D) unconstitutional, because regulation and control of wild animals is

retained by the states under the Tenth Amendment.

 Question 178

1328

By her validly executed will, a woman devised a certain tract of land to her
son for his life with remainder to such of his children as should be living at
his death, ‘‘Provided, however, that no such child of my son shall mortgage
or  sell,  or  attempt  to  mortgage  or  sell,  his  or  her  interest  in  the  property
prior  to  attaining  25  years  of  age:  and,  if  any  such  child  of  my  son  shall
violate this provision, then upon such violation his or her interest shall pass
to and become the property of the remaining children of my son then living,
share and share alike.''

The woman's will included an identical provision for each of her four
other children concerning four other tracts of land. The residuary clause of
the will gave the residuary estate to the woman's five children equally. The
woman died and was survived by the five children named in her will and by
11 grandchildren. Several additional grandchildren have since been born.

In an action for a declaration of rights, it was claimed that the attempted
gifts to the woman's grandchildren were entirely void and that the interests
following the life estates to her children passed to the children absolutely by
the residuary clause. Assuming that the action was properly brought with all
necessary  parties  and  with  a  guardian  ad  litem  appointed  to  represent  the
interests of unborn and infant grandchildren, the decision should be that

 (A) the attempted gifts to grandchildren are void under the Rule Against

Perpetuities.

(B) the attempted gifts to grandchildren are void as unlawful restraints on

alienation.

(C) the provisions concerning grandchildren are valid and will be upheld

according to their terms.

(D) even if the provisions against sale or mortgage by the grandchildren are
void, the remainders to grandchildren are otherwise valid and will be
given effect.

 Question 179

A  landowner  who  owned  a  large  tract  of  land  in  the  mountains  sought  to
protect a herd of wild deer that frequented the area. Although the landowner
had  posted  signs  that  said,  ‘‘No  Hunting  —  No  Trespassing,''  hunters
frequently intruded to kill the deer. Recently, the landowner built an eight-
foot chain-link fence, topped by three strands of barbed wire, across a gully
on her land that provided the only access to the area frequented by the deer.

A wildlife photographer asked the landowner for permission to enter the
property  to  photograph  the  deer.  Because  the  landowner  feared  that  any

1329

publicity would encourage further intrusions, she denied the photographer's
request.  Frustrated,  the  photographer  attempted  to  climb  the  fence.  He
became  entangled  in  the  barbed  wire  and  suffered  extensive  lacerations.
The  wounds  became  infected  and  ultimately  caused  his  death.  The
photographer's  personal  representative  brought  an  action  against  the
landowner.

Will the plaintiff prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the landowner may not use deadly force to protect her land

from intrusion.

(B) Yes, because the landowner had no property interest in the deer that

entitled her to use force to protect them.

(C) No, because the photographer entered the landowner's land after the

landowner had refused him permission to do so.

(D) No, because the potential for harm created by the presence of the

barbed wire was apparent.

 Question 180

A  homeowner  sued  a  plumber  for  damages  resulting  from  the  plumber's
allegedly  faulty  installation  of  water  pipes  in  her  basement,  causing
flooding. At trial, the homeowner was prepared to testify that when she first
detected the flooding, she turned off the water and called the plumber at his
emergency  number  for  help.  The  plumber  responded,  ‘‘I'll  come  by
tomorrow and will redo the installation for free.''

Is the plumber's response admissible?

 (A) No, because it is an offer in compromise.
(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(C) Yes, as a subsequent remedial measure.
(D) Yes, as evidence of the plumber's fault.

 Question 181

A driver, returning from a long shift at a factory, fell asleep at the wheel and
lost control of his car. As a result, his car collided with a police car driven
by an officer who was returning to the station after having responded to an
emergency.  The  police  officer  was  injured  in  the  accident.  The  police
officer sued the driver in negligence for her injuries. The driver moved for
summary judgment, arguing that the common-law firefighters' rule barred the
suit.

1330

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because the firefighters' rule does not apply to police officers.
(B) No, because the police officer's injuries were not related to any special

dangers of her job.

(C) Yes, because the accident would not have occurred but for the

emergency.

(D) Yes, because the police officer was injured on the job.

 Question 182

An owner owned a tract of land in fee simple. At a time when the tract was
in  the  adverse  possession  of  a  squatter,  a  neighbor  obtained  the  oral
permission of the owner to use as a road or driveway a portion of the tract
to reach adjoining land which the neighbor owned in fee simple. Thereafter,
during  all  times  relevant  to  this  problem,  the  neighbor  used  this  road
regularly for ingress and egress between his land and a public highway.

The  squatter  quit  possession  of  the  tract  before  acquiring  title  by
adverse  possession.  Without  communicating  further  with  the  owner,  the
neighbor continued to use the road for a total period, from the time he first
began to use it, sufficient to acquire an easement by prescription. The owner
then blocked the road and refused to permit its continued use. The neighbor
brought suit to determine his right to continue use of the road. The neighbor
should

 (A) win, because his use was adverse to the squatter and once adverse it
continued adverse until some affirmative showing of a change.

(B) win, because the neighbor made no attempt to renew permission after

the squatter quit possession of the tract.
(C) lose, because his use was with permission.
(D) lose, because there is no evidence that he continued adverse use for the

required period after the squatter quit possession.

 Question 183

A  state  requires  licenses  of  persons  ‘‘who  are  engaged  in  the  trade  of
barbering.''  It  will  grant  such  licenses  only  to  those  who  are  graduates  of
barber  schools  located  in  the  state,  who  have  resided  in  the  state  for  two
years, and who are citizens of the United States.

The requirement that candidates for license must be graduates of barber

1331

schools in the state is probably

 (A) unconstitutional, as an undue burden on interstate commerce.
(B) unconstitutional, as a violation of the Privileges and Immunities Clause

of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) constitutional, because the state does not know the quality of out-of-state

barber schools.

(D) constitutional, because barbering is a privilege and not a right.

 Question 184

Plaintiff,  a  black  woman,  worked  for  a  bookstore  owned  by  Defendant,  a
large corporation with stores in many states. The bookstore where Plaintiff
worked was in State A. Plaintiff's supervisor, the store manager, passed her
over  for  a  promotion.  Believing  she  had  been  passed  over  because  of  her
race  and/or  gender,  Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in  federal  district  court  for
State  A,  alleging  discrimination  in  violation  of  federal  employment-
discrimination  statutes.  The  complaint  has  survived  a  motion  to  dismiss.
Plaintiff's lawyer now wants to depose a man who was her colleague at the
store, where he served as a cashier; the lawyer believes the colleague has
knowledge of the circumstances under which Plaintiff was passed over for
the promotion. The colleague, who has since left the employ of Defendant,
now  works  and  lives  in  State  B,  at  a  location  200  miles  from  the  federal
courthouse in State A where the suit is pending; he rarely travels more than
50  miles  from  his  present  home  and  place  of  business.  Plaintiff's  lawyer
wishes  to  depose  the  colleague  in  person  at  the  lawyer's  office,  which  is
next  door  to  the  State  A  federal  courthouse.  Can  the  lawyer  require  the
colleague  to  attend  the  deposition  at  this  office,  assuming  the  lawyer  will
choose  a  date  when  the  colleague  has  no  conflicting  appointments  and
assuming  that  the  lawyer  pays  the  colleague's  reasonable  expenses  of
travelling to the deposition?

 (A) Yes, but only if the lawyer issues a subpoena.
(B) Yes, and the lawyer may do so by means of a notice of deposition.
(C) Yes, so long as the lawyer demonstrates good cause for not holding the
deposition in State B at a location within 100 miles of the colleague's
home or place of business.

(D) No, because the colleague is not a party or an officer of a party.

 Question 185

1332

In financial straits and needing $4,000 immediately, a nephew orally asked
his uncle for a $4,000 loan. The uncle replied that he would lend the money
to  the  nephew  only  if  the  nephew's  mother  ‘‘guaranteed''  the  loan.  At  the
nephew's  suggestion,  the  uncle  then  telephoned  the  nephew's  mother,  told
her  about  the  loan,  and  asked  if  she  would  ‘‘guarantee''  it.  She  replied,
‘‘Surely. Lend my son the $4,000 and I'll repay it if he doesn't.'' The uncle
then lent $4,000 to the nephew, an amount the nephew orally agreed to repay
in six weeks. The next day, the nephew's mother wrote to him and concluded
her letter with the words, ‘‘Son, I was happy to do you a favor by promising
your  uncle  I  would  repay  your  six-week  $4,000  loan  if  you  don't.  /s/
Mother.''  Neither  the  nephew  nor  his  mother  repaid  the  loan  when  it  came
due and the uncle sued the mother for breach of contract. In that action, the
mother raised the Statute of Frauds as her only defense.

Will the mother's Statute Frauds defense be successful?

 (A) No, because the amount of the loan was less than $5,000.
(B) No, because the mother's letter satisfies the Statute-of-Frauds

requirement.

(C) Yes, because the mother's promise to the uncle was oral.
(D) Yes, because the nephew's promise to the uncle was oral.

 Question 186

A husband and wife, walking on a country road, were frightened by a bull
running  loose  on  the  road.  They  climbed  over  a  fence  to  get  onto  the
adjacent  property,  owned  by  a  grower.  After  climbing  over  the  fence,  the
husband  and  wife  damaged  some  of  the  grower's  plants,  which  were  near
the  fence.  The  fence  was  posted  with  a  large  sign  that  said,  ‘‘No
Trespassing.''

The grower saw the husband and wife and came toward them with his
large watchdog on a long leash. The dog rushed at the wife. The grower had
intended only to frighten the husband and the wife, but the leash broke, and
before the grower could restrain the dog, the dog bit the wife.

If the wife asserts a claim based on battery against the grower, will the

wife prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the grower intended that the dog frighten the wife.
(B) Yes, because the breaking of the leash establishes liability under res

ipsa loquitur.

(C) No, because the wife made an unauthorized entry onto the grower's land.

1333

(D) No, because the grower did not intend to cause any harmful contact with

the wife.

 Question 187

In  a  civil  action  for  breach  of  an  oral  contract,  the  defendant  admits  that
there had been discussions, but denies that he ever entered into an agreement
with the plaintiff.

Which of the following standards of admissibility should be applied by
the court to evidence proffered as relevant to prove whether a contract was
formed?

 (A) Whether a reasonable juror would find the evidence determinative of

whether the contract was or was not formed.

(B) Whether the evidence has any tendency to make the fact of contract

formation more or less probable than without the evidence.

(C) Whether the evidence is sufficient to prove, absent contrary evidence,

that the contract was or was not formed.

(D) Whether the evidence makes it more likely than not that a contract was

or was not formed.

 Question 188

A defendant was arrested and taken to police headquarters, where she was
given  her  Miranda  warnings.  The  defendant  indicated  that  she  wished  to
telephone her lawyer and was told that she could do so after her fingerprints
had  been  taken.  While  being  fingerprinted,  however,  the  defendant  blurted
out, ‘‘Paying a lawyer is a waste of money because I know you have me.''

At  trial,  the  defendant's  motion  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  the

statement she made while being fingerprinted will most probably be

 (A) granted, because the defendant's request to contact her attorney by

telephone was reasonable and should have been granted immediately.

(B) granted, because of the ‘‘fruit of the poisonous tree'' doctrine.
(C) denied, because the statements were volunteered and not the result of

interrogation.

(D) denied, because fingerprinting is not a critical stage of the proceeding

requiring the assistance of counsel.

 Question 189

1334

The owner of a shopping mall hired a construction company to design and
construct  the  entryway  to  the  mall.  The  construction  company  negligently
selected an unusually slippery material for the floor covering. A customer at
the  mall  slipped  on  the  floor  of  the  entryway,  sustaining  injuries.  The
customer  sued  the  mall  owner  for  the  construction  company's  negligent
design of the mall's entryway.

Will the injured customer recover damages?

 (A) No, if the construction company was an independent contractor.
(B) No, if no customers had previously slipped on the floor.
(C) Yes, if the customer intended to make a purchase at the mall.
(D) Yes, if the mall's duty to maintain safe conditions was nondelegable.

 Question 190

A brother and sister acquired as joint tenants a 20-acre parcel of land. They
contributed  equally  to  the  purchase  price.  Several  years  later,  the  brother
proposed that they build an apartment development on the parcel. His sister
rejected  the  proposal  but  orally  agreed  with  her  brother  that  he  could  go
ahead on his own on the northerly half of the parcel and she could do what
she  wished  with  the  southerly  half.  The  brother  proceeded  to  build  an
apartment  development  on,  and  generally  developed  and  improved,  the
northerly  ten  acres  of  the  parcel.  The  sister  orally  permitted  the  southerly
ten  acres  of  the  parcel  to  be  used  by  a  conservation  group  as  a  nature
preserve. The brother died, leaving his entire estate to his son. The brother's
will named his sister as executrix of his will, but she refused to so serve.

In  an  appropriate  action  to  determine  the  respective  interests  of  the
sister  and  the  brother's  son  in  the  parcel,  if  the  son  is  adjudged  to  be  the
owner of the northerly ten acres of the parcel, the most likely reason for the
judgment will be that

 (A) the close blood relationship between brother and sister removes the

necessity to comply with the Statute of Frauds.

(B) the sister's conduct during her brother's lifetime estops her from

asserting title to the northerly half of the parcel.

(C) the joint tenancy was terminated by the oral agreement of the brother

and sister at the time it was made.

(D) the sister has a fiduciary obligation to her nephew by reason of her

being named executrix of her brother's will.

1335

 Question 191

A  seller  and  a  buyer  entered  into  a  written  agreement  providing  that  the
seller  was  to  deliver  1,000  cases  of  candy  bars  to  the  buyer  during  the
months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to
make a selection by March 1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to
be  delivered  under  the  contract.  The  buyer  did  not  make  the  selection  by
March  1,  and  on  March  2  the  seller  notified  the  buyer  that  because  of  the
buyer's  failure  to  select,  the  seller  would  not  deliver  the  candy  bars.  The
seller had all of the necessary candy bars on hand on March 1 and made no
additional  sales  or  purchases  on  March  1  or  March  2.  On  March  2,  after
receiving the seller's notice that it would not perform, the buyer notified the
seller of its selection and insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to

prevail?

 (A) No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy

bars, and the seller withdrew its offer before selection.

(B) No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express

condition to the seller's duty to perform.

(C) Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a

material effect on the seller.

(D) Yes, because upon the buyer's failure to make a selection by March 1,

the seller had a duty to make a reasonable selection.

 Question 192

A consumer became physically ill after drinking part of a bottle of soda that
contained  a  large  decomposed  snail.  The  consumer  sued  the  store  from
which she bought the soda to recover damages for her injuries. The parties
agreed that the snail was put into the bottle during the bottling process, over
which the store had no control. The parties also agreed that the snail would
have been visible in the bottle before the consumer opened it.

Will the consumer prevail in her action against the store?

 (A) No, because the consumer could have seen the snail in the bottle.
(B) No, because the store was not responsible for the bottling process.
(C) Yes, because the consumer was injured by a defective product sold to

her by the store.

(D) Yes, because the store had exclusive control over the bottle before

1336

selling it to the consumer.

 Question 193

A painter had painted a homeowner's house under a contract that called for
payment of $2,000. The homeowner, contending in good faith that the porch
had not been painted properly, refused to pay anything.

The homeowner's refusal to pay anything to the painter when he finished

painting was a

 (A) partial breach of contract only if the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

(B) partial breach of contract whether or not the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

(C) total breach of contract only if the painter had properly or substantially

painted the porch.

(D) total breach of contract whether or not the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

 Question 194

The  strongest  constitutional  basis  for  the  enactment  of  a  federal  statute
requiring  colleges  and  universities  receiving  federal  funds  to  offer  student
aid solely on the basis of need is the

 (A) police power.
(B) war and defense power.
(C) power to tax and spend for the general welfare.
(D) power to enforce the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.

 Question 195

A defendant was charged with manslaughter. At the preliminary hearing, the
magistrate  dismissed  the  charge  on  the  grounds  that  the  evidence  was
insufficient. The prosecutor then brought the case before a grand jury. After
hearing the evidence presented by the prosecutor, the grand jury refused to
return an indictment. The prosecutor waited a few months until a new grand
jury had been impaneled and brought the case before that grand jury, which
returned  an  indictment  charging  the  defendant  with  manslaughter.  The
defendant moves to dismiss the indictment on double jeopardy grounds.

1337

Should the motion be granted?

 (A) No, because jeopardy had not attached.
(B) No, because there has been no conviction or acquittal.
(C) Yes, because any proceeding after the preliminary hearing would

violate double jeopardy.

(D) Yes, because bringing the case before the second grand jury was a

violation of double jeopardy.

 Question 196

Thirty years ago, a landowner conveyed land by warranty deed to a church
(a charity) ‘‘so long as the land herein conveyed is used as the site for the
principal religious edifice maintained by said church.''

Twenty  years  ago,  the  landowner  died  intestate,  survived  by  a  single

heir.

One year ago, the church dissolved and its church building situated on

the land was demolished.

There  is  no  applicable  statute.  The  common  law  Rule  Against

Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

In an appropriate action, the landowner's heir and the attorney general,
who is the appropriate official to assert public interests in charitable trusts,
contest the right to the land.

In such action, who will prevail?

 (A) The landowner's heir, as successor to the landowner's possibility of

reverter.

(B) The landowner's heir, because a charity cannot convey assets donated to

it.

(C) The attorney general, because cy pres should be applied to devote the
land to religious purposes to carry out the charitable intent of the
landowner.

(D) The attorney general, because the landowner's attempt to restrict the

church's fee simple violated the Rule Against Perpetuities.

 Question 197

A  physician  called  as  a  witness  by  the  defendant  was  asked  to  testify  to
statements made by her patient, for the purpose of obtaining treatment from
the  physician.  Which  of  the  following  is  the  best  basis  for  excluding
evidence  of  the  patient's  statements  in  a  jurisdiction  with  a  doctor-patient

1338

privilege?

 (A) An objection by the physician asserting her privilege against disclosure

of confidential communications made by a patient.

(B) An objection by the plaintiff's attorney on the grounds of the doctor-

patient privilege.

(C) A finding by the trial judge that the patient had left the office without

actually receiving treatment.

(D) The assertion of a privilege by the patient's attorney, present at the trial
as a spectator at the patient's request, and allowed by the trial judge to
speak.

 Question 198

A roofer entered into a written contract with a homeowner to repair the roof
of her home, the repairs to be done ‘‘in a workmanlike manner.'' The roofer
completed  the  repairs  and  took  all  of  his  equipment  away,  with  the
exception of a 20 foot extension ladder, which was left against the side of
the house. He intended to come back and get the ladder the next morning. At
that  time,  the  homeowner  and  her  family  were  away  on  a  trip.  During  the
night, a thief, using the ladder to gain access to an upstairs window, entered
the  house  and  stole  some  valuable  jewels.  The  homeowner  has  asserted  a
claim against the roofer for damages for the loss of the jewels.

In her claim against the roofer, the homeowner will

 (A) prevail, because by leaving the ladder the roofer became a trespasser

on the homeowner's property.

(B) prevail, because by leaving the ladder, the roofer created the risk that a

person might unlawfully enter the house.

(C) not prevail, because the act of the thief was a superseding cause.
(D) not prevail, because the homeowner's claim is limited to damages for

breach of contract.

 Question 199

Congress decides that the application of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code
(UCCC)  should  be  the  same  throughout  the  United  States.  To  that  end,  it
enacts  the  UCCC  as  a  federal  law  directly  applicable  to  all  consumer
credit,  small  loans,  and  retail  installment  sales.  The  law  is  intended  to
protect  borrowers  and  buyers  against  unfair  practices  by  suppliers  of
consumer credit.

1339

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  may  be  most  easily

used to justify federal enactment of this statute?

 (A) The Obligation of Contracts Clause
(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
(C) The Commerce Clause
(D) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment

 Question 200

On  March  1,  a  homeowner  contacted  a  builder  about  constructing  an
addition  to  the  homeowner's  house.  The  builder  orally  offered  to  perform
the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected.
The homeowner accepted the builder's terms and the builder then prepared a
written  contract  that  both  parties  signed.  The  contract  did  not  refer  to  the
builder's pending bid. One week later, upon learning that his pending bid on
the  other  project  had  been  accepted,  the  builder  refused  to  perform  any
work for the homeowner.

Can the homeowner recover for the builder's non-performance?

 (A) No, because efficiency principles justify the builder's services being

directed to a higher-valued use.

(B) No, because the builder's duty to perform was subject to a condition.
(C) Yes, because the builder's attempt to condition his duty to perform

rendered the contract illusory.

(D) Yes, because the parol evidence rule would bar the builder from

presenting evidence of oral understandings not included in the final
writing.


ANSWERS

PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM

Answer 151

 (A) is the best response,

because it would seriously impair the creditor's ability to prevail.

The  most  significant  thing  to  remember  here  is  that  if  the  buyer
owes the creditor as an intended beneficiary under the agreement, there
is  no  need  for  this  provision  to  be  in  writing,  because  it  doesn't  fall
within the Statute of Frauds. Thus, in order for the written contract to be
relevant,  there  must  be  some  significance  attached  to  the  fact  that  the
provision wasn't in the written contract. That's what choice A provides.
The  concept  of  “complete  integration”  is  relevant  to  the  Parol
Evidence  Rule.  That  rule  provides  that  a  writing  that  is  “completely
integrated” cannot be contradicted or supplemented with prior written
or  oral  agreements,  or  contemporaneous  oral  agreements.  A
“completely integrated” agreement is one which the parties intended to
be a final and complete statement of their agreement.

If the buyer was to pay $25,000 to the creditor instead of the seller,
this would vary the written term under which the buyer would pay the
entire amount to the seller. Thus, if the agreement is fully integrated, it
may prevent the creditor from proving the existence of his claim at all.
If  the  written  contract  isn't  fully  integrated,  meaning  that  it  doesn't
embody the entire agreement, then the creditor will be able to prove his
claim, since the Parol Evidence Rule doesn't bar evidence of consistent
additional terms where the contract is only partially integrated.

Thus,  whether  or  not  the  agreement  is  completely  integrated  will

1608

have a significant impact on the case. Since A recognizes this, it's the
best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the buyer's negligence in reading the agreement would have no
bearing on the creditor's claim against him.

If  the  buyer  is  to  be  liable  to  the  creditor,  he  can  be  liable  even
without a writing, since the agreement to pay the creditor falls outside
the  Statute  of  Frauds.  Thus,  in  order  to  impact  the  creditor's  claim
against  the  buyer,  there  must  be  some  relevance  to  the  provision's  not
appearing in the contract (which would be present, for instance, if the
contract were considered fully integrated, since the creditor provision
would  not  be  provable  at  all  under  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule).  The
buyer's  negligence  in  failing  to  include  the  provision  would  not  be
relevant  to  the  creditor's  claim  except  that  if  it  were  written,  the
creditor's claim would be easier to prove. Thus, the buyer's negligence
alone isn't actionable because there's no causation: the buyer is liable
even  without  the  writing.  Since  B  attaches  significance  to  the  buyer's
negligence where none actually exists, B isn't the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the seller's negligence couldn't be asserted by either party.

The  existence  of  the  buyer's  duty  to  pay  the  creditor  depends  on
whether  the  creditor's  rights  as  a  third  party  beneficiary  under  the
contract  “vested.”  Since  the  provision  for  paying  the  creditor  is  not
covered by the Statute of Frauds, it's not necessary that the agreement
appear in writing. Thus, a negligence claim centering on the failure to
put  the  agreement  in  writing  would  not  succeed,  because  there's  no
causation. The creditor could recover even without a writing; a writing
would only make the claim easier to prove.

Even if negligence were relevant to the claim, neither the buyer nor
the  creditor  could  assert  the  seller's  negligence.  Since  C  fails  to
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the creditor can recover without being a party to the contract,
and, beyond that, the creditor clearly isn't a party to the contract under
these facts.

A  third  party  can  recover  under  a  contract  if  he  was  an  intended

1609

beneficiary  (or,  alternatively,  if  he  was  an  assignee).  Thus,  if  the
creditor  proves  that  it  was  the  promisee's  (the  seller's)  intent  that  the
creditor receive the payment from the promisor (the buyer), he'd have
enforceable rights under the contract. Since the creditor could recover
regardless  of  whether  he's  a  party  or  not,  D,  which  conditions  the
creditor's recovery on whether he's a party to the contract, cannot be the
best response.

 Answer 152

 (D) is the best response,

because the seller does not have to convey marketable title until after
all of the installment payments have been made.

The  contract  calls  for  the  seller  to  convey  “a  warranty  deed
sufficient to convey a fee simple title.” Therefore, the seller will have
to  be  able  to  convey  title  free  of  any  encumbrances  at  the  time  of
delivery. In this case, delivery is not due until the buyer has paid 290
more installment payments to the seller. Although the land is currently
encumbered by a mortgage, there is no reason to believe that the seller
will be unable to provide clear title when the time comes to convey the
property.  The  seller  has  never  been  late  in  making  the  mortgage
payments, the debt is much less than the purchase price, and the seller
has  a  significant  amount  of  time  to  pay  off  the  mortgage.  Further,  the
seller can use the proceeds from the remaining installment payments to
pay  down  the  mortgage.  These  factors  combine  to  give  an  adequate
assurance that the seller will be able to convey fee simple at closing.
The buyer may not sue for damages at this time, because the seller has
not breached the contract.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  the  seller  will  be  unable  to
convey marketable title.

Choice  A's  statement  of  law  is  correct:  unless  the  parties  agree
otherwise,  the  seller  of  land  is  under  an  implied  duty  to  convey
marketable title when delivery of the deed is due. In this case, delivery
is not due until the buyer has paid 290 more installment payments to the
seller. Although the land is currently encumbered by a mortgage, there
is no reason to believe that the seller will be unable to provide clear
title when the time comes to convey the property. The seller has never

1610

been late in making the mortgage payments, the debt is much less than
the purchase price, and the seller has a significant amount of time to pay
off  the  mortgage.  Further,  the  seller  can  use  the  proceeds  from  the
remaining  installment  payments  to  pay  down  the  mortgage.  These
factors  combine  to  give  an  adequate  assurance  that  the  seller  will  be
able  to  convey  fee  simple  at  closing.  The  buyer  may  not  sue  for
damages at this time, because the seller has not breached the contract.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the seller has not attempted to redeem the property.

In many cases, an installment contract for the purchase of land will
be treated as a mortgage. Non-payment by the buyer may be treated as
defaulting on the mortgage, which would allow the seller to enforce the
contract  by  ordering  the  sale  of  the  buyer's  interest  in  the  property.
However,  this  is  a  right  that  must  be  exercised  by  the  seller,  not  the
buyer.  Since  it  is  the  buyer  who  is  seeking  damages,  the  possible
treatment  of  the  installment  purchase  contract  as  a  mortgage  is
irrelevant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  use  of  an  installment  contract  as  a  security  device  is
designed to protect the seller.

An  installment  purchase  contract  protects  the  seller  by  not
conveying the property to the buyer until the full amount of the purchase
price  is  paid  in  full.  Although  it  may  act  as  a  mortgage  (see  the
explanation for choice B above), the seller is not obligated to convey
clear  title  to  the  property  until  after  the  last  installment  payment  has
been made. Although the land is currently encumbered by a mortgage,
there is no reason to believe that the seller will be unable to provide
clear title when the time comes to convey the property. The seller has
never been late in making the mortgage payments, the debt is much less
than the purchase price, and the seller has a significant amount of time
to  pay  off  the  mortgage.  Further,  the  seller  can  use  the  proceeds  from
the  remaining  installment  payments  to  pay  down  the  mortgage.  These
factors  combine  to  give  an  adequate  assurance  that  the  seller  will  be
able  to  convey  fee  simple  at  closing.  The  buyer  may  not  sue  for
damages at this time, because the seller has not breached the contract.

 Answer 153

1611

(B) is the best response,

because it identifies the situation, of these four, that most likely satisfies
the first degree murder statute in the problem.

The key here is to realize that the defendant's merely being angered
by  the  bicyclist's  conduct  would  not  be  enough  to  reduce  murder  to
voluntary  manslaughter,  since  voluntary  manslaughter  requires  that  the
provocation  be  recent  enough  that  the  actor  was  still  in  the  “heat  of
passion”  when  the  killing  took  place,  and  that  a  reasonable  person
would  still  have  been  in  the  “heat  of  passion,”  as  well.  The  act  of
having to buy rat poison and put it in the bicyclist's coffee indicates that
the defendant had time to cool off, and, by the same token, premeditate
and  deliberate  the  killing.  Furthermore,  the  use  of  poison  would  be
clear  evidence  of  the  intent  to  kill,  thus  satisfying  the  “malice
aforethought”  requirement  of  common  law  murder  (which  is  what's
missing  from  choice  C).  Since  choice  B  satisfies  the  statute  in  the
problem, and the use of poison would supply the “malice aforethought”
requirement of common law murder, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  would  not  satisfy  the  “premeditation  and  deliberation”
element of the statute given in the problem.

At  common  law,  murder  requires  an  unlawful  killing  (neither
justifiable  nor  excusable)  committed  with  malice  aforethought.
Voluntary manslaughter is murder committed in the “heat of passion.” In
fact,  under  these  facts,  the  defendant  would  most  likely  be  guilty  of
voluntary  manslaughter.  The  key  word  here  is  immediately.  If  the
defendant  was  responding  immediately  to  an  insult,  there's  a  strong
possibility that he killed the acquaintance in the heat of passion. That
would make the killing voluntary manslaughter, not murder. Even if he
were  guilty  of  murder,  he  wouldn't  be  guilty  of  first  degree  murder,
since there was no time to premeditate and deliberate, and there was no
other crime being committed. As a result, A is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

but it's an appealing one.

The  “lying  in  wait”  in  choice  C  would  certainly  satisfy  the
premeditation  and  deliberation  requirement  of  first  degree  murder,  as
given in the statute; however, the problem here is whether there was a

1612

murder  at  all.  While  murder  does  not  require  intent,  it  does  require
malice aforethought. Malice aforethought can take the form of intending
to inflict great bodily injury (short of an intent to kill), or acting in spite
of  an  unjustifiably  high  risk  to  human  life.  Under  choice  C,  the
defendant did intend to injure the co-worker however, striking the co-
worker  with  a  broom  handle  could  not  be  considered  evidence  of  an
intent  to  inflict  great  bodily  injury,  since  great  injury  would  typically
not result from a whack with a broom handle. As a result, C is not the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because 
deliberation element of the statute in the problem.

it  would  probably  not  satisfy 

the  premeditation  and

As a prerequisite, you have to remember what common law murder
requires:  an  unlawful  killing  (neither  justifiable  nor  excusable)
committed  with  malice  aforethought.  At  common  law,  voluntary
intoxication  can  only  be  used  to  prove  a  lack  of  capacity  for  specific
intent crimes, and it can only be used if the defendant was intoxicated
before  he  formulated  the  intent  to  commit  the  crime.  Some  courts
restrict  the  use  of  voluntary  intoxication  as  a  defense  to  first  degree
murder. Here, the defendant's drunkenness apparently stopped him from
forming the necessary mens rea for murder. As a result, he may not be
guilty of murder at all, making D not the best response.

 Answer 154

 (C) is the best response,

because it identifies the central reason why the utility will be liable for
the farmer's injuries.

A  private  nuisance  —  which  is  probably  the  type  involved  here,
due to the small scope of injury — is an act by a defendant that creates
an  unreasonable,  substantial  interference  with  a  plaintiff's  use  and
enjoyment of property. Here, the utility deliberately created the fumes,
and they harmed the farmer. The creator of a private nuisance is liable
for  all  harm  resulting  proximately  from  the  nuisance,  both  personal
(including diseases like the farmer's) and property. That's all there is to
it.  What's  important  to  note  here  is  that  it  doesn't  matter  how  feasible
alternatives  are,  like  the  scrubbing  equipment.  Once  the  nuisance  is
created, there's liability. Since C correctly identifies the central reason

1613

the utility will be liable, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it focuses on a fact that is irrelevant.

All a private nuisance requires is an act by a defendant creating an
interference  with  a  plaintiff's  use  or
unreasonable,  substantial 
enjoyment  of  property.  Thus,  the  ease  with  which  the  defendant  could
prevent  the  nuisance  is  irrelevant.  As  a  result,  in  nuisance,  it's
important  to  focus  on  the  damage  to  the  plaintiff,  not  the  fault  of  the
defendant. Since A ignores this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it's  not  clear  that  it  appropriately  characterizes  the  facts,  and
even  if  it  does,  it  would  not  prevent  the  farmer  from  recovering  for
nuisance.

The  distinction  between  a  public  and  a  private  nuisance  is  the
scope  of  the  injury.  A  public  nuisance  affects  the  community  at  large
through an act or condition that unreasonably interferes with the health,
safety,  or  convenience  of  the  general  public  (e.g.,  blocking  a  public
highway,  operating  a  brothel).  A  private  nuisance,  on  the  other  hand,
requires  an  act  by  a  defendant  creating  an  unreasonable,  substantial
interference  with  a  plaintiff's  use  or  enjoyment  of  property.  While  the
fumes here might affect the community in general, the facts here tell you
the  farmer's  land  is  adjacent  to,  and  downwind  from,  the  plant,  and
there's no mention of others being affected. Assuming arguendo that the
nuisance is public and not private, the farmer will be able to recover
damages  nonetheless.  Normally,  public  nuisance  suits  are  brought  by
the state. In order for a private person to recover for public nuisance,
he has to prove that he suffered special damages above and beyond the
ordinary damage the public incurred. Here, the farmer's proximity to the
fumes, and the damages he suffered, suggest he would probably be able
to recover under a public nuisance claim. Thus, since B probably does
not correctly characterize the facts, and the fact it cites is irrelevant, it's
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  there's  no  causation  between  the  ultra-hazardous  activity  and
the farmer's damages.

Private  nuisance  is  an  act  by  a  defendant  that  creates  an

1614

interference  with  a  plaintiff's  use  or
unreasonable,  substantial 
enjoyment  of  property.  Here,  it's  not  the  electricity  that  creates  the
interference,  but  the  fumes  emitted  by  the  plant,  which  is  not  an
ultrahazardous  activity.  Had  the  farmer  been  electrocuted  by  downed
power lines, say, there would  be  causation.  In  fact,  the  utility  will  be
liable  in  nuisance  for  the  interference  created  by  the  fumes.  Thus,  the
ultrahazardous  nature  of  electricity  is  not  a  central  concern  in  this
problem, making D not the best response.

 Answer 155

 (A) is the best response,

because the gallery had resold the painting in reliance on the collector's
rejection.

When  the  collector  rightfully  rejected  the  painting,  the  gallery
justifiably attempted to, and succeeded at, finding a substitute buyer for
the painting. It then informed the collector that it would be reclaiming
the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  At  this  point,  the  gallery  has
changed its position based on the collector's rejection, and the collector
cannot treat the painting as his property. However, the collector did so
when he sold the painting to the art admirer. Since the gallery was the
owner of the painting at the time the collector sold it, the collector has
wrongfully converted the gallery's property. The remedy for conversion
is  the  fair  market  value  of  the  item  at  the  time  of  the  conversion.  The
seller's ability to get $120,000 for the painting is strong evidence that
the market value of the painting was at least that much.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  maximize  the  amount  that  the  gallery  may  recover
from the collector.

When  the  collector  rightfully  rejected  the  painting,  the  gallery
justifiably attempted to, and succeeded at, finding a substitute buyer for
the painting. It then informed the collector that it would be reclaiming
the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  At  this  point,  the  gallery  has
changed its position based on the collector's rejection, and the collector
cannot treat the painting as his property. However, the collector did so
when he sold the painting to the art admirer. Since the gallery was the
owner of the painting at the time the collector sold it, the collector has
wrongfully converted the gallery's property. The remedy for conversion

1615

is  the  fair  market  value  of  the  item  at  the  time  of  the  conversion.  The
seller's ability to get $120,000 for the painting is strong evidence that
the market value of  the  painting  was  at  least  that  much.  Alternatively,
the gallery can sue the collector for the contract price. However, since
the  market  price  of  the  painting  is  greater  than  the  contract  price,  the
gallery can obtain a greater recovery by suing for the market price.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  maximize  the  amount  that  the  gallery  may  recover
from the collector.

While  a  seller  may  recover  the  market/contract  price  differential
after a buyer's breach, the $20,000 that would provide in this case is far
less  than  would  be  obtained  by  suing  for  the  market  price,  which  the
gallery is able to do. When the collector rightfully rejected the painting,
the  gallery  justifiably  attempted  to,  and  succeeded  at,  finding  a
substitute  buyer  for  the  painting.  It  then  informed  the  collector  that  it
would  be  reclaiming  the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  At  this
point,  the  gallery  has  changed  its  position  based  on  the  collector's
rejection,  and  the  collector  cannot  treat  the  painting  as  his  property.
However,  the  collector  did  so  when  he  sold  the  painting  to  the  art
admirer. Since the gallery was the owner of the painting at the time the
collector  sold  it,  the  collector  has  wrongfully  converted  the  gallery's
property. The remedy for conversion is the fair market value of the item
at the time of the conversion. The seller's ability to get $120,000 for the
painting is strong evidence that the market value of the painting was at
least that much.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  maximize  the  amount  that  the  gallery  may  recover
from the collector.

While a volume seller may recover its lost profits on a sale after a
buyer's  breach  in  certain  circumstances,  the  damages  doing  so  would
provide  in  this  case  are  less  than  would  be  obtained  by  suing  for  the
market  price,  which  the  gallery  is  able  to  do.  (Even  if  the  gallery  got
the  painting  for  free,  they  would  only  make  $100,000  on  the  sale.)
When  the  collector  rightfully  rejected  the  painting,  the  gallery
justifiably attempted to, and succeeded at, finding a substitute buyer for
the painting. It then informed the collector that it would be reclaiming
the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  At  this  point,  the  gallery  has

1616

changed its position based on the collector's rejection, and the collector
cannot treat the painting as his property. However, the collector did so
when he sold the painting to the art admirer. Since the gallery was the
owner of the painting at the time the collector sold it, the collector has
wrongfully converted the gallery's property. The remedy for conversion
is  the  fair  market  value  of  the  item  at  the  time  of  the  conversion.  The
seller's ability to get $120,000 for the painting is strong evidence that
the market value of the painting was at least that much.

 Answer 156

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly applies the appropriate rule to these facts.

In  this  question,  the  contents  of  a  letter  are  involved  —  the
investigator's letter to the defendant inquiring about the plaintiff. Thus,
there's at least facially a Best Evidence Rule issue. The Best Evidence
Rule is triggered when a party wants to prove the material terms of a
writing  (or  a  witness  is  testifying  relying  on  a  writing).  Then,  the
“original writing” (which includes photocopies) must be produced, and
copies  and  oral  testimony  about  the  writing's  contents  will  only  be
admissible  if  the  original  is  shown  to  be  unavailable  for  some  other
reason than the proponent's misconduct. FRE 1002.

The  thing  that  makes  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  inadmissible  here  is
that  no  one  is  seeking  to  prove  the  contents  of  the  inquiry  letter.  It
doesn't  particularly  matter  how  the  request  was  worded,  and  there's
nothing  for  the  jury  to  interpret.  Furthermore,  it  is  not  clear  that  the
investigator is relying on the letter for his testimony, since he wrote the
letter  and  could  remember  the  contents.  All  that  matters  is  that  the
the
investigator  asked 
investigator's  testimony  will  suffice  for  this.  Since  the  terms  of  the
letter  are  not  material  to  the  case,  the  investigator's  testimony  will  be
admissible without accounting for the unavailability of the letter.

the  defendant  about 

the  plaintiff,  and 

Note  that  once  you've  removed  any  Best  Evidence  Rule  problem,
you've also taken care of a potential hearsay problem, as well. Had the
contents  of  the  investigator's  letter  been  at  issue,  there  would  be  a
hearsay  issue  as  well  as  a  Best  Evidence  Rule  problem,  because  the
testimony  would  be  repeating  the  out-of-court  statements  found  in  the
letter.  Since  the  investigator  is  merely  being  asked  if  he  wrote  to  the
defendant inquiring about the plaintiff — and this doesn't require that he

1617

repeat any out-of-court statements — there's no hearsay problem.

Since  B  recognizes  and  confronts  the  central,  Best  Evidence  Rule

issue, and satisfactorily resolves it, it is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is irrelevant.

The admissibility of the investigator's testimony is not dependent on
whether or not the inquiry was made in the regular course of business;
rather,  all  that's  necessary  is  that  the  investigator  have  personal
knowledge  of  the  substance  of  his  testimony  —  that  is,  whether  an
inquiry was made.

What  choice  B  implies  is  that  the  testimony  is  hearsay,  and  will
only  be  admissible  if  it  fits  the  business  records  exception  to  the
hearsay  rule.  The  reason  this  doesn't  apply  is  that  the  investigator's
testimony isn't hearsay. Hearsay is an out-of-court statement offered to
prove the truth of its assertion. Here, the contents of the investigator's
letter aren't being offered to prove that anything in the letter was true.
Rather, the only thing that's important about his out-of-court statement is
that it was made — i.e., to prove that he inquired about the plaintiff at
all. As a result, it's not hearsay, and there's no need for it to fit in any
exception,  let  alone  the  business  records  exception.  Since  A  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  admissibility  of  the  investigator's  testimony  would  not
depend on the defendant's prior notification.

The  “prior  notification”  language  addresses  the  issue  of  surprise.
At common law, even though a piece of evidence is relevant, it can be
excluded  under  some  circumstances  if  there  are  factors  that  outweigh
the  probative  value  of  the  evidence.  One  such  circumstance  is  unfair
surprise to the opponent. The theory is that, with no reasonable grounds
for anticipating such proof, the opponent would be unprepared to meet
it. This is addressed in the Federal Rules, in the Advisory Committee's
Notes  to  Rule  403,  where  it's  suggested  that  it's  more  appropriate  for
the affected party to seek a continuance, rather than having the evidence
rejected outright, in cases of surprise.

In any case, under these facts, there'd be no basis for excluding the
investigator's testimony about the inquiry even if the plaintiff's attorney
didn't  specifically  know  about  it  beforehand.  The  entire  basis  of  this

1618

lawsuit was a defamatory letter. Here, the investigator's inquiry would
provide the reason the defamatory letter was sent. This is close enough
to  a  central  issue  that  the  plaintiff's  attorney  should  reasonably  have
anticipated  it,  thus  negating  the  possibility  of  unfair  surprise.  Since  C
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  implies  that  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  applies  to
the  investigator's  testimony,  since  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  requires
proof that a document is unavailable before testimony about its contents
will be admissible.

The  Best  Evidence  Rule  only  applies  when  the  terms  of  a  writing
are being proven, or the witness is testifying relying on a writing. Then,
the “original writing” (which includes photocopies) must be produced,
and copies and oral testimony about the writing's contents will only be
admissible  if  the  original  is  shown  to  be  unavailable  for  some  other
reason than the proponent's misconduct. FRE 1002.

the  plaintiff,  and 

the  defendant  about 

The  thing  that  makes  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  inadmissible  here  is
that  no  one  is  seeking  to  prove  the  contents  of  the  inquiry  letter.  It
doesn't  particularly  matter  how  the  request  was  worded,  and  there's
nothing  for  the  jury  to  interpret.  Furthermore,  it  is  not  clear  that  the
investigator is relying on the letter for his testimony, since he wrote the
letter  and  could  remember  the  contents.  All  that  matters  is  that  the
investigator  asked 
the
investigator's  testimony  will  suffice  for  this.  Since  the  terms  of  the
letter are not material to the case, and the investigator isn't relying on
the  letter  for  his  testimony,  the  investigator's  testimony  will  be
admissible without accounting for the unavailability of the letter. Note
that the defendant's letter is an entirely different matter, since that's the
letter that allegedly contains the defamatory matter. Since the terms of
that  letter  would  be  material  to  the  case,  it  would  be  covered  by  the
Best  Evidence  Rule.  However,  what's  at  issue  in  this  question  is  the
investigator's  inquiry  letter,  not  the  defendant's  response.  Since
testimony  about  the  inquiry  letter  will  be  admissible  without  proving
the  unavailability  of  the  letter  itself,  and  D  doesn't  recognize  this,  D
isn't the best response.

 Answer 157

1619


(C) is the best response,

because  the  equal  protection  issue  will  determine  the  validity  of  the
restriction under these facts.

Restrictions  on  the  use  of  land  are  valid  as  long  as  they  aren't
repugnant  to  law  or  public  policy.  The  restriction  here  creates  a
classification:  people  aged  21  and  over  versus  those  under  21.  A
classification  that  determines  people's  rights  —  here,  the  right  to
occupy land — is the hallmark of an equal protection problem.

However,  this  question  involves  one  further  step,  because  the
restriction  here  is  a  private  agreement  between  owners  of  land  in  the
subdivision,  and  the  Constitution  doesn't  ban  purely  private  acts  of
discrimination; some state action is required. What makes this an equal
protection  issue  is  that  the  other  lot  owners  are  seeking  to  have  the
restriction  enforced  in  court,  and  such  enforcement  constitutes  state
action. Thus, if the restriction is an equal protection violation, the court
could  not  enforce  it.  You  might  argue  that  the  classification  here
addresses who can exercise the fundamental right of procreation, since
those living in the subdivision could not have children. In that case, the
restriction  would  be  subject  to  strict  scrutiny,  and  would  thus  almost
certainly  be  invalid.  What  this  shows  is  that  an  analysis  of  the
restriction  under  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  would  determine  its
validity, and this is the only argument of these four that will determine
the lawfulness of the restriction. Thus, choice C is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  distinction  between  realty  and  personalty  would  be
irrelevant here.

The  restriction  here  addresses  who  may  own  or  occupy  the  land.
Thus,  it  doesn't  matter  how  the  land  is  occupied,  whether  it's  realty,
personalty,  a  gingerbread  house,  or  a  giant  shoe,  as  long  as  the
restriction is lawful. The distinction of realty versus personalty would
be relevant, say, to whether or not the mobile home were considered a
fixture,  or,  alternatively,  for  probate  purposes  in  determining  who  is
entitled  to  the  mobile  home  (if  the  decedent  has  willed  personalty  to
one person and realty to someone else). The distinction isn't relevant to
this  restriction;  the  only  distinction  involved  here  is  between  people
aged  21  and  over,  and  those  under  21.  Thus,  the  realty  versus
personalty  distinction  won't  be  the  issue  deciding  the  case,  making  A
not the best response.

1620

(B) is not the best response,

because  the  restriction  here  wouldn't  be  unlawful  because  it's  a
restraint on alienation.

A  deed  restriction  is  only  an  invalid  restraint  on  alienation  if
landowners could not sell their lots as restricted. Otherwise, property
is  frequently  sold  with  restraints,  like  easements  and  restrictions  on
use.  Here,  the  property  owners  could  clearly  sell  their  lots  to  adults
without children. Thus, it's not the restriction's impact on alienation that
would  make  it  unlawful.  As  a  result,  it's  not  the  alienation  issue  that
would  decide  this  case.  Since  B  states  otherwise,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  if  the  restriction  were  valid,  it  needn't  be  expressly  repeated
verbatim in the carpenter's deed in order to bind him.

As  long  as  the  property  holder  has,  at  the  very  least,  constructive
notice  of  the  restriction,  it  doesn't  matter  that  it  doesn't  appear  in  his
own  deed.  For  instance,  real  covenants  and  equitable  servitudes  are
binding as long as they appear somewhere in the chain of title, even if
they  are  completely  absent  from  the  current  owner's  deed.  Here,  the
carpenter's  deed  specifically  references  the  plat  for  the  subdivision;
thus, he had notice of the restriction, and, if the restriction were lawful,
it  would  be  binding  on  the  carpenter  even  without  its  being  repeated
verbatim in his deed. Since choice D discusses an issue that will not be
determinative under these facts, it's not the best response.

 Answer 158

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  characterizes  the  clause  as  a  condition,  not  a
promise, and addresses and resolves a central issue.

A  condition  is  the  occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  an  event  that
triggers,  limits,  or  extinguishes  an  absolute  duty  to  perform.  While  it
can  be  difficult  to  distinguish  a  condition  from  a  promise,  courts
consider primarily the language used (i.e., how the parties characterize
the  clause).  Furthermore,  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  206  provides  this
guideline: If the contractual provision purports to be the words of the
party of whom performance is required, the provision is a promise; if

1621

it's supposed to be the words of the other party, it's a condition. Here,
taken together, these suggest that the clause is a condition. B correctly
characterizes this.

More  importantly,  B  addresses  the  specific  question  asked,  which
is  how  the  court  will  construe  the  truthfulness  warranty.  What  the
truthfulness provision would be reasonably interpreted to do is prevent
fraud by requiring truthfulness to the best of the applicant's knowledge.
This requires that you address the rules of contract interpretation. As a
general rule, contract terms are interpreted objectively, by determining
what  interpretation  a  reasonable  person  (knowing  all  that  the  parties
know)  would  place  on  the  terms.  Here,  it  wouldn't  be  reasonable  to
require  an  absolute  guarantee.  The  truthfulness  provision  would  be
designed  to  let  the  insurance  company  determine  the  risks  it  is
undertaking.  Thus,  the  reasonable  interpretation  in  choice  B  will
suffice. As a result, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because although it correctly characterizes the clause as a condition, it
does not interpret it correctly.

A  condition  is  the  occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  an  event  that
triggers,  limits,  or  extinguishes  an  absolute  duty  to  perform.  Here,  the
company's duty to pay is expressly made dependent on the truth of the
woman's statements in the application, so it's an express condition. As
an  express  condition,  it  requires  strict  compliance  and  any  deviation
would  be  considered  a  major  breach,  relieving  the  other  party  (the
company) of its duty to perform.

As  a  result,  it's  easy  to  see  why  you  might  choose  this  response.
However,  even  a  condition  is  subject  to  the  rules  of  contract
interpretation.  As  a  general  rule,  contract  terms  are  interpreted
objectively,  by  determining  what  interpretation  a  reasonable  person,
knowing all that the parties know, would place on the terms.

Here,  the  insurance  company  could  only  expect  applicants  to
warrant  their  statements  to  the  extent  of  their  knowledge.  It  would  be
unreasonable  to,  in  effect,  make  applicants  strictly  liable  for  their
statements. Since choice A places an unreasonable interpretation on the
clause,  even  though  it  correctly  states  the  theoretical  law,  it's  not  the
best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

1622

because it mischaracterizes the clause, and does not address an element
relevant to determining the company's liability.

A  condition  is  the  occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  an  event  that
triggers,  limits,  or  extinguishes  an  absolute  duty  to  perform.  While  it
can  be  difficult  to  distinguish  a  condition  from  a  promise,  courts
consider primarily the language used (i.e., how the parties characterize
the  clause).  Furthermore,  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  206  provides  this
guideline: If the contractual provision purports to be the words of the
party of whom performance is required, the provision is a promise; if
it's supposed to be the words of the other party, it's a condition. Here,
taken  together,  these  suggest  that  the  clause  is  a  condition,  not  a
promise.

Even  if  the  clause  is  not  a  condition,  contrary  to  what  choice  C
states, this does not determine the company's liability. If the clause is a
promise, and the woman breached it, the company would be entitled to
positive  relief,  e.g.,  damages.  Thus,  the  mere  characterization  of  the
clause as a promise would not make the company liable.

Instead, the company's liability will turn on the interpretation of the
clause, given that it's a condition. The fact is that the woman warranted
the  truthfulness  of  the  statements  in  her  application,  and  the  statement
about  heart  disease  was  not  true.  Thus,  if  the  condition  is  interpreted
strictly, the company won't be liable. However, the rule is that contract
provisions are interpreted reasonably, meaning that the statements need
only  be  true  to  the  best  of  the  woman's  knowledge.  Since  choice  C
mischaracterizes  the  clause  and  ignores  the  central  issue,  it's  not  the
best response.

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  mischaracterizes  the  clause  as  a  promise  instead  of  a
condition, and ignores the central issue, namely, the interpretation of the
“truthfulness” warranty.

A  condition  is  the  occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  an  event  that
triggers,  limits,  or  extinguishes  an  absolute  duty  to  perform.  While  it
can  be  difficult  to  distinguish  a  condition  from  a  promise,  courts
consider primarily the language used (i.e., how the parties characterize
the  clause).  Furthermore,  Rest.  2d  of  Contracts  §  206  provides  this
guideline: If the contractual provision purports to be the words of the
party of whom performance is required, the provision is a promise; if
it's supposed to be the words of the other party, it's a condition. Here,
taken  together,  these  suggest  that  the  clause  is  a  condition,  not  a

1623

promise. Thus, D mischaracterizes the clause.

Beyond that, D ignores the central issue here: interpretation of the
warranty  clause.  Regardless  of  whether  the  clause  is  a  condition  or  a
promise,  you  still  need  to  determine  if  it  was  breached.  If  the
truthfulness  warranty  is  interpreted  strictly,  the  woman's  estate  would
be liable whether it's a condition or a promise. However, that doesn't
reflect the rule on contract interpretation, which is that provisions must
be  interpreted  reasonably.  Here,  it's  reasonable  to  interpret  the
warranty  as  requiring  truth  to  the  best  of  the  applicant's  knowledge.
Thus,  characterizing  the  clause  as  a  promise  doesn't  determine  the
company's  liability  —  instead,  that  turns  on  interpretation  of  the
warranty  language.  Since  D  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 159

 (A) is correct,

because  the  complaint  alleges  fraud  and  so  is  required  to  plead  the
particulars of the fraud.

FRCP  9(b)  requires  that,  “[i]n  alleging fraud  or  mistake,  a  party
must state with particularity the circumstances constituting fraud or
mistake.”  Here  the  complaint  includes  only  the  conclusory  allegation
that  Defendant,  by  delivering  non-organic  cookies,  engaged  in  fraud.
Courts interpret the special pleading rules for fraud to require that the
complaint  allege  the  relatively-precise  misconduct  that  constitutes  the
fraud. Generally this heightened pleading requirement is met when the
complaint  alleges  the  “who,  what,  when,  where,  and  how”  of  the
fraudulent  representation.  See,  e.g.,  Lerner  v.  Fleet  Bank,  N.A.,  459
F.3d 273 (2d Cir. 2006) (to meet the requirements of FRCP 9(b) when
fraud is alleged, “the complaint must: (1) specify the statements that the
plaintiff  contends  were  fraudulent,  (2)  identify  the  speaker,  (3)  state
where  and  when  the  statements  were  made,  and  (4)  explain  why  the
statements were fraudulent”). Here, the allegations of the complaint do
not  meet  this  standard  because  they  do  not  specify  when  and  where
Defendant made the fraudulent statements, how Plaintiff knows that the
statements  were  untrue,  or  how  Plaintiff  knows  that  any  falsity  was
intentional (i.e., how/why Plaintiff believes that Defendant knew of the
falsity  when  it  made  the  statement,  or  at  least  when  it  shipped  the
merchandise). Moreover, most courts say the allegations of fraud must

1624

include  specific  facts  giving  rise  to  a  “strong  inference”  of  fraud,
whereas  the  complaint  here  contains  only  a  bare  assertion  that  fraud
occurred.

 (B) is not correct,

because  it  relies  on  a  pleading  standard  that  the  Supreme  Court  no
longer applies.

Prior  to  2007,  the  Court  held  that  a  complaint  should  not  be
dismissed for failure to state a claim “unless it appears beyond doubt
that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his claim which
could  entitle  him  to  relief.”  Conley  v.  Gibson,  355  U.S.  41,  45-46
(1957). But in Bell Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 554-563
(2007),  the  Court  “retired”  the  Conley  formulation,  and  announced  a
new  “plausibility”  standard  for  when  to  dismiss  a  federal-court
complaint  for  failing  to  state  a  claim;  Twombly  “require[s]  that  the
allegations in the complaint must allege facts showing that recovery [is]
not merely ‘conceivable' but that it [is] ‘plausible.' “ F,K&M (5th Ed.),
s.  5.9.  See  also  the  post-Twombly  decision  in  Ashcroft  v.  Iqbal,  556
U.S.  662,  684  (2009)  (held,  a  federal  complaint  must  state  a
“plausible” claim, and “threadbare recitals of the elements of a cause
of action, supported by mere conclusory statements, do not suffice” to
meet the requirement of plausibility.) Choice (B), by asserting that the
motion must be denied unless defendant has shown that there is “no set
of  facts”  that  plaintiff  could  prove  that  would  be  sufficient  to  show
fraud, adheres to the now-abandoned Conley standard rather than to the
current  standard  by  which  the  motion  will  be  granted  if  the  court
determines  that  plaintiff's  allegations  are  “conclusory”  and  not
“plausible.”

 (C) is not correct,

because  a  party  is  never  required  to  move  for  a  judgment  on  the
pleadings  and,  in  any  event,  such  a  motion  is  available  only  after  the
pleadings  are  “closed.”  FRCP  12(c).  In  contrast,  a  motion  to  dismiss
for failure to state a claim is filed prior to any responsive pleading, and
thus prior to any motion for judgment on the pleadings. See FRCP 12(b)
(“A  motion  asserting  any  of  these  defenses  [including  a  motion  under
12(b)(6) for “failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted”]
must  be  made  before  pleading  if  a  responsive  pleading  is  allowed.”)
The  pleadings  are  closed  only  after  an  answer  has  been  filed.  See

1625

FRCP  7(a).  Here,  since  the  facts  say  that  Defendant  has  not  yet
answered,  it's  clear  that  Defendant  was  not  required  to  move  for
judgment on the pleadings.

 (D) is not correct,

because under federal pleading rules, a plaintiff may join a tort and a
contract claim in one lawsuit and, indeed, may join “as many claims as
it  has  against  an  opposing  party.”  FRCP  18(a).  The  federal  joinder
rules  are  broad  and  do  not  restrict  the  joinder  of  claims  even  if  they
relate to different transactions or depend on different legal theories.

 Answer 160

What's going on here? The facts, and a quick glance at the answers,
suggest  that  the  question  concerns  the  Mercy  Rule  —  a  criminal
defendant's  right  to  introduce  evidence  of  his  pertinent  trait  of  good
character.

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  that  the  testimony  will  be  admissible  to
prove that the defendant is innocent.

First,  you  have  to  disassemble  these  facts,  and  determine  what's
going on here. The criminal defendant, who has not testified, is calling
a witness to testify to his good character. This should trigger the Mercy
Rule  in  your  mind.  The  FRE's  version  of  the  Mercy  Rule  is  given  in
404(a)(2).  FRE  404(a)(1)  states  the  general  rule  that  “Evidence  of  a
person's character or character trait is not admissible to prove that on a
particular  occasion  the  person  acted  in  accordance  with  the  character
or trait.” But 404(a)(2) lists some exceptions, one of which is that “in a
criminal  case:  (A)  a  defendant  may  offer  evidence  of  the  defendant's
pertinent  trait.”  Here,  evidence  that  the  defendant  is  a  “peaceable
man”  would  contradict  the  prosecutor's  contention  that  the  defendant
murdered  the  victim  without  having  been  attacked  or  threatened.
Therefore, the “peaceable man” evidence would tend to show that the
defendant  was  innocent  (e.g.,  by  making  it  more  likely  than  it  would
otherwise be that he was attacked).

Note,  incidentally,  that  once  the  defendant  has  offered  such
the
character  evidence,  404(a)(2)(A) 
defendant's  evidence  with  reputation  and  opinion  testimony  as  to  the
defendant's bad character for the trait in question (which the prosecutor

the  prosecutor  rebut 

lets 

1626

couldn't otherwise do). Since B correctly states the law and applies it
to the facts here, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it's not logically relevant.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  realized  that  the  Mercy  Rule  is  at
issue in this question, but you didn't apply it properly. Under the Mercy
Rule,  the  defendant  in  a  criminal  case  may  offer  pertinent  character
evidence to prove his innocence. The mistake A makes is to suggest that
the  witness's  testimony  is  admissible  on  the  issue  of  the  defendant's
credibility (since that's what believability addresses). The defendant's
honesty is not in issue because these facts tell you that the witness is
the  defendant's  first  witness,  which  means  that  the  defendant  himself
has  not  yet  testified,  and  thus  his  credibility  hasn't  yet  been  attacked,
and so is not “pertinent.”

 (C) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

Under  the  Mercy  Rule  of  FRE  404(a)(2)(A),  the  defendant  in  a
criminal  case  may  offer  pertinent  character  evidence  to  prove  his
innocence.  That's  exactly  what  the  witness's  testimony  does;  evidence
that  the  defendant  is  a  “peaceable  man”  would  contradict  the
prosecutor's  contention  that  the  defendant  murdered  the  victim,  which
makes it pertinent.

It's not necessary that the defendant testify in order to offer evidence
of his good character under the Mercy Rule. Of course, if he did choose
to  testify,  then  the  prosecutor  could  impeach  him  with  evidence
reflecting on his credibility; and, in fact, even if the defendant doesn't
testify,  if  he  invokes  the  Mercy  Rule,  the  prosecutor  can  rebut  the
defendant's  evidence  with  reputation  and  opinion  testimony  as  to  the
defendant's bad character.

Since  C  creates  a  prerequisite  to  admitting  the  evidence  here  that

does not, in fact, exist, it is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule on how a character trait may be proven.

As  is  discussed  in  Choice  B,  FRE  404(a)(2)  allows  a  criminal
defendant  to  offer  “evidence  of  the  defendant's  pertinent  trait”  of
character.  FRE  405(a)  then  says  that  “When  evidence  of  a  person's

1627

character  or  character  trait  is  admissible,  it  may  be  proved  by
testimony about the person's reputation or by testimony in the form of
an  opinion.”  So  given  that  the  defendant  was  entitled  to  prove  his
character trait for peaceableness, he was entitled to do so by testimony
about his reputation.

 Answer 161

 (D) is the best response.

D is the best response, because it correctly identifies the central reason
why the motion to dismiss should be granted: the man was not a federal
judge, and thus was not entitled to life tenure.

As  these  facts  state,  federal  judges,  serving  on  federal  courts
created  pursuant  to  Article  III  of  the  Constitution,  are  entitled  to
lifetime  tenure  and  undiminished  pay.  Had  the  man  been  a  federal
judge, he would have been entitled to both these benefits. However, the
man wasn't a federal judge; instead, you're told he served on a tribunal
created  by  Congress.  Problematically,  Congress  can  create  tribunals
under Article I of the Constitution, and can create lower federal courts
under Article III.

The  difference  between  a  tribunal  and  a  court  depends  on  the
functions  served;  a  tribunal  is  legislative  in  nature,  and  a  court  is
adjudicative. Here, the functions of the tribunal were legislative, and as
a  result  the  man  wouldn't  enjoy  the  Article  III  privileges  of  a  federal
judge. Instead, he'd serve at the pleasure of Congress.

Thus,  the  motion  to  dismiss  should  be  granted,  because  the  man
could prove no set of facts under which he'd be entitled to life tenure,
an  Article  III  privilege.  Sine  choice  D  recognizes  this,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  man  is  not  an  Article  III  judge,  and  thus  there's  no  issue
under Article III; and even if there were an Article III issue, A misstates
the law.

Congress in fact has considerable power with regard to Article III
courts.  Under  Article  III,  §  1,  of  the  Constitution,  the  federal  judicial
power is “vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as
the  Congress  may  from  time  to  time  .  .  .  establish.”  Congress  can  not
only  create  new,  inferior  courts,  but  it  can  regulate  the  appellate

1628

jurisdiction  of  federal  courts  under  Article  III,  §  2.  Thus,  the  federal
judiciary  could  hardly  be  characterized  as  “independent,”  contrary  to
what choice A states.

In any case, the man was not an Article III judge. Instead, he was a
member  of  a  legislative  tribunal  created  by  Congress.  While  it's  true
that  federal  judges  cannot  be  removed  from  office  during  good
behavior,  nor  can  their  pay  be  cut,  this  would  not  apply  to  the  man.
Instead, he was appointed by Congress and Congress could remove him
as it sees fit. Since A doesn't recognize that the man wasn't a judge, it's
not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the man had no property right in his federal employment.

With  the  words  “property  right,”  choice  B  suggests  that  the  man's
removal,  without  some  form  of  fair  hearing,  constitutes  a  due  process
violation.  When  the  effect  of  a  governmental  activity  amounts  to  a
deprivation  of  a  property  interest  or  right,  there's  a  potential  due
process  problem.  While  “property”  needn't  necessarily  be  actual,
tangible land or chattels, it requires at least interests already acquired
in specific benefits. As far as governmental employment is concerned,
the  existence  of  a  “property”  interest  in  continued  employment  is
determined under applicable federal, state, or municipal law. Thus, the
statute  creating  the  job,  or  the  employment  contract,  or  a  clear
understanding  must  provide  for  termination  only  “for  cause.”  Here,
there's no indication that the man's employment was anything other than
at the pleasure of Congress. He served only as a member of a tribunal,
not  as  a  federal  judge,  so  the  lifetime  employment  and  prohibition  of
salary diminution applicable to federal judges wouldn't apply to him.

Even  if  the  man  had  a  property  right  in  his  employment,  this
wouldn't determine that his dismissal involved a due process violation.
Instead,  he'd  have  to  establish  that  he  wasn't  granted  a  fair  hearing
pursuant  to  his  dismissal.  Here  again,  there  are  no  facts  under  this
question to indicate this. Since B incorrectly focuses on a due process
issue  when  none  are  indicated  under  these  facts,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the man did have the standing to challenge his dismissal.

In  order  to  press  a  claim,  a  party  must  have  standing.  Standing

1629

requires that the governmental action challenged must have caused or is
imminently likely to cause, an injury to the party seeking review. Here,
the  man  was  removed  from  his  job,  so  he  clearly  suffered  an  injury.
While his claim isn't valid, since he wasn't a federal judge, this doesn't
address the threshold question of whether or not he has standing. Since
C doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 162

 (A) is the best response,

because it offers the cornerstone of a public nuisance claim by private
individuals.

A  public  nuisance  is  an  act  that  unreasonably  interferes  with  the
health, safety, or convenience of the public in general. Such claims are
typically  brought  by  the  state.  However,  a  private  individual  can
recover for public nuisance if he suffered special damages above and
beyond  the  ordinary  damage  the  public  incurred.  Since  A  recognizes
this, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  its  reasoning  is  an  insufficient  basis  for  a  public  nuisance
claim brought by private individuals.

In  order  for  a  private  claim  of  public  nuisance  to  succeed,  the
plaintiff must prove that he suffered special damages above and beyond
the ordinary damage the public incurred, both in kind and degree. Thus,
merely  proving  an  interference  with  the  use  or  enjoyment  of  property
would be insufficient. If you chose this response, it's probably because
you  were  thinking  of  a  private  nuisance  claim,  which  is  what  the
reasoning  in  B  would  support.  However,  a  public  nuisance  claim  is
stricter, and since B fails to recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

While the state typically is the plaintiff in public nuisance actions, a
private  individual  may  recover  for  public  nuisance  if  he  suffered
special  damages  above  and  beyond  the  ordinary  damage  the  public
incurred.  Thus,  the  state  is  not  the  only  potential  plaintiff.  Since  C
incorrectly restricts the claim to the state, it's not the best response.

1630

(D) is not the best response,

because  “coming  to  the  nuisance”  does  not,  in  and  of  itself,  defeat  a
nuisance claim.

Even if one moves into a neighborhood knowing about a nuisance,
he is still entitled to the reasonable use and enjoyment of his land. Only
if one moves in lacking good faith, or for the sole purpose of launching
a lawsuit will “coming to the nuisance” defeat a nuisance claim. (The
Restatement of Torts views “coming to the nuisance” as a factor to be
considered  in  determining  liability.)  Instead,  as  private  individuals
pressing  a  public  nuisance  suit,  plaintiffs  will  have  to  prove  they
suffered damages above and beyond the damage the public incurred. A
public  nuisance  itself  is  an  act  that  unreasonably  interferes  with  the
health, safety, or convenience of the public in general. Since the mere
fact of “coming to the nuisance” alone won't determine who prevails, D
is not the best response.

 Answer 163

 (B) is the best response,

because the officer feigned agreement, which means that no conspiracy
formed in a common-law jurisdiction.

A  conspiracy  is  defined  as  an  agreement  between  two  or  more
persons to do either an unlawful act or a lawful act by unlawful means.
The  agreement  between  two  or  more  persons  is  called  the  “plurality”
requirement, and, under the common law, if only one party really means
to agree, and the other(s) is/are merely feigning agreement, the plurality
requirement is not met. On the other hand, under the modern (and Model
Penal  Code)  approach,  regardless  of  one  party's  lack  of  subjective
intent to carry out the object crime, the other party may nonetheless be
convicted of conspiracy. In this problem, the common-law rule governs,
and therefore the dealer cannot be convicted, as the dealer was the only
person who agreed to commit the crime.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the common law does not require an overt act for conspiracy.

A  conspiracy  is  defined  as  an  agreement  between  two  or  more
persons to do either an unlawful act or a lawful act by unlawful means.
An  overt  act  is  not  required,  and,  even  if  it  were,  in  this  instance

1631

payment  for  the  drugs  likely  would  qualify  as  an  overt  act  in
jurisdictions imposing such a requirement.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, while the common law does not require an overt act, it does
require plurality of agreement, and therefore no agreement was formed
here.

A  conspiracy  is  defined  as  an  agreement  between  two  or  more
persons to do either an unlawful act or a lawful act by unlawful means.
The  agreement  between  two  or  more  persons  is  called  the  “plurality”
requirement, and, under the common law, if only one party really means
to agree, and the other(s) is/are merely feigning agreement, the plurality
requirement is not met. On the other hand, under the modern (and Model
Penal  Code)  approach,  regardless  of  one  party's  lack  of  subjective
intent to carry out the object crime, the other party may nonetheless be
convicted of conspiracy. In this problem, the common-law rule governs,
and therefore the dealer cannot be convicted, as the dealer was the only
person who agreed to commit the crime.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the officer feigned agreement, which means that no conspiracy
formed  in  a  common  law  jurisdiction;  any  alleged  mistake  of  fact  or
law is irrelevant, as the elements of conspiracy are not met.

A  conspiracy  is  defined  as  an  agreement  between  two  or  more
persons to do either an unlawful act or a lawful act by unlawful means.
The  agreement  between  two  or  more  persons  is  called  the  “plurality”
requirement, and, under the common law, if only one party really means
to agree, and the other(s) is/are merely feigning agreement, the plurality
requirement is not met. On the other hand, under the modern (and Model
Penal  Code)  approach,  regardless  of  one  party's  lack  of  subjective
intent to carry out the object crime, the other party may nonetheless be
convicted of conspiracy. In this problem, the common law rule governs,
and therefore the dealer cannot be convicted, as the dealer was the only
person who agreed to commit the crime.

 Answer 164

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  focuses  on  the  central  issue  and  analyzes  it  correctly:  the

1632

daughter's  destruction  of  the  deed  would  probably  be  insufficient  to
convey title back to the mother.

In  order  to  make  a  valid  gift  of  real  property,  there  must  be  the
intent to bestow a gift, coupled with delivery of the deed. Under these
facts,  the  mother  made  a  valid  gift  to  the  daughter.  However,  the
daughter's  mere  destruction  of  the  deed,  even  though  it  was  at  the
mother's request, would probably not constitute either an intent to make
a gift or delivery of the deed, with the most obvious shortfall being in
delivery  of  the  deed.  The  thing  that  makes  these  facts  a  bit  more
difficult to analyze is that the mother is the original grantor. However,
this  wouldn't  change  the  rule,  and  indicates  why  it's  so  important  on
MBE questions just to mechanically apply rules. In this case, doing so
reveals  that  title  to  the  parcel  was  still  in  the  daughter,  making  D  the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  factor  it  relies  on  is  irrelevant,  and  its  conclusion  is
incorrect.

Even though the daughter did not pay for the parcel, she can still be
the owner of it. A grantor may make a gift of real property by delivering
a deed, with the intent to make a gift. These requirements are satisfied
here.  (A  “quitclaim  deed”  is  merely  a  deed  that  conveys  whatever
interest the grantor had in the property; it has no warranties associated
with  it.)  Since  the  conveyance  was  valid,  the  daughter  acquired  valid
title to the parcel via quitclaim deed, making A not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

While  the  conveyance  from  the  mother  to  the  daughter  was  valid,
the  parcel  was  never  conveyed  back  to  the  mother,  because  mere
destruction  of  a  deed  is  not  sufficient  for  a  conveyance.  In  order  to
make a gift of real property, there are two elements required: intent to
make a gift, and delivery of a deed. Here, the daughter's destruction of
the  deed  would  probably  not  constitute  delivery  of  the  deed.
Furthermore, there is no evidence that the daughter intended to make a
gift of the property back to the mother, since voluntarily destroying the
deed would probably not suffice. As a result, the parcel would remain
the daughter's, making B not the best response.

1633

(C) is not the best response,

because it wrongly applies undue influence to these facts, and does not
focus on the central issue involved.

First, the facts do not suggest undue influence. Undue influence is a
kind of constructive fraud, under which a person is deprived of his free
will by another.

This type of thing typically turns up in wills cases, where a schemer
in the family of the testator exerts moral coercion on the testator. (The
kind of thing Bette Davis did to Joan Crawford in “Whatever Happened
to  Baby  Jane?”  —  you  know.)  The  facts  here  just  don't  measure  up.
Second, choice C does not focus on the central issue, which is whether,
in  fact,  the  daughter's  destroying  the  deed  would  constitute  a  valid
conveyance back to the mother. In fact, it probably would not, since a
valid  gift  of  real  property  requires  an  intent  to  bestow  a  gift  coupled
with delivery of the deed. Neither of these is apparently present here.
As a result, C is not the best response.

 Answer 165

 (B) is the best response,

because the contract did not specify that progress payments should be
made.

In general, when one party promises to perform a task and the other
party promises only to pay, the party performing the task must complete
its performance before the obligation to pay will arise. In this problem,
the builder has agreed to construct a garage for the homeowner and the
homeowner  has  promised  to  pay  the  builder  $10,000.  Absent  a
provision  in  the  contract  providing  for  progress  payments,  the
homeowner will not be obligated to pay anything to the builder until the
job has been completed. Therefore the homeowner is not in breach. On
the  other  hand,  the  builder  has  wrongfully  abandoned  his  obligations
under  the  contract  (i.e.,  he  has  repudiated  the  contract).  Since  the
homeowner  has  not  committed  a  material  breach  of  the  contract,  the
builder's obligation to construct the garage has not been relieved. Thus,
when  the  builder  abandoned  work  on  the  garage,  he  breached  the
contract. Since the builder has breached and the homeowner has not, the
builder will be liable for whatever damages the homeowner sustains as
a  result  of  the  breach,  while  the  homeowner  will  not  be  liable  to  the
builder for anything.

1634

(A), (C), and (D) are not the best response,

because they are inconsistent with the analysis above.

 Answer 166

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly reflects the general scope of discovery.

Here is the FRCP's basic statement about what information may be
obtained  in  discovery:  “Unless  otherwise  limited  by  court  order,  the
scope  of  discovery  is  as  follows:  Parties  may  obtain  discovery
regarding  any  nonprivileged  matter  that  is  relevant  to  any  party's
claim or defense and proportional to the needs of the case[.]” Rule
26(b)(1), first sentence. (Notice, by the way, that the material has to be
relevant to a “claim or defense in the case” — it's not enough that the
material,  though  not  directly  relevant  to  any  claim  or  issue,  might
reasonably lead to discovery of information that is relevant to a claim
or  issue.)  So  unless  Plaintiff  can  show  that  the  contract  between
Defendant and the lighting company somehow has bearing on Plaintiff's
own  claim  (e.g.,  by  helping  to  establish  a  pattern  in  which  defendant
intentionally  orders  goods  and  then  refuses  to  pay),  Plaintiff  won't  be
entitled  to  the  information,  since  it  relates  to  a  contract  between
different parties than does the contract presently in dispute.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states a requirement that does not in fact exist.

The last sentence of Rule 26(b)(1) says that “Information within this
scope of discovery [defined in the prior sentence of the Rule] need not
be  admissible  in  evidence  to  be  discoverable.”  So  as  long  as
Defendant's answer would somehow be relevant to a claim or defense
— relevant in the sense of making some proposition of fact or law more
or  less  likely  to  be  true  then  without  the  answer  —  the  fact  that  the
answer  would  not  be  directly  admissible  (e.g.,  because  of  some
technical evidence rule like hearsay) is irrelevant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  an  interrogatory  may  not  be  used  to  obtain  information
from a nonparty.

The  “only  to  parties”  limitation  on  the  use  of  the  interrogatory  is

1635

clear  from  the  language  of  the  Federal  Rule  on  interrogatories.  The
Rule is actually entitled “Interrogatories to Parties,” and says that “[a]
party  may  serve  on  any  other  party  no  more  than  25  written
interrogatories”  FRCP  33(a)(1).  There  is  no  analogous  provision
allowing for interrogatories to non-parties. Court decisions confirm that
interrogatories may not be directed at a nonparty. See, e.g., Lehman v.
Kornblau, 206 F.R.D. 345, 346 (E.D.N.Y. 2001) (“any interrogatories
.  .  .  served  on  non-parties  are  a  nullity.”).  Since  the  choice  refers  to
interrogatories  “to  the  lighting  company,”  and  since  there's  no
indication  that  the  lighting  company  is  a  party  to  Plaintiff's  case,  the
choice is incorrect.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misapplies  the  standard  that  governs  automatic  initial
discovery under FRCP 26(a)(1)(ii).

Disclosure  without  a  request  or  court  order  is  required  under  the
federal  discovery  rules  as  to  all  documents  “that  the  disclosing  party
has  in  its  possession,  custody,  or  control  and  may  use  to  support  its
claims or defenses, unless the use would be solely for impeachment.”
FRCP  26(a)(1)(ii).  So  unless  the  document  is  one  that  the  disclosing
party  (here,  Defendant)  thinks  it  may  use  in  motions  or  at  trial  during
the  case,  that  party  has  no  duty  to  make  automatic  disclosure  of  the
document.  Here,  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  Defendant  will  rely  in  any
way on its contract with the lighting company to support its defenses in
the present case — how would that contract plausibly help Defendant
(though  it  could  conceivably  hurt  Defendant,  by  showing  a  pattern  of
fraud)? Therefore, Defendant has no obligation to furnish a copy of the
contract (or even to allude to its existence) as part of automatic initial
disclosure. (Then, if Defendant later were to change its mind and try to
use the contract as part of its case, that use would be prohibited unless
Defendant  could  show  that  its  earlier  failure  to  disclose  was
“substantially justified or was harmless.” FRCP 37(c)(1).)

 Answer 167

 (C) is the best response,

Because the elements of both hearsay exceptions are met.

This testimony consists of the repeating of an out-of-court statement
(dictation of the license plate number) that is offered to prove the truth

1636

of its content, i.e., that the car in question had that license number. Thus,
it meets the hearsay definition of FRE 801(c). However, it also fits into
two exceptions to the hearsay rule. Let's examine each in turn.

the  event  or 

First,  the  statement  is  admissible  as  a  present  sense  impression
under  FRE  803(1).  That  exception  applies  to  a  statement  that  (1)
describes or explains an event, and (2) was made while the declarant
these
immediately 
observed 
requirements are met here. First, the witness dictated what he saw, i.e.,
the  number  on  the  license  plate  of  the  car;  this  is  certainly  a  partial
“description”  of  the  event.  Second,  the  facts  tell  us  that  the  witness
dictated  the  license  number  “as  the  car  sped  off”;  this  certainly
qualifies as done while the event occurred or immediately thereafter.

thereafter.  Both  of 

The  recording  also  fits  with  the  past  recollection  recorded
exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  codified  at  FRE  803(5).  That  exception
applies when the record (here, a recording) (1) concerns “a matter the
witness  once  knew  about”;  (2)  as  to  which  the  witness  “now  cannot
recall well enough to testify fully and accurately”; (3) which was made
“when  the  matter  was  fresh  in  the  witness's  memory,”  and  (4)  which
“accurately  reflects  the  witness's  knowledge.”  All  of  these  four
requirements  are  met  in  this  case.  First,  the  witness  dictated  his
observation  as  he  was  viewing  the  car,  so  he  had  knowledge  of  the
license  number.  Second,  the  witness  testified  that  “he  no  longer
remembered the number.” Third, he dictated the information just as he
was observing the license plate, so the matter was fresh in his memory.
Fourth,  the  witness  testified  that  “he  accurately  dictated  the  license
number.” Consequently, the testimony fits under this exception, too.

 (A) and (B) are not the best response

because  each  of  these  choices  incorrectly  indicates  that  one  of  the
named hearsay exceptions discussed in choice C does not apply.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because it incorrectly suggests that neither the present-sense-impression
nor the past-recollection-recorded exception applies.

 Answer 168

 (D) is the best response,

because it is theoretically correct, and it will result in suppression of

1637

the defendant's confession under these facts.

The  fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree  doctrine  holds  that  any  evidence
derived  from  unlawfully  obtained  evidence  is  inadmissible.  Such
“derivative” evidence is called the tainted fruit of the poisonous tree.
Under  these  facts,  the  “poisonous  tree”  is  the  illegal  arrest.  The
Miranda warnings, as D notes, are not enough, in and of themselves, to
“purge the taint” of the illegal arrest (although they are a factor in favor
of admissibility). However, courts also consider the wrongful intent of
the  police,  intervening  acts,  and  the  proximity  in  time  between  the
illegality  and  the  confession  in  determining  the  admissibility  of  the
confession.  Here,  although  there  was  no  wrongful  intent,  the  police
were only acting on an anonymous telephone call, which is insufficient
to  provide  probable  cause  for  arrest.  Otherwise,  there  are  no  facts  in
favor  of  admissibility  —  the  interrogation  took  place  soon  after  the
illegal  arrest,  and  there  were  no  intervening  acts.  As  a  result,  the
confession is likely to be excluded on the basis of this argument. Since
the  argument  is  theoretically  correct,  it  applies  to  these  facts,  and  it
would  result  in  suppression  of  the  evidence,  it's  the  defendant's  best
argument — and as a result D is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule of law, and does not correctly identify the
facts it implies.

First,  criminal  defendants,  in  general,  are  not  entitled  to  know  the
identity of their accusers, because informants are generally entitled to a
privilege  of  anonymity  at  common  law.  (There  are  two  principal
exceptions  to  this  rule:  one,  when  the  identity  has  already  been  found
out  by  those  with  cause  to  resent  the  communication  (e.g.,  the
disclosure  was  made  to  other  law  enforcement  agencies),  and  two,
where the identity is important to establishing a defense.) The rationale
of  this  rule  is  to  encourage  informants  to  come  forward  with
information about crimes.

Thus, the rule choice A states is wrong. In any case, what choice A
implies  is  not  the  identity  of  the  accuser,  since  that's  not  what's
involved in these facts, but rather the use by the police of an anonymous
tip. An anonymous tip can be the basis for an arrest or search warrant
as long as it meets the “totality of the circumstances” test from Illinois
v.  Gates  (1983).  Under  that  test,  these  elements  will  be  weighed  to
determine the reliability of the informant: the informant's prior use and
reliability, his status as a member of a reliable group (e.g., a minister),

1638

clarity  of  detail  in  the  tip,  showing  that  informant  has  personal
knowledge of where evidence is located, and whether the tip includes a
declaration  against  the  informant's  penal  interest  (e.g.,  that  he  bought
narcotics from the individual named). Furthermore, courts will be less
strict  in  determining  the  reliability  of  non-criminal  informants  than
criminal  informants.  Under  the  facts  here,  the  tip,  without  more  facts,
wouldn't be sufficient for a warrant since it wouldn't meet this test (at
least certainly not for an arrest). What A ignores is the central flaw in
the  police  behavior  here:  the  arrest  was  unlawful,  making  the
confession  inadmissible  as  the  tainted  fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree,  the
poisonous tree being the unlawful arrest. Since A misstates the law and
ignores the central flaw, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law,  and  ignores  the  central  flaw  in  the
behavior of the police.

The  Miranda  warnings  requirement  is  triggered  by  the  police's
intent  to  interrogate  in  custody,  not  by  arrest.  If  the  arrest  here  were
otherwise valid, the police behaved correctly by stopping the defendant
and reading him his rights before  they  asked  him  any  questions.  What
choice B does is to ignore the central flaw in the police behavior: The
arrest was unlawful and the confession will be considered the tainted
fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree  (the  poisonous  tree  being  the  unlawful
arrest). Since B ignores this, and misstates the law, it cannot be the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  the  law  correctly  and  it  may  be  true  under
these facts, it does not apply to these facts as closely as choice D.

If the defendant's statements were, in fact, involuntary and coerced,
they would not be admissible even though he was given his Miranda
warnings  first.  A  confession  must  be  voluntary  in  order  to  be
admissible. Here, it's possible that the defendant was intimidated by the
way  the  arrest  took  place,  making  his  confession  involuntary  and
coerced.  The  problem  is,  the  facts  really  don't  indicate  that  the
defendant's  confession  was  involuntary;  rather,  it  seems  more  like  he
was  ratting  on  his  friend  to  secure  his  own  release.  Thus,  although  C
correctly  states  the  law,  it  does  not  apply  to  these  facts  with  any
certainty, and so is not the best response.

1639

Answer 169

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  supplies  a  condition  that  would  apply  to  these  facts,  and,
assuming the condition is satisfied, it reaches the correct response.

If the law of the jurisdiction prohibited evictions intended to punish
the  tenant  for  some  act,  the  facts  here  would  likely  fit  such  a  statute,
since  it  would  be  easily  provable  that  the  landlord  is  punishing  the
woman for organizing the tenants. If the woman proved such facts, she
would prevail. Since B recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although  the  lease  here  is  a  periodic  tenancy  created  by
implication, this does not provide a ground for the woman to succeed
— since the landlord gave adequate notice to terminate the lease.

A periodic tenancy is a tenancy that is renewed automatically at the
end of each “period” (e.g., week, month, quarter) unless either lessor or
lessee terminates it. A periodic tenancy by implication is one where the
lease is silent as to duration. The amount of notice required to terminate
a periodic tenancy is the same as the length of the period. That is, if the
tenancy  is  month-to-month,  as  here,  a  month's  notice  is  required.  The
landlord  gave  just  that  amount  of  notice.  Since  the  landlord  complied
with the requirements for terminating the lease, the fact that the lease is
a  periodic  lease  by  implication  does  not  provide  a  ground  for  the
woman to prevail in a wrongful termination suit. Thus, A is not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is a misstatement of law.

The amount of rent charged to the other tenants does not create an
implied  agreement  between  the  woman  and  the  landlord  for  the
woman's  apartment.  After  all,  apartment  buildings  frequently  contain
apartments  of  different  sizes,  for  which  different  rents  are  charged.  If
the same rent is charged for every apartment, this is mere coincidence
— no implied agreement would spring from it as between the landlord
and the woman. Since C states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

1640

because it is a misstatement of the law.

The amount of notice required to terminate a periodic tenancy, like
the one here, depends on the length of the period. At common law, the
amount  of  notice  required  is  the  same  as  the  period.  That  is,  if  the
tenancy is week-to-week, a week's notice is required; if it's month-to-
month, a month's notice is necessary. For periods of a year or more, six
months' notice is required. According to modern statutes in many states,
30 days' notice is required regardless of the period involved. Thus, it is
not  correct  to  say  that  the  law  implies  a  term  of  one  year  without  an
express agreement otherwise. Thus, D is not the best response.

 Answer 170

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  state  vocational  licensing  boards  were  violating  the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.

legislation 

to  enforce 

the  other  provisions  of 

Section  5  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  allows  Congress  to  pass
the
appropriate 
Amendment.  Such  legislation  is  appropriate  if  it  seeks  to  remedy
Fourteenth Amendment violations by state or local governments and is
proportional to the violations it seeks to remedy. Here, it appears that
the  state  vocational  licensing  boards  are  violating  the  Fourteenth
Amendment Due Process Clause by instituting unfair practices in their
disciplinary  proceedings.  Proportionality  is  satisfied  because  the
congressional  statute  simply  requires  that  such  proceedings  comport
with procedural due process and that the disciplinary boards be neutral
so as to ensure fair hearings.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the statute is not a taxing or spending measure.

The only “General Welfare” Clause contained in Article I, § 8, does
not grant Congress the authority to legislate for the general welfare —
the  police  power  is  reserved  to  the  states.  Instead,  it  only  allows
Congress to  tax  and  spend  for  the  general  welfare.  Since  this  statute
does not involve spending federal funds, the taxing and spending power
is inapplicable.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV, § 2, is not a

1641

source of congressional power.

Article IV's Privileges and Immunities Clause prohibits states from
discriminating  against  citizens  of  other  states.  This  is  an  incorrect
response  to  this  question  for  two  reasons.  First,  the  Privileges  and
Immunities Clause is not applicable to the federal government. Second,
it is not an independent source of congressional power to legislate. For
a  congressional  statute  to  be  valid,  it  must  be  enacted  pursuant  to  an
enumerated power in the Constitution. Most of these powers are found
in  Article  I,  §  8.  However,  in  this  case,  the  proper  source  of
congressional  authority  is  §  5  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  (See  the
discussion of choice A above.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the statute does not involve a taking.

The  Takings  Clause  of 

the  Fifth  Amendment  prohibits 

the
government  from  taking  an  individual's  property  without  paying  just
compensation.  The  Takings  Clause  is  inapplicable  to  this  situation
because  the  statute  only  details  procedures  that  must  be  followed  in
operating a state vocational licensing board — it does not authorize the
appropriation of any individual's property. We should also note that the
Takings  Clause  is  not  a  source  of  congressional  power,  but  rather  a
limitation  on  it.  For  a  congressional  statute  to  be  valid,  it  must  be
enacted  pursuant  to  an  enumerated  power  in  the  Constitution.  Most  of
these  powers  are  found  in  Article  I,  §  8.  However,  in  this  case,  the
proper  source  of  congressional  authority  is  §  5  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment. (See the discussion of choice A above.)

 Answer 171

 (B) is the best response,

because the district judge has discretion to use this “remittitur” device.
The  museum  has  not  moved  for  a  new  trial  (which  is  what  it
probably should have done). But even without a motion by one of the
parties, Rule 69(d) gives the trial judge the right to order a new trial on
her own: “No later than 28 days after the entry of judgment, the court,
on its own, may order a new trial for any reason that would justify
granting one on a party's motion.” So we have to determine whether
the  excessiveness  of  the  verdict  here  is  a  “reason  that  would  justify
granting  [a  new  trial]  on  a  party's  motion.”  Rule  59(a)(1)  gives  the

1642

answer, by saying that “The court may, on motion, grant a new trial on
all or some of the issues — and to any party — as follows: (A) after a
jury trial, for any reason for which a new trial has heretofore been
granted  in  an  action  at  law  in  federal  court[.]”  This  reference  to
reasons for which new trials have “heretofore been granted in an action
at law in federal court” means that if the reason for a new trial is one
that the common-law courts would have recognized as valid before the
1938  enactment  of  the  FRCP,  the  reason  will  suffice  for  a  new  trial
under Rule 59.

One of the best-established reasons for granting a new trial is that
the  verdict  is  greatly  excessive  —  sometimes  the  phrase  used  to
described  such  a  verdict  is  that  it  is  so  large  that  it  “shocks  the
conscience.”  Since  there  is  good  reason  to  believe  that  a  verdict
calculated by valuing each of the photographer's 200 prints at ten times
the  highest  amount  ($500)  that  he  had  ever  sold  a  print  for  during  his
career  is  greatly  excessive,  the  judge  would  be  entitled  to  avoid  this
excess  award  by  ordering  either  an  entirely  new  trial  on  liability  and
damages  or  a  new  trial  just  on  the  issue  of  damages.  But  by  long-
standing federal practice, federal trial judges are permitted, instead of
unconditionally ordering a new trial, to issue a “conditional new trial
order,” which is what we have here; that is, the trial judge orders a new
trial (either on all issues or just damages) but agrees that the new trial
need not take place if the plaintiff is willing to consent to a reduction of
the verdict to a lesser amount that the judge believes is justified by the
evidence. (This “conditional new trial order” device is often called a
“remittitur.”) See, e.g., Kirsch v. Fleet Street, Ltd., 148 F.3d 149, 165
(2d  Cir.  1998)  (district  judge  may  enter  a  conditional  order  of
remittitur,  “compelling  a  plaintiff  to  choose  between  reduction  of  an
excessive verdict and a new trial.”)

 (A) is not the best choice,

because 
requirements for a motion for a judgment as a matter of law.

the  museum's  motion  does  not  meet 

the  procedural

The facts tell you that the nature of the motion made by the museum
post-verdict  is  that  it  is  a  motion  for  “judgment  as  a  matter  of  law”
(a/k/a a “JML” motion). The procedures governing JML motions are set
out  in  FRCP  50.  Of  critical  importance,  Rule  50(a)(2)  says  that  “A
motion for judgment as a matter of law may be made at any time before
the case is submitted to the jury.” Then, if the court does not grant the

1643

motion before submitting the case to the jury, and the jury comes back
with  a  verdict  that  the  movant  views  as  unfavorable,  the  movant  may
“file a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law[.]” Courts have
interpreted this language as meaning, by negative implication, that if the
would-be  movant  does  not  make  any  JML  motion  before  the  case  is
submitted  to  the  jury,  the  movant  has  waived  his  right  to  do  so  after
the  verdict.  Here,  the  facts  tell  you  that  “No  motions  were  made  by
either side before the case went to the jury,” so you know the museum
waived  its  right  to  make  a  JML  motion.  (Indeed,  you  should  have
interpreted the very fact that the statement of facts bothered to specify
the lack of any pre-verdict motions as a signal that a post-verdict JML
motion  might  be  coming,  and  if  made,  would  be  found  to  have  been
made  too  late.)  So  due  to  the  absence  of  a  pre-verdict  version  of  the
motion, the JML motion referred to in this choice is one that the judge
may not grant, no matter how much the judge thinks that justice would
be  well  served  if  it  could  be  granted.  (By  the  way,  Rule  50  does  not
give  the  trial  judge  the  right  to  issue  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law  sua
sponte,  i.e.,  without  a  motion  having  been  made  for  it.)  But  as  is
discussed  in  the  treatment  of  Choice  (B),  the  judge  can  achieve  much
the  same  result  as  a  grant  of  JML  at  a  reduced  amount  by  using  the
remittitur or “conditional new trial” order mentioned in that choice.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is wasteful of judicial resources and therefore not the “best”
alternative.

What's proposed by this choice is that the judge grant a partial new
trial. FRCP 59(a)(1) indeed allows the judge to do this, by giving her
the  right  to  grant,  on  motion,  “a  new  trial  on  all  or  some  of  the
issues[.]”  But  the  question  asks  you  to  choose  the  procedurally-
available  alternative  that  will  avoid  being  “wasteful  of  judicial
resources,” and the partial new trial will waste resources by requiring
the impaneling of a whole new jury to decide the damages issue from
scratch.  The  device  of  remittitur,  i.e.,  conditional  grant  of  new  trial,
mentioned  in  Choice  (B),  is  a  better  approach  because  it  will  avoid
such  waste  if  the  photographer  accepts  the  reduction  —  and  if  he
doesn't accept, the consequent new trial on damages won't be any more
wasteful  than  if  such  a  new  trial  had  been  unconditionally  ordered  as
mentioned in this Choice (C).

1644

(D) is not the best response,

because 
jurisprudence.

it  misstates 

the  current  state  of  Seventh  Amendment

The  Seventh  Amendment  guarantees  the  litigants  in  federal  trials
brought  “at  law”  (as  opposed  to  “in  equity”)  the  right  to  a  jury  trial.
Part  of  the  Seventh  Amendment  is  the  so-called  “re-examination
clause,” which says that “no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-
examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules
of the common law.” The re-examination clause would be violated by
the court's overturning of a jury verdict for reasons that would not have
been permitted “at common law” as that law existed in 1789, when the
Seventh Amendment was enacted. But the Supreme Court has held that
a grant of a new trial on grounds of the excessiveness of the verdict (as
well  as  the  use  of  a  conditional  new  trial  order  or  remittitur)  were
permitted  at  common  law,  and  therefore  do  not  normally  violate  the
Seventh Amendment. So this choice, by saying that the museum's motion
for judgment as a matter of law would violate the Seventh Amendment,
is  legally  incorrect.  (The  court  is  indeed  not  permitted  to  grant  the
motion — but as is discussed in the analysis of choice (A), the reason
is  that  the  museum  didn't  make  the  motion  before  the  case  was
submitted to the jury, not that the granting of the motion would violate
the Seventh Amendment.)

 Answer 172

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the reason for admitting the testimony
is  that  the  payroll  records  relate  to  a  collateral  matter,  and  thus  the
payroll  records  themselves  are  not  required  in  order  to  admit  the
testimony.

The  central  issue  here  is  applicability  of  the  Best  Evidence  Rule.
The Best Evidence Rule is triggered when a party wants to prove the
material  terms  of  a  writing,  or  a  witness  is  testifying  relying  on  a
writing.  Under  those  circumstances,  the  original  writing  (which
includes  photocopies)  must  normally  be  produced.  FRE  1002.  The
rationale for this rule is that errors or gaps in memory, as well as fraud,
can be avoided by allowing the trier of fact to see the writing itself, if
the writing is available.

But  the  Best  Evidence  Rule  does  not  apply  where  “the  writing,

1645

recording, or photograph is not closely related to a controlling issue.”
FRE 1004(d). Here, the payroll records relate to the date of purchase,
which  the  facts  specifically  tell  you  is  “a  fact  of  minor  importance  in
the  case.”  As  a  result,  the  records  are  “not  closely  related  to  a
controlling issue,” and the 1004(d) exception applies.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it mistakenly invokes the Best Evidence Rule.
If  the  contents  of  the  payroll  records  were  a  material  issue  in  the
case, then any attempt to prove those contents would require production
of  the  records  themselves,  rather  than  testimony  about  the  contents,
under the Best Evidence Rule. But, as is further explained in choice D,
the Best Evidence Rule does not apply where “the writing, recording,
or  photograph  is  not  closely  related  to  a  controlling  issue.”  FRE
1004(d).

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  fails  to  recognize  that  the  payroll  records  would  be
admissible under the business records exception to the hearsay rule.

The plaintiff's testimony is arguably subject to the hearsay rule. The
payroll  records  here  would  likely  be  considered  hearsay  (since  they
are out-of-court statements offered to prove the truth of their assertion,
namely, the date of opening day). However, the records would probably
be  admissible  under  the  business  records  hearsay  exception,  FRE
803(6). Under that exception, such records are admissible if the entries
are  made  in  the  regular  course  of  business,  in  conjunction  with  a
business  activity,  entered  under  a  duty  to  record,  entered  by  one  with
personal knowledge of the matters recorded or transmitted from such a
person,  entered  at  or  near  the  time  of  the  transaction  (and  the  records
must  be  authenticated  at  trial).  While  there's  a  possibility  that  the
records  here  wouldn't  satisfy  all  these  requirements,  they  probably
would,  and  B  states  unequivocally  that  such  records  would  be
inadmissible hearsay. As a result, B is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  states  a  factor  that  is  irrelevant  to  whether  or  not  a  fact  is
subject to judicial notice.

The  judge's  personal  knowledge  is  not  sufficient  to  establish
judicial  notice.  The  only  two  ways  a  fact  can  be  subject  to  judicial

1646

notice  are  when  the  fact  is  subject  to  common  knowledge  in  the
community  OR  is  capable  of  positive  verification  through  readily
accessible, undeniably accurate sources. FRE 201(b).

 Answer 173

 (B) is the best response,

because it represents the most likely basis on which the store could get
the prior oral agreement admitted into evidence.

In order to be the store's best argument, the reasoning must be both
legally correct and applicable to these facts. Determining this requires
analysis of the facts under the Parol Evidence Rule. Under that rule, a
written  agreement  which  is  “completely  integrated”  may  not  be
contradicted  or  supplemented  with  evidence  of  prior  written  or  oral
agreements,  or  contemporaneous  oral  agreements.  A  “completely
integrated” agreement is one that the parties intended to be a final and
complete  statement  of  their  agreement.  A  “partially  integrated”
agreement, on the other hand, is one that is final, but not complete. As a
result,  unlike  a  completely 
it  may  be
supplemented by consistent additional terms.

integrated  agreement, 

Determining whether a written agreement is partially or completely
integrated  is  subject  to  a  wide  variety  of  tests,  but  the  presumption
typically  is  that  the  writing  is  only  a  partial  integration  barring  clear
evidence to the contrary. Under these facts, the very fact that there was
no  mention  of  coordination  in  the  written  agreement  suggests  that  the
writing  was  not  complete  even  though  it  was  final  as  to  the  terms  it
stated.  Thus,  the  store  could  successfully  argue  on  these  facts  that  the
agreement was only partially integrated, and legally this would result in
the  store's  being  able  to  introduce  evidence  of  the  coordination
provision as a consistent additional term. Since B represents the store's
best argument both factually and legally, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because although it states a correct legal theory, it doesn't apply to the
facts here.

Under  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule,  a  writing  that  is  “completely
integrated” cannot be contradicted or supplemented with prior written
or  oral  agreements,  or  contemporaneous  oral  agreements.  A
“completely integrated” agreement is one that the parties intended to be

1647

a final and complete statement of their agreement.

While  it's  true  that  evidence  may  be  admitted  to  interpret  the
agreement, the oral agreement on coordinating with the store's methods
of accounting wouldn't do that, since this isn't addressed in the written
agreement  at  all.  At  common  law,  additional  evidence  would  be
admitted to interpret a term only if the contract contains an ambiguity.
(Under the UCC, no ambiguity is required, but the UCC wouldn't apply
here since this is likely a service contract, not a transaction in goods.)

In fact, the fact that this issue doesn't appear in the written contract
would  suggest  that  the  written  agreement  didn't  embody  the  entire
agreement between the parties and thus was not completely integrated.
When a writing is a partial integration, it may not be contradicted but it
may be supplemented by additional, consistent terms. That's the store's
best  argument  for  admitting  evidence  of  the  oral  agreement.  Since  A
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although it implies a rule that is correct in theory, it would not
apply to these facts.

Under  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule,  a  writing  that  is  “completely
integrated” cannot be contradicted or supplemented with prior written
or  oral  agreements,  or  contemporaneous  oral  agreements.  A
“completely integrated” agreement is one that the parties intended to be
a final and complete statement of their agreement.

The  Parol  Evidence  Rule  does  not  bar  evidence  of  defects  in
contract  formation,  like  lack  of  consideration,  fraud,  and  duress.
However, mere detrimental reliance on an oral promise would not, in
and of itself, rise to the level of fraud.

Instead, the store should argue that the written agreement was only
partially  integrated  —  that  is,  that  it  didn't  represent  the  complete
agreement.  A  partially  integrated  agreement  may  be  supplemented  by
consistent  additional  terms.  The  oral  “coordination”  clause  would
likely be a consistent additional term, and this is, as a result, the store's
best chance of having it admitted. Since the store's detrimental reliance
would be insufficient by itself to allow admission of the coordination
term, and C fails to recognize this, C isn't the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it's exactly the opposite of what the store would want to argue.

1648

A partially integrated agreement is a written agreement that does not
reflect the complete agreement of the parties. It's final as to the terms it
states,  but  it  may  be  supplemented  by  consistent  additional  terms.  In
fact,  arguing  that  the  memo  here  is  a  partial  integration  is  the  store's
best  chance  of  getting  the  coordination  term  admitted  into  evidence,
since there's nothing in the contract to contradict it.

If  the  written  contract  isn't  a  partial  integration,  it's  either  not
integrated at all or is fully integrated. The store couldn't argue that it's
not integrated because this wouldn't comport with the facts, which show
that  the  parties  intended  the  writing  to  be  final  as  to  the  terms  it
includes.  The  store  wouldn't  want  to  argue  that  it's  completely
integrated,  because  that  would  preclude  admission  of  a  prior  oral
agreement  supplementing  the  written  agreement,  which  is  what  the
“coordination”  provision  would  do.  Since  D  represents  an  argument
that would not be advantageous to the store, it's not the best response.

 Answer 174

 (A) is the best response,

because the purchase of cars is a commercial activity.

For a congressional statute to be constitutional, it must be enacted
pursuant to one of Congress's enumerated powers under Article I of the
Constitution. Choice A identifies the Commerce Clause as the source of
the power to enact this statute. Under the Commerce Clause (Article I, §
8, cl. 3), Congress has the power to “regulate commerce with foreign
nations,  and  among  the  several  states.”  Congress's  powers  under  the
Commerce Clause are read quite broadly by courts, and on the MBE it
should always be the first of the enumerated powers you consider when
approaching  a  problem.  Here,  the  statute  falls  within  the  commerce
power because the large-scale purchase of cars has a significant effect
on  interstate  commerce.  The  Tenth  Amendment  prohibits  the  federal
government from commandeering the lawmaking power of state or local
legislatures. So, for example, Congress could not pass an act requiring
all  of  the  states  to  pass  laws  mandating  the  purchase  of  electric  cars.
However,  the  directive  in  this  statute  is  generally  applicable  since  it
applies to all owners of large fleets of cars, not only to governmental
owners. Since it is a direct regulation that is generally applicable, and
does not commandeer the legislative function of the local government, it
does not violate the Tenth Amendment.

1649

(B) is not the best response,

because the city is seeking an injunction.

The federal government has sovereign immunity from suits seeking
compensatory  damages.  However,  there  is  no  bar  against  a  plaintiff
seeking injunctive relief against the federal government or its officers.
Here,  we  are  told  that  the  city  “sought  an  injunction  prohibiting
enforcement  of  the  statute.”  Since  the  city  is  not  seeking  monetary
relief,  its  suit  is  not  barred  by  the  federal  government's  sovereign
immunity.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  statute  is  applicable  to  both  private  and  governmental
entities.

The  Tenth  Amendment  prohibits  the  federal  government  from
commandeering the lawmaking power of state or local legislatures. So,
for example, Congress could not pass an act requiring all of the states
to  pass  laws  mandating  the  purchase  of  electric  cars.  However,  the
directive  in  this  statute  is  generally  applicable  since  it  applies  to  all
owners of large fleets of cars, not only to governmental owners. Since
it  is  a  direct  regulation  that  is  generally  applicable,  and  does  not
commandeer the legislative function of the local government, it does not
violate the Tenth Amendment.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  this  exercise  of  commerce  power  is  not  in  violation  of  the
Tenth Amendment.

The  Tenth  Amendment  reserves  to  the  states  all  legislative  power
not specifically provided to the federal government in the Constitution.
However, the commerce power is a specifically enumerated power of
Congress  (Article  I,  §  8,  cl.  3).  The  Tenth  Amendment  prohibits  the
federal government from commandeering the lawmaking power of state
or  local  legislatures,  but  that  has  not  occurred  in  this  situation.  The
directive  in  this  statute  is  generally  applicable  since  it  applies  to  all
owners of large fleets of cars, not only to governmental owners. Since
it  is  a  direct  regulation  that  is  generally  applicable,  and  does  not
commandeer the legislative function of the local government, it does not
violate the Tenth Amendment.

1650


Answer 175

 (C) is the best response,

because the manufacturer supplied adequate assurances of its ability to
pay.

If a party to a sale of goods contract is genuinely concerned that the
other party will be unable to perform its obligations under the contract,
UCC  2-609  allows  the  concerned  party  to  request  reasonable
assurances of the other party's ability to perform and to suspend its own
performance if adequate assurances are not given. The lumber supplier
exercised 
furniture  manufacturer  provided
information  that  should  have  convinced  the  lumber  supplier  that  its
concerns  were  unfounded.  As  a  result,  the  lumber  supplier  was  not
allowed to suspend its own performance, and its election to do so was
a breach of the contract.

right,  and 

this 

the 

 (A) is not the best response,

because requirements contracts are enforceable.

Quantity  is  considered  a  material  term  that  must  be  agreed  to  in  a
contract for the sale of goods. However, it is not true that one can only
specify  a  quantity  by  stating  a  definite  amount.  UCC  2-306  provides
that  output  and  requirements  contracts  are  enforceable.  The  lumber
supplier-furniture  manufacturer  contract  was  a  requirements  contract:
the  specified  quantity  being  “all  the  lumber  that  the  manufacturer
required.”  Pursuant  to  UCC  2-306,  the  contract  is  thus  sufficiently
definite to be enforceable.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the furniture manufacturer provided adequate assurances of its
ability to pay.

If a party to a sale of goods contract is genuinely concerned that the
other party will be unable to perform its obligations under the contract,
UCC  2-609  allows  the  concerned  party  to  request  reasonable
assurances of the other party's ability to perform and to suspend its own
performance if adequate assurances are not given. The lumber supplier
exercised 
furniture  manufacturer  provided
information  that  should  have  convinced  the  lumber  supplier  that  its
concerns  were  unfounded.  As  a  result,  the  lumber  supplier  was  not
allowed to suspend its own performance, and its election to do so was

right,  and 

this 

the 

1651

a breach of the contract.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the UCC provides this right to the lumber supplier.

If a party to a sale of goods contract is genuinely concerned that the
other party will be unable to perform its obligations under the contract,
UCC  2-609  allows  the  concerned  party  to  request  reasonable
assurances of the other party's ability to perform and to suspend its own
performance if adequate assurances are not given. The lumber supplier
exercised 
furniture  manufacturer  provided
information  that  should  have  convinced  the  lumber  supplier  that  its
concerns  were  unfounded.  As  a  result,  the  lumber  supplier  was  not
allowed to suspend its own performance, and its election to do so was
a breach of the contract.

right,  and 

this 

the 

 Answer 176

 (B) is the best answer,

because  the  Sixth  Amendment  allows  juries  of  6,  but  decisions  by  6-
member juries must be unanimous. Note, however, that non-unanimous
juries are apparently permissible if they contain 7 to 11 jurors.

 (A) is not the best answer,

because  it  chooses  the  correct  result,  but  for  the  wrong  reason.  The
Sixth Amendment allows juries of 6, but decisions by 6-member juries
must be unanimous.

 (C) is not the best answer,

because  it  misstates  the  legal  basis  for  the  conclusion.  The  Sixth
Amendment allows juries of 6, but decisions by 6-member juries must
be unanimous.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because  the  Sixth  Amendment  allows  juries  of  6,  but  decisions  by  6-
member juries must be unanimous.

 Answer 177

1652

(B) is the best response,

because it identifies the reason why the regulation will be valid.

The  regulation  here  involves  congressional  regulation  of  federally
owned lands. Under Article IV, § 3, cl. 2, of the Constitution, Congress
has the power “to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting”  lands  of  the  United  States.  States  only  have  power  to  the
extent that they reserved jurisdiction when ceding the land to the federal
government  (or,  alternatively,  to  the  extent  that  Congress  has,  via
legislation, granted jurisdiction to the state). Under these facts, there's
no  indication  of  any  basis  for  state  jurisdiction  over  the  federally
owned  lands.  Thus,  Congress  would  have  the  authority  to  pass
regulations  protecting  wild  animals  on  those  lands.  Since  choice  B
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the Welfare Clause would not empower the federal government
to enact this type of legislation.

The  Welfare  Clause,  found  in  Article  1,  §  8,  of  the  Constitution,
empowers  Congress  to  levy  and  collect  taxes  and  to  provide  for  the
general welfare, and to make all laws that are necessary and proper to
implement  those  powers.  Thus,  the  Welfare  Clause  only  addresses
Congress's  power  to  collect  taxes  and  spend  money.  That's  not  what's
involved in these facts; here, protecting predatory wild animals is the
aim of the legislation. As a result, the Welfare Clause could not be the
source of the regulation's validity. Since A states otherwise, it's not the
best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it skirts the central issue. It's not the wild animals themselves
that are the focus of the legislation, but wild animals on federal lands,
and federal lands are the exclusive domain of the federal government.

Under  Article  IV,  §  3,  cl.  2,  of  the  Constitution,  Congress  has  the
power  “to  dispose  of  and  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations
respecting”  lands  of  the  United  States.  States  only  have  power  to  the
extent that they reserved jurisdiction when ceding the land to the federal
government  (or,  alternatively,  to  the  extent  that  Congress  has,  via
legislation, granted jurisdiction to the state). Under these facts, there's
no  indication  of  any  basis  for  state  jurisdiction  over  the  federally

1653

owned  lands.  Thus,  the  state  common-law  definition  of  wild  animals
would not be relevant. Since choice C doesn't recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the Tenth Amendment would not provide a source of power for
the states under these facts.

Under these facts, the regulation is a federal regulation concerning
federally  owned  lands.  While  it's  theoretically  true  that  the  states
reserve  the  powers  not  delegated  to  the  federal  government  in  the
Constitution,  this  ignores  application  of  Article  IV,  §  3,  cl.  2,  of  the
Constitution,  which  expressly  grants  the  federal  government  control
over federally owned lands. Since this power is expressly delegated to
the Congress in the Constitution, it can't be reserved by the states under
the Tenth Amendment. Since choice D doesn't recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 178

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly recognizes that the gift to the grandchildren itself is
valid,  regardless  of  whether  the  restraint  on  alienation  is  invalid.  (In
fact, the restraint is invalid as a disabling restraint on alienation, and as
a result it will be removed.)

The gift does not violate the Rule Against Perpetuities because the
members of the class will be determined within a life in being plus 21
years. In fact, it will be determined at the son's death, and since he's a
life  in  being  at  the  time  the  will  takes  effect,  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities  is  satisfied.  (The  same  goes  for  all  of  the  woman's  other
children  and  grandchildren,  since  their  gifts  are  identically  worded.)
Since choice D recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  correctly  apply  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  to
these facts.

The class gift to the grandchildren does not violate the Rule Against
Perpetuities, because it will vest or fail within a life in being plus 21
years. In fact, it will be determined at the son's death, and since he's a
life  in  being  at  the  time  the  will  takes  effect,  the  Rule  Against

1654

Perpetuities  is  satisfied.  (The  same  goes  for  all  of  the  woman's  other
children and grandchildren, since their gifts are identically worded.)

If you chose this response, it's probably because you didn't realize
that  the  no-sale-or-mortgage-until-age-25  provision  was  a  disabling
restraint  on  alienation,  and  figured  that  it  wasn't  until  all  the  children
were 25 that the members of the class could be determined. If this were
true,  the  grandchildren's  gift  wouldn't  vest  or  fail  until  a  life  in  being
(the  son's  and  his  siblings')  plus  25  years,  which  is  outside  the
perpetuities  period.  However,  the  sale  or  mortgage  provision  will  be
removed, because disabling restraints on alienation are always invalid
on legal interests, like the class gift here. (A disabling restraint makes
any  attempted  transfer  invalid,  which  in  effect  makes  the  interest
granted  inalienable.)  As  such,  the  gift  to  the  grandchildren  does  not
violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, making A not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because while it correctly characterizes the restraint on alienation here
as invalid, it does not correctly state the result of this invalidity.

The restraint on alienation here is not valid because it's a disabling
restraint  on  alienation.  A  disabling  restraint  makes  any  attempted
transfer invalid, which in effect makes the interest granted inalienable.
A disabling restraint is always invalid on a legal interest, like the gift
here.  However,  the  result  is  not  to  make  the  gift  itself  invalid,  but  to
remove the restraint. This would leave a valid gift to the grandchildren,
primarily because the gift would satisfy the Rule Against Perpetuities,
since  the  interests  of  the  grandchildren  would  vest  or  fail  at  the  son's
death.  (The  same  goes  for  all  of  the  woman's  other  children  and
grandchildren,  since  their  gifts  are  identically  worded.)  The  son  is  a
life  in  being,  and  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  only  requires  that
interests vest or fail within a life in being plus 21 years. Since choice B
does  not  correctly  state  the  result  of  the  invalidity  of  the  restraint  on
alienation, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the provisions are not enforceable in their entirety.

There are two principle issues under these facts: whether the class
gift  is  valid  under  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  and  whether  the
restraint on alienation is valid.

As to the Rule Against Perpetuities, it requires that, to be valid, any

1655

interest must vest or fail within a life in being plus 21 years. Here, the
gifts  to  the  grandchildren  will  be  determined  when  the  son  dies  (the
same  goes  for  all  of  the  woman's  other  children  and  grandchildren,
since  their  gifts  are  identically  worded).  The  son  was  a  life  in  being
when  the  interest  was  created,  as  were  his  siblings.  Thus,  the  gift
satisfies the Rule Against Perpetuities, and C is correct in recognizing
that this provision will be upheld.

However,  C  fails  to  recognize  that  the  restraint  on  alienation  will
not  be  upheld.  In  fact,  the  sale-or-mortgage  provision  is  a  disabling
restraint  on  alienation.  A  disabling  restraint  makes  any  attempted
transfer invalid, which in effect makes the interest granted inalienable.
This kind of restraint is always invalid on legal interests. As a result, it
will be removed, leaving a valid class gift to the grandchildren. Since
the  gift  to  the  grandchildren  will  be  upheld  but  the  restraint  on
alienation won't be upheld, C is not the best response.

 Answer 179

 (D) is the best response,

because the landowner was privileged to protect her property.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous  activities  on  it,  or  to  protect  the  trespasser  in  any  way.  A
landowner  is  privileged  to  protect  her  property  from  intrusion  by  a
means  not  intended  or  likely  to  cause  death  or  serious  bodily  injury.
Here, the barbed wire presented its own warning and was not a hidden
trap,  and  therefore  it  is  a  reasonable  device  for  discouraging
trespassers that was not likely to cause death or serious bodily injury.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  while  this  statement  is  legally  correct,  it  is  inapplicable  to
these facts.

The  landowner  did  not  use  deadly  force,  as  the  barbed  wire
presented its own warning and was not a hidden trap. A landowner is
privileged  to  protect  her  property  from  intrusion  by  a  means  not
intended or likely to cause death or serious bodily injury, which is what
the landowner did here. The barbed wire was a reasonable device for
discouraging  trespassers  that  was  not  likely  to  cause  death  or  serious
bodily injury.

1656

(B) is not the best response,

because  the  property  interest  in  the  deer  is  irrelevant;  here,  the
landowner had a property interest in the land.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any way. Here,
the  landowner  was  entitled  to  take  reasonable  precautions  to  protect
against intrusion on her land, even if her main purpose in doing so was
to protect the deer on the land.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the photographer would still be a trespasser.

The general rule is that the landowner owes no duty to a trespasser
to  make  her  land  safe,  to  warn  of  dangers  on  it,  to  avoid  carrying  on
dangerous activities on it, or to protect the trespasser in any way. Here,
the  photographer  would  have  been  a  trespasser  whether  or  not  the
landowner  had  specifically  told  him  not  to  enter,  as  posted  signs
warned of no trespassing on the property. The landowner was entitled
to make reasonable precautions to protect against intrusion on her land
from the trespassing photographer, which is what she did here.

 Answer 180

 (D) is the best response,

because this is a party admission under FRE 801(d)(2)(A).

Here, the statement is being offered against the plumber and is the
plumber's own statement. This statement is also relevant, as offering to
redo  the  installation  for  free  is  indicative  that  the  installation  was
faulty.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  there  was  no  claim  here  that  was  disputed  as  to  validity  or
amount.

While FRE 408 makes offers to compromise inadmissible, it does
so only when the parties are seeking to compromise a “disputed claim.”
Here, there was no pending dispute at the time the statement was made.
The homeowner was calling for help and had not complained about the
plumber's work or in any other way indicated that there was a dispute

1657

between the parties. As the plumber did not make the statement in order
to effectuate a compromise, it does not fall under FRE 408.

 (B) is not the best response,

because this statement is a party admission under FRE 801(d)(2)(A).

Here, the statement is being offered against the plumber and is the
plumber's own statement. This statement is also relevant, as offering to
redo  the  installation  for  free  is  indicative  that  the  installation  was
faulty.

 (C) is not the best response,

because no subsequent remedial measure was undertaken.

FRE 407 excludes evidence of measures taken that, had they been
taken  prior  to  the  event  that  caused  the  injury,  would  have  made  the
injury  or  harm  less  likely  to  occur.  Here,  the  homeowner  wants  to
introduce  a  statement,  not  an  action  taken  by  the  plumber  that  would
have  made  the  injury  or  harm  less  likely  to  occur.  Accordingly,  FRE
407 is inapplicable.

 Answer 181

 (B) is the best response,

because this answer choice correctly applies the firefighters' rule to the
facts.

The common-law “firefighters' rule” says that when firefighters or
police officers are injured during the course of the job, they normally
have  no  claim  against  the  person  whose  conduct  created  the  peril.
Dobbs,  §  285.  Not  all  states  follow  the  firefighters'  rule.  But  even
among those that do, the doctrine is generally limited to risks that are
inherent  in,  and  special  to,  that  particular  occupation.  Dobbs,  §  286.
This  limit  means  that  the  doctrine  will  not  apply  here  because  being
struck by a car in normal traffic is not one of the special risks inherent
to  dangerous  police  work.  So  the  driver  can  be  held  liable  under
ordinary  negligence  principles.  (Also,  many  courts  say  that  the
firefighters'  rule  applies  only  where  the  negligently  created  peril  was
responsible for the officer's presence at the scene, and that approach,
too,  would  cause  the  rule  not  to  apply  here,  since  the  officer  was  not
responding to the risk caused by the driver and was instead present at
the scene by coincidence.)

1658

(A) is not the best response,

because,  although  this  answer  correctly  states  that  the  driver's  motion
should be denied, it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

The firefighters' rule, although named with reference to firefighters,
also  covers  police  officers.  They,  too,  are  public  servants  at  risk  of
injury by the perils that they have been employed to confront.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  but-for  causation  is  not  sufficient  to  support  the  firefighters'
rule defense here.

As  further  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  B  above,  the
firefighters'  rule  applies  to  bar  liability  only  when  the  risk  that
materialized  was  one  of  the  unique  risks  inherent  to  the  officer's
dangerous  work.  Here,  the  fact  that  the  officer  was  returning  from  an
emergency when she was struck was just a coincidence. So the driver
could still be held liable for his negligence because being struck by a
car in normal traffic is not one of the special risks inherent in dangerous
police work.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it overstates the scope of the firefighters' rule.

The  firefighters'  rule  only  bars  claims  for  injuries  that  result  from
risks  that  are  unique  or  special  to  the  plaintiff's  inherently  dangerous
work.  Thus  where,  as  here,  the  officer  is  injured  on  the  job,  but  by  a
risk  that  was  not  part  of  what  makes  the  officer's  job  inherently
dangerous,  the  firefighters'  rule  will  not  apply,  and  the  driver  can  be
held liable under garden-variety negligence principles.

 Answer 182

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  reason  the  neighbor  will  lose:  His
use of the tract was not “adverse,” i.e., non-permissive.

The  key  facts  here  are  that  the  neighbor  had  oral  permission  from
the owner originally  to  use  the  road  across  the  tract,  and  the  squatter
quit  possession  of  the  tract  before  acquiring  title  by  adverse
possession.  What  does  this  mean?  That  the  neighbor's  use  of  the  tract

1659

was  never  adverse  to  the  interests  of  the  landowner,  and  that  the
squatter never had any enforceable rights to the tract.

In order to gain an easement by prescription, one's use of another's
property must be actual, open and notorious, continuous for the statutory
period, exclusive, and hostile and adverse (non-permissive). Here, the
facts  specifically  state  that  the  neighbor  had  the  owner's  oral
permission to use the road across the tract. The red herring here is the
presence of the squatter. However, the squatter is merely in possession
of the tract. The facts state that he quit possession before he acquired
title to it.

Thus,  the  elements  of  an  easement  by  prescription  would  apply  to
the neighbor and the owner, not the neighbor and the squatter. Since C
correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it focuses on the wrong fact.

Here,  it  doesn't  matter  if  the  neighbor's  use  is  adverse  to  the
squatter, because the squatter is not the landowner — the owner is. The
neighbor's use is not adverse to the owner, because the facts state that
the owner granted the neighbor oral permission to use the road across
the  tract.  An  easement  by  prescription  requires  use  of  another's
property that is actual, open and notorious, continuous for the statutory
period,  exclusive,  and  hostile  and  adverse.  “Hostile  and  adverse”
means non-permissive in this context.

Here,  since  the  neighbor's  use  was  with  the  permission  of  the
landowner the entire time, his use was never adverse. Since A does not
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because of two principal faults.

First,  B  states  that  the  neighbor  will  prevail  in  part  because  he
made  no  attempt  to  renew  permission  when  possession  of  the  tract
changed hands. In order to gain an easement by prescription, the use of
another's  property  must  be  adverse  —  that  is,  non-permissive.  B
correctly identifies that the neighbor's use was permissive, but by doing
so  eliminates  the  possibility  of  gaining  an  easement  by  prescription
based on that time. In other words, it misstates the law.

The  second  fault  is  that  B  suggests  that  the  squatter's  quitting
possession  of  the  tract  is  relevant.  It  is  not,  because  an  easement  by

1660

prescription  is  gained  by  adverse  use  against  the  landowner,  not  the
possessor. The neighbor could only gain an easement by prescription if
his  use  of  the  tract  as  against  the  owner  was  actual,  open  and
notorious,  continuous  for  the  statutory  period,  exclusive,  and  non-
permissive. Since B incorrectly states the rule of law, it's not the best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it fails to recognize that it's not the adverse use as against the
squatter that's at issue, because the squatter is not the landowner at any
time under these facts.

In  order  for  one  to  gain  an  easement  by  prescription,  his  use  of
another's  property  must  be  actual,  open  and  notorious,  continuous  for
the  statutory  period,  exclusive,  and  non-permissive.  Here,  another's
property  means  another  landowner's  property.  Here,  the  squatter  was
simply in possession of the tract; he was not the owner of the tract at
any time (since he quit possession before his adverse use ripened into
ownership). As a result, D is not the best response.

 Answer 183

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  characterizes  the  facts,  and  arrives  at  the  correct
result.

In order to be valid, a state law must pass a three-part test:

1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.

Choice  A  addresses  the  third  element.  In  order  to  determine  if  a
state  statute  unduly  burdens  interstate  commerce,  you  need  to  ask  two
questions:

1. Does it burden interstate commerce? If it has an effect on

interstate commerce, it does.

2. Is the burden outweighed by legitimate interests of the state in
protecting its citizens? Consider less burdensome alternatives.

1661




Here,  as  to  the  first  element,  the  statute  clearly  affects  interstate
commerce  —  it  prevents  out-of-state  trained  hairdressers  from  plying
their trade in the state.

Second, the burden on interstate commerce is not outweighed by a
legitimate state interest in protecting its citizens, considering available,
less burdensome alternatives, like a state licensing exam. Since choice
A correctly recognizes that the statute will be unconstitutional due to its
impact on interstate commerce, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment wouldn't apply to make this statute unconstitutional.
In order to be valid, a state law must pass a three-part test:

1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.

Choice  B  addresses  the  second  element.  The  Privileges  and
Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  voids  those  state
enactments that clearly infringe privileges enjoyed by U.S. citizens. It is
construed narrowly, typically being restricted to fundamental rights that
are shared in common by all citizens, namely:

1. The right to travel freely from state to state;
2. The right to petition Congress for redress of grievances;
3. The right to vote for national officers;
4. The right to assemble peaceably; and
5. The right to discuss matters of national legislation.

Twining  v.  New  Jersey  (1908).  In  fact,  the  Privileges  and
Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  has  virtually  no
practical  effect,  although,  the  Court  “breathe[d]  new  life”  into  the
Clause with its decision in 1999 of Saenz v. Roe. There the Court held
that the Clause protects an aspect of the right to travel — a person who
has moved into and recently become a citizen of a state has the right to
the same privileges enjoyed by longer-resident citizens of the state. The
Clause,  though,  would  not  affect  this  particular  requirement  —  that
candidates for license be graduates of barber schools in the state.

1662






If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been  thinking  of  the
Interstate Privileges and Immunities Clause, found in Article IV, § 2, of
the  Constitution.  That  Clause  prevents  states  from  discriminating
against  out-of-state  citizens  and  residents  (not  aliens),  as  regards
“essential activities” (e.g., pursuing one's livelihood, owning property)
and “basic rights” (e.g., medical care, court access), except where the
discrimination  is  closely  related  to  a  substantial  state  purpose  (e.g.,
protecting  natural  resources  by  the  state),  keeping  in  mind  less
restrictive  means.  Since  plying  one's  trade  would  be  considered  an
“essential  activity,”  the  statute  here  would  be  a  violation  of  the
Interstate  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause.  However,  that's  not  the
clause  that  choice  B  addresses.  Since  the  statute  wouldn't  be
unconstitutional on the basis of violating the Privileges and Immunities
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, B is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  while  it  provides  a  rationale  for  a  licensing  law,  it  doesn't
make such a law valid.

In order to be valid, a state law must pass a three-part test:

1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.

Choice C addresses the second element. While addressing a valid
concern of the state, choice C doesn't address any of the elements that
would make the statute constitutional.

The  central  problem  with  this  statute  is  its  impact  on  interstate
commerce.  Where  interstate  commerce  is  an  issue,  there  are  two
questions to ask:

1. Does the statute burden interstate commerce? If it has an effect on

interstate commerce, it does.

2. Is the burden outweighed by a legitimate interest of the state in
protecting its citizens? Consider less burdensome alternatives.

the 

Here, 

licensing  statute 

interstate  commerce  by
preventing out-of-state barber school graduates from plying their trade
in  the  state.  While  the  state  has  a  legitimate  interest  in  protecting  its
residents from a “Sweeney Todd”-type barber, it could accomplish the

impacts 

1663





same goal by far less burdensome means, e.g., a licensing exam of some
sort. Thus, even though the state admittedly doesn't know the quality of
out-of-state  barber  schools,  this  in  and  of  itself  would  not  make  the
licensing exam constitutional. Since C doesn't recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  characterizing  barbering  as  a  privilege  and  not  a  right  would
not determine if the statute is constitutional.

In order to be valid, a state law must pass a three-part test:

1. It must be enacted within the state's powers (e.g., police powers);
2. It must not violate any person's constitutional rights; and
3. It must not improperly burden interstate commerce.

If  the  statute  here  meets  this  test,  it  doesn't  matter  if  barbering  is
classified  as  a  privilege  or  a  right.  If  barbering  were  considered  an
“essential  activity,”  the  statute  would  violate  the  Interstate  Privileges
and Immunities Clause. Alternatively, if barbering were a fundamental
right, the statute would probably fail as a violation of equal protection.
Thus,  classifying  barbering  as  a  privilege  and  not  a  right  does  not,  in
and of itself, determine the constitutionality of the statute.

Since D attaches undue significance to this classification, it's not the

best response.

 Answer 184

 (D) is the best response,

because  one  who  is  not  a  party  or  an  officer  of  a  party  cannot  be
required  to  travel  to  be  deposed  if  the  deposition  is  more  than  100
miles  from  the  deponent's  residence,  place  of  business,  or  where  he
regularly transacts business.

First, non-parties may be deposed only if they are first subpoenaed.
Second, the places to which the non-party may be required to travel for
a deposition are strictly limited by FRCP 45(c)(1), which provides that
“A  subpoena  may  command  a  person  to  attend  a  trial,  hearing,  or

deposition only as follows:

(A) within 100 miles of where the person resides, is employed, or

regularly transacts business in person; or

1664



(B)  within  the  state  where  the  person  resides,  is  employed,  or

regularly transacts business in person, if the person

(i) is a party or a party's officer; or
(ii) is commanded to attend a trial and would not incur substantial

expense.”

So under Rule 45(c)(1)(A) and (B), if the person to be deposed is
not  a  “party  or  a  party's  officer,”  that  person  may  only  be  required  to
attend the deposition in a place covered by sub-paragraph (A), not one
covered by sub-paragraph (B). That is, the person can be required only
to travel “within 100 miles of where the person resides, is employed,
or regularly transacts business in person[.]” The facts tell you that the
colleague (the person to be deposed) no longer works for Defendant, so
the  colleague  cannot  be  an  “officer”  of  the  only  party  that  is  an  entity
rather  than  an  individual  (Defendant).  And  the  facts  also  tell  you  that
the colleague lives and works 200 miles away from the State A federal
courthouse (and thus 200 miles from the deposing lawyer's office, since
the office is next door to that courthouse). Lastly, the facts (laboriously)
tell  you  that  the  colleague  rarely  travels  more  than  50  miles  from  his
home  and  business,  so  you  can  infer  that  the  lawyer's  office  is  not
within  the  100-mile  radius  of  any  place  the  colleague  “regularly
transacts  business  in  person.”  In  sum,  you  can  be  confident  that  the
deposing  lawyer's  office  is  not  a  place  covered  by  Rule  45(c)(1)(A),
and is therefore not a place to which this non-party can be compelled to
travel.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the colleague's attendance at the specified place for deposition
cannot be compelled even by a subpoena.

As is more fully discussed in the analysis of choice (D) above, the
deponent  is  a  non-party  and  therefore  cannot  be  required  to  take  the
more-than-100-mile  trip  to  the  lawyer's  office.  (But  this  choice  is
partially correct in the sense that it accurately implies that even if the
specified  deposition  site  were  within  the  100-mile-radius  of  the
deponent's  home  or  workplace,  a  subpoena,  not  a  mere  notice  of  the
deposition, would be required since the deponent is a non-party, and a
notice of deposition may be used only as to a party. See the Advisory
Committee  Note  to  2013  Amendments  to  Rule  45:  “Depositions  of
parties, and officers, directors, and managing agents of parties, need not
involve use of a subpoena.”)

1665

(B) is not the best response,

because the colleague can't be required to make the trip at all, let alone
be  required  to  do  so  by  means  of  a  notice  of  deposition  rather  than
subpoena.

First,  as  is  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (D),  the  place  of
deposition  is  beyond  the  100-mile-radius  of  the  deponent's  home  or
office,  which  represents  the  limit  of  the  distance  a  deponent  can  be
required to travel if the deponent is neither a party nor the officer of a
party.  Second,  as  is  described  in  the  parenthetical  portion  of  the
discussion of Choice (A), where the deponent is a non-party, attendance
to a proper place for deposition must be compelled by a subpoena, not
a mere notice of deposition.

 (C) is not the best response,

because not even “good cause” would support requiring the colleague
to travel more than 100 miles to the lawyer's office.

As  is  explained  more  fully  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (D),  if  the
deponent  is  neither  a  party  nor  the  officer  of  a  party,  the  deponent
cannot  be  required  to  travel  more  than  100  miles  from  his  residence,
workplace,  or  place  where  he  routinely  transacts  business.  And  that's
true  no  matter  how  much  “good  cause”  there  is  for  holding  the
deposition  outside  the  100-mile  radius.  Furthermore,  the  fact  that  the
deposition  will  be  in  state  in  which  the  deponent  resides,  works,  or
routinely does business in person, is irrelevant if the deponent is not a
party  or  the  officer  of  a  party.  (Where  the  deponent  is  a  party  or  the
officer of a party, then according to Rule 45(c)(1)(B), the deponent may
be compelled to attend a deposition anywhere in the state in which he
resides,  works,  or  routinely  transacts  business,  even  if  this  would
require a more-than-100-mile trip.)

 Answer 185

 (B) is the best response,

because the mother's writing was sufficient.

The  Statute  of  Frauds  renders  certain 

types  of  contracts
unenforceable  unless  they  are  in  writing.  One  such  category  is  a
suretyship,  which  is  a  promise  to  pay  the  debts  of  another.  Here,  the
mother's promise is to pay the debt of her son should he not repay his

1666

uncle, so her promise falls within the Statute of Frauds. The Statute of
Frauds  “writing”  requirement  is  satisfied  by  a  memorandum  if  the
memorandum  reasonably  identifies  the  subject  matter,  indicates  the
contract has been made, states the essential terms of the contract, and is
signed “by or on behalf of the party to be charged.” Here, the mother's
letter to her son satisfies all of these requirements. It is signed by the
mother,  indicates  that  she  promises  to  repay  the  loan,  and  states  the
amount of the debt. The fact that the letter was not addressed the uncle
is  irrelevant.  There  is  no  need  that  the  memorandum  that  satisfies  the
Statute of Frauds be addressed to or sent to the obligee (in this case, the
uncle).

 (A) is not the best response,

because the amount of the loan is irrelevant.

The  Statute  of  Frauds  renders  certain 

types  of  contracts
unenforceable  unless  they  are  in  writing.  One  such  category  is  a
suretyship,  which  is  a  promise  to  pay  the  debts  of  another.  Here,  the
mother's promise is to pay the debt of her son should he not repay his
uncle,  so  her  promise  falls  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds.  If  you  chose
response  A,  you  are  probably  thinking  of  the  UCC  Statute  of  Frauds,
which requires that contracts for sales of goods over a certain value be
in writing. However, Article 2 of the UCC is inapplicable here, since
this contract was a suretyship, not a sale of goods.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the mother's letter satisfied the Statute of Frauds.

The  Statute  of  Frauds  renders  certain 

types  of  contracts
unenforceable  unless  they  are  in  writing.  One  such  category  is  a
suretyship,  which  is  a  promise  to  pay  the  debts  of  another.  Here,  the
mother's promise is to pay the debt of her son should he not repay his
uncle, so her promise falls within the Statute of Frauds. The Statute of
Frauds  “writing”  requirement  is  satisfied  by  a  memorandum  if  the
memorandum  reasonably  identifies  the  subject  matter,  indicates  the
contract has been made, states the essential terms of the contract, and is
signed “by or on behalf of the party to be charged.” Here, the mother's
letter to her son satisfies all of these requirements. It is signed by the
mother,  indicates  that  she  promises  to  repay  the  loan,  and  states  the
amount of the debt.

1667

(D) is not the best response,

because it is irrelevant.

Whether or not the nephew's promise to his uncle to repay his debt
is  enforceable  is  irrelevant  to  the  question  asked,  which  was  whether
the mother's Statute of Frauds defense will be successful. As discussed
in the analysis of choice B above, the mother's letter to her nephew was
a sufficient memorandum to satisfy the Statute of Frauds. If you chose
response D, you were probably thinking that the mother had a defense
based on the unenforceability of the nephew's underlying promise. This
is an error for two reasons. First, it does not address the question that
was asked, which focused solely on one defense that the mother might
raise. Second, the nephew's promise to repay the loan he received from
his uncle is enforceable even though it was oral, since the promise to
repay one's own debt is not within the Statute of Frauds.

 Answer 186

 (A) is the best response,

because it identifies the central issue under these facts, resolves it, and
arrives at the correct result.

The  main  problem  with  a  battery  claim  on  these  facts  is  that  the
grower didn't intend that the dog bite the wife. In fact, the intent battery
requires  can  be  satisfied  by  the  intent  assault  requires  —  that  is,  the
intent  to  create  the  apprehension  of  harmful  or  offensive  contact,
followed  by  actual  conduct.  Thus,  the  grower's  intent  to  frighten  the
wife  with  the  threat  of  contact  is  sufficient  intent  for  battery.  Since  A
identifies the central element and resolves it satisfactorily, it's the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant: res ipsa loquitur is a doctrine of circumstantial
evidence  of  negligence.  Here,  the  grower  is  charged  with  an
intentional tort — battery.

Battery requires an intentional act resulting in harmful or offensive
contact  with  plaintiff's  person.  Even  if  the  claim  had  been  in
negligence,  it's  not  obvious  that  res  ipsa  loquitur  would  apply.  Res
ipsa loquitur establishes a prima facie claim for negligence where the
following  elements  are  shown:  The  event  would  not  normally  have

1668

occurred in the absence of negligence, the defendant was in exclusive
control  of  the  instrumentality  causing  injury,  and  the  plaintiff  did  not
voluntarily  contribute  to  the  event  causing  his  injury.  Here,  a  leash
could  break  in  the  absence  of  negligence,  so  it's  not  likely  res  ipsa
loquitur would attach. In any case, since the claim here is for battery,
res ipsa loquitur will be irrelevant, making B not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the wife's unauthorized entry was justified by necessity.

Under  the  privilege  of  necessity,  one  must  be  apparently  facing
threatened injury from a source not connected with the other party, and
the invasion committed must be substantially less serious than the injury
faced.  Here,  the  wife  and  husband  technically  were  trespassers;
however, they entered the property to avoid a charging bull, and since
they only trampled a few plants, their entry would be privileged.

Assuming  arguendo  that  the  wife  had  been  a  trespasser  with  no
necessity  defense,  the  grower  still  would  not  have  been  entitled  to
attack the wife with his dog, since it would be considered unreasonable
force under the circumstances, even if he was acting in defense of his
property  (especially  since  the  grower  had  no  reasonable  fear  for  his
own safety). Since the wife had a privilege of necessity in entering the
property, and even without the privilege the grower's use of force was
excessive, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it states an element that is not required for battery.

It's true that battery requires an intentional act resulting in harmful
or  offensive  contact  with  a  plaintiff's  person;  however,  the  “intent”
requirement can be satisfied by the intent to create the apprehension of
harmful  or  offensive  contact,  followed  by  such  contact,  even  if  the
contact  itself  is  completely  unintentional.  That's  the  case  here:  The
grower's intent to create the fear that he was about to “sic” his dog on
the  wife  was  enough  to  satisfy  the  intent  for  battery,  even  though  the
grower couldn't have intended for the leash to break (and undoubtedly
didn't  want  it  to).  Since  D  misstates  the  intent  requirement  of  battery,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 187

1669

(B) is the best response,

because this is the proper standard under FRE 401.

FRE  401  provides  the  standard  of  admissibility  for  relevant
evidence.  Under  FRE  401,  evidence  is  relevant  if  “(a)  it  has  any
tendency to make a fact more or less probable than it would be without
the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in  determining  the
action.” Since whether the contract was formed is a fact of consequence
in  the  litigation,  choice  B  correctly  states  how  FRE  401  would  be
applied to determine the admissibility of the evidence.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  pursuant  to  FRE  104(a),  the  test  for  admissibility  is
whether the judge believes that the evidence is probative, not whether a
reasonable jury could believe it to be so.

Under FRE 401, evidence is relevant if “(a) it has any tendency to
make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without  the
evidence; and (b) the fact is of consequence in determining the action.”

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  judge  determines  admissibility  and  the  jury  determines
sufficiency.

The correct standard is found in FRE 401: Evidence is relevant if
“(a)  it  has  any  tendency  to  make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it
would  be  without  the  evidence;  and  (b)  the  fact  is  of  consequence  in
determining the action.”

 (D) is not the best response,

because  this  response  is  the  standard  of  proof  used  by  a  jury,  not  the
standard of admissibility used by the judge.

Under FRE 401, evidence is relevant if “(a) it has any tendency to
make  a  fact  more  or  less  probable  than  it  would  be  without  the
evidence; and (b) the fact is of consequence in determining the action.”

 Answer 188

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly states the central reason the defendant's confession

1670

will be admissible: it was volunteered.

The  right  to  counsel  under  Miranda  is  only  triggered  by  an
interrogation. Here, the police showed no intention of interrogating the
defendant;  until  they  did,  or  until  there  was  a  “critical  stage”  in  the
inquiry, they needn't have responded to her request. The mere taking of
fingerprints would not in and of itself trigger the right to counsel; and
volunteered confessions are admissible. Since C correctly identifies the
reason why the defendant's confession will be admissible, it's the best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  police  were  not  under  a  duty  to  grant  the  defendant's
request immediately.

inquiry  (e.g., 

trial);  and  under 

There  are  only  two  theories  on  which  the  defendant  would  be
entitled to counsel: Under the Sixth Amendment, for “critical stages” of
the 
the  Fifth  Amendment,  for
“investigative”  stages  of  the  inquiry  (e.g.,  custodial  interrogations).
Here, since the police did not intend to interrogate her, she wouldn't be
entitled  to  counsel  on  Fifth  Amendment  grounds.  Furthermore,  since
fingerprinting  is  not  a  “critical  stage”  of  the  inquiry,  the  defendant
wouldn't  be  entitled  to  counsel  under  the  Sixth  Amendment.  Thus,  her
mere  request  to  speak  to  a  lawyer  doesn't  mean  the  request  must  be
granted immediately, in and of itself. What choice A fails to realize is
that  the  defendant  volunteered  her  statement,  and  so  it  can  be  validly
offered  against  her.  Since  A  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  “fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree”  doctrine  does  not  apply  to
these facts, and B arrives at the wrong result.

The  “fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree”  doctrine  holds  that  evidence
derived  from  unlawfully  obtained  evidence  is  inadmissible.  Such
“derivative” evidence is called the “tainted fruit of the poisonous tree.”
The  reason  this  doesn't  apply  here  is  that  there  is  no  unlawfully
obtained evidence, and even if the defendant's confession were illegally
obtained,  it  would  be  the  direct  result  of  the  illegality  —  that  is,  the
“poisonous tree” itself — not the fruit of it.

There was no illegality in terms of the defendant's confession since
she volunteered it, and, in any case, she wasn't entitled to counsel under

1671

the Sixth Amendment because fingerprinting is not a “critical stage” of
the  inquiry.  Since  B  misapplies  the  “fruit  of  the  poisonous  tree”
doctrine to these facts, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  the  correct  result,  it  does  not  offer
appropriate reasoning.

Although,  as  D  states,  fingerprinting  is  not  a  critical  stage  of  the
proceeding  requiring  the  assistance  of  counsel,  it  ignores  the  fact  that
the  defendant's  statement  is  a  confession.  Thus,  while  choice  D
recognizes  that  there's  no  problem  with  the  Sixth  Amendment  right  to
counsel,  it  doesn't  address  the  Fifth  Amendment.  In  fact,  the  reason  it
will be admissible is that it was volunteered, and thus there can't be a
Fifth  Amendment,  “interrogation”  problem.  If  the  police  had,  in  fact,
interrogated  the  defendant  without  honoring  her  request  to  see  her
lawyer, her confession would be inadmissible. Thus, the central reason
that  the  defendant's  confession  is  admissible  is  because  it  was
volunteered. Since D doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 189

 (D) is the best response,

because if the duty was non-delegable, then the defendant will be liable
for the slippery material that was negligently selected.

This  question  involves  the  doctrine  of  respondeat  superior.  That
doctrine governs cases where one person (the “principal” or “master”)
hires  another  (an  “agent”  or  “servant”),  who  then  commits  an  act  of
negligence. The question is, when is the principal liable for the agent's
negligence? The general rule is that the principal, such as the shopping
mall  in  this  case,  is  liable  for  the  negligence  of  anyone  it  hires  as  an
employee,  but  not  liable  for  the  negligence  of  someone  it  hires  as  an
independent  contractor.  The  construction  firm  here  is  likely  an
independent  contractor,  since  the  mall  probably  didn't  have  much
control over the details of how the firm did its job. But there are some
situations  where  a  principal  is  responsible  for  the  negligence  even  of
an  independent  contractor.  Those  are  called  non-delegable  duties.  A
common  “non-delegable  duty”  involves  work  done  in  public  places.
See  Dobbs,  §  337.  So  if  the  mall's  duty  was  “nondelegable,”  as  this
answer choice says, then the mall will be held liable for the accident

1672

even though the mall did not behave negligently.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  construction  company  was  an  independent
contractor, the shopping mall is still liable for the negligence of anyone
hired to perform a “non-delegable duty.”

As noted in the discussion of choice D above, this could be such a
case:  If  you  hire  someone  to  do  work  for  you  in  a  public  place,  you
typically will be liable for any negligence the worker commits — even
if the worker is an independent contractor whose behavior you did not
control (rather than an employee).

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  is  not  necessary  for  the  plaintiff  to  prove  that  anyone  else
had slipped on the floor.

Proof  of  previous  accidents  might  be  helpful  to  the  plaintiff,  but
there  are  many  other  ways  to  prove  negligence  on  the  part  of  the
construction company or the shopping mall. It is especially clear that a
prior slip is not necessary to the plaintiff's case here, because the facts
tell  you  that  the  construction  company  was  negligent  in  its  choice  of
flooring. By itself that is enough to show that the construction company
breached its duty — and enough to support a claim against the shopping
mall, too, if the construction company was performing a non-delegable
duty.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  doesn't  matter  whether  the  plaintiff  was  planning  to  buy
anything.

If  the  construction  company  was  performing  a  non-delegable  duty,
then  the  shopping  mall  is  potentially  liable  to  anyone  hurt  by  the
company's negligence — whether the victim is a customer planning to
buy  something,  a  customer  not  planning  to  buy  anything,  or  just  a
random passerby. The intention to buy something might sound relevant
to whether the customer was an invitee (that is, a business guest of the
mall). But one can be an invitee without buying anything — just being
in the store for business purposes is enough. Again, however, this really
is beside the point because the plaintiff doesn't need to be an invitee to
win. Having “invitee” status helps a plaintiff who wants to claim that
the defendant failed to inspect the premises. Here the plaintiff's theory

1673

is  different:  it  is  that  the  shopping  mall  is  responsible  for  a  negligent
decision  made  by  the  company  it  hired,  because  the  duty  to  make  the
decision carefully was not delegable — and the plaintiff's status as an
invitee is irrelevant to that theory.

 Answer 190

 (B) is the best response,

because it states that it would be principally due to estoppel.

The  biggest  obstacle  here  is  getting  around  the  fact  that  the
agreement  between  the  brother  and  sister,  concerning  partitioning  the
parcel,  was  not  in  writing.  This  partitioning  would  be  considered  the
conveyance of an interest in land, and would therefore be covered by
the Statute of Frauds. If the partitioning is not considered valid, then the
sister takes the land when the brother dies, because a joint tenant enjoys
the right to survivorship.

However, you're told here that the partitioning was valid, because
the brother's son inherited the land from his father. Thus, there must be
something that overrides the writing requirement. B identifies a factor
that does just that: promissory estoppel.

Estoppel prevents one from denying something in the future due to
his conduct in the past. Promissory estoppel is triggered by a gratuitous
promise  that  is  likely  to,  and  does,  induce  the  promisee's  reliance.
Here, when the sister orally agreed to the partitioning, she should have
recognized  that  her  brother  would  rely  on  this.  He  in  fact  did  so  by
erecting  an  apartment  development  on  the  northerly  ten  acres  of  the
parcel.  This  would  relieve  the  writing  requirement  for  the  Statute  of
Frauds, and would leave the brother as the sole owner of the northerly
ten  acres  of  the  parcel,  with  his  sister  as  the  owner  of  the  rest.  Thus,
when  the  brother  died,  his  son  would  be  entitled  to  the  northerly  ten
acres  of  the  parcel.  Since  choice  B  recognizes  the  Statute  of  Frauds
problem with these facts, and suggests a viable means of getting around
it, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule of law.

The  conveyance  here  would  be  covered  by  the  Statute  of  Frauds,
because it involves an interest in land. In effect, the brother and sister
are  partitioning  the  parcel.  This  generally  requires  a  writing,  as  A

1674

recognizes;  however,  the  familial  relationship  of  the  parties  does  not
remove  the  contract  from  the  Statute  of  Frauds.  Since  A  states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule of law.

The  conveyance  here  (partitioning  the  parcel)  involves  an  interest
in land. As such, it is covered by the Statute of Frauds, and must be in
writing  (or  otherwise  removed  from  it)  in  order  to  be  valid.  If  the
agreement  was  valid,  then  the  joint  tenancy  would  be  terminated,  and
the brother would be the sole owner of the northerly ten acres, with his
sister being the sole owner of the rest. Since the facts tell you that the
brother's son is adjudged to be the owner of the northerly ten acres of
the  parcel,  you  know  that  the  partitioning  must  be  valid,  and  thus
something must have removed it from the Statute of Frauds. However,
C  doesn't  identify  a  viable  means  of  doing  so.  While  there  are
circumstances  which  may  remove  conveyances  from  the  Statute  of
Frauds,  C  is  wrong  in  saying  that  the  oral  agreement  necessarily
terminated the joint tenancy. Thus, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

for  three  reasons;  two  involve  misstating  the  correct  rule  of  law,  and
one involves misstating the facts.

For  one  thing,  the  sister's  appointment  as  executrix  would  not,  in
and  of  itself,  stop  her  from  watching  out  for  her  own  interests  (since
executors of estates are frequently interested in the distribution of those
estates). Second, even if she had accepted the appointment (which she
didn't), she would be obligated to represent the interests of the estate,
not the beneficiaries thereof. Finally, and most conclusively, the sister
didn't accept the appointment — the facts state that she turned it down.
The fact that she is not executrix of the estate is the easiest, and most
obvious, way to determine that D is not the best response.

 Answer 191

 (C) is the best response,

because the buyer's delay was not material.

UCC  2-311(3)  provides  that  when  the  specification  of  the
assortment of goods to be purchased “would materially affect the other

1675

party's  performance  but  is  not  seasonably  made  or  where  one  party's
cooperation is necessary to the agreed performance of the other but is
not  seasonably  forthcoming,”  the  seller  is  excused  from  damages
relating  to  a  delay  in  his  own  performance.  Here,  the  buyer's
specification was only one day late, and was received before the seller
had  changed  its  position  based  on  the  non-receipt  of  the  buyer's
specification. As a result, the buyer's delay was not a material breach,
and  will  not  allow  the  seller  to  suspend  his  own  performance.  The
seller  will,  however,  be  able  to  sue  the  buyer  for  any  damages  the
seller  incurred  as  a  result  of  the  delay  (although  there  appear  to  be
none) and will not be liable to the buyer for any damages that resulted
from the buyer's delay.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the contract was sufficiently definite to be enforceable.

UCC  2-311(1)  provides  that  an  “agreement  for  sale  which  is
otherwise  sufficiently  definite  to  be  a  contract  is  not  made  invalid  by
the fact that it leaves particulars of performance to be specified by one
of  the  parties.”  Since  all  of  the  terms  of  this  contract  (price,  quantity,
time for delivery) other than the selection of particular candy bars are
sufficiently definite, UCC 2-311 dictates that the contract was binding
even  before  the  buyer  specified  the  assortment  of  candy  to  be
delivered.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  requirement  of  selection  by  March  1  was  a  constructive,
rather than an express, condition.

Courts  will  generally  enforce  express  conditions  strictly,  so  if  the
March  1  deadline  was  an  express  condition,  the  buyer  will  have
breached the contract. However, UCC 2-311(3) provides that a delay in
making a selection of goods is not a material breach of a contract, but
rather only insures the seller against a suit for damage that were caused
by the buyer's delay. Absent a material breach by the buyer, the seller
will not be allowed to suspend its own performance under the contract.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  seller  has  the  option,  but  not  the  duty,  to  make  such  a
selection.

Under  UCC  2-311(3),  when  a  seller  does  not  timely  make  a

1676

selection  of  goods  for  delivery  and  “such  specification  would
materially  affect  the  [seller's]  performance  but  is  not  seasonably
made,”  the  seller  may  “perform  in  any  reasonable  manner,”  including
making a reasonable selection for the buyer. However, this is only one
among a number of options available to the seller, and is therefore not
compulsory.  Other  options  include  waiting  for  the  buyer  to  select  the
goods or waiting for the time performance is due and suing for breach.
Since the seller did not change his position based on the buyer's one-
day delay, the delay had no material effect on the seller's performance,
and cannot be treated as a material breach. Accordingly, the seller was
not permitted to suspend his own performance.

 Answer 192

 (C) is the best response,

because the seller would be strictly liable for the product it sold.

A  person  who  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  selling  products,  and
who sells a defective product, is subject to liability for harm to persons
or property caused by the defect. Rest. 3d Torts (Prod. Liab.), § 1. One
type of defect is a manufacturing defect, which occurs when the product
“departs  from  its  intended  design  even  though  all  possible  care  was
exercised in the preparation and marketing of the product.” Id., § 2. The
store is liable under these facts since: (1) the store was “engaged in the
business of selling products,” and sold the product in question; and (2)
the  product  had  a  manufacturing  defect  (the  design  didn't  include
snails).  The  fact  that  the  store  did  not  cause  the  defect,  and  could  not
have  spotted  or  avoided  it  even  with  the  exercise  of  utmost  care,  is
irrelevant.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  seller  of  a  product  containing  a  manufacturing  defect  is
strictly liable for the injuries it causes.

In this case, there is nothing to indicate that the consumer actually
saw the snail; the facts tell you merely that the consumer “could have
seen” it. Even if the consumer might have seen the snail had she been
paying  a  reasonable  level  of  attention,  this  would  not  save  the  store
from  liability,  because  (1)  the  default  rule  on  the  MBE  (applicable
here,  since  the  facts  don't  tell  us  otherwise)  is  that  pure  comparative
negligence  rather  than  contributory  negligence  applies,  and  (2)  pure

1677

comparative  negligence  might  reduce  the  consumer's  recovery  but
would  not  totally  negate  it.  (See  Rest.  3d  Torts  (Apport.),  §  17.)  The
question  asks  you  whether  the  consumer  would  “prevail,”  so  even  a
recovery  reduced  but  not  eliminated  on  account  of  comparative
negligence  would  still  mean  that  the  consumer  “prevailed,”  under  an
everyday reading of what “prevailed” means.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  seller  of  a  product  with  a  manufacturing  defect  is  strictly
liable for the injuries it causes.

Because  the  store  sold  the  bottle  in  a  defective  condition  to  the
consumer, it can be held strictly liable even though it did not bottle the
soda.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  while  this  answer  correctly  states  that  the  consumer  will
prevail, it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

Strict  product  liability,  applicable  here,  is  not  based  on  exclusive
control but on the sale to the consumer. In any event, the store did not
have  exclusive  control  over  the  bottle  at  the  time  the  defect  was
introduced, the manufacturer/bottler did. And anyway, res ipsa loquitur
— which is the only doctrine to which the concept of exclusive control
is relevant — is neither necessary nor appropriate here: if anyone was
negligent,  it  was  the  bottler.  Nevertheless,  the  store  will  be  liable
because  the  seller  of  a  product  with  a  manufacturing  defect  is  strictly
liable for the injuries it causes.

 Answer 193

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the homeowner's duty to pay is only
triggered by the painter's substantial performance.

The painter's performance under the contract would be considered a
constructive  condition  precedent  to  the  homeowner's  performance.
Constructive conditions require only substantial performance to trigger
the  other  party's  duty  to  perform  (unlike  express  conditions,  which
require complete performance). Thus, if the painter didn't substantially
perform, the homeowner's duty to pay would not exist. If the painter did
substantially  perform,  the  homeowner's  failure  to  pay  would  be,  as  C

1678

points out, a total breach of contract (since he failed to pay anything).

Since C correctly analyzes the effect of the painter's performance on

the homeowner's duty to pay, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because its result and its reasoning don't agree. If in fact the painter had
properly or substantially painted the porch, the homeowner's refusal to
pay anything would be a total breach of contract, not a partial one.

As  a  preliminary  matter,  note  that  A  uses  the  modifier  “if”;  that
means  that  the  reasoning  must  be  plausible  on  the  facts,  the  reasoning
must address a central issue, and the result must be consistent with the
reasoning.

First, it's plausible that the painter substantially performed his duty
under the contract. The difference between a material (or total) breach
and  minor  (or  partial)  breach  is,  naturally,  one  of  degree.  The
distinction  is  an  important  one,  because  a  major  breach  relieves  the
non-breaching party of his duty to perform under the contract; a minor
breach  means  the  non-breaching  party  must  perform,  but  can  sue  for
damages.

The Rest. 2d of Contracts § 241 looks to six factors to determine if
a breach is material, weighing them according to what's critical in each
case:

1. To what extent has the injured party received benefits?
2. Can the injured party be adequately compensated in damages?
3. Is the breaching party “close” to full performance?
4. Will the breaching party face great hardship if termination is

permitted?

5. How willful is the breach?
6. How great is the certainty of completion?

Here,  if  the  painter  substantially  performed,  the  homeowner's

refusal to pay would be a total breach.

Second,  this  reasoning  addresses  a  central  issue,  because  the
homeowner's duty to pay is only triggered by the painter's substantially
performing his duty under the contract, since the painter's performance
will  be  a  constructive  condition  precedent  to  the  homeowner's
the  painter
performance.  Under 
substantially performed, and if he did, the homeowner's refusal to pay
would  be  a  total  breach  of  contract.  Since  A  doesn't  arrive  at  the

it's  possible 

these  facts 

that 

1679



correct result, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  if  the  painter  didn't  substantially  perform,  the  homeowner's
refusal to pay wouldn't be a breach at all.

The painter's performance under the contract would be considered a
constructive  condition  precedent  to  the  homeowner's  performance.
Constructive conditions require only substantial performance to trigger
the other party's duty to perform (express conditions require complete
performance).  Thus,  if  the  painter  didn't  substantially  perform,  the
homeowner's duty to pay would not exist. If the painter did substantially
perform, the homeowner's breach would be total, not partial, since he
refused to perform his entire duty.

Note  that  this  could  be  analyzed  in  terms  of  breach:  a  failure  to
substantially  perform  would  be  a  major  breach,  relieving  the  other
party of a duty to perform; substantial performance, which is defective
in some way, involves a minor breach, and requires the other party to
perform and sue for damages. Since B would impose the homeowner's
duty  to  pay  even  if  the  painter's  breach  was  major,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  homeowner's  failure  to  pay  is  only  a  total  breach  if  the
painter substantially performed his duty under the contract.

The painter's performance under the contract would be considered a
constructive  condition  precedent  to  the  homeowner's  performance.
Constructive conditions require only substantial performance to trigger
the  other  party's  duty  to  perform  (unlike  express  conditions,  which
require complete performance). Thus, if the painter didn't substantially
perform, the homeowner's duty to pay would not exist. If the painter did
substantially  perform,  the  homeowner's  failure  to  pay  would  be,  as  D
points out, a total breach of contract (since he failed to pay anything).

Note  that  this  could  be  analyzed  in  terms  of  breach:  a  failure  to
substantially  perform  would  be  a  major  breach,  relieving  the  other
party of a duty to perform; substantial performance, which is defective
in some way, involves a minor breach, and requires the other party to
perform and sue for damages.

Since  D  would  impose  the  homeowner's  duty  to  pay  even  if  the

painter's breach was major, it's not the best response.

1680

Answer 194

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  offers  a  federal  power  to  which  a  need-based  student  aid
program is rationally related.

The  welfare  power  addresses  the  federal  government's  power  to
collect  taxes  and  spend  money  for  all  matters  of  national  concern.  In
implementing  this  power,  Congress  can  impose  any  reasonable
conditions  on  the  states  as  a  prerequisite  to  participating  in  federal
spending  programs.  Here,  student  aid  will  have  a  general  beneficial
effect on the welfare of the country. Requiring that the aid be distributed
on  the  basis  of  need  is  a  reasonable  condition  to  place  on  such  a
program.  As  such,  the  welfare  power  provides  a  strong  constitutional
basis for the statute.

Incidentally,  the  reason  that  this  problem  requires  some  thought  is
that education is traditionally a state function. Congress can only pass
laws  rationally  related  to  its  enumerated  powers  (e.g.,  defense,
interstate commerce, etc.). As this question indicates, Congress can use
its spending power to indirectly achieve objectives it couldn't achieve
directly pursuant to its regulatory powers (as long as it doesn't violate
any independent constitutional limitations, like due process). By relying
on the Welfare Clause, choice C overcomes the problem that education
is a state function, making it the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  federal  police  power,  and  the  question  here
addresses a federal statute.

Under  the  police  power,  a  state  enactment  is  a  valid  means  of
achieving  a  legitimate  state  interest  where  the  public  health,  safety,
welfare, and morals is involved. There is no federal equivalent of the
police  power,  although  Congress  can  achieve  many  of  the  same  ends
through  valid  use  of  its  powers.  (For  instance,  Congress  can  use  its
commerce  power  to  regulate  the  use  of  interstate  channels,  thus
prohibiting  interstate  transport  of  stolen  property,  misbranded  goods,
lottery tickets, and the like.) Since choice A doesn't recognize this, it's
not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

1681

because  the  war  and  defense  power  would  not  provide  a  basis  for  a
statute of this sort.

Congress gets its war and defense power from Article I, § 8, of the
Constitution, under which it can declare war, raise and support armed
forces,  and,  in  general,  administer  those  forces.  The  types  of
regulations  Congress  could  pass  under  the  war  power  include
conducting a draft, instituting economic controls in wartime, excluding
people from sensitive areas, and confiscating the property of enemies.
In  order  to  be  upheld  under  an  enumerated  power,  a  statute  must  be
rationally  related  to  the  power,  or  a  necessary  and  proper  means  of
effectuating  that  power.  A  need-based  student  aid  program  has  no
obvious  connection  with  the  war  power,  and  as  such  the  war  power
wouldn't provide a strong constitutional basis for the legislation. Since
B states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment  is  not  a  source  of  constitutional  power  for  the  federal
government.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
voids those state enactments that clearly infringe privileges enjoyed by
U.S.  citizens.  It  is  construed  narrowly,  typically  being  restricted  to
fundamental  rights  that  are  shared  in  common  by  all  U.S.  citizens,
namely:

1. The right to travel freely from state to state;
2. The right to petition Congress for redress of grievances;
3. The right to vote for national officers;
4. The right to assemble peaceably; and
5. The right to discuss matters of national legislation.

Thus,  the  Clause  would  not  provide  a  means  by  which  to  support
the  constitutionality  of  a  need-based  student  aid  program.  The  Clause
limits  the  power  of  the  states,  but  is  not  a  source  of  power  for  the
federal government.

Since D doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 195

1682




(A) is the best answer,

because jeopardy does not attach at either a preliminary hearing or at
grand jury proceedings.

Instead, jeopardy attaches in a jury trial when the jury is sworn in
and  in  a  bench  trial  when  the  court  begins  to  hear  evidence.  Thus,
neither  the  preliminary  hearing  nor  the  initial  grand  jury  will  prevent
the prosecutor from bringing charges against the defendant.

 (B) is not the best answer,

as neither conviction nor acquittal is required for jeopardy to attach.

Instead, jeopardy attaches in a jury trial when the jury is sworn in
and  in  a  bench  trial  when  the  court  begins  to  hear  evidence.  Thus,
neither  the  preliminary  hearing  nor  the  initial  grand  jury  will  prevent
the prosecutor from bringing charges against the defendant.

 (C) is not the best answer,

because  jeopardy  does  not  attach  to  “any”  proceeding  after  the
preliminary hearing.

Jeopardy does not attach at either a preliminary hearing or at grand
jury proceedings. Instead, jeopardy attaches in a jury trial when the jury
is sworn in and in a bench trial when the court begins to hear evidence.
Thus,  neither  the  preliminary  hearing  nor  the  initial  grand  jury  will
prevent the prosecutor from bringing charges against the defendant.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because  the  double  jeopardy  clause  does  not  bar  a  grand  jury  from
returning an indictment when a prior grand jury refused to do so.

Jeopardy does not attach at either a preliminary hearing or at grand
jury proceedings. Instead, jeopardy attaches in a jury trial when the jury
is sworn in and in a bench trial when the court begins to hear evidence.
Thus,  neither  the  preliminary  hearing  nor  the  initial  grand  jury  will
prevent the prosecutor from bringing charges against the defendant.

 Answer 196

 (A) is the best response,

because the landowner's possibility of reverter passed to his heir when
he died.

1683

When  approaching  a  future  interests  problem,  it  is  crucial  to
identify the interests created by each conveyance. Here, the landowner
conveyed the land to a church “so long as the land herein conveyed is
used  as  the  site  for  the  principal  religious  edifice  maintained  by  said
church.”  The  language  of  duration  (“so  long  as”)  indicates  that  the
church received a fee simple determinable. A fee simple determinable
is conveyable inter vivos, is devisable by will, and, absent a will, can
pass  by  intestate  succession.  The  landowner  retained  a  possibility  of
reverter, which would become possessory if and when the land was no
longer  used  as  the  site  of  the  church.  When  the  landowner  died,  his
possibility  of  reverter  passed  to  his  heir.  The  church's  estate  ended
when it ceased to maintain a church building on the land, and the land
automatically reverted to the landowner's heir.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

There  is  no  general  restriction  against  a  charity  conveying  assets
that are donated to it. In this case, however, should the church convey
the  land  it  received  from  the  landowner,  its  estate  would  terminate,
because the land will revert to the holder of the possibility of reverter
as soon as the church ceased to use the land as the site of its primary
church. Since the church could not convey a greater interest in the land
than  it  possessed,  whoever  took  the  land  from  the  church  would  get
nothing. Thus, the reason the landowner's heir will hold title to the land
is  that  the  church's  estate  would  terminate,  not  that  the  church,  as  a
charity, was barred from conveying the land.

 (C) is not the best response,

because cy pres is inapplicable to this situation.

Cy pres  will  be  applied  to  approximate  the  wishes  of  the  grantor
when  the  charity  to  which  he  transferred  assets  no  longer  can  use  the
assets.  However,  it  is  inapplicable  in  cases  where  the  grantor  has
explicitly  stated  what  should  happen  to  the  donated  land  in  the  event
that  the  charity  is  no  longer  using  it,  since  there  is  no  need  to
approximate  the  grantor's  intent.  Here,  we  know  that  the  landowner
wanted the land to revert to him, or his heirs and assigns, in the event
that  the  church  ceased  to  use  the  premises  as  the  site  of  its  principal
religious  edifice.  As  a  result,  there  is  no  need  to  apply  the  cy  pres
doctrine.

1684

(D) is not the best response,

because  possibilities  of  reverter  are  not  subject  to  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities.

The  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  states  that  an  interest  in  land  must
vest, if at all, within 21 years of a life in being at the time the interest
was created. It is inapplicable to possibilities of reverter because they
are  vested  at  the  moment  they  are  created.  As  a  result,  the  fact  that  it
may  be  an  arbitrarily  long  period  of  time  before  the  possibility  of
reverter becomes possessory does not cause it to fail as a violation of
the Rule Against Perpetuities. Since the possibility of reverter passed
through the landowner's estate by intestate succession to his heir, at the
moment  the  church  ceased  to  use  the  land  for  its  primary  church
building, ownership immediately passed to the landowner's heir.

 Answer 197

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  privilege  belongs  to  the  patient,  who  has  designated  the
attorney to appear on behalf of the patient.

The basic fact to remember here is that the privilege belongs to the

patient, not the doctor.

There  are  seven,  basic  requirements  for  the  application  of  a

privilege:

1. Appropriate relationship between communicants (e.g., attorney-

client, doctor-patient);

2. Relationship existed at the time of communication;
3. Appropriate person is claiming the privilege (i.e., client or

patient holds privilege, not attorney or doctor);

4. There was a communication (i.e., verbal or communicative act);
5. The communication was made in confidence (presence of third

parties normally destroys privilege);

6. Privilege has not been waived (via contract or in court); and
7. There is no reason privilege should not control (e.g., legal advice
sought for future wrongdoing; medical advice not in course of
treatment).

Under choice D, the person asserting the privilege on the patient's
behalf is one closely associated with him: his attorney. His attorney has

1685



been designated to act on the patient's behalf to assert the privilege.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states an erroneous rule.

Asserting a privilege has seven requirements:

1. Appropriate relationship between communicants (e.g., attorney-

client, doctor-patient);

2. Relationship existed at the time of communication;
3. Appropriate person is claiming the privilege (i.e., client or

patient holds privilege, not attorney or doctor);

4. There was a communication (i.e., verbal or communicative act);
5. The communication was made in confidence (presence of third

parties normally destroys privilege);

6. Privilege has not been waived (via contract or in court); and
7. There is no reason privilege should not control (e.g., legal advice
sought for future wrongdoing; medical advice not in course of
treatment).

The problem here is with the third element. A doctor simply does
not have a privilege against disclosure of confidential communications
made by a patient. The doctor-patient privilege rests exclusively with
the  patient.  The  problem  here  is  that  the  patient  cannot  object  to
disclosure himself. In such cases, the doctor normally asserts it on the
patient's  behalf.  Thus,  the  physician  could  theoretically  assert  the
privilege  on  the  patient's  behalf.  However,  the  physician  could  not
assert  the  privilege  on  the  ground  suggested  here  —  an  ostensible
privilege  against  disclosing  confidential  communications  made  by  a
patient. Since A states a rule that is wrong, it is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  a  third  party  is  not  entitled  to  assert  the  doctor-patient
privilege.

Asserting a privilege has seven requirements:

1. Appropriate relationship between communicants (e.g., attorney-

client, doctor-patient);

2. Relationship existed at the time of communication;
3. Appropriate person is claiming the privilege (i.e., client or

1686




patient holds privilege, not attorney or doctor);

4. There was a communication (i.e., verbal or communicative act);
5. The communication was made in confidence (presence of third

parties normally destroys privilege);

6. Privilege has not been waived (via contract or in court); and
7. There is no reason privilege should not control (e.g., legal advice
sought for future wrongdoing; medical advice not in course of
treatment).

The problem here is the third requirement. It's someone other than
the  privilege  holder,  the  patient,  who's  asserting  the  privilege.  The
privilege  exists  for  the  patient's  benefit.  Since  the  plaintiff  is  not
concerned  with  the  patient's  best  interests,  he  is  clearly  not  the
appropriate  person  to  invoke  the  privilege.  Thus,  B  is  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it relies on facts irrelevant to the determination of invoking the
privilege.

Asserting a privilege has seven requirements:

1. Appropriate relationship between communicants (e.g., attorney-

client, doctor-patient);

2. Relationship existed at the time of communication;
3. Appropriate person is claiming the privilege (i.e., client or

patient holds privilege, not attorney or doctor);

4. There was a communication (i.e., verbal or communicative act);
5. The communication was made in confidence (presence of third

parties normally destroys privilege);

6. Privilege has not been waived (via contract or in court); and
7. There is no reason privilege should not control (e.g., legal advice
sought for future wrongdoing; medical advice not in course of
treatment).

Choice  C  addresses  the  second  element  —  the  existence  of  an
appropriate  relationship  at  the  time  of  the  communication.  However,
C's  incorrect  in  that  the  relationship  requirement  was  satisfied  here.
The  applicability  of  the  doctor-patient  privilege  does  not  depend  on
whether the patient actually received treatment, but whether the doctor-
patient relationship existed at the time the confidential communication

1687




was made. This can exist in the absence of receiving actual treatment.
In  any  case,  the  judge's  finding  that  the  patient  left  without  receiving
treatment  would,  if  anything,  vie  for  admitting  the  evidence,  not
excluding it. This, apart from anything else, should have tipped you off
to the fact that C is not the best response.

 Answer 198

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  impliedly  identifies  the  basis  on  which  the  roofer  will  be
liable: negligence.

One  is  negligent  if  he  fails  to  exercise  such  care  as  a  reasonable
person  in  his  position  would  have  exercised,  this  must  have  been  a
breach of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of harm to anyone in
plaintiff's  position,  and  this  breach  must  have  caused  plaintiff's
damages.  Here,  by  leaving  the  ladder  in  place,  the  roofer  behaved
unreasonably in creating a risk that the home could be burglarized. He
left  a  ladder  against  the  house,  leading  to  a  second  story  window,
which  a  burglar  could  not  otherwise  have  reached.  Coupled  with  the
fact that no one was at home at the time, this creates a risk of unlawful
entry,  which  the  roofer's  exercise  of  due  care  could  have  avoided.
Since the roofer's negligence caused the homeowner's damages and his
due  care  would  have  avoided  those  damages,  the  homeowner  will
prevail. Since B recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it's  highly  unlikely  the  roofer  would  be  considered  a
trespasser.

Trespass  requires  proof  of  three  elements:  defendant's  physical
invasion  of  plaintiff's  exclusive  possessory  interest  in  real  property
without  plaintiff's  consent;  defendant's  intent  to  bring  about  such
invasion;  and  causation.  Under  these  facts,  it's  unlikely  the  roofer's
presence  on  the  property  would  be  considered  non-permissive.
Naturally, while he was performing  his  work,  his  presence  would  be
considered  permissive,  and  as  a  result  he  would  be  a  licensee,  not  a
trespasser. His leaving a ladder on the property overnight would not be
sufficient  to  change  his  status  to  trespasser.  Instead,  what  the  roofer
will be liable for is negligence, since he failed to exercise such care as
a  reasonable  person  in  his  position  would  have  exercised,  this  was  a

1688

breach of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of harm to anyone in
the  homeowner's  position,  and  this  breach  caused  the  homeowner's
damages. Leaving the ladder in place created the risk that a thief would
take  advantage  of  the  ladder  to  enter  the  house.  Since  A  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although it correctly states the general rule of law, it does not
apply to facts like these.

The intentional misconduct of others only relieves the original actor
of  liability  when  the  misconduct  is  unforeseeable.  Here,  theft  is
exactly the outcome of the roofer's negligence — in leaving the ladder
propped  up  to  a  second  story  window  of  an  unoccupied  house  —  is
likely  to  produce,  and  as  such  it  will  be  considered  “within  the  risk”
the  roofer's  negligence  created.  Thus,  intervening  misconduct  only
relieves the original actor of liability when it's not foreseeable. Since
C fails to recognize that the facts here do not fit the general rule, it's not
the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law:  the  homeowner's  claim  is  not  limited  to
damages  for  breach  of  contract,  and,  in  any  case  it's  unlikely  the
homeowner would be able to claim for breach of contract under these
facts.

The homeowner would be able to claim under the contract only if
the  roofer's  repairs  on  the  roof  were  not  done  “in  a  workmanlike
manner.” There is no indication of any deficiency in the repairs under
these  facts.  Even  if  there  had  been,  this  would  not  have  prohibited  a
tort claim by the homeowner for the roofer's negligence in leaving the
ladder against the house, since a claim under the contract and a claim in
tort  are  not  mutually  exclusive.  Since  D  states  otherwise,  it's  not  the
best response.

 Answer 199

 (C) is the best response,

because  it's  the  only  response  that  offers  a  source  of  power  for  the
federal government.

In  order  to  be  valid,  a  congressional  enactment  must  be  rationally

1689

related  to  one  of  Congress's  enumerated  powers,  or  it  must  be
necessary and proper to effectuate such a power. Congress's power to
regulate  interstate  commerce  is  found  in  Article  I,  §  8,  cl.  3,  of  the
Constitution. The power is exceptionally broad. Under the “affectation
doctrine,” Congress can regulate any activity that has any appreciable
direct  or  indirect  effect  on  interstate  commerce.  Consumer  credit
affects  interstate  commerce,  so  Congress  will  be  able  to  enact  a  law
governing  it.  Since  C  offers  a  plausible  source  of  support  for  the
legislation, and no other response does, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  Contracts  Clause  limits  state  power;  it's  not  a  source  of
power for the federal government.

As  a  general  rule,  the  Contracts  Clause,  Article  I,  §  10,  of  the
Constitution,  prohibits  states  from  passing  laws  that  impair  the
obligations  of  existing  contracts.  Here,  the  law  was  enacted  by  the
federal government, not a state; furthermore, the Contracts Clause is a
limitation on power, not a source of it, and this question is looking for
a source of power to justify the law. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's
not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment limits  the  power  of  the  states,  it's  not  a  source  of  power
for the federal government.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
voids those state enactments that clearly infringe privileges enjoyed by
U.S.  citizens.  It  is  construed  narrowly,  typically  being  restricted  to
fundamental rights that are shared in common by all citizens, namely:

1. The right to travel freely from state to state;
2. The right to petition Congress for redress of grievances;
3. The right to vote for national officers;
4. The right to assemble peaceably; and
5. The right to discuss matters of national legislation.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
wouldn't  apply  here.  Consumer  credit  is  not  a  fundamental  right,  the
law here isn't a state law but a federal one, and this clause is a limit on

1690



power,  where  the  question  here  asks  for  the  source  of  the  power  to
enact  the  UCCC.  Since  B  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the Equal Protection Clause is triggered by a classification that
determines people's rights. It prohibits enactments; it doesn't provide a
source of power for the federal government.

Here,  the  law  addresses  fair  credit  practices;  it  doesn't  create  a
classification.  Furthermore,  the  question  asks  for  the  source  of  the
federal power to enact the UCCC, not a limitation on power, which the
Equal  Protection  Clause  is.  Finally,  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  only
addresses  state  action;  it's  not  applicable  to  the  federal  government.
Since D doesn't offer a source of power to support the law, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 200

 (B) is the best response,

because the condition will be enforced even though it was not included
in the writing.

Generally,  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule  prohibits  the  introduction  of
statements  made  prior  to  a  signed  written  contract  from  being
considered  by  a  court  interpreting  the  contract.  However,  there  are
several important exceptions to the Parol Evidence Rule, one of which
is the “condition exception.” This exception allows the introduction of
a prior oral agreement that imposes a condition on the enforceability of
a contract. Here, the homeowner and the builder had orally agreed that
their  agreement  would  be  enforceable  only  if  the  builder's  other
pending  bid  was  rejected.  Since  this  was  a  condition  on  the
enforceability  of  the  contract,  a  court  will  read  the  condition  into  the
written contract.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  efficiency  principles  will  not  relieve  the  builder  from  being
liable for damages that result from his breach.

The  general  rule  is  that  a  breaching  party  is  liable  for  damages
resulting from his breach. Even if the builder's excuse for breaching his
obligation  to  the  homeowner  was  to  make  a  higher-value  use  of  his

1691

time, it will not result in the builder not being liable to the homeowner
in a suit on the contract. If you chose this response, you were probably
thinking  of  an  “efficient  breach.”  An  efficient  breach  is  an  intentional
breach  of  a  contract  by  a  party  who  would  take  a  greater  loss  by
performing the contract than by breaching it. The efficiency principle at
work is that a party should be allowed to breach and pay damages if
doing so would be more economically efficient than performing under
the contract.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the builder's promise was definite.

The  condition  on  enforceability  (that  the  contract  would  only  be
enforceable  if  the  builder's  other  bid  fell  through)  provides  for  a
situation in which the builder would not have to perform. However, if
the  condition  fails  to  occur,  then  the  builder  would  be  bound  to
construct the addition to the homeowner's house. Since the condition is
outside the builder's control, it is a conditional promise, rather than an
illusory one. A promise is illusory if the promisor is free to choose not
to  perform  if  he  does  not  wish  to.  For  example,  if  the  builder  had
promised to build the addition, but had retained the right to cancel the
contract at no notice and with no penalty, then his promise would have
been illusory, since he would be entirely in control of whether or not he
was bound to perform.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  oral  condition  on  enforceability  is  within  an  exception  to
the Parol Evidence Rule.

Generally,  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule  prohibits  the  introduction  of
statements  made  prior  to  a  signed  written  contract  from  being
considered  by  a  court  interpreting  the  contract.  However,  there  are
several important exceptions to the Parol Evidence Rule, one of which
is the “condition exception.” This exception allows the introduction of
a prior oral agreement that imposes a condition on the enforceability of
a contract. Here, the homeowner and the builder had orally agreed that
their  agreement  would  be  enforceable  only  if  the  builder's  other
pending  bid  was  rejected.  Since  this  was  a  condition  on  the
enforceability  of  the  contract,  a  court  will  read  the  condition  into  the
written contract.