QUESTIONS

PRACTICE MBE — A.M. EXAM

 Question 1

The owner of a three-acre tract of land with a small residence rented it to a
tenant at a monthly rental of $200. After the tenant had been in possession of
the  tract  for  several  years,  the  tenant  and  the  owner  orally  agreed  that  the
tenant  would  purchase  the  tract  from  the  owner  for  the  sum  of  $24,000,
payable at the rate of $200 a month for ten years and also would pay the real
estate  taxes  and  the  expenses  of  insuring  and  maintaining  the  tract.  The
owner  agreed  to  give  the  tenant  a  deed  to  the  tract  after  five  years  had
passed and $12,000 had been paid on account and to accept from the tenant
a  note  secured  by  a  mortgage  for  the  balance.  The  tenant  continued  in
possession of the tract and performed his obligations as orally agreed. The
tenant, without consulting the owner, made improvements for which he paid
$1,000.  When  the  tenant  had  paid  $12,000,  he  tendered  a  proper  note  and
mortgage  to  the  owner  and  demanded  delivery  of  the  deed  as  agreed.  The
owner  did  not  deny  the  oral  agreement  but  told  the  tenant  that  she  had
changed  her  mind,  and  she  refused  to  complete  the  transaction.  The  tenant
then  brought  an  action  for  specific  performance.  The  owner  pleaded  the
Statute of Frauds as her defense. If the owner wins, it will be because

 (A) nothing the tenant could have done would have overcome the original

absence of a written agreement.

(B) the actions and payments of the tenant are as consistent with his being a

tenant as with an oral contract.

(C) the tenant did not secure the owner's approval for the improvements that

he made.

(D) the owner has not received any unconscionable benefit, and, therefore,

the tenant is not entitled to equitable relief.

 Question 2

During  2010,  a  series  of  arsons  occurred  in  a  city.  In  early  2011,  the  city
council adopted this resolution:

The city will pay $10,000 for the arrest and conviction of anyone guilty

of any of the 2010 arsons committed here.

1219

The  foregoing  was  telecast  by  the  city's  sole  television  station  once

daily for one week.

In  which  of  the  following  ways  could  the  city's  reward  offer  be

effectively accepted?

 (A) Only by an offeree's return promise to make a reasonable effort to bring
about the arrest and conviction of an arsonist within the scope of the
offer.

(B) Only by an offeree's making the arrest and assisting in the successful

conviction of an arsonist within the scope of the offer.

(C) By an offeree's supplying information leading to arrest and conviction of

an arsonist within the scope of the offer.

(D) By an offeree's communication of assent through the same medium

(television) used by the city in making its offer.

 Question 3

A  cigarette  maker  created  and  published  a  magazine  advertisement  that
featured  a  model  dressed  as  a  race-car  driver  standing  in  front  of  a
distinctive  race  car.  In  fact,  the  car  looked  almost  exactly  like  the  very
unusually marked one driven by a famous and popular driver. The driver in
the ad was not identified, and his face was not shown in the advertisement.
The  cigarette  maker  published  the  advertisement  without  obtaining  the
famous driver's permission. The race-car driver sued the cigarette maker for
economic loss only, based on common-law misappropriation of the right of
publicity. The cigarette maker moved to dismiss the complaint.

Will the cigarette maker's motion to dismiss the complaint be granted?

 (A) No, because there are sufficient indicia of the driver's identity to

support a verdict of liability.

(B) Yes, because the driver is a public figure.
(C) Yes, because there was no mention of the driver's name in the ad.
(D) Yes, because the driver did not claim any emotional or dignitary loss.

 Question 4

A  man  was  the  illegitimate,  unacknowledged  child  of  his  father,  who  died
intestate,  leaving  neither  spouse  nor  any  children  other  than  the  man.  The
state's  law  of  intestate  succession  provides  that  an  unacknowledged
illegitimate child may not inherit his father's property. The spouse, all other
the
blood  relations,  and 

the  state  are  preferred  as  heirs  over 

1220

unacknowledged  illegitimate  child.  The  man  filed  suit  in  an  appropriate
court alleging that the state statute barring an illegitimate child from sharing
in a parent's estate is invalid, and that he should be declared lawful heir to
his father's estate.

In  challenging  the  validity  of  the  state  statute,  the  man's  strongest

argument would be that

 (A) there is no rational basis for preferring as heirs collateral relatives and
even the state over unacknowledged children, and, therefore, the law
violates the Equal Protection Clause.

(B) he has been deprived of property without due process because his

fundamental right to inherit has been compromised without a compelling
state need.

(C) it violates the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.

(D) it is a denial of procedural due process because it does not give the
unacknowledged illegitimate child an opportunity to prove paternity.

 Question 5

In  which  of  the  following  situations  is  the  defendant  most  likely  to  be  not
guilty of the charge made?

 (A) The police arrested a thief and recovered goods he had stolen. At the
direction of the police, the thief took the goods to the defendant. The
defendant, believing the goods to be stolen, purchased them. The
defendant is charged with attempting to receive stolen property.

(B) The defendant misrepresented his identity to secure a loan from a bank.

The banker was not deceived and refused to grant the loan. The
defendant is charged with attempting to obtain property by false
pretenses.

(C) Believing that state law made it a crime to purchase codeine without a
prescription, the defendant purchased, without a prescription, cough
syrup containing codeine. Unknown to the defendant, the statute had
been repealed and codeine could be legally purchased without a
prescription. The defendant is charged with attempting to purchase
codeine without a prescription.

(D) The defendant, intending to kill a woman, shot at the woman. Unknown
to the defendant, the woman had died of a heart attack minutes before
the defendant shot at her. The defendant is charged with attempted

1221

murder.

 Question 6

A  farm  was  conveyed  to  a  man  and  a  woman  by  a  deed  that,  in  the
jurisdiction  in  which  the  farm  is  situated,  created  a  cotenancy  in  equal
shares  and  with  the  right  of  survivorship.  The  jurisdiction  has  no  statute
directly applicable to any of the problems posed.

The woman, by deed, conveyed ‘‘my undivided one-half interest'' in the
farm  to  a  purchaser.  The  woman  has  since  died.  In  an  appropriate  action
between the purchaser and the man in which title to the farm is at issue, the
man will

 (A) prevail, because he is the sole owner of the farm.
(B) prevail if, but only if, the cotenancy created in the man and the woman

was a tenancy by the entirety.

(C) not prevail if he had knowledge of the conveyance prior to the woman's

death.

(D) not prevail, because the purchaser and the man own the farm as tenants

in common.

 Question 7

A storekeeper of a large hardware store sells power saws for both personal
and  commercial  use.  He  often  takes  old  power  saws  as  trade-ins  on  new
ones.  The  old  power  saws  are  then  completely  disassembled  and  rebuilt
with  new  bearings  by  the  storekeeper's  employees  and  sold  by  the
storekeeper as ‘‘reconditioned saws.'' A purchaser, the owner and operator
of a cabinetmaking shop, informed the storekeeper that he wanted to buy a
reconditioned circular saw for use in his cabinetmaking business. However,
the blade that was on the saw he picked out had very coarse teeth for cutting
rough  lumber.  The  purchaser  told  the  storekeeper  that  he  wanted  a  saw
blade that would cut plywood. The storekeeper exchanged the coarse blade
for a new one with finer teeth that would cut plywood smoothly. The new
blade  was  manufactured  by  a  saw-blade  company  and  contained  defects.
The reconditioned saw had been manufactured by a power-saw company.

The  week  after  the  saw  was  purchased,  the  employee,  who  works  for
the  purchaser  in  the  purchaser's  cabinetmaking  shop,  was  injured  while
using  the  saw.  The  employee's  arm  was  severely  cut.  As  a  result,  the
cabinetmaking  shop  was  shut  down  for  a  week  until  a  replacement  for  the

1222

employee could be found. The jurisdiction has adopted a pure comparative
fault rule in strict liability cases.

If  the  employee  was  injured  while  cutting  plywood  when  the  shaft
holding  the  saw  blade  came  loose  when  a  bearing  gave  way  and  the  shaft
and  blade  flew  off  the  saw,  and  if  the  employee  asserts  a  claim  based  on
strict  liability  in  tort  against  the  power  saw  company,  the  employee  will
probably

 (A) recover if the shaft that came loose was a part of the saw when it was

new.

(B) recover, because the power saw company was in the business of

manufacturing dangerous machines.

(C) not recover, because the employee was not the buyer of the power saw.
(D) not recover, because the saw had been rebuilt by the storekeeper.

 Question 8

Plaintiff, a State A corporation, has sued Defendant, an individual, in State
B state court. Defendant was served at his home in State B. The suit, based
on  State  E  law,  sought  money  damages.  The  suit  contended  that  Defendant
breached  a  contract  to  convey  a  piece  of  State  E  real  estate  to  Plaintiff,
thereby  depriving  Plaintiff  of  the  benefit  of  his  bargain.  The  terms  of  the
contract were negotiated face-to-face in State C by Plaintiff's CEO and by
Defendant;  the  next  day,  after  a  final  document  had  been  created,  the
document was signed by Defendant while he was in State D. No activities
connected with the contract occurred in State B.

Defendant  has  timely  moved  to  dismiss  the  suit  for  lack  of  personal
jurisdiction  over  him.  State  B's  statute  governing  jurisdiction  permits  the
exercise  of  jurisdiction  “to  the  full  extent  allowed  under  the  United  States
Constitution.” Should the State B court grant Defendant's motion?

 (A) Yes, because the cause of action does not arise out of or relate to

Defendant's contacts within State B, the forum state.

(B) Yes, because when a claim arises out of breach of a contract to convey

real estate, only the state in which the real estate is located has
jurisdiction.

(C) No, because the state in which a defendant resides may exercise general

jurisdiction regardless of the nature of the cause of action.

(D) No, because the plaintiff and defendant are citizens of different states,
permitting the court to exercise diversity jurisdiction over the suit.

1223

 Question 9

At a civil trial for slander, the plaintiff showed that the defendant had called
the plaintiff a thief. In defense, the defendant called a witness to testify, ‘‘I
have  been  the  plaintiff's  neighbor  for  many  years,  and  people  in  our
community generally have said that he is a thief.''

Is  the  testimony  concerning  the  plaintiff's  reputation  in  the  community

admissible?

 (A) No, because character is an essential element of the defense, and proof

must be made by specific instances of conduct.

(B) Yes, to prove that the plaintiff is a thief, and to reduce or refute the

damages claimed.

(C) Yes, to prove that the plaintiff is a thief, but not on the issue of damages.
(D) Yes, to reduce or refute the damages claimed, but not to prove that the

plaintiff is a thief.

 Question 10

An  insurer  is  incorporated  in  State  A,  and  has  had  its  principal  place  of
business  there  for  many  years.  Ten  years  ago,  the  insurer  sold  a  disability
insurance policy to a surgeon. At the time the surgeon purchased the policy,
the surgeon was a resident of State A, and all communications and activities
regarding the purchase occurred in State A. Last year, the surgeon moved to
State B. The insurer has had for some time a small office in State B, from
which  it  markets  insurance  policies  to  State  B  residents;  these  policies
account for about 10 percent of the insurer's worldwide revenues. When the
insurer's  website  (run  from  State  A)  receives  an  inquiry  from  a  State  B
resident, the insurer refers the inquiry to the company's State B office.

The surgeon now claims that for the last six months he has been disabled
and is entitled to disability benefits from the insurer. The insurer has refused
to  pay,  on  the  grounds  that  the  policy  lapsed  eight  months  ago  for  non-
payment. Prior to the surgeon's demand for disability payments, the insurer
took no actions in State B concerning the policy, except to send the surgeon
bills for premiums at his new State B address once it received a change-of-
address  notice  from  him.  Last  month,  the  surgeon  filed  suit  against  the
insurer  in  State  B  court,  alleging  that  the  insurer's  failure  to  make  the
disability payments was a breach of their contract. Under the State B long-
arm statute, a State B resident bringing a contract action in the State B courts
may  make  service  on  an  out-of-state  corporate  defendant  by  causing  a

1224

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

summons  and  complaint  to  be  personally  served  upon  the  CEO  or  other
officer  of  the  defendant  wherever  in  the  United  States  that  officer  can  be
found. (The State B courts will exercise personal jurisdiction over an out-
of-state  corporate  defendant  in  such  a  suit  brought  so  long  as  such
jurisdiction  would  not  violate  the  U.S.  Constitution.)  The  process  server
hired  by  the  surgeon  handed  the  summons  and  complaint  to  the  insurer's
CEO at the CEO's home in State A; the suit named only the insurer, not the
CEO.

One week after the insurer's CEO received the summons on behalf of the
insurer, the CEO happened to travel to State B for a one-day conference on
an unrelated matter. While he was in State B, he was handed a summons and
complaint in a divorce action brought against him in the State B courts by
his long-estranged wife. The two had been married decades ago in State A,
and  the  wife  had  moved  to  State  B  a  few  years  ago.  Until  the  one-day
conference, the CEO had not visited — or done any activity connected to —
State  B  at  any  time  in  the  last  ten  years.  By  coincidence,  the  divorce  suit
was  assigned  to  the  same  State  B  judge  as  the  surgeon's  suit  against  the
insurer.

The  CEO  and  the  insurer,  in  their  respective  suits,  have  each  made
timely motions in State B court to have the suit against each dismissed for
lack of personal jurisdiction; each defendant argues that the court's exercise
of  such  jurisdiction  over  that  defendant  would  violate  the  Due  Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. How should the court rule on the two
motions?

 (A) Grant the motion as to both suits.
(B) Deny the motion as to both suits.
(C) Grant the motion as to the suit against the insurer, but deny the motion as

to the suit against the CEO.

(D) Grant the motion as to the suit against the CEO, but grant the motion as

to the suit against the insurer.

 Question 11

The  childhood  home  of  a  former  U.S.  president  is  part  of  a  national  park
located in a city. The National Park Service entered into a contract with an
independent  antiques  collector  to  acquire  items  owned  by  residents  of  the
city during the president's lifetime. According to the contract, the collector
purchases items and then sells them to the Park Service at a price equal to
the  collector's  cost  plus  a  10  percent  commission.  Purchases  by  antiques
collectors are ordinarily subject to the sales tax of the state in which the city

1225

is located. The collector files suit in state court to enjoin collection of the
tax  on  these  purchases,  claiming  that  the  sales  tax  is  unconstitutional  as
applied to them.

Should the state court issue the injunction?

 (A) No, because as the purchaser of these antiques, the collector, rather than

the federal government is liable for the tax.

(B) No, because the suit is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal

courts.

(C) Yes, because the federal government is contractually obligated to pay
the amount of the sales tax when it covers the collector's cost of these
antiques.

(D) Yes, because under the Supremacy Clause, the federal program to

acquire these antiques preempts the state sales tax on the purchase of
these items.

 Question 12

In a civil trial for professional malpractice, the plaintiff sought to show that
the  defendant,  an  engineer,  had  designed  the  plaintiff's  flour  mill  with
inadequate  power.  The  plaintiff  called  an  expert  witness  who  based  his
testimony solely on his own professional experience but also asserted, when
asked, that the book Smith on Milling Systems was a reliable treatise in the
field  and  consistent  with  his  views.  On  cross-examination,  the  defendant
asked  the  witness  whether  he  and  Smith  were  ever  wrong.  The  witness
answered,  ‘‘Nobody's  perfect.''  The  defendant  asked  no  further  questions.
The  defendant  called  a  second  expert  witness  and  asked,  ‘‘Do  you  accept
the Smith book as reliable?'' The second witness said, ‘‘It once was, but it is
now badly out of date.'' The plaintiff requested that the jury be allowed to
examine the book and judge for itself the book's reliability.

Should the court allow the jury to examine the book?

 (A) No, because the jury may consider only passages read to it by counsel

or witness.

(B) No, because the plaintiff's expert in testifying did not rely on the treatise

but on his own experience.

(C) Yes, because an expert has testified that the treatise is reliable.
(D) Yes, because the jury is the judge of the weight and credibility to be

accorded both written and oral evidence.

1226

 Question 13

A  car  owner  washed  her  car  while  it  was  parked  on  a  public  street,  in
violation of a statute that prohibits the washing of vehicles on public streets
during  rush  hours.  The  statute  was  enacted  only  to  expedite  the  flow  of
automobile  traffic.  Due  to  a  sudden  and  unexpected  cold  snap,  the  car
owner's waste water formed a puddle that froze. A pedestrian slipped on the
frozen  puddle  and  broke  her  leg.  The  pedestrian  sued  the  car  owner  to
recover for her injury. At trial, the only evidence the pedestrian offered as
to  negligence  was  the  car  owner's  admission  that  she  had  violated  the
statute.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  proofs,  both  parties  moved  for  a  directed
verdict.

How should the trial judge proceed?

 (A) Deny both motions and submit the case to the jury, because, on the facts,

the jury may infer that the car owner was negligent.

(B) Deny both motions and submit the case to the jury, because the jury may
consider the statutory violation as evidence that the car owner was
negligent.

(C) Grant the car owner's motion, because the pedestrian has failed to offer

adequate evidence that the car owner was negligent.

(D) Grant the pedestrian's motion, because of the car owner's admitted

statutory violation.

 Question 14

Plaintiff  owns  and  operates  a  restaurant  located  in  State  A.  Defendant,  a
citizen of State B, works as a freelance restaurant reviewer for a website.
After  eating  at  Plaintiff's  restaurant,  Defendant  published  a  highly  critical
online review of it. On July 1, Plaintiff filed an action for libel in federal
district  court  for  State  C  (the  state  in  which  Plaintiff  resides)  based  on
diversity jurisdiction. On August 1, Defendant served an answer, in which
he  made  a  general  denial.  On  October  1,  Defendant  suddenly  realized  the
State  C  district  court  was  not  a  proper  venue  for  the  action  under  the
appropriate  federal  statute.  Which  of  the  following  choices  describes
Defendant's best opportunity to raise the venue objection on October 2 and
the court's appropriate response to that objection?

 (A) Defendant can move to amend his answer to include the venue defense,
at which point the court will have discretion whether to dismiss the

1227

action if the court agrees that venue was improper.

(B) Defendant can make a motion to dismiss based on the venue objection,
at which point the court will have discretion whether to dismiss the
action if the court agrees that venue was improper.

(C) Defendant can make a motion to dismiss based on the venue objection,
at which point the court must as a jurisdictional matter dismiss the
action if the court agrees that venue was improper.

(D) Defendant has waived the venue objection and therefore cannot raise

that objection by any method.

 Question 15

A buyer entered into a written contract to purchase from a seller 1,000 sets
of  specially  manufactured  ball  bearings  of  a  non-standard  dimension  for  a
price of $10 per set. The seller correctly calculated that it would cost $8 to
manufacture each set. Delivery was scheduled for 60 days later. Fifty-five
days  later,  after  the  seller  had  completed  production  of  the  1,000  sets,  the
buyer  abandoned  the  project  requiring  use  of  the  specially  manufactured
ball bearings and repudiated the contract with the seller. After notifying the
buyer of his intention to resell, the seller sold the 1,000 sets of ball bearings
to a salvage company for $2 per set. The seller sued the buyer for damages.

What damages should the court award to the seller?

 (A) $2 per set, representing the difference between the cost of production

and the price the buyer agreed to pay.

(B) $6 per set, representing the difference between the cost of manufacture

and the salvage price.

(C) $8 per set, representing the lost profits plus the unrecovered cost of

production.

(D) Nominal damages, as the seller failed to resell the goods by public

auction.

 Question 16

A defendant decided to kill his neighbor. He set out for his neighbor's house.
Before  he  got  there,  he  saw  his  neighbor's  brother,  who  resembled  the
defendant's neighbor. Thinking the neighbor's brother was the neighbor, the
defendant  shot  at  the  neighbor's  brother.  The  shot  missed  the  neighbor's
brother  but  wounded  a  bystander,  who  was  some  distance  away.  The
defendant had not seen the bystander.

1228

In  a  prosecution  under  a  statute  that  proscribes  attempt  to  commit
murder, the district attorney should indicate that the intended victim(s) was
(were)

 (A) the neighbor only.
(B) the neighbor's brother only.
(C) the bystander only.
(D) the neighbor and the neighbor's brother.

 Question 17

At  the  defendant's  trial  for  a  gang-related  murder,  the  prosecution
introduced, as former testimony, a statement by a gang member who testified
against  the  defendant  at  a  preliminary  hearing  and  has  now  invoked  his
privilege against self-incrimination.

If  the  defendant  now  seeks  to  impeach  the  credibility  of  the  gang

member, which of the following is the court most likely to admit?

 (A) Evidence that the gang member had three misdemeanor convictions for

assault.

(B) Testimony by a psychologist that persons with the gang member's

background have a tendency to fabricate.

(C) Testimony by a witness that at the time the gang member testified, he

was challenging the defendant's leadership role in the gang.
(D) Testimony by a witness that the gang member is a cocaine dealer.

 Question 18

While  negligently  driving  his  father's  uninsured  automobile,  a  25-year-old
student crashed into an automobile driven by a woman. Both the student and
the woman were injured. The student's father, erroneously believing that he
was  liable  because  he  owned  the  automobile,  said  to  the  woman:  ‘‘I  will
see to it that you are reimbursed for any losses you incur as a result of the
accident.''

In  an  action  by  the  woman  against  the  student's  father  for  wages  lost
while  she  was  incapacitated  as  a  result  of  the  accident,  which  of  the
following would be the father's best defense?

 (A) Lack of consideration
(B) Mistake of fact as to basic assumption

1229

(C) Statute of Frauds
(D) Indefiniteness of father's promise

 Question 19

A farmer borrowed $100,000 from a bank and gave the bank a promissory
note secured by a mortgage on the farm that she owned. The bank promptly
and  properly  recorded  the  mortgage,  which  contained  a  due-on-sale
provision.

A few years later, the farmer borrowed $5,000 from a second bank and
gave  it  a  promissory  note  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  her  farm.  The  bank
promptly and properly recorded the mortgage.

then  validly  accelerated 

Subsequently,  the  farmer  defaulted  on  her  obligation  to  the  first  bank,
which 
instituted  nonjudicial
foreclosure  proceedings  as  permitted  by  the  jurisdiction.  The  second  bank
received notice of the foreclosure sale but did not send a representative to
the  sale.  At  the  foreclosure  sale,  a  buyer  who  was  not  acting  in  collusion
with the farmer outbid all other bidders and received a deed to the farm.

the  debt  and 

Several months later, the original farmer repurchased her farm from the
buyer, who executed a warranty deed transferring the farm to her. After the
farmer  promptly  and  properly  recorded  that  deed,  the  second  bank
commenced  foreclosure  proceedings  on  the  farm.  The  farmer  denied  the
validity of the second bank's mortgage.

Does the second bank continue to have a valid mortgage on the farm?

 (A) Yes, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
(B) Yes, because the original owner reacquired title to the farm.
(C) No, because the purchase at the foreclosure sale by the buyer under
these facts eliminated the second bank's junior mortgage lien.

(D) No, because of the due-on-sale provision in the farmer's mortgage to the

first bank.

 Question 20

A  woman  offered  to  pay  her  friend  one-third  of  the  stolen  proceeds  if  the
friend would drive the getaway car to be used in a bank robbery. The friend
agreed but made the woman promise not to hurt anyone during the robbery.

The woman then drove to a sporting goods store, where she explained to
the store owner that she needed a small firearm for use in a bank robbery.
The store owner responded that he would charge extra because the woman

1230

was so unwise as to confide her unlawful plans for using the weapon, and
he sold her a handgun at four times the regular price.

During the robbery, the woman used the gun to threaten a bank teller into
handing over the money. The gun discharged by accident and killed a bank
customer.

At  common  law,  who  in  addition  to  the  woman  could  properly  be

convicted of murder in the death of the customer?

 (A) Both the friend and the store owner.
(B) Neither the friend nor the store owner.
(C) Only the friend.
(D) Only the store owner.

 Question 21

Plaintiff,  a  citizen  of  State  A,  purchased  a  used  car  from  Defendant,  a
corporation that is a citizen of State B, in a transaction that occurred in State
B. At the time of the sale, Plaintiff did not know that the car had defective
brakes. While driving the car in State A, Plaintiff crashed into a taxi, owned
and driven by Taxi Driver (a citizen of State B), which was going faster than
the  speed  limit.  Plaintiff  brought  a  diversity  action  against  Defendant  in
federal district court for the Eastern District of State B for personal injuries
and property damage suffered by Plaintiff in the crash; Plaintiff's theory was
that Defendant committed fraud on her (as defined under State B common-
law principles) by knowingly concealing the brakes, and that the fraud was
the proximate cause of Plaintiff's damages. A jury awarded Plaintiff the full
$100,000 she sought, but Plaintiff was unable to collect because Defendant
went bankrupt.

Plaintiff then sued Taxi Driver in a separate diversity action in federal
district court for the Southern District of State A, again for $100,000, for the
same  personal  injury  and  property  damage  sustained  by  Plaintiff  in  the
crash.  Taxi  Driver  raised  the  affirmative  defense  of  claim  preclusion,
arguing  that  any  claim  Plaintiff  might  have  had  against  Taxi  Driver  should
have  been  asserted  as  part  of  the  State  B  action  since  Plaintiff's  claim
against  Defendant  and  her  claim  against  Taxi  Driver  arose  out  of  a  single
episode. Since Plaintiff failed to assert the claim against Taxi Driver, Taxi
Driver  argued,  that  claim  became  merged  into  Plaintiff's  successful
judgment against Defendant, and may no longer be asserted. Taxi Driver has
therefore moved for summary judgment on the basis of this claim-preclusion
theory.

1231

Which  statement  provides  the  best  explanation  of  how  the  State  A

federal court should resolve Taxi Driver's motion?

 (A) The federal court should grant the motion because once Plaintiff chose
to bring any suit in State B concerning the accident, Plaintiff was
required to sue all parties involved in the accident in that first action.
(B) The federal court should grant the motion under the transactional test for

claim preclusion.

(C) The court should deny the motion because Taxi Driver was not a party

to the State B action.

(D) The court should deny the motion because the judgment of the State B

court will not be final until all appeals have been concluded.

 Question 22

In a civil action for misrepresentation in the sale of real estate, the parties
contested  whether  the  defendant  was  licensed  by  the  State  Board  of
Realtors,  a  public  agency  established  by  statute  to  license  real  estate
brokers. The defendant testified she was licensed. On rebuttal, the plaintiff
offers a certification, bearing the seal of the secretary of the State Board of
Realtors.  The  certification  states  that  the  secretary  conducted  a  thorough
search  of  the  agency's  records  and  all  relevant  databases,  and  that  this
search  uncovered  no  record  of  a  license  ever  having  been  issued  to  the
defendant. The certification is signed by the secretary.

Is  the  certification  that  there  was  no  record  of  a  license  issuance

admissible?

 (A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because the writing was not properly authenticated.
(C) Yes, for the limited purpose of impeaching the defendant.
(D) Yes, to prove the nonexistence of a public record.

 Question 23

A federal statute imposes an excise tax of $100 on each new computer sold
in the United States. It also appropriates the entire proceeds of that tax to a
special fund, which is required to be used to purchase licenses for computer
software that will be made available for use, free of charge, to any resident
of the United States.

Is this statute constitutional?

1232

 (A) No, because the federal government may not impose any direct taxes on

citizens of the United States.

(B) No, because this statute takes without just compensation the property of

persons who hold patents or copyrights on computer software.

(C) Yes, because it is a reasonable exercise of the power of Congress to tax

and spend for the general welfare.

(D) Yes, because the patent power authorizes Congress to impose

reasonable charges on the sale of technology and to spend the proceeds
of those charges to advance the use of technology in the United States.

 Question 24

A jogger was stopped by a police officer, who thought the jogger matched
the description of a burglar being sought by the police. The officer arrested
the jogger, handcuffed her, and brought her to the police station, where the
charges were dismissed as a case of mistaken identity. The jogger, a citizen
of State A, brought a civil suit against the officer (also a citizen of State A)
in State A federal court. The suit contained two claims: (1) a common-law
claim  for  false  arrest  based  on  State  A  tort  law;  and  (2)  a  claim  that  the
officer's stop of the jogger and his excessive force against her was a denial
of her federal civil rights made under color of law, thereby entitling her to
recover  damages  under  a  federal  statute  known  as  “§1983.”  The  State  A
statute of limitation for the false-arrest claim is two years from the arrest;
the federal statute of limitations on the §1983 claim is four years.

The officer asserted various defenses, one of which (asserted solely in
response to the §1983 claim) was the defense of qualified immunity. By the
time the parties completed discovery, nearly three years had elapsed since
the  arrest.  At  the  close  of  discovery,  the  officer  moved  for  summary
judgment  on  the  §1983  claim  based  on  his  immunity  defense.  The  judge
granted the motion, and therefore dismissed the §1983 claim with prejudice.
The  officer  then  moved  to  have  the  false-arrest  claim  dismissed  on  the
grounds that the court now lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over that claim
due to the dismissal of the §1983 claim. The jogger opposed the dismissal,
pointing out (correctly) that discovery was complete, and that the court and
litigants had devoted significant time to the issues raised by the false-arrest
claim.  The  jogger  also  expressed  the  fear  that  if  the  court  dismissed  the
claim, she might be time-barred from refiling it in State A court. Which of
the  following  best  summarizes  how  the  federal  court  should  rule  on  the
officer's motion to dismiss the false-arrest claim?

1233

 (A) The court must dismiss the false-arrest claim regardless of whether the
claim could be refiled in State A, because the court's dismissal of the
§1983 claim deprived that court of subject-matter jurisdiction to hear
the false-arrest claim.

(B) The court must try the false-arrest claim, because supplemental

jurisdiction applies to that claim, and the court does not have discretion
to decline to exercise that jurisdiction.

(C) The court has discretion whether to dismiss the false-arrest claim or try
it, and if it dismisses, federal law guarantees the jogger 30 days to refile
the claim in State A court.

(D) The court must dismiss the false-arrest claim, but federal law

guarantees the jogger 30 days to re-file the claim in State A court.

 Question 25

A  plaintiff  sued  her  employer,  alleging  that  poor  working  conditions  had
caused her to develop a stomach ulcer. At trial, the plaintiff's medical expert
testified to the cause of the plaintiff's ulcer and stated that his opinion was
based in part on information in a letter the plaintiff's personal physician had
written  to  the  plaintiff's  employer,  explaining  why  the  plaintiff  had  missed
work.

When offered to prove the cause of the plaintiff's condition, is the letter

from the plaintiff's doctor admissible?

 (A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because the plaintiff's physician is not shown to be unavailable.
(C) Yes, because it was relied upon by the plaintiff's medical expert.
(D) Yes, under the business records exception to the hearsay rule.

 Question 26

A  customer  wanted  to  purchase  a  used  motor  vehicle.  The  used  car
company's lot, in a remote section away from town, was enclosed by a ten-
foot  chain  link  fence.  While  the  customer  and  a  sales  representative,  an
employee of the used car company, were in the used car lot looking at cars,
a security guard locked the gate at 1:30 p.m., because it was Saturday and
the  lot  was  supposed  to  be  closed  after  1:00  p.m.  Saturday  until  Monday
morning. At 1:45 p.m., the customer and the sales representative discovered
they were locked in.

There was no traffic in the vicinity and no way in which help could be

1234

summoned. After two hours, the customer began to panic at the prospect of
remaining undiscovered and without food and water until Monday morning.
The  sales  representative  decided  to  wait  in  a  car  until  help  came.  The
customer  tried  to  climb  over  the  fence  and,  in  doing  so,  fell,  and  was
injured.  The  customer  asserts  a  claim  against  the  used  car  company  for
damages for his injuries.

If  the  customer's  claim  is  based  on  false  imprisonment,  will  the

customer prevail?

 (A) Yes, because he was confined against his will.
(B) Yes, because he was harmed as a result of his confinement.
(C) No, unless the security guard was negligent in locking the gate.
(D) No, unless the security guard knew that someone was in the lot at the

time the guard locked the gate.

 Question 27

An  investor  offered  a  landowner  $200  for  a  30-day  option  to  buy  the
landowner's  land  for  $10,000.  As  the  landowner  knew,  the  investor,  if
granted  the  option,  intended  to  resell  the  land  at  a  profit.  The  landowner
declined,  believing  that  she  could  find  a  desirable  purchaser  herself.  The
investor thereupon said to the landowner, ‘‘Make me a written, 30-day offer,
revocable at your pleasure, to sell me your land at a sale price of $10,000,
and tomorrow I will pay you $200 for so doing.'' The landowner agreed and
gave the investor the following signed document:

‘‘For 30 days I offer my land to the investor for $10,000, this offer to be

revocable at my pleasure at any time before acceptance.''

Which  of  the  following  would  best  describe  the  basis  of  any  duty  or

duties created by the investor's oral promise and the landowner's writing?

 (A) Firm option
(B) Precontractual liability by promissory estoppel
(C) Unilateral contract
(D) Quasi-contractual liability

 Question 28

Twenty-five years ago, a man who owned a 45-acre tract of land conveyed
40 of the 45 acres to a developer by warranty deed. The man retained the
rear  five-acre  portion  of  the  land  and  continues  to  live  there  in  a  large
farmhouse.

1235

The  deed  to  the  40-acre  tract  was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.  It

contained the following language:

‘‘It  is  a  term  and  condition  of  this  deed,  which  shall  be  a  covenant
running with the land and binding on all owners, their heirs and assigns, that
no  use  shall  be  made  of  the  40-acre  tract  of  land  except  for  residential
purposes.''

Subsequently,  the  developer  fully  developed  the  40-acre  tract  into  a
residential subdivision consisting of 40 lots with a single-family residence
on each lot.

Although there have been multiple transfers of ownership of each of the
40  lots  within  the  subdivision,  none  of  them  included  a  reference  to  the
quoted  provision  in  the  deed  from  the  man  to  the  developer,  nor  did  any
deed to a subdivision lot create any new covenants restricting use.

Last year, a major new medical center was constructed adjacent to the
subdivision.  A  doctor  who  owns  a  house  in  the  subdivision  wishes  to
relocate  her  medical  offices  to  her  house.  For  the  first  time,  the  doctor
learned  of  the  restrictive  covenant  in  the  deed  from  the  man  to  the
developer.  The  applicable  zoning  ordinance  permits  the  doctor's  intended
use.  The  man,  as  owner  of  the  five-acre  tract,  however,  objects  to  the
doctor's proposed use of her property.

There  are  no  governing  statutes  other  than  the  zoning  code.  The

common-law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

Can  the  doctor  convert  her  house  in  the  subdivision  into  a  medical

office?

 (A) No, because the owners of lots in the subdivision own property

benefitted by the original residential covenant and have the sole right to
enforce it.

(B) No, because the man owns property benefitted by the original restrictive

covenant and has a right to enforce it.

(C) Yes, because the original restrictive covenant violates the Rule Against

Perpetuities.

(D) Yes, because the zoning ordinance allows the doctor's proposed use and

preempts the restrictive covenant.

 Question 29

With the advice and consent of the Senate, the President entered into a self-
executing treaty with a foreign country. The treaty provided that citizens of
both  nations  were  required  to  pay  whatever  torts  damages  were  awarded
against them by a court of either nation.

1236

A man and a woman who were U.S. citizens and residents of the same
state  were  traveling  separately  in  the  foreign  country  when  their  cars
collided. The foreign court awarded the woman a judgment for $500,000 in
damages for her injuries from the accident.

In federal district court in their home state, the woman filed suit against
the man to enforce the judgment. The man filed a motion to dismiss for lack
of jurisdiction.

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss?

 (A) Yes, because the citizenship of the parties is not diverse.
(B) Yes, because the traffic accident was a noncommercial transaction

outside interstate commerce.

(C) No, because the case falls within the federal question jurisdiction of the

court.

(D) No, because the treaty power is plenary and not subject to judicial

review.

 Question 30

Section 1 of the Vehicle Code of a state makes it illegal to cross a street in a
central business district other than at a designated crosswalk. Section 2 of
the Code prohibits parking any motor vehicle so that it blocks any part of a
designated crosswalk.

A pedestrian wanted to cross Main Street in the central business district
of a city, located in the state at issue, but a truck parked by a trucker was
blocking  the  designated  crosswalk.  The  pedestrian  stepped  out  into  Main
Street  and  carefully  walked  around  the  back  of  the  truck.  The  pedestrian
was struck by a motor vehicle negligently operated by a driver.

If  the  pedestrian  asserts  a  claim  against  the  driver,  the  pedestrian's

failure to be in the crosswalk will have which of the following effects?

 (A) It is not relevant in determining the right of the pedestrian.
(B) It may be considered by the trier of facts on the issue of the driver's

liability.

(C) It will bar the pedestrian's recovery unless the driver saw the pedestrian

in time to avoid the impact.

(D) It will bar the pedestrian's recovery as a matter of law.

 Question 31

1237

Plaintiff is an individual who lives in State A. While on holiday in State B,
he  bought  an  antique  map  from  Defendant,  a  corporation  that  deals  in  art,
and whose principal place of business is in State B. The map turned out to
be  a  counterfeit,  and  Plaintiff  filed  a  diversity  suit  against  Defendant  in
federal district court for the Northern District of State A. The action alleged
breach  of  contract,  misrepresentation,  and  fraud,  and  sought  $100,000  in
damages. Before filing suit, Plaintiff learned from the Internet that Defendant
advertised the fact that “We frequently visit the West Coast, including State
A,  to  show  our  inventory.”  Plaintiff  also  learned  that  Defendant  owned  a
storage  facility  in  State  A  valued  at  $95,000.  A  State  A  long-arm  statute
(“Statute 1”) authorizes service in a State A state court action by registered
mail  to  any  person  found  in  the  U.S.  outside  of  State  A,  if  such  service
would  be  consistent  with  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth
Amendment. Another State A statute (“Statute 2”) provides: “The courts of
this  state  have  authority,  consistent  with  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the
Fourteenth  Amendment,  to  exercise  quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  based  on
attachment of the defendant's tangible or intangible property located within
this state.” No federal statute bears on the use of quasi in rem jurisdiction on
facts such as those presented in Plaintiff's suit.

Plaintiff did not attempt to obtain personal jurisdiction over Defendant
by  using  Statute  1,  because  he  was  not  aware  of  that  statute's  existence.
Instead, he served Defendant by attaching the storage facility, and asserting
quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  under  authority  of  Statute  2.  (He  was  willing  to
take the risk that he might get a judgment for the full $100,000 sought, but be
able to realize only $95,000 by having the storage facility seized and sold to
satisfy the judgment.)

Defendant  has  now  moved  to  dismiss  the  action  for  lack  of  personal

jurisdiction over it. How should the district court resolve the motion?

 (A) The court should grant the motion because Plaintiff has not made

reasonable efforts to use the service-by-registered-mail provisions of
Statute 1 to establish in personam jurisdiction.

(B) The court should deny the motion because Plaintiff was entitled to use

Statute 2 to establish quasi in rem jurisdiction and met the requirements
of that statute.

(C) The court should grant the motion because no federal statute or rule

authorizes quasi in rem jurisdiction in lawsuits filed in federal court.
(D) The court should grant the motion because the attached assets are not

related to Plaintiff's claim against Defendant.

1238

 Question 32

FBI  agents,  without  a  warrant  and  without  permission  of  Mexican  law
enforcement  or  judicial  officers,  entered  Mexico,  kidnapped  an  American
citizen  wanted  in  the  United  States  for  drug  smuggling  violations,  and
forcibly  drove  him  back  to  Texas.  Thereafter,  the  agents,  again  without  a
warrant,  broke  into  the  Texas  home  of  the  accomplice  of  the  kidnapped
citizen, and arrested her.

The  kidnapped  citizen  and  his  accomplice  were  both  indicted  for
narcotics  violations.  Both  moved  to  dismiss  the  indictment  on  the  ground
that their arrests violated the Fourth Amendment.

The court should

 (A) grant the motions of both the kidnapped citizen and his accomplice.
(B) grant the motion of the kidnapped citizen and deny the motion of his

accomplice.

(C) grant the motion of the accomplice and deny the motion of the kidnapped

citizen.

(D) deny the motions of both the kidnapped citizen and his accomplice.

 Question 33

A victim was held up at the point of a gun, an unusual revolver with a red-
painted barrel, while she was clerking in a neighborhood grocery store. The
defendant is charged with armed robbery of the victim.

The prosecutor calls a witness to testify that, a week after the robbery of
the victim, he was robbed by the defendant with a pistol that had red paint
on the barrel. The witness's testimony is

 (A) admissible as establishing an identifying circumstance.
(B) admissible as showing that the defendant was willing to commit

robbery.

(C) inadmissible, because it is improper character evidence.
(D) inadmissible, because its probative value is substantially outweighed

by the danger of unfair prejudice.

 Question 34

An  act  of  Congress  provides  that  ‘‘no  federal  court  shall  order  the
implementation of a public school desegregation plan that would require the
transportation of any student to a school other than the school closest or next

1239

closest to his place of residence.''

Which of the following is the strongest argument for the constitutionality

of the act?

 (A) The Fourteenth Amendment authorizes Congress to define governmental

conduct that violates the Equal Protection Clause.

(B) Under Article III, Congress may restrict the jurisdiction of the federal

courts.

(C) Transportation of students is subject to regulation by Congress because

commerce is involved.

(D) Congress provides partial support for public education and is therefore
entitled to establish conditions upon the expenditure of federal grants.

 Question 35

Five  homeowners  who  took  out  mortgage  loans  from  a  large  bank  filed  a
putative  class  action  in  federal  court  against  the  bank  in  which  the  five
served as named plaintiffs. Each of the five was either black or Hispanic,
and  they  claimed  that  the  bank  had  engaged  in  a  pattern  of  charging  black
and Hispanic mortgage borrowers higher fees than Caucasian borrowers, in
violation of a federal statute prohibiting such discrimination. The suit sought
certification  of  a  plaintiff  class  consisting  of  many  thousands  of  black  and
Hispanic  homeowners  who  had  taken  out  mortgages  from  the  bank.  In
response  to  the  bank's  objection  to  certification  of  this  class,  the  district
court  denied  certification,  ruling  that  the  proposed  class  action  did  not
satisfy FRCP 23(a)(2)'s requirement that there be “questions of law or fact
common to the class.” The judge indicated that she was, however, willing to
allow the five named members to proceed to trial on their individual claims.

Because the plaintiffs' lawyer took the case only on the assumption that
certification  of  a  class  would  permit  the  lawyer  to  receive  adequate  fees
upon  success,  the  lawyer  is  unwilling  to  go  forward  with  the  individual
claims without a large retainer, which the five named claimants are unable
or unwilling to advance. The five, and their lawyer, would like to make an
immediate appeal of the district court's denial of certification. Which of the
following  best  describes  the  named  plaintiffs'  right  to  make  such  an
immediate appeal?

 (A) The court of appeals does not have jurisdiction to hear the immediate

appeal, so the denial cannot be appealed until a final judgment has been
entered on the individual plaintiffs' claims after a trial.

1240

(B) The court of appeals has discretion whether to allow the immediate
appeal, provided that promptly following the trial court's denial of
certification, the named plaintiffs file a petition for permission to
appeal.

(C) The named plaintiffs have a right to take the immediate appeal,

provided that promptly after the trial court's denial of certification, they
file a notice of appeal.

(D) The district court has discretion to allow the immediate appeal if the
judge believes that without such an appeal, the denial of certification
will effectively sound the “death-knell” of the suit because the small
size of the five individual claims would make a non-class trial
financially unfeasible.

 Question 36

A  seller  and  a  buyer  have  dealt  with  each  other  in  hundreds  of  separate
grain  contracts  over  the  last  five  years.  In  performing  each  contract,  the
seller delivered the grain to the buyer and, upon delivery, the buyer signed
an invoice that showed an agreed-upon price for that delivery. Each invoice
was silent in regard to any discount from the price in exchange for prompt
payment. The custom of the grain trade is to allow a 2 percent discount from
the  invoice  price  for  payment  within  ten  days  of  delivery.  In  all  of  their
prior transactions and without objection from the seller, the buyer took 15
days  to  pay  and  deducted  5  percent  from  the  invoice  price.  The  same
delivery  procedure  and  invoice  were  used  in  the  present  contract  as  had
been  used  previously.  The  present  contract  called  for  a  single  delivery  of
wheat at a price of $300,000. The seller delivered the wheat and the buyer
then signed the invoice. On the third day after delivery, the buyer received
the  following  note  from  the  seller:  ‘‘Payment  in  full  in  accordance  with
signed invoice is due immediately. No discounts permitted.'' s/Seller.

Which  of  the  following  statements  concerning  these  facts  is  most

accurate?

 (A) The custom of the trade controls, and the buyer is entitled to take a 2

percent discount if he pays within ten days.

(B) The parties' course of dealing controls, and the buyer is entitled to take

a 5 percent discount if he pays within 15 days.

(C) The seller's retraction of his prior waiver controls, and the buyer is

entitled to no discount.

(D) The written contract controls, and the buyer is entitled to no discount

1241

because of the parol evidence rule.

 Question 37

In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be guilty
of common-law murder?

 (A) Angered because his neighbor is having a noisy party, the defendant

fires a rifle into the neighbor's house. The bullet strikes and kills a guest
at the party.

(B) During an argument, the defendant's cousin slaps the defendant.

Angered, the defendant responds by shooting and killing his cousin.
(C) The defendant drives his car through a red light and strikes and kills a

pedestrian who is crossing the street.

(D) Using his fist, the defendant punches a victim in the face. As a result of
the blow, the victim falls and hits his head on a concrete curb, suffers a
concussion, and dies.

 Question 38

A  defendant  is  tried  for  armed  robbery  of  a  bank.  The  prosecution,  in  its
case in chief, offers evidence that when the defendant was arrested one day
after the crime, he had a quantity of heroin and a hypodermic needle in his
possession.

This evidence should be

 (A) admitted to prove the defendant's motive to commit the crime.
(B) admitted to prove the defendant's propensity to commit crimes.
(C) excluded, because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the

danger of unfair prejudice.

(D) excluded, because such evidence may be offered only to rebut evidence

of good character offered by the defendant.

 Question 39

A  man  contacted  his  lawyer  regarding  his  right  to  use  a  path  on  his
neighbor's vacant land.

Fifteen  years  ago,  after  a  part  of  the  path  located  on  his  land  and
connecting  his  cabin  to  the  public  highway  washed  out,  the  man  cleared  a
small part of his neighbor's land and rerouted a section of the path through
the neighbor's land.

1242

Twelve years ago, the neighbor leased her land to some hunters. For the
next 12 years, the hunters and the man who had rerouted the path used the
path for access to the highway.

A  month  ago,  the  neighbor  discovered  that  part  of  the  path  was  on  her
land.  The  neighbor  told  the  man  that  she  had  not  given  him  permission  to
cross her land and that she would be closing the rerouted path after 90 days.
The  man's  land  and  the  neighbor's  land  have  never  been  in  common

ownership.

The  period  of  time  necessary  to  acquire  rights  by  prescription  in  the
jurisdiction  is  ten  years.  The  period  of  time  necessary  to  acquire  title  by
adverse possession in the jurisdiction is ten years.

What  should  the  lawyer  tell  the  man  concerning  his  right  to  use  the

rerouted path on the neighbor's land?

 (A) The man has fee title by adverse possession of the land included in the

path.

(B) The man has an easement by necessity to use the path.
(C) The man has an easement by prescription to use the path.
(D) The man has no right to use the path.

 Question 40

A debtor owed a lender $1,500. The statute of limitations barred recovery
on the claim. The debtor wrote to the lender, stating, ‘‘I promise to pay you
$500 if you will extinguish the debt.'' The lender agreed.

Is the debtor's promise to pay the lender $500 enforceable?

 (A) No, because the debtor made no promise not to plead the statute of

limitations as a defense.

(B) No, because there was no consideration for the debtor's promise.
(C) Yes, because the debtor's promise provided a benefit to the lender.
(D) Yes, because the debtor's promise to pay part of the barred antecedent

debt is enforceable.

 Question 41

In one state, certain kinds of advanced diagnostic medical technology were
located only in hospitals, where they provided a major source of revenue. In
many  other  states,  such  technology  was  also  available  at  ‘‘diagnostic
centers'' that were not affiliated with hospitals.

1243

A  group  of  physicians  announced  its  plan  to  immediately  open  in  the
state  a  diagnostic  center  that  would  not  be  affiliated  with  a  hospital.  The
state  hospital  association  argued  to  the  state  legislature  that  only  hospitals
could  reliably  handle  advanced  medical  technologies.  The  legislature  then
enacted a law prohibiting the operation in the state of diagnostic centers that
were not affiliated with hospitals.

The group of physicians filed suit challenging the constitutionality of the

state law.

What action should the court take?

 (A) Uphold the law, because the provision of medical services is

traditionally a matter of legitimate local concern that states have
unreviewable authority to regulate.

(B) Uphold the law, because the legislature could rationally believe that
diagnostic centers not affiliated with hospitals would be less reliable
than hospitals.

(C) Invalidate the law, because it imposes an undue burden on access to

medical services in the state.

(D) Dismiss the suit without reaching the merits, because the suit is not ripe.

 Question 42

Plaintiff,  a  corporation  incorporated  and  headquartered  in  State  A  that
manufactures  office  supplies,  purchased  wood  pulp  from  Defendant,  a
corporation incorporated in State B and headquartered in State C. The sales
contract required Defendant to deliver the pulp to Plaintiff's factory in State
A on or before May 1 and was silent about which state's law should govern
in  case  of  a  dispute  between  the  parties.  Defendant  delivered  the  pulp  45
days  late,  after  which  Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in  federal  district  court  in
State  B,  invoking  diversity  jurisdiction.  The  complaint  alleged  breach  of
contract  and  sought  damages  in  excess  of  $75,000.  Defendant  moved  to
dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. Defendant argued that the
judge  was  required  to  apply  State  B  law  to  the  case  and  pointed  out
(correctly)  that  a  State  2  statute,  the  Grace  Period  for  Deliveries  Act
(GPDA),  provides  that  “Every  supply  contract  is  deemed  to  permit  the
vendor  to  deliver  goods  up  to  60  days  after  the  date  specified  in  the
contract.”  Plaintiff  opposed  the  motion  and  argued  that  the  court  should
apply  generally  federal  common-law  principles.  Assume  that  federal
common law principles — such as those applicable to contracts involving
the  federal  government  —  do  not  provide  for  a  grace  period  analogous  to
that of the GPDA.

1244

Is the federal district court required to apply the GPDA to the dispute?

 (A) No, because a federal court sitting in diversity is required to apply

federal common-law principles to this dispute.

(B) Yes, because State B is the state of Defendant's incorporation, so its law
governs the interpretation of any contract to which the company is a
party.

(C) Yes, so long as the highest court of State B has held that the GPDA
applies to a supply contract of the sort involved in this dispute.
(D) Yes, so long as a State B state court would apply the GPDA to this

contract dispute if the case were being heard in that court.

 Question 43

In a civil trial for fraud arising from a real estate transaction, the defendant
claimed not to have been involved in the transaction. The plaintiff called a
witness  to  testify  concerning  the  defendant's  involvement  in  the  fraudulent
scheme, but to the plaintiff's surprise the witness testified that the defendant
was  not  involved,  and  denied  making  any  statement  to  the  contrary.  The
plaintiff  now  calls  a  second  witness  to  testify  that  the  first  witness  had
stated, while the two were having a dinner conversation, that the defendant
was involved in the fraudulent transaction.

Is the testimony of the second witness admissible?

 (A) No, because a party cannot impeach the party's own witness.
(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(C) Yes, but only to impeach the first witness.
(D) Yes, to impeach the first witness and to prove the defendant's

involvement.

 Question 44

By  a  valid  written  contract,  a  seller  agreed  to  sell  land  to  a  buyer.  The
contract stated, ‘‘The parties agree that closing will occur on next May 1 at
10 a.m.'' There was no other reference to closing. The contract was silent as
to quality of title.

On  April  27,  the  seller  notified  the  buyer  that  she  had  discovered  that
the land was subject to a longstanding easement in favor of a corporation for
a towpath for a canal, should the corporation ever want to build a canal.

The  buyer  thought  it  so  unlikely  that  a  canal  would  be  built  that  the

1245

closing should occur notwithstanding this outstanding easement. Therefore,
the  buyer  notified  the  seller  on  April  28  that  he  would  expect  to  close  on
May 1.

When  the  seller  refused  to  close,  the  buyer  sued  for  specific

performance.

Will the buyer prevail?

 (A) No, because the easement renders the seller's title unmarketable.
(B) No, because rights of third parties are unresolved.
(C) Yes, because the decision to terminate the contract for title not being

marketable belongs only to the buyer.

(D) Yes, because the seller did not give notice of the easement a reasonable

time before the closing date.

 Question 45

In  a  civil  action,  the  plaintiff  sued  a  decedent's  estate  to  recover  damages
for the injuries she suffered in a collision between her car and one driven by
the decedent. At trial, the plaintiff introduced undisputed evidence that the
decedent's car swerved across the median of the highway, where it collided
with  an  oncoming  car  driven  by  the  plaintiff.  The  decedent's  estate
introduced undisputed evidence that, prior to the car's crossing the median,
the  decedent  suffered  a  fatal  heart  attack,  which  she  had  no  reason  to
foresee, and that, prior to the heart attack, the decedent had been driving at a
reasonable  speed  and  in  a  reasonable  manner.  A  statute  makes  it  a  traffic
offense to cross the median of a highway.

In this case, for whom should the court render judgment?

 (A) The decedent's estate, because its evidence is undisputed.
(B) The decedent's estate, because the plaintiff has not established a prima

facie case of liability.

(C) The plaintiff, because the accident was of a type that does not ordinarily

happen in the absence of negligence on the actor's part.

(D) The plaintiff, because the decedent crossed the median in violation of

the statute.

 Question 46

Plaintiff,  a  black  woman,  has  long  worked  as  a  data-entry  clerk  for
Defendant, a sizable corporation with many small corporate offices spread
throughout the United States When Plaintiff applied for a promotion and was

1246

denied  it,  she  concluded  that  she  had  been  passed  over  based  on  a
combination  of  her  gender  and  race,  and  that  such  discrimination  against
black  women  was  widespread  throughout  the  company.  She  filed  a  class
action  lawsuit  in  federal  court  for  the  district  of  State  A,  in  which  her
particular office of Defendant was located. The suit alleged that Defendant's
hiring and promotion policies violated Title I of a federal anti-employment-
discrimination  statute.  Title  I  prohibits  an  employer  from  disfavoring  an
applicant  in  the  hiring  or  promotion  process,  as  a  matter  of  intentional
corporate  policy,  on  account  of  the  applicant's  gender  or  race.  The  suit
defined  the  class  as  consisting  of  every  black  woman  who  was  denied  an
initial clerical job or a promotion to such a job, on account of her gender
and  race,  by  Defendant,  over  a  ten-year  period.  The  suit  alleged  that
Defendant,  at  any  given  time,  has  nearly  100  low-level  managers  (few  of
whom  are  black  women),  that  each  such  manager  is  given  substantial
discretion in hiring or promoting clerks who would report to that manager,
and that many of the managers have intentionally discriminated against black
women. Plaintiff framed the suit as a Rule 23(b)(3) class action and sought
compensatory damages and back pay for each of what she estimated as 100
class  members.  The  suit  listed  Plaintiff  as  the  sole  named  class  member.
The suit estimated that individual class members' claims would each have a
value ranging from $40,000 to $200,000 and would in the aggregate total at
least $4 Million in value.

Discovery  has  been  completed,  and  Defendant  now  wishes  to  oppose
certification  of  the  class.  Each  of  the  following  choices  represents  a  legal
objection that Defendant is considering making to class certification, based
upon a factual assertion. For each objection, assume that the federal judge
concludes that the factual assertion on which the objection is based is true.
Which of the objections is most likely to lead the court to grant Defendant's
motion to deny the requested class certification?

 (A) The class as defined includes only 100 clerical workers or applicants, a
number so small that a class action is not clearly superior to individual
actions.

(B) Because the mental states of nearly 100 managers who made individual
hiring and promotion decisions are in issue, there are no questions of
law or fact common to all class members that predominate over
questions involving only individual class members.

(C) The overall amount claimed to be in controversy does not exceed $5

million.

(D) Nearly all of the 100 putative class members other than Plaintiff live

1247

outside State A, the state in which the federal court hearing the dispute
is located, causing the court to lack personal jurisdiction over these
absent class members.

 Question 47

A woman told a man to go into her friend's unlocked barn and retrieve an
expensive black saddle that she said she had loaned to the friend. The man
went to the friend's barn, opened the door, found a black saddle, and took it
back  to  the  woman's  house.  The  friend  had  in  fact  not  borrowed  a  saddle
from the woman, and when the friend discovered her black saddle missing,
she suspected that the woman was the thief. The friend used a screwdriver
to  break  into  the  woman's  house  to  find  the  saddle.  Upon  discovering  the
saddle on the woman's table, the friend took it back and called the police.

The  jurisdiction  follows  the  common  law,  except  that  burglary  covers
structures  in  addition  to  dwellings  and  the  nighttime  element  has  been
eliminated.

Which, if any, of these individuals is guilty of burglary?

 (A) All of them.
(B) Only the friend.
(C) Only the man.
(D) Only the woman.

 Question 48

Plaintiff is a construction company. Plaintiff is incorporated in State A and
operates in that state as well as in State B. Defendant is an Internet-based
company  that  is  incorporated  in  State  C.  Plaintiff's  complaint  alleged  that
Defendant  defrauded  Plaintiff  in  violation  of  a  federal  statute  called  the
Internet  Commercial  Fraud  Act  (ICFA).  Section  1  of  the  ICFA  creates  a
federal  private  right  of  action  for  anyone  defrauded  in  a  commercial
transaction  conducted  over  the  Internet.  Section  2  of  the  statute  authorizes
suit to be brought in the federal court located anywhere in plaintiff's state of
principal residence (which in the case of a corporate plaintiff includes the
plaintiff's  state  of  incorporation);  Section  3  allows  service  in  an  ICFA
action  “on  the  defendant  in  any  U.S.  state  in  which  the  defendant  may  be
found”;  and  Section  4  says  that  in  ICFA  suits  the  court  will  be  deemed  to
have personal jurisdiction over the defendant regardless of the nature of the
defendant's  contacts  with  the  plaintiff's  state  of  principal  residence.
Plaintiff's complaint, filed in federal district court in State A, asserted that

1248

an employee of Plaintiff working out of Plaintiff's State A office purchased a
computer online from Defendant; that Defendant knew the order came from
that  State  A  office;  that  Defendant  knew  the  computer  was  defective;  and
that  Defendant  shipped  the  computer  as  requested  to  Plaintiff's  State  B
office.  The  State  B  long-arm  statute  allows  nationwide  service  of  process
upon,  and  personal  jurisdiction  over,  any  defendant  who  “voluntarily  and
knowingly ships any item of tangible personal property into this state.” After
Plaintiff  filed  the  suit,  Plaintiff's  sole  effort  to  make  service  on  the
Defendant  was  to  have  the  summons  and  complaint  handed  to  the  CEO  of
Defendant  while  the  CEO  was  visiting  State  D  to  attend  a  technology
conference. Defendant has never sold a computer to a State D resident.

Has  Plaintiff  established  personal  jurisdiction  over  Defendant  for

purposes of this ICFA claim?

 (A) Yes, because the ICFA statute and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
taken together, authorize the service that occurred here, and the State A
federal court's exercise of jurisdiction would not offend due process.
(B) Yes, because service in federal-question suits may be made anywhere in
the United States where the defendant may be found, and in this case the
Defendant could be found wherever the CEO was at the moment of
service.

(C) Yes, because a federal court will exercise personal jurisdiction where
service and personal jurisdiction would be allowed by the long-arm of
the state where the federal court sits, and the State B long-arm would
apply to these facts.

(D) No, because the Defendant does not have minimum contacts with State
A and the exercise of personal jurisdiction over the Defendant in the
State A federal courts would therefore violate the Defendant's due
process rights.

 Question 49

An  insurance  company  issued  an  insurance  policy  to  a  homeowner.  The
policy failed to contain certain coverage terms required by a state insurance
statute. When the homeowner suffered a loss due to a theft that was within
the policy's terms, the insurance company refused to pay, claiming that the
contract was unenforceable because it violated the statute.

Will the homeowner succeed in an action against the insurance company

to recover for the loss?

1249

 (A) No, because the insurance policy is not a divisible contract.
(B) No, because the insurance policy violated the statute.
(C) Yes, because the homeowner belongs to the class of persons intended to

be protected by the statute.

(D) Yes, because the insurance policy would be strictly construed against

the insurance company as the drafter.

 Question 50

On  a  foggy  night,  a  victim  was  clubbed  from  behind  by  a  man  wielding  a
blackjack. The defendant was arrested in the vicinity shortly thereafter. As
they  were  booking  the  defendant,  the  police  took  his  photograph.  They
promptly  showed  that  photograph,  along  with  the  photographs  of  seven
people  who  had  the  same  general  features  as  the  defendant,  to  the  victim.
The victim identified the defendant as the culprit.

At  trial,  the  defendant  objects  to  the  introduction  into  evidence  of  his

out-of-court identification. His objection should be

 (A) sustained, because the victim did not have a good opportunity to

observe the culprit.

(B) sustained, because the defendant was not represented by counsel at the

showing of the photographs to the victim.

(C) sustained, because the action of the police in showing the photographs

to the victim was unnecessarily suggestive.

(D) denied.

ANSWERS

PRACTICE MBE — A.M. EXAM

 Answer 1

 (B) is the best response,

because it identifies the central issue under these facts and resolves it
in the owner's favor.

The genesis of the conflict here was the oral agreement for the sale
of an interest in land. Such a contract falls within the Statute of Frauds,
and  thus  must  be  in  writing  to  be  enforceable.  However,  there  are
circumstances  under  which  the  writing  requirement  will  be  excused,
and  one  of  them  appears  to  be  a  major  obstacle  for  the  owner  under
these  facts:  part  performance.  In  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  land,  if  the
buyer  pays  all  or  part  of  the  purchase  price  AND  performs  some  act
explainable  only  by  the  contract's  existence,  the  contract  will  be
enforceable  even  without  a  writing.  Thus,  the  owner  would  have  to
explain away the tenant's $1,000 in improvements in order to prevail,
since people as a rule don't spend money improving what they believe
is  someone  else's  property.  One  way  she  could  overcome  this  is
suggested  by  choice  B:  she  could  argue  that  spending  $1,000  on
improvements is as consistent with the tenant's being a long-term tenant
as  with  the  oral  contract.  That's  because  the  buyer's  act  must  be
unequivocally  referable  to  an  oral  contract  to  be  excused  from  the
writing  requirement.  If  the  action  is  attributable  to  anything  else,  it
won't suffice.

This is an interesting problem because your gut reaction is that the
tenant will prevail, due to part performance. Then, the question throws
you for a loop by stating that the owner prevailed, and asking you why.
In a way, the element that most made you believe the tenant should win
—  the  $1,000  in  improvements  —  leads  you  to  the  correct  response,
because  it  tells  you  the  central  issue  that  the  owner  must  address  in
order to prevail. Since the argument in choice B represents a plausible
way for the owner to overcome the central obstacle in these facts, it's
the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

1345

because it misstates the law.

Choice A has a kernel of truth in it, in that contracts for the sale of
land are within the Statute of Frauds and, thus, must be in writing to be
enforceable.  However,  even  without  a  writing,  under  some
circumstances,  a  land  sale  contract  will  be  enforced.  In  general,  the
Statute  of  Frauds  writing  requirement  will  be  excused  when  to  do
otherwise would result in fraud or undue hardship. The traditional rule
is  that,  when  the  buyer  pays  all  or  part  of  the  purchase  price  and
performs  some  act  “unequivocally  referable”  to  the  existence  of  the
contract,  the  writing  requirement  will  be  excused.  An  act  is
“unequivocally  referable”  if  it's  explainable  only  by  the  contract's
existence. Thus, it's not correct to say that there's no way to overcome a
lack of a writing. Since A says this, it can't be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  it  addresses  the  central  issue,  it  makes  an  argument
that would benefit the tenant, not the owner.

The source of the conflict here is that contracts for the sale of land
are  within  the  Statute  of  Frauds  and  thus  must  be  in  writing  to  be
enforceable.  However,  the  Statute  of  Frauds  writing  requirement  will
be  excused  when  to  do  otherwise  would  result  in  fraud  or  undue
hardship. In a traditional rule relevant to these facts, when the buyer in
a land sale contract pays all or part of the purchase price and performs
some  act  “unequivocally  referable”  to  the  agreement,  the  writing  will
be excused. An act is “unequivocally referable” if it's explainable only
by the contract's existence. Thus, the major obstacle the owner had to
overcome is the tenant's $1,000 worth of improvements, which would
tend  to  suggest  that  the  contract  existed  since  the  tenant  would  be
unlikely to improve someone else's land at their own expense. In fact,
the  argument  C  makes  would  support  the  tenant's  position,  since  he
wouldn't  ask  permission  to  undertake  improvements  on  his  own  land.
Since C addresses a factor that would not help resolve the case in the
owner's favor, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  address  completely  the  basis  on  which  the  tenant
would be denied specific performance.

Specific  performance  is  an  equitable  remedy,  appropriate  only
where  there's  no  adequate  legal  remedy  (e.g.,  money  damages).  It's

1346

appropriate  where  the  subject  is  unique  (e.g.,  a  piece  of  land  or  an
antique), and/or the money value is not ascertainable. As an equitable
remedy,  specific  performance  is  granted  to  avoid  injustice.  However,
this would be determined primarily by the unjust harm to the tenant, not
unjust  enrichment  to  the  owner.  Since  choice  D  focuses  on  the  unjust
benefit  to  the  owner  and  not  the  unjust  harm  to  the  tenant,  it's  not  the
best response.

 Answer 2

 (C) is the best response,

because it identifies the correct means of accepting the offer, and also
the appropriate interpretation of the performance requested.

An offer for a bilateral contract seeks a return promise; an offer for
a  unilateral  contract  seeks  performance.  In  cases  where  the  offer  is
ambiguous  as  to  whether  it's  seeking  performance  or  a  promise,  an
offeree has his choice of performing or promising to perform. There are
very few situations where an offer clearly seeks performance instead of
a  return  promise.  However,  a  reward  offer  is  just  such  an  offer.  The
city clearly doesn't want someone to promise to find the arsonist — it
only  wants  action.  Thus,  only  performance  would  constitute
acceptance.

As  to  the  interpretation  of  the  offer,  it  would  be  unreasonable  to
interpret  the  offer  as  literally  requiring  a  private  citizen  to  arrest  and
convict  the  arsonist.  Instead,  the  offer  would  be  interpreted  as  only
requiring information leading to the arrest and conviction. To interpret
the  offer  literally  would  confine  the  scope  of  offerees  to  the  police
(since they are generally the only ones who can conduct an arrest), and
the city council clearly didn't intend to so restrict the offer. (Apart from
anything  else,  a  police  officer  likely  couldn't  accept  the  reward  offer
due to problems of consideration underlying the contract: catching the
arsonist would be considered a police officer's preexisting legal duty.)
Since C correctly addresses the means and medium of acceptance, it's
the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the offer here was for a unilateral contract, and thus it could
only be accepted by performance, not a return promise.

An offer for a bilateral contract seeks a return promise; an offer for

1347

a  unilateral  contract  seeks  performance.  In  cases  where  the  offer  is
ambiguous, as to whether it's seeking a unilateral or bilateral contract,
an offeree has his choice of performing or promising to perform. There
are  very  few  situations  where  an  offer  clearly  seeks  performance
instead of a return promise. An offer of a reward, as in these facts, is
one  of  them;  another  is  where  the  offeror  specifically  limits  the
acceptance to performance. Here, the city was looking for someone to
aid  in  finding  an  arsonist,  not  for  a  promise  to  look  for  the  arsonist.
Thus,  the  only  way  to  accept  the  city's  offer  would  be  by  offering
information leading to the arsonist's arrest. Since A ignores this, it's not
the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  overstates  what  an  offeree  would  need  to  do  in  order  to
accept the reward offer.

Here, because a reward is offered, the offer is seeking a unilateral
contract. That is, the only way a person could accept would be through
the requested performance. What B addresses is exactly what form that
performance  must  take.  This  requires  interpretation  of  the  “for  the
arrest  and  conviction”  language.  Since  the  offer  is  being  broadcast  to
the  general  public,  the  city  council  couldn't  have  meant  to  limit  the
reward  to  any  citizen  who  actually  arrested  the  arsonist,  since  this
would  effectively  cut  out  any  offeree  except  a  police  officer  (who
would probably be precluded from accepting since finding the arsonist
would  probably  fulfill  a  preexisting 
that
consideration  would  be  lacking).  Instead,  a  reasonable  interpretation
would require an offeree only to offer information leading to the arrest
and  conviction  of  the  arsonist.  Since  choice  B  interprets  the  offer  too
literally, it's not the best response.

legal  duty,  meaning 

 (D) is not the best response,

because an offeree could only accept the reward offer via performance,
not a return promise; and even if a promise were required, it wouldn't
require using the same medium as the offer.

An offer for a bilateral contract seeks a return promise; an offer for
a  unilateral  contract  seeks  performance.  In  cases  where  the  offer  is
ambiguous  as  to  whether  it's  seeking  performance  or  a  promise,  an
offeree has his choice of performing or promising to perform. There are
very few situations where an offer clearly seeks performance instead of

1348

a  return  promise.  However,  a  reward  offer  is  just  such  an  offer.  The
city obviously doesn't want a promise to perform; it wants action only
— information about the arsonist. Thus, the communication of assent by
an offeree, contrary to what D suggests, would not suffice.

Even  if  the  offer  were  for  a  bilateral  contract,  an  offeree  could
perform  instead  of  promising  to  perform,  and  D  ignores  this.  In  fact,
even if an offeree did have to promise to perform in return, he wouldn't
have  to  use  the  same  medium  as  the  offer.  Under  modern  rules,  an
acceptance  may  be  made  via  any  medium  that  is  reasonable  in  the
circumstances, as long as the offeror did not expressly limit acceptance
to a particular medium. Thus, while using the same medium as the offer
would generally be appropriate, it wouldn't be reasonable to expect an
acceptance  via  television,  as  choice  D  suggests.  (Apart  from  anything
else,  buying  the  TV  time  alone  would  wipe  out  the  reward  money!)
Since  choice  D  misstates  the  means  and  medium  required  for
acceptance, it's not the best response.

 Answer 3

 (A) is the best response,

because the advertisement leaves little doubt that the ad is intended to
depict  a  specific  celebrity  who  has  not  consented  to  the  use  of  his
identity.

The plaintiff can sue if his name or picture has been appropriated
by the defendant for the defendant's own financial benefit. A common-
law right of publicity can be violated when an advertisement causes the
reader to think that the celebrity is being referred to for the advertiser's
benefit.  That  is  what  happened  here,  as  an  unidentified  driver  whose
face  is  not  visible  is  standing  in  front  of  a  distinctive  race  car.  By
linking  the  person  depicted  to  a  “distinctive”  and  “very  unusually
marked”  race  car,  the  advertisement  intended  to  depict  a  specific
celebrity who has not consented to the use of his identity, so the motion
to dismiss should not be granted.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, in the context of misappropriation of the right to publicity, the
driver being a public figure is irrelevant.

The plaintiff can sue if his name or picture has been appropriated
by the defendant for the defendant's own financial benefit, and being a

1349

public figure does not allow the defendant to profit from his image. In
fact, the plaintiff's celebrity may increase the value of the identity that
has been misappropriated.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the person whose identity has been misappropriated need not
be identified by name so long as it is clear that the ad is meant to depict
that person.

The plaintiff can sue if his name or picture has been appropriated
by the defendant for the defendant's own financial benefit. A common-
law right of publicity can be violated when an advertisement causes the
reader to think that the celebrity is being referred to for the advertiser's
benefit.  That  is  what  happened  here,  as  an  unidentified  driver  whose
face  is  not  visible  is  standing  in  front  of  a  distinctive  race  car.  The
advertisement  intended  to  depict  a  specific  celebrity  who  has  not
consented to the use of his identity, so the motion to dismiss should not
be granted.

 (D) is not the best response,

because proof of emotional or dignitary loss is not required.

The plaintiff can sue if his name or picture has been appropriated
by the defendant for the defendant's own financial benefit. The injury in
a  right  of  publicity  case  is  based  on  the  commercial  exploitation  of
someone's name or likeness, not on the subject's emotional or dignitary
loss.  As  the  plaintiff's  likeness  was  commercially  exploited  by  the
defendant, the motion to dismiss should not be granted.

 Answer 4

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the problem here as being one of equal
protection, and it applies the correct standard to it.

Where a classification is involved that determines people's rights,
the  issue  is  most  likely  one  of  equal  protection.  Here,  there  is  a
classification: legitimate versus illegitimate children. The test to apply
in determining whether the statute is valid depends on the basis of the
classification.  For  instance,  a  classification  relating  to  who  may
exercise a fundamental right, or based on a suspect classification (race
or  alienage),  requires  that  the  classification  must  be  necessary  to

1350

promote  a  compelling  governmental  interest.  If,  on  the  other  hand,
economic and social legislation is concerned, the rational basis test is
used. That is, if there is a set of facts imaginable that would make the
law a reasonable one to achieve a legitimate governmental purpose, the
law is valid. Classifications based on “sensitive” classifications, like
gender  and  legitimacy,  require  application  of  “intermediate  scrutiny.”
That  is,  the  law  must  be  substantially  related  to  an  important  state
interest  in  order  to  be  valid.  Thus,  if  the  man  could  prove  that  this
substantial relation does not exist, he will have a valid equal protection
claim.

Note that this question asks for the man's best argument, and since
choice A is the only choice that recognizes that these facts involve an
equal protection problem, it's his best argument. Of course, that doesn't
mean he'll prevail, and, in fact, he probably won't. Under Lalli v. Lalli
(1978),  the  state's  interest  in  the  just  and  expeditious  disposition  of
property makes a law denying intestate succession to intestate children
valid,  where  the  paternity  of  the  father  hasn't  formally  been  proven
sometime  before  his  death.  However,  the  fact  that  the  man  won't  win
doesn't  mean  A  isn't  his  best  argument.  Because  it's  the  only  choice
addressing the central issue, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  man  has  not  been  deprived  of  property,  and  there  is  no
fundamental  right  to  inherit,  and,  more  importantly,  the  issue  here  is
equal protection, not due process.

First, as to the property issue: it's true that due process is an issue
when  the  effect  of  a  state's  activity  amounts  to  a  deprivation  of  a
property interest or right (or life or liberty). Property in its most literal
sense  means  ownership  of  property.  However,  under  these  facts,  the
man  isn't  being  deprived  of  property  he  owns;  rather,  he's  seeking  the
right to his father's property.

Second,  the  fundamental  right  issue:  When  a  law  limits  a
fundamental  right,  it  must  be  necessary  to  promote  a  compelling
governmental  interest,  or  else  it's  a  due  process  violation.  The
fundamental  rights  are  limited  to  these:  the  First  Amendment  rights,
interstate travel, voting, and privacy. Thus, the right to inherit is not a
fundamental  right,  but,  rather,  any  law  limiting  the  right  need  only
rationally relate to any possible legitimate end of government. Choice
B thus mischaracterizes the right to inherit as a fundamental right.

Finally,  choice  B  mischaracterizes  the  whole  issue  itself.  This  is

1351

how you tell the difference between a due process issue and an equal
protection issue: Look to see if there's a classification involved. If there
is,  it's  most  likely  an  equal  protection  problem.  If  there's  no
classification,  but  the  effect  of  the  state's  activity  amounts  to  a
deprivation of a property interest or right, it's a due process problem.

Here,  there's  quite  clearly  a  classification  involved:  legitimate
versus  illegitimate  children.  Thus,  any  argument  on  which  the  man
would  prevail  would  have  to  address  equal  protection,  not  due
process. Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  law  here  does  not  violate  the  Privileges  and  Immunities
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause voids those state enactments
that clearly infringe privileges enjoyed by U.S. citizens. It is construed
narrowly,  typically  being  restricted  to  fundamental  rights  that  are
shared in common by all citizens, namely the right to:

1. Travel freely from state to state;
2. Petition Congress for redress of grievances;
3. Vote for national officers;
4. Assemble peaceably; and
5. Discuss matters of national legislation.

Thus,  the  right  to  inherit  is  not  a  privilege  enjoyed  by  all  U.S.
citizens,  and  as  a  result  it  does  not  violate  the  Privileges  and
Immunities Clause. As a result, an argument by the man centering on the
Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  would  not  be  a  strong  one.  Since
choice C states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  mischaracterizes  the  issue  here  as  one  of  procedural  due
process instead of equal protection.

Under  these  facts,  there's  a  classification  involved:  legitimate
versus  illegitimate  children.  Thus,  the  problem  is  one  of  equal
protection.  A  due  process  problem 
there's  no
classification,  but  the  effect  of  a  state's  activity  amounts  to  a
deprivation of a property interest or right. Procedural due process (as
opposed  to  substantive  due  process)  involves  the  situation  where  a

is  one  where 

1352



property  right  (or  life  or  liberty)  is  taken  by  government;  some  fair
process or procedure is required.

The  problem  with  applying  this  here  is  that  due  process  only
applies  to  presently  enjoyed  rights.  Here,  the  man  wants  the  right  to
inherit — it's not as though that he currently has it and it's being taken
away  from  him.  Thus,  due  process  would  not  apply.  Since  D  states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 Answer 5

The  key  here 

legal  and  factual
is  distinguishing  between 
impossibility.  Choices  A,  B,  and  D  are  all  examples  of  factual
impossibility,  which  is  not  a  valid  defense  to  a  crime.  Choice  C
describes legal impossibility, which is a valid defense. What could key
you in to which of these is the correct response is the fact that A, B, and
D each describe the same behavior by the defendant — mistaking the
facts. Thus, none of them can be the best response.

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  represents  the  only  choice  of  these  four  under  which  the
defendant is likely to be acquitted.

That's  because  the  defendant  has  a  valid  legal  impossibility
defense: What he intended to do was not criminal. Here, the defendant
did  everything  he  intended  to  do  —  purchase  codeine  without  a
prescription — but his actions do not constitute a crime. This should be
contrasted with factual impossibility, which arises when completion of
the  crime  is  impossible  due  to  physical  facts  not  known  to  the
defendant.  Factual  impossibility,  unlike  legal  impossibility,  is  not  a
valid  defense.  Even  if  you  had  forgotten  which  of  legal  and  factual
impossibility was a valid defense, a clue here is that the three incorrect
choices  are  all  similar:  the  defendant  makes  a  factual  mistake.  The
nature of the defendant's misperception is fundamentally different in C,
which would key you in to the likelihood that it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it depicts factual impossibility, which is not a valid defense to
an attempt charge.

Factual  impossibility  arises  when  completion  of  the  crime  is
impossible  due  to  physical  facts  not  known  to  the  defendant.  (Don't
confuse this with legal impossibility, where what a defendant intends to

1353

do  is  not  criminal.  Legal  impossibility  is  a  valid  defense  to  attempt.)
Under  choice  A,  the  defendant  did  not  know  the  physical  fact  that  the
police had intercepted the stolen goods. Had this fact not been true, the
defendant  would  be  liable  for  receiving  stolen  goods.  Since  factual
impossibility is not a valid defense to an attempt charge, the defendant
will likely be guilty, and since the question asks for the choice where
the defendant is most likely to be not guilty, A is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it depicts factual impossibility, which is not a valid defense to
an attempt charge.

Factual  impossibility  arises  when  completion  of  the  crime  is
impossible  due  to  physical  facts  not  known  to  the  defendant.  (Don't
confuse this with legal impossibility, where what a defendant intends
to do is not criminal. Legal impossibility is a valid defense to attempt.)
Under choice B, the defendant did not know that the banker realized his
true identity. Where the victim is not deceived by the wrongdoer's lies,
the  defendant  will  be  liable  for  attempted  false  pretenses.  Since  the
question  asks  for  the  choice  where  the  defendant  is  most  likely  to  be
acquitted, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it depicts factual impossibility, which is not a valid defense to
an attempt charge.

Factual  impossibility  arises  when  completion  of  the  crime  is
impossible  due  to  physical  facts  not  known  to  the  defendant.  (Don't
confuse this with legal impossibility, where what a defendant intends
to do is not criminal. Legal impossibility is a valid defense to attempt.)
Under  choice  D,  the  defendant  did  not  know  the  woman  was  dead.
Thus, his attempt to kill her was thwarted by a physical fact he didn't
know — i.e., that she was already dead. As a result, the defendant will
be liable for attempted murder. Since the question asks for the choice
under which the defendant is most likely to be acquitted, D isn't the best
response.

 Answer 6

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  states  the  correct  response  if  the  condition  it  supplies  is

1354

satisfied.

The  key  fact  here  is  the  characterization  of  the  tenancy.  If  you're
familiar with cotenancies, you know that the only two that have the right
to survivorship are joint tenancies and tenancies by the entirety.

B says that the man will win if he and the woman were tenants by
the entirety in the farm. Under the facts here, this is possible. A tenancy
by the entirety is a tenancy that exists between husband and wife, with
the  right  of  survivorship,  and  it  cannot  be  destroyed  by  severance.  It
requires the same “four unities” as a joint tenancy: in other words, the
tenancy  for  each  tenant  must  be  created  by  the  same  instrument;  the
tenancy  must  be  of  the  same  duration;  all  tenants  must  hold  an  equal,
undivided  interest  in  the  whole;  and  there  must  be  a  simultaneous
vesting  of  interests.  All  of  these  conditions  are  satisfied  by  the  facts
here. However, the if  makes  B  correct,  because  if  the  woman  and  the
man  were  not  married  at  the  time  of  the  conveyance,  a  joint  tenancy
would result. A joint tenancy is similar to a tenancy by the entirety in
most  respects  but  differs  significantly  in  one  respect  that  is  crucial
here:  a  joint  tenant  can  convey  his  interest  away,  and,  in  doing  so,
leaves  a  tenancy  in  common  between  the  conveyee  and  the  other
tenants.  Since  B  conditions  the  man's  prevailing  on  the  existence  of  a
tenancy by the entirety, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the conclusion it states may not be correct.

The  facts  here  indicate  two  possibilities:  the  woman  and  the  man
were either joint tenants or tenants by the entirety, since those are the
only  two  cotenancies  that  feature  a  right  to  survivorship.  (The  other
cotenancy, a tenancy in common, does not.) If they were married when
the farm was conveyed to them, the tenancy is a tenancy by the entirety,
which cannot be destroyed by severance. In other words, the woman's
conveyance  would  have  no  effect,  and,  when  she  died,  her  interest
would  go  to  the  man  due  to  the  right  to  survivorship.  However,  what
makes  A  an  incorrect  response  is  that  it  states  that  the  man  is
necessarily the sole owner of the farm, and he's not. It's equally likely
that  the  cotenancy  created  by  these  facts  was  a  joint  tenancy,  if  the
woman and the man weren't married. A joint tenancy, unlike a tenancy
by the entirety, can be destroyed by severance — i.e., one of the tenants
conveying his interest in the property. (In that case the joint tenancy is
only  destroyed  as  to  that  tenant;  however,  where  there  are  only  two
tenants,  the  joint  tenancy  is  totally  destroyed.)  This  would  leave  the

1355

man and the purchaser as tenants in common — a cotenancy without the
right  to  survivorship.  Choice  A  states  merely  that  the  man  is  the  sole
owner of the farm, without taking into account that he and the purchaser
may be tenants in common. As a result, A is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the man's knowledge of the conveyance before the woman died
does not control resolution of the issue here.

If  the  original  conveyance  created  a  joint  tenancy,  the  woman's
conveyance to the purchaser destroyed it, and the man's knowledge of
the  conveyance  to  the  purchaser  is  irrelevant;  and  if  the  original
conveyance created a tenancy by the entirety, because the man and the
woman were married, then the woman's conveyance was meaningless.
That's  because  a  tenancy  by  the  entirety  cannot  be  destroyed  by  one
tenant's conveying away his/her interest. Since C focuses on a fact that
is not relevant to resolving this issue, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it states as a certainty something that is only a possibility.

If the woman and the man were not married when the conveyance to
them took place, then the tenancy created was a joint tenancy. When the
woman  conveyed  her  interest  to  the  purchaser,  a  tenancy  in  common
would result between the man and the purchaser (since conveyance by
one  of  the  co-tenants  destroys  a  joint  tenancy,  leaving  a  tenancy  in
common).  If  this  were  the  only  possibility,  D  would  be  the  best
response. However, if the man and the woman were married when the
conveyance  to  them  took  place,  the  resulting  tenancy  would  be  a
tenancy by the entirety. A tenancy by the entirety cannot be severed by
one  spouse  attempting  to  convey  his  interest.  If  a  spouse  does  so,  the
conveyance  is  meaningless;  the  tenancy  by  the  entirety  remains  intact,
and, when either spouse dies, the other is left as a sole owner (due to
the  right  to  survivorship).  Thus,  there  exists  at  least  one  possibility,
under these facts, that would make D incorrect. As a result, D cannot be
the best response.

 Answer 7

 (D) is the best response,

because it identifies the central reason the power saw company will not

1356

be strictly liable.

A defendant can only be liable if

1. The product was defective;
2. When it left the defendant's control (meaning the defendant can be

liable even if he didn't cause the defect);

3. Product must not be expected to undergo significant changes

before it gets to the user/consumer (or not actually undergo such
changes);

4. The seller must be in the business of selling the product (thus, the

defendant can't be a casual seller);

5. Damage must result from the defect (the defendant is liable for

any harm to persons or property);

6. And the duty extends to anyone foreseeably endangered by the

product (meaning, there's no privity requirement).

Choice  D  correctly  identifies  the  reason  the  power-saw  company
won't be strictly liable under these facts: The storekeeper disassembled
and rebuilt the saw after it left the power saw company's control. Since
D correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  is  not  relevant  to  determining  the  power-saw  company's
liability.

A alludes to the issue of change in the product between the time it
left  the  power-saw  company  and  when  it  reached  the  employee.  A
defendant can only be liable if

1. The product was defective;
2. When it left the defendant's control (meaning the defendant can be

liable even if he didn't cause the defect);

3. Product must not be expected to undergo significant changes

before it gets to the user/consumer (or not actually undergo such
changes);

4. The seller must be in the business of selling the product (thus, the

defendant can't be a casual seller);

5. Damage must result from the defect (the defendant is liable for

any harm to persons or property);

6. And the duty extends to anyone foreseeably endangered by the

product (meaning, there's no privity requirement).

1357



You're  told  that  the  storekeeper  completely  disassembles  and
rebuilds  the  saws  after  they  leave  the  power-saw  company's  contol.
This is enough to remove the power-saw company from strict liability
regardless of whether the specific shaft was replaced. Since A focuses
on  an  element  that  will  not  determine  the  power-saw  company's
liability, it's not relevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the element it cites, although true, is not sufficient to hold the
power-saw company liable.

A defendant can only be liable if

1. The product was defective;
2. When it left the defendant's control (meaning the defendant can be

liable even if he didn't cause the defect);

3. Product must not be expected to undergo significant changes

before it gets to the user/consumer (or not actually undergo such
changes);

4. The seller must be in the business of selling the product (thus, the

defendant can't be a casual seller);

5. Damage must result from the defect (the defendant is liable for

any harm to persons or property);

6. And the duty extends to anyone foreseeably endangered by the

product (meaning, there's no privity requirement).

As  a  result,  it's  not  the  power-saw  company's  manufacturing
dangerous machines that would make it liable, but selling machines that
are defective.  Merely  manufacturing  power  saws  itself  is  not  a  basis
for strict liability. In any case, choice B ignores the reason the power-
saw  company  will  avoid  strict  liability:  because  the  saw  was
overhauled before it reached the employee. Since B doesn't recognize
this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

Strict  product  liability  extends  to  anyone  endangered  by  the
defective  product.  According  to  most  courts,  this  even  includes
bystanders,  as  well  as  users  and  consumers.  The  employee  would  fit
well within this scope, since he's the intended user.

1358




In  fact,  choice  C  ignores  the  reason  the  power-saw  company  will
escape strict liability: the saw was overhauled by the storekeeper after
it left the power-saw company. As a result, C is not the best response.

 Answer 8

 (C) is the best response,

because  in-state  residence  is  a  recognized  basis  for  the  exercise  of
general jurisdiction, and its use is constitutional under the federal Due
Process Clause.

The  Supreme  Court  has  long  held  that  it  does  not  violate  due
process for a state to exercise personal jurisdiction over any cause of
action  against  a  resident  of  that  state,  whether  or  not  the  claim  is
related  to  the  defendant's  in-state  activities.  (That  is,  “general
jurisdiction”—jurisdiction  for  all  claims,  whether  related  to  in-state
activities or not—is allowed against residents of the forum state.) See
Goodyear  Dunlop  Tires  Operations,  SA  v.  Brown,  131  S.  Ct.  2846
(2011). It is true that personal jurisdiction may only be exercised by a
state  court  if  a  state  statute  permits  such  jurisdiction  in  the  type  of
situation  in  question.  But  you're  told  that  State  B's  jurisdiction  statute
does so (since it extends the state's personal jurisdiction as far as the
U.S.  Constitution  allows).  Indeed,  this  statute  is  typical  of  many  state
jurisdictional statutes.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  is  based  on  a  rule  of  law  about  the  exercise  of  personal
jurisdiction that is legally incorrect.

jurisdiction”—that 

A  state  court  can  exercise  “specific 

is,
jurisdiction  over  a  plaintiff's  claim  that  arises  out  of  or  relates  to
defendant's in-state contacts—even if the defendant is not a resident of
the forum state. However, the converse is not true; that is, the fact that
the  suit  does  not  relate  to  any  in-forum-state  activities  does  not
automatically  mean  that  jurisdiction  is  improper.  Rather,  a  court  can
always exercise “general jurisdiction” (i.e., “all-purpose” jurisdiction
over suits that do not involve in-state activities) in some circumstances.
And  one  of  those  circumstances  where  general  jurisdiction  is  always
allowed is where the defendant is domiciled in the forum state, as is
the  situation  here.  See  Goodyear  Dunlop  Tires  Operations,  SA  v.
Brown, 131 S. Ct. 2846 (2011).

1359

(B) is not correct,

because it contains an incorrect statement of law.

It's  true  that  only  a  court  in  the  state  in  which  property  is  located
can  exercise  “in  rem”  jurisdiction  regarding  that  property.  But  here
Plaintiff is seeking money damages for breach of contract, so the court
is  being  asked  to  act  “in  personam,”  not  “in  rem.”  (Only  a  suit  to
determine the property's status, such as who properly holds title, would
be  “in  rem.”)  And  the  court  will  have  in  personam  jurisdiction—
assuming defendant does not consent to jurisdiction or waive any defect
—only  if  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  satisfies  the  tests  of  minimum
contacts and reasonableness  articulated  in  such  decisions  as  World-
Wide  Volkswagen  v.  Woodson,  444  U.S.  286  (1980).  It's  true  that  the
location  of  the  property  here  would  be  one  of  the  factors  to  be
considered on the issue of reasonableness. But the fact that the property
is  located  outside  the  forum  state  would  not  by  itself  automatically
make exercise of jurisdiction unreasonable, as this choice suggests it
would. (Indeed, the fact that Defendant resides in the forum state would
automatically have the opposite effect, i.e., suffice to make the exercise
of jurisdiction automatically reasonable).

 (D) is not correct,

because diversity of citizenship is an irrelevant concept on these facts.

Diversity  of  citizenship 

is  a  condition  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction  for  actions  brought  in  federal  court,  as  authorized  by  28
U.S.C.  §  1332.  So  the  existence  (or  non-existence)  of  diversity  of
citizenship  is  irrelevant  here  for  two  reasons:  (1)  the  concept  never
applies to a state court suit; and (2) even in a federal court, diversity
jurisdiction would not be relevant to a motion to dismiss based on lack
of  “personal  jurisdiction.”  See  FRCP  12(b)(2).  (For  diversity  to  be
relevant, the plaintiff's complaint would have to be based solely upon
diversity—not  the  existence  of  a  federal  question—and  the  motion
would have to be one asserting lack of “subject matter jurisdiction,” not
lack of “personal jurisdiction.”)

 Answer 9

 (B) is the best response,

because in this type of slander case, character is considered “in issue.”

1360

In  slander  cases  where  the  defendant  makes  a  statement  that  the
plaintiff  has  an  unsavory  character,  the  plaintiff's  character  is
considered “in issue” (i.e., an essential element of the claim or defense
under  the  substantive  law)  in  two  respects.  First,  the  plaintiff's  actual
character  will  determine  whether  the  defendant  was  incorrect  in  his
assessment,  and  thus  liable  for  slander,  because  truth  is  a  defense.
Second,  the  plaintiff  will  allege  that  he  is  damaged  by  the  statement,
which  is  another  way  of  saying  that  his  true  character  has  been
besmirched;  but  if  the  plaintiff  actually  has  a  bad  reputation  anyway,
then  damages  are  limited.  Thus,  in  slander  cases  like  the  one  in  this
question,  character  evidence  is  relevant  both  to  whether  the  plaintiff
has  a  certain  character  and  to  the  extent  of  damages.  Under  Federal
Rule of Evidence 405, when character is “in issue” it can be proved by
evidence of reputation, opinion, or specific acts.

 (A) is not the best response,

because when character is “in issue” it can be proved by evidence of
reputation, opinion, or specific acts.

In  slander  cases  where  the  defendant  makes  a  statement  that  the
plaintiff  has  an  unsavory  character,  the  plaintiff's  character  is
considered “in issue” (i.e., an essential element of the claim or defense
under  the  substantive  law)  in  two  respects.  First,  the  plaintiff's  actual
character  will  determine  whether  the  defendant  was  incorrect  in  his
assessment,  and  thus  liable  for  slander,  because  truth  is  a  defense.
Second,  the  plaintiff  will  allege  that  he  is  damaged  by  the  statement,
which  is  another  way  of  saying  that  his  true  character  has  been
besmirched;  but  if  the  plaintiff  actually  has  a  bad  reputation  anyway,
then  damages  are  limited.  Thus,  in  slander  cases  like  the  one  in  this
question,  character  evidence  is  relevant  both  to  whether  the  plaintiff
has  a  certain  character  and  to  the  extent  of  damages.  Under  Federal
Rule of Evidence 405, when character is “in issue” it can be proved by
evidence of reputation, opinion, or specific acts.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  if  plaintiff  possessed  a  bad  reputation,  it  would  affect  his
damages, and, therefore, the evidence may be admissible on the issue of
damages.

In  slander  cases  where  the  defendant  makes  a  statement  that  the
plaintiff  has  an  unsavory  character,  the  plaintiff's  character  is

1361

considered “in issue” (i.e., an essential element of the claim or defense
under  the  substantive  law)  in  two  respects:  First,  the  plaintiff's  actual
character  will  determine  whether  the  defendant  was  incorrect  in  his
assessment,  and  thus  liable  for  slander,  because  truth  is  a  defense.
Second,  the  plaintiff  will  allege  that  he  is  damaged  by  the  statement,
which  is  another  way  of  saying  that  his  true  character  has  been
besmirched;  but  if  the  plaintiff  actually  has  a  bad  reputation  anyway,
then  damages  are  limited.  Thus,  in  slander  cases  like  the  one  in  this
question,  character  evidence  is  relevant  both  to  whether  the  plaintiff
has  a  certain  character  and  to  the  extent  of  damages.  Under  Federal
Rule of Evidence 405, when character is “in issue” it can be proved by
evidence of reputation, opinion, or specific acts.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  may  use  truth  as  a  defense,  which  makes  the
evidence admissible to prove that the plaintiff is a thief.

In  slander  cases  where  the  defendant  makes  a  statement  that  the
plaintiff  has  an  unsavory  character,  the  plaintiff's  character  is
considered “in issue” (i.e., an essential element of the claim or defense
under  the  substantive  law)  in  two  respects.  First,  the  plaintiff's  actual
character  will  determine  whether  the  defendant  was  incorrect  in  his
assessment,  and  thus  liable  for  slander,  because  truth  is  a  defense.
Second,  the  plaintiff  will  allege  that  he  is  damaged  by  the  statement,
which  is  another  way  of  saying  that  his  true  character  has  been
besmirched;  but  if  the  plaintiff  actually  has  a  bad  reputation  anyway,
then  damages  are  limited.  Thus,  in  slander  cases  like  the  one  in  this
question,  character  evidence  is  relevant  both  to  whether  the  plaintiff
has  a  certain  character  and  to  the  extent  of  damages.  Under  Federal
Rule of Evidence 405, when character is “in issue” it can be proved by
evidence of reputation, opinion, or specific acts.

 Answer 10

 (C) is the best response,

because the CEO's in-state presence at the time of service sufficed for
personal jurisdiction over him, but the insurer's contacts with the state
were not sufficient to allow for “general jurisdiction” over it.

Let's take the two suits one at a time. Suit against the insurer: The
first  thing  to  notice  is  that  the  suit  against  the  insurer  involves  a

1362

particular  policy  sold  by  it,  and  that  all  activities  connected  with  that
sale  occurred  in  State  A,  during  the  time  the  surgeon/insured  was  a
State A resident. Furthermore, in the years since the policy has been in
force,  no  activities  by  the  insurer  in  connection  with  the  policy  have
occurred in State B, beyond the fact that the insurer has corresponded
with the surgeon at his State B address and has received premiums sent
by  him  from  that  address.  Therefore,  the  suit  brought  by  the  surgeon
against the insurer in State B — since the suit does not arise out of the
insurer's  State  B  activities  or  contacts  —  will  have  to  be  based  on
“general” jurisdiction rather than “specific” jurisdiction.

When  a  suit  is  brought  against  an  out-of-state  corporation  and  is
based  on  general  jurisdiction,  it's  been  clear  since  a  2011  Supreme
Court  decision  that  the  corporation  must  have  contacts  with  the  forum
state  that  are  so  “  ‘continuous  and  systematic'  as  to  render  [the
corporation and its affiliates] essentially at home in the forum State.”
Goodyear  Dunlop  Tires  Operations,  S.A.  v.  Brown,  131  S.  Ct.  2846
(2011). Then, in the later case of Daimler AG v. Bauman, 134 S.Ct. 746
(2014),  the  Court  said  that  in  determining  whether  a  corporation  is
“essentially at home” in the forum state, the corporation must (except in
an “exceptional case”) either (1) have its principal place of business
in the forum state or (2) be incorporated in that state. Here, the insurer
is neither incorporated in State B nor has its principal place of business
there.  And  there  is  nothing  in  the  case  that  would  dictate  treating  any
insurer  and  State  B  as  sufficiently
connection  between 
“extraordinary”  to  merit  deviating  from  this  rule  requiring  either  in-
forum-state incorporation or in-forum-state principal place of business.
So under Goodyear and Daimler, it would violate the insurer's federal
due process rights to be required to defend in State B a suit that has no
real  connection  with  that  state  beyond  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  now
lives there (i.e., a suit based on general jurisdiction). The State B judge
will therefore dismiss the suit for lack of personal jurisdiction.

the 

Divorce  suit:  Now,  let's  turn  to  the  divorce  suit  against  the  CEO.
Ever since Pennoyer v. Neff,  95  U.S.  714  (1877),  the  Supreme  Court
has  recognized  that  if  an  individual  who  doesn't  reside  in  the  forum
state voluntarily enters the state and is served with process there, the
state may exercise personal jurisdiction over him without violating his
due  process  rights,  even  if  the  defendant  has  absolutely  no  other
contacts  with  the  forum  state.  And  more  recently,  in  Burnham  v.
Superior  Court,  495  U.S.  604  (1990),  the  Supreme  Court  decided  a
case  involving  precisely  the  issue  here:  Because  D  had  voluntarily

1363

visited the forum state and been served with process in a divorce suit
brought  there  by  his  estranged  wife,  the  forum  state  had  personal
jurisdiction  over  him  regardless  of  whether  he  had  any  connection
whatsoever  with  the  forum  state  beyond  this  one  visit.  So  in  light  of
Burnham,  there  is  no  due  process  impediment  to  the  State  B  court's
exercising personal jurisdiction over the CEO for purposes of issuing a
divorce decree (or, indeed, for any other purpose that would require the
court to exercise personal jurisdiction over him).

(A), (B), and (D) are not the best responses, because each of them

reaches the wrong conclusion as to at least one of the two motions.

 Answer 11

 (A) is the best response,

because the collector is not the federal government, and is therefore not
exempt from state taxation.

The  federal  government  and  its  agencies  are  immune  from  state
taxation. For example, in this problem, the state could not collect sales
tax  on  the  sales  made  by  the  collector  to  the  National  Park  Service.
However,  a  state  may  tax  a  private  contractor  who  does  work  for  the
federal  government  under  a  cost-plus  contract,  since  the  “legal
incidence” of the tax does not fall on the federal government. (James v.
Dravo Contracting (1937).) Here, the collector is not an employee of
the National Park Service, but rather an independent contractor. Further,
he  is  selling  what  he  has  acquired  to  the  Park  Service  for  10  percent
more than he paid (a cost-plus contract). Therefore, the collector is not
immune  from  state  taxation  and  the  state  court  should  not  issue  the
injunction.

 (B) is not the best response,

because this case is not within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal
courts.

Generally,  state  courts  have  concurrent  jurisdiction  over  claims
arising under federal statutes or the Constitution. The exceptions are in
areas  where  the  Constitution  or  a  federal  statute  specifically  limits
jurisdiction  to  the  federal  courts.  These  include  cases  relating  to
intellectual  property,  antitrust,  bankruptcy,  federal  crimes,  and  suits
against the federal government. A case concerning the constitutionality
of a state's imposition of sales tax is within the concurrent jurisdiction

1364

of the federal and state courts, and may be heard in either forum.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  “legal  incidence”  of  the  tax  does  not  fall  on  the  federal
government, but rather on the collector.

The  federal  government  and  its  agencies  are  immune  from  state
taxation. Under the rule of James v. Dravo Contracting (1937), a state
may tax a private contractor who does work for the federal government
under a cost-plus contract. Here, the collector is not an employee of the
National Park Service, but rather an independent contractor. Further, he
is selling what he has acquired to the Park Service for 10 percent more
than  he  paid  (a  cost-plus  contract).  Therefore,  the  collector  is  not
immune  from  state  taxation,  and  the  court  should  not  issue  the
injunction.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the state sales tax does not conflict with any federal law.

The Supremacy Clause of Article VI of the Constitution dictates that
when a state statute and a federal law are inconsistent, the state law is
invalid.  However,  that  is  not  the  case  in  this  problem.  Although  the
state  sales  tax  may  cause  an  increase  in  the  amount  that  the  National
Park  Service  will  have  to  pay  the  collector,  it  does  not  conflict  with
any  federal  law.  In  order  for  the  Supremacy  Clause  to  apply  to  this
situation, there would have to be a federal statute stating that no sales
tax  may  be  levied  on  sales  made  to  contractors  working  for  the
National  Park  Service.  Since  no  such  federal  statute  exists,  the
Supremacy Clause is not brought into play.

 Answer 12

 (A) is the best response,

because, pursuant to FRE 803(18), statements from the learned treatise
may only be read to the jury.

FRE  803(18),  the  learned  treatise  exception,  provides  that  if  the
court finds a publication to be a reliable authority, then if a statement in
the publication is “called to the attention of an expert witness on cross-
examination  or  relied  on  by  the  expert  on  direct  examination,”  the
statement “may be read into evidence but not received as an exhibit.”
Thus,  the  jury  is  not  allowed  to  bring  learned  treatises  into  the  jury

1365

room.  (There  is  a  concern  that  if  juries  were  allowed  unrestricted
access  to  the  whole  publication,  they  may  rely  on  parts  of  the
publication that are not germane to the case. Moreover, the intent of the
rule  is  that  juries  need  to  be  guided  through  the  pertinent  parts  of  the
publication by the testifying experts.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  FRE  803(18)  does  not  require  that  the  witness  rely  on  the
treatise.

FRE  803(18),  the  learned  treatise  exception,  allows  a  statement
from  a  treatise  to  be  read  into  evidence  where  the  court  finds  the
treatise  to  be  a  reliable  authority,  and  the  statement  is  “called  to  the
attention of an expert witness on cross-examination or relied on by the
expert on direct examination.” In this case, the publication was called
to the attention of the defendant's expert.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  decision  on  reliability  is  for  the  court,  and  the  entire
publication may not be submitted to the jury for this or any purpose.

FRE  803(18),  the  learned  treatise  exception,  allows  a  statement
from  a  publication  to  be  read  into  evidence  when  “the  statement  is
called  to  the  attention  of  an  expert  witness  on  cross-examination  or
relied  on  by  the  expert  on  direct  examination,”  provided  that  the
“publication  is  established  as  a  reliable  authority  by  the  expert's
admission  or  testimony,  by  another  expert's  testimony,  or  by  judicial
notice.” The plaintiff's expert's testimony probably suffices to establish
reliability  under  this  standard.  But  even  so,  this  would  not  permit  the
entire treatise to be submitted to the jury, since 803(18) does not allow
the  publication  to  be  received  as  an  exhibit,  and  the  jury  is  not  the
arbiter of whether the publication is reliable.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  pursuant  to  FRE  803(18),  only  statements  from  the  learned
treatise may be read to the jury.

The statement is true so far as it goes, but it does not mean that the
jury gets to consider any evidence that the parties wish to present. FRE
803(18), the learned treatise exception, requires the judge to determine
that the publication is reliable before it can be considered by the jury.
In addition, the rule allows “statements” from a learned treatise to be

1366

read into evidence, but does not allow the publication to be received as
an exhibit.

 Answer 13

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  pedestrian  offered  no  evidence  supporting  the  claim  of
negligence  other  than  the  violation  of  a  statute  that  does  not  protect
against the same type of accident that materialized in this case.

Under  certain  circumstances,  the  violation  of  a  statute  may  be
determined  to  be  negligence  per  se.  The  three  requirements  for
negligence  per  se  are  that  (1)  a  defendant  violated  a  statute,  (2)  the
statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the  same  type  of  accident  that
defendant's conduct caused, and (3) the accident victim falls within the
class  of  persons  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.  Here,  the  statute
was enacted “only” to expedite “automobile” traffic. As the statute was
not  designed  to  prevent  a  pedestrian's  slip  and  fall,  negligence  per  se
will  not  apply.  Accordingly,  the  pedestrian  failed  to  offer  adequate
evidence that the car owner was negligent.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of negligence per se does not apply, and the facts
do not support a reasonable inference of negligence.

Under  certain  circumstances,  the  violation  of  a  statute  may  be
determined  to  be  negligence  per  se.  The  three  requirements  for
negligence  per  se  are  that  (1)  a  defendant  violated  a  statute,  (2)  the
statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the  same  type  of  accident  that
defendant's conduct caused, and (3) the accident victim falls within the
class  of  persons  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.  Here,  the  statute
was enacted “only” to expedite “automobile” traffic. As the statute was
not  designed  to  prevent  a  pedestrian's  slip  and  fall,  negligence  per  se
will not apply. Furthermore, because the cold weather was “sudden and
unexpected,”  the  inference  of  negligence  is  tenuous.  On  the  facts
presented, the car owner's motion should be granted, as the pedestrian
has failed to offer adequate evidence that the car owner was negligent.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the statutory violation will not be considered as evidence that
the car owner was negligent.

1367

Under  certain  circumstances,  the  violation  of  a  statute  may  be
determined  to  be  negligence  per  se.  The  three  requirements  for
negligence  per  se  are  that  (1)  a  defendant  violated  a  statute,  (2)  the
statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the  same  type  of  accident  that
defendant's conduct caused, and (3) the accident victim falls within the
class  of  persons  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.  Here,  the  statute
was enacted “only” to expedite “automobile” traffic. As the statute was
not  designed  to  prevent  a  pedestrian's  slip  and  fall,  negligence  per  se
will  not  apply.  Accordingly,  the  pedestrian  failed  to  offer  adequate
evidence that the car owner was negligent.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the statutory violation will not be considered as evidence that
the car owner was negligent.

Under  certain  circumstances,  the  violation  of  a  statute  may  be
determined  to  be  negligence  per  se.  The  three  requirements  for
negligence  per  se  are  that  (1)  a  defendant  violated  a  statute,  (2)  the
statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the  same  type  of  accident  that
defendant's conduct caused, and (3) the accident victim falls within the
class  of  persons  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect.  Here,  the  statute
was enacted “only” to expedite “automobile” traffic. As the statute was
not designed to prevent a pedestrian's slip and fall,  negligence  per  se
will  not  apply.  Accordingly,  the  pedestrian  failed  to  offer  adequate
evidence that the car owner was negligent.

 Answer 14

 (D) is the correct answer,

because  it  recognizes  that  Defendant  has  waived  the  defense  of
improper  venue  by  failing  to  include  it  when  he  filed  a  responsive
pleading.

Rule  12(b)  lists  seven  special  defenses  that  may  be  asserted  by
motion; one of these is “improper venue,” listed in Rule 12(b)(3). Rule
12(h) then says that each of these seven defenses is waived by a party's
“failing to either (i) make [the defense] by motion under [Rule 12]; or
(ii) include it in a responsive pleading or in an amendment allowed by
Rule 15(a)(1) as a matter of course.” We know by negative implication
from the facts that Defendant did not raise the venue defense by a Rule
12  motion.  Therefore,  Defendant  will  be  deemed  to  have  waived  the

1368

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

defense unless he included it either in “a responsive pleading” or in “an
amendment  allowed  by  Rule  15(a)(1)  as  a  matter  of  course.”  As  to
raising  it  in  a  responsive  pleading,  Defendant's  only  “responsive
pleading” so far has been his answer, and the facts tell us that he did not
include the venue defense in that answer. So Defendant's only hope for
avoiding  losing  the  defense  by  waiver  is  if  the  Rules  permit  him  to
include  it  in  “an  amendment  allowed  by  Rule  15(a)(1)  as  a  matter  of
course.”  But  Rule  15(a)(1)(A)  says  that  where  the  pleading  to  be
amended will not require a responsive pleading (which is the situation
here), the pleader's time to amend as a matter of course expires 21 days
after  the  pleader  served  the  pleading.  So  on  August  21,  Defendant's
time to amend his answer as a matter of course expired. Thus by now
(October 2), he has no way to avoid the waiver that Rule 12(h) says has
occurred.

 (A) is not the best response,

because Defendant can no longer amend his answer.

As this choice suggests, under some circumstances a defendant who
has answered without including a venue defense might be able to amend
the answer to include that defense. But as is discussed more fully in the
treatment of Choice (D), for the amendment to include the addition of a
venue defense, the amendment must be one that is allowed “as a matter
of  course”  (rather  than  by  leave  of  court),  and  Defendant's  power  to
amend  as  a  matter  of  course  ended  on  August  21,  21  days  after  he
served  his  original  answer.  Therefore,  Defendant  does  not  have  the
power to place the issue of whether the action should be dismissed for
lack of venue in front of the court.

 (B) is not the best response,

because Defendant can no longer make a motion to dismiss based on the
venue objection.

When  Defendant  was  first  served  with  the  complaint,  a  motion  by
him  to  dismiss  for  improper  venue  would  have  been  proper:  Under
FRCP 12(b), a party may assert various defenses by motion, including a
motion under 12(b)(3) to dismiss for improper venue. However, as is
discussed more fully in the explanation of Choice (D), once defendant
served his answer without including the venue defense, he waived his
right  to  assert  the  defense  by  motion.  See  Rule  12(h)(i).  So  the  court
will not have discretion to dismiss the action for improper venue even

1369

if the court concludes that venue was improper.

 (C) is not correct,

because defendant has waived his right to make a motion based on the
venue objection.

As is described in the explanation to both Choice (D) and Choice
(B),  when  Defendant  filed  an  answer  that  did  not  include  the  venue
defense, he waived his right to assert that defense by motion. Therefore,
the court is not authorized to dismiss the action for lack of venue, even
if  the  judge  is  satisfied  that  venue  was  improper.  Unlike  a  lack  of
subject  matter 
is  not  deemed
“jurisdictional,”  so  the  federal  court  has  power  to  hear  the  case  even
though the case was brought in a district where venue did not lie.

lack  of  venue 

jurisdiction,  a 

 Answer 15

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly calculates the expectation damages recoverable by
the seller.

First  we  should  note  that  Article  2  of  the  Uniform  Commercial
Code  applies  since  the  contract  is  for  a  sale  of  goods.  When  a  buyer
breaches,  UCC  2-708(2)  allows  the  seller  to  recover  the  profit  that
would  have  been  made  had  the  buyer  not  breached,  plus  the  costs
incurred in manufacturing the goods minus any proceeds that the seller
received  from  selling  the  goods  to  a  third  party.  Here,  the  seller
expected to make a profit of $2 per set under the contract — the seller
expected  to  be  paid  $10  per  set,  while  spending  $8  to  manufacture
each.  Each  set  cost  the  seller  $8  to  produce,  and  was  sold  to  a  third
party (the salvage company) for $2. Thus, the damages recoverable by
the seller are $2 (the expected profit under the contract) + $8 (the cost
incurred in producing each set of bearings) - $2 (the amount received
from the salvage company) = $8 per set.

Another way of thinking about expectation damages is that the seller
expected  to  make  a  profit  of  $2  per  set,  but,  because  of  the  buyer's
breach, the seller actually lost $6 per set (since it cost $8 to produce
each set that eventually sold for $2 each). To put the seller in the same
position as he would have been had the buyer performed, the seller will
have  to  recover  the  $8  difference  between  the  expected  $2  profit  and
the actual $6 loss.

1370

(A) is incorrect,

because it only allows the seller to recover the profit he expected under
the contract, but not the costs he incurred in performing.

When a buyer breaches, UCC 2-708(2) allows a seller to recover
both the expected profit and the net costs incurred in manufacturing the
goods. By only awarding $2 per set, choice A does not compensate the
seller for the $6 per set loss ($8 to manufacture– $2 salvage sale) that
he suffered as a result of the buyer's breach.

 (B) is incorrect,

because  it  does  not  provide  the  seller  the  expected  benefit  of  his
bargain.

While choice B correctly allows the seller to recover the $6 per set
he  lost  as  a  result  of  the  buyer's  breach,  it  does  not  make  him  whole.
Under  UCC  2-708(2),  the  non-breaching  seller  may  recover  both  the
loss  incurred  in  the  production  of  the  goods  for  sale  and  the  profit
expected as a result of the contract. Here, the seller expected to realize
a  $2  profit  on  each  set  of  bearings  sold  ($10  sale  price–$8  cost  of
manufacturing). This $2 expected profit per set must be added to the $6
loss per set in order to come up with the total expectation damages due
to the seller.

 (D) is incorrect,

because  there  is  no  requirement  that  the  seller  attempt  to  sell  the
bearings at public auction.

While  it  is  true  that  the  seller,  upon  the  buyer's  anticipatory
repudiation of the contract, is under a duty to mitigate damages, there is
no  provision  in  the  UCC  that  requires  any  particular  method  of  doing
so. If the seller mitigates damages by selling the goods to a third party,
UCC 2-706 allows either a public sale (an auction) or a private sale.
The only restriction is that the sale must be made in good faith and in a
commercially  reasonable  manner.  Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  seller
chose to sell the bearings privately to a salvage company will not bar
the  seller  from  recovering  full  expectation  damages  unless  the  buyer
can show that the sale was conducted in bad faith or in an unreasonable
manner. Further, even if the seller didn't attempt to resell the bearings,
the failure to mitigate damages would only reduce the damages he could
recover,  not  eliminate  them.  The  seller  would  still  be  entitled  to

1371

recover  his  expected  profits  under  the  contract,  which  in  this  case
would  be  $2  per  set  ($10  per  set  contract  price–$8  per  set  cost  of
production).

 Answer 16

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  defendant  intended  to  kill  the
neighbor's  brother  and  the  neighbor's  brother  alone.  The  key  here  is
distinguishing between intent and mistake.

One  is  said  to  intend  a  result  when  he  desires  that  result  or,
alternatively,  he  knows  the  result  is  substantially  certain  to  be  caused
by  his  conduct.  Here,  when  the  defendant  raised  his  gun  to  fire,  he
intended  to  kill  the  neighbor's  brother.  Admittedly,  he  was  mistaken
about  the  neighbor's  brother's  identity,  but  he  nonetheless  intended  to
kill the neighbor's brother. He did not intend to kill the bystander, but
his  intent  to  kill  the  neighbor's  brother  will  be  “transferred”  to  the
bystander.  Since  B  correctly  identifies  that  the  defendant  intended  to
kill the neighbor's brother, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  set  out  to  kill  the  neighbor,  but  the  intent  that
actuated  the  actual  killing  was  the  defendant's  raising  the  gun  and
aiming at the neighbor's brother.

Under  these  facts,  although  the  defendant  wanted  to  kill  the
neighbor, he didn't perform an act toward that end that would qualify as
an  attempt,  since  an  attempt  to  commit  a  crime  requires  the  intent  to
commit  the  crime  coupled  with  acts  that  come  dangerously  close  to
accomplishing  the  criminal  goal.  There  would  not  be  enough  on  these
facts  to  constitute  an  attempt  to  kill  the  neighbor.  Here,  the  defendant
was mistaken about the neighbor's brother's identity, but he did intend
to kill the neighbor's brother. Since A states that the defendant intended
to kill the neighbor, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant didn't intend to kill the bystander at all.

In  fact,  he'll  be  guilty  of  attempt  to  commit  murder  for  the
bystander's wound, because his intent to kill the neighbor's brother will
be  “transferred”  to  the  bystander,  and  otherwise  the  defendant  would

1372

satisfy the requirements for attempt to commit murder (since he had the
intent to commit murder, and came dangerously close to achieving his
goal).  Transferred  intent  comes  about  when  a  person  intending  to
commit  one  crime  accidentally  commits  another;  the  intent  will  be
“transferred”  from  the  person  he  intended  to  harm  to  the  person  he
actually  harmed.  Here,  when  the  defendant  raised  his  gun  to  fire,  he
intended  to  kill  the  neighbor's  brother,  not  the  bystander.  Since  the
defendant did not intend to kill the bystander, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  intended  to  kill  the  neighbor's  brother,  not  the
neighbor.

Intent  here  refers  to  what  actuated  the  defendant's  raising  the  gun
and firing. He was mistaken as to the neighbor's brother's identity, and
although  he  wanted  to  kill  the  neighbor,  he  intended  to  kill  the
neighbor's  brother  only.  Since  D  incorrectly  states  that  the  defendant
also intended to kill the neighbor, it's not the best response.

 Answer 17

 (C) is the best answer,

because it proves bias.

Under  the  FRE,  bias  is  liberally  admitted  to  prove  such  things  as
hostility,  self-interest,  or  a  personal  relationship  that  may  affect  the
truthfulness of a witness's testimony. Here, the facts indicate both self-
interest and hostility from the witness to the defendant, and these facts
would be admissible to prove bias. Additionally, the witness may still
be  impeached  under  FRE  806  even  though  he  is  a  hearsay  declarant.
FRE  806  allows  all  modes  of  impeachment  that  can  occur  to  a  live
witness to apply to a hearsay declarant.

 (A) is not the best answer,

because these misdemeanors do not involve dishonesty.

Under  FRE  609(a)(1),  in  order  to  impeach  with  a  conviction,  the
conviction must be a felony. Under FRE 609(a)(2), misdemeanors may
be  used  to  impeach,  but  only  if  they  involve  dishonesty  or  false
statement.  Here,  the  misdemeanor  assault  convictions  do  not  involve
dishonesty or false statement, and therefore cannot be used to impeach
the witness.

1373

(B) is not the best answer,

because experts generally may not testify as to credibility.

Credibility is an issue for the jury, who must not abdicate their role
of critical assessment to an expert. Although, on occasion, courts have
allowed  experts  latitude  in  discussing  credibility,  the  general  rule  is
that  such  testimony  is  not  allowed.  As  this  question  sought  the  “most
likely”  admitted  evidence,  bias  is  the  better  answer.  Here,  the  facts
indicate  both  self-interest  and  hostility  from  the  witness  to  the
defendant,  and  these  facts  would  be  admissible  to  prove  bias.
Additionally, the witness may still be impeached under FRE 806 even
though  he  is  a  hearsay  declarant.  FRE  806  allows  all  modes  of
impeachment  that  can  occur  to  a  live  witness  to  apply  to  a  hearsay
declarant.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because the prior bad act is a “specific instance of conduct,” and does
not relate to truthfulness.

As this is not a conviction, FRE 608(b) will govern this prior bad
act  evidence.  What  we  have  here  is  testimony  by  Witness  2  (the
“witness”)  that  Witness  1  (the  gang  member)  is  a  cocaine  dealer.  So
what Witness 2 has to say about Witness 1 is “extrinsic evidence” about
Witness  1's  credibility  (since  the  evidence  is  not  from  the  “mouth”  of
Witness  1).  FRE  608(b)  says  that  “Except  for  a  criminal  conviction
under Rule 609, extrinsic evidence is not admissible to prove specific
instances  of  a  witness's  conduct  in  order  to  attack  or  support  the
witness's  character  for  truthfulness.”  The  testimony  here  would
probably be considered “specific instances of a witness's conduct” (as
opposed to admissible reputation or opinion testimony), thus making it
inadmissible  extrinsic  evidence.  Furthermore,  being  a  cocaine  dealer
has  little  if  any  probative  value  on  the  gang  member's  character  for
truthfulness,  which  is  the  only  subject  on  which  the  witness  might  be
permitted to testify under FRE 608.

 Answer 18

 (A) is the best response,

because it offers a defense that is likely to prevail on these facts.

A  contract  has  three  basic  elements:  offer,  acceptance,  and

1374

consideration  or  some  substitute  for  consideration  (e.g.,  promissory
estoppel). Consideration requires a bargained-for exchange and either
detriment to the promisee or benefit to the promisor, and typically both.
Here,  the  student's  father  had  no  legal  obligation  to  reimburse  the
woman for her expenses. His promise to do so didn't create any benefit
to  him,  and  the  woman  didn't  suffer  any  detriment  as  a  result  of  it,
either. As such, the promise would be considered gratuitous, and thus
not enforceable.

Say instead that the woman agreed not to claim against the student's
estate  in  return  for  his  father's  promise.  Then  she  would  suffer  a
detriment in the form of surrendering a valid legal claim. As a result,
there  would  be  consideration.  Under  the  facts  as  they  exist,  however,
there is no consideration. Without consideration, or some substitute for
it, the father's promise is an unenforceable gratuitous promise. Since A
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because unilateral mistake is, in general, not a good defense to breach
of contract.

The  rule  on  unilateral  mistake  is  that  where  the  other  party  (here,
the woman) reasonably did not know of the mistake, the mistaken party
must perform. It's only if the other party knew or should have known of
the mistake, that the mistaken party's performance will be excused.

Here,  the  woman  had  no  reason  to  know  that  the  student's  father
believed  he  was  liable  for  the  accident  simply  because  he  owned  the
car. Thus, mistake would not excuse his performance.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  of  mutual
mistake. As a general rule, when both parties are mistaken as to a basic
assumption  of  fact  on  which  the  contract  was  created,  the  contract  is
voidable. However, what's involved here is unilateral mistake. Since
the father's mistake won't relieve him of his duty to perform under the
contract,  mistake  is  not  his  best  defense,  making  B  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the agreement here would not fall within the Statute of Frauds.
Under  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  a  writing  is  generally  required  for
certain  contracts,  including  those  for  the  sale  of  an  interest  in  land,
incapable of performance in less than one year, to answer for another's

1375

debt, and the like. Here, the student's father's promise to the woman is a
direct promise to pay her expenses. Such an agreement is not covered
by  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  so  no  writing  is  required  to  make  it
enforceable.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  that  the
student's father was covering his son's obligation to the woman and so
the  agreement  was  designed  to  answer  for  another's  debt,  and  would
thus be covered by the Statute of Frauds. However, the student's father
wasn't promising to pay his son's debt, but rather to cover the woman's
expenses,  so  the  Statute  wouldn't  apply.  Since  the  father's  agreement
with the woman falls outside the Statute of Frauds, a writing would not
be required to make the agreement enforceable, so a Statute of Frauds
defense would fail. Since C states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts.

While  it's  true  that  a  promise  must  be  sufficiently  definite  to  be
enforceable, under these facts, the student's father's promise is definite.
He offered to pay the woman for any losses the accident caused. While
the  exact  amount  of  the  damages  wouldn't  be  predictable,  this  itself
wouldn't make the promise unduly vague, since the damages are defined
by  the  woman's  good-faith  expenses.  Since  D  mischaracterizes  the
father's promise, it can't be the best response.

 Answer 19

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  second  bank's  rights  were  eliminated  at  the  foreclosure
sale.

The  second  bank's  lien  was  junior  to  the  first  bank's,  so  the  first
bank  had  priority.  Although  the  second  bank  was  a  necessary  party  to
the sale, and was given notice of the sale, it did not participate or take
any  other  action.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  sale,  the  senior  lien  was
removed, and the buyer received the interest that the farmer had at the
time she took out the mortgage with the first bank. The buyer held title
to the land free of any liens, and was able to convey clear title to the
farmer. As a result, the second bank's interest was extinguished, and it
has no claim against the farmer. Note that it is important that the buyer
was not in collusion with the farmer at the time of the sale. If he were,

1376

the second bank could make the argument that the foreclosure sale was
a fraud designed to eliminate its interest in the farm.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the farmer owned the farm when she executed the mortgages.

The  doctrine  of  estoppel  by  deed  applies  in  situations  where  a
person purports to convey property that he or she does not own. If that
person later acquires title to that property, it will automatically pass to
the  grantee  in  the  earlier  conveyance.  This  doctrine  is  clearly
inapplicable to this situation because each time the farmer conveyed an
interest in the farm (the mortgages), she held title to the farm.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  original  owner  reacquired  the  land  free  of  the  second
bank's mortgage.

The  second  bank's  lien  was  junior  to  the  first  bank's,  so  the  first
bank  had  priority.  Although  the  second  bank  was  a  necessary  party  to
the sale, and was given notice of the sale, it did not participate or take
any  other  action.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  sale,  the  senior  lien  was
removed, and the buyer received the interest that the farmer had at the
time she took out the mortgage with the first bank. The buyer held title
to the land free of any liens, and was able to convey clear title to the
farmer. As a result, the second bank's interest was extinguished, and it
has no claim against the farmer. Note that it is important that the buyer
was not in collusion with the farmer at the time of the sale. If he were,
the second bank could make the argument that the foreclosure sale was
a fraud designed to eliminate its interest in the farm.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the farmer never sold the farm.

A due-on-sale clause requires that if the owner of mortgaged land
conveys the land, the balance of the mortgage will immediately become
due.  These  clauses  are  included  to  protect  banks  from  default  by
individuals who no longer possess the land. However, the clause was
never implicated in this situation since the farmer never sold the land
—  she  only  lost  title  to  the  farm  because  it  was  sold  at  a  foreclosure
sale.

 Answer 20

1377

(A) is the best response,

because both parties bear responsibility for the murder.

Let's  look  at  the  friend's  liability  first.  The  friend  is  both  a
conspirator  to  bank  robbery  and  an  accomplice  to  bank  robbery.  It's
easiest  to  speak  of  the  friend  as  being  an  accomplice.  The  issue  is
therefore  whether  and  when  an  accomplice  becomes  liable  for
additional  crimes  committed  by  his  principal,  beyond  the  basic  crime
that the accomplice intended to aid and abet. “The established rule . . .
is that accomplice liability extends to acts of the principal . . . which
were a ‘natural and probable consequence' of the criminal scheme the
accomplice  encouraged  or  aided.”  LaFave,  Criminal  Law,  §  6.8(b).
Courts that apply this “natural and probable consequences” rule vary as
to exactly how likely the consequences have to be, but the basic idea is
that  if  the  consequences  are  unintended  but  reasonably  foreseeable,
they're  “natural  and  probable.”  This  test  would  probably,  but  not
certainly,  make  the  friend  substantively  liable  for  the  killing.  The
prosecution  has  a  decent  argument  that  the  friend  was  aiding  and
abetting  what  he  knew  was  an  armed  robbery,  and  that  an  accidental
death due to the discharging of the weapon used in an armed robbery is
a reasonably foreseeable (or “natural and probable” ) consequence of
that armed robbery.

But  the  prosecution  is  not  certain  to  win  with  this  argument  —  a
judge or jury might reach a contrary result on either of two theories: (1)
that the woman's promise not to “hurt anyone” during the robbery made
the accidental firing of the gun too unlikely to be considered a natural-
and-probable-consequence  of  the  supposedly  non-violent  robbery
scheme that the friend thought he was facilitating; or (2) that the friend
did not have any reason to believe that the woman would even acquire
or  use  a  gun  (she  may  have  hidden  it  in  her  purse,  so  that  the  friend
didn't know about it until after the robbery), again making the shooting
not  a  natural-and-probable-consequence  of  the  scheme  as  the  friend
understood it. Furthermore, not all courts purporting to apply common-
law  principles  even  accept  the  “natural  and  probable  consequence”
rule.  But  the  friend's  liability  becomes  dramatically  clearer  once  we
recognize that by saying that the problem is to be answered “at common
law,”  we  must  take  account  of  the  felony  murder  doctrine.  Although
jurisdictions purporting to apply common-law doctrines vary in exactly
how they apply the felony murder rule, some form of that rule is almost
universal at common law. See LaFave, Criminal Law, § 7.5(a) and (b).

1378

(Most  often,  the  rule  is  held  to  apply  only  to  deaths  that  occur  as  the
proximate result of one of a few specified dangerous felonies.) Under
even  a  narrow  version  of  the  felony  murder  doctrine,  where  a  death
occurs  directly  on  account  of  dangerous  and  violent  conduct  by  the
principal  during  the  course  of  a  robbery,  that  death  is  automatically
murder.  And  that's  true  even  if  the  death  was  clearly  an  unintended
it
accident.  Furthermore, 
automatically  makes  the  friend  guilty  of  murder  just  as  surely  as  it
makes  the  woman  guilty.  Since  the  friend  is  substantively  guilty  of
robbery  by  virtue  of  his  being  an  accomplice  to  robbery,  he  becomes
guilty  of  felony  murder  even  if  the  death  was  not  a  “natural  and
probable  consequence”  of  the  robbery.  See  LaFave,  Criminal  Law,  §
7.5(c).

felony  murder 

rule  applies, 

the 

if 

Now, let's consider the store owner's liability. Most courts say that
it's  not  enough  for  either  accomplice  liability  or  conspiracy  liability
that  a  person  merely  supplied  goods  with  the  knowledge  that  his
supplies might enable others to pursue a particular criminal objective.
But other factors beyond the mere supplying of goods to the venture are
enough  to  justify  the  inference  that  the  supplier  desired  to  further  the
criminal  objective,  making  him  liable  as  both  a  conspirator  and
accomplice. Two of those special factors are present here: (1) the fact
that the supplier charges a dramatically inflated price for the item helps
justify the inference that the supplier is in some sense becoming part of
the underlying criminal venture; and (2) the more serious the underlying
crime as the supplier understands it, the more likely a court is to find
that  the  act  of  supplying  a  necessary  item  demonstrates  an  intent  to
further  the  crime.  So  the  store  owner  will  be  held  to  be  both  a
conspirator  to  the  robbery  and  an  accomplice  to  it.  Then,  the  felony
murder  doctrine  makes  the  store  owner  a  murderer,  on  the  same
reasoning  by  which  the  doctrine  makes  the  woman  and  the  friend
murderers.

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best response,

because each is in some way inconsistent with the analysis of choice A
above.

 Answer 21

 (C) is the best response,

1379

because it accurately states and applies the rule that only parties to the
first  action  (or  their  “privies”)  may  receive  the  benefit  of  claim
preclusion in a second action.

Claim  preclusion  is  a  judicially-created  doctrine  that  bars  the
relitigation  of  a  claim  raised  in  a  prior  suit.  The  basic  rule  of  claim
preclusion is that a person will receive both the benefit and the burden
of a valid and final judgment from one suit (“Suit 1”), for purposes of
another suit (“Suit 2”), if only if that person was a party to Suit 1. In
other  words,  both  federal  and  state  courts  universally  follow  the  rule
that neither the benefit nor the burden of claim preclusion applies
to a “stranger” to the first action. Since Taxi Driver was not a party
to  Plaintiff's  initial  suit  against  Defendant,  Plaintiff's  potential  claim
against Taxi Driver was not “merged into” Plaintiff's judgment against
Defendant,  just  as  that  claim  wouldn't  have  been  “barred”  had  the
judgment in the first suit gone in favor of Defendant rather than Plaintiff.
Note  that  in  some  rare  cases,  there  may  be  a  such  a  close  pre-
existing legal relationship between a party to Suit 1 (call him X) and
a person who is absent from Suit 1 but present in Suit 2 (call him Y)
that it's fair to give Y the benefit (and charge him with the burden) of
the result in Suit 1. (In this situation, X and Y might be called “proxies”
or “privies” for each other.) But no such close pre-existing relationship
exists  here  between  Defendant  and  Taxi  Driver,  so  the  court  will  not
find  that  Plaintiff's  failure  to  join  Taxi  Driver  in  the  suit  against
Defendant  caused  Plaintiff  to  lose  her  right  to  bring  the  separate  suit
against Taxi Driver. (Or, to put it another way, there was no principle
that  required  Plaintiff  to  join  Defendant  and  Taxi  Driver  as  co-
defendants in a single action arising out of the same episode, even if it
was the case that no jurisdictional or other procedural reasons would
have prevented such a joinder.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because the rule that it states does not apply to the problem.

Taxi Driver was not a “party to be joined if feasible” in the State B
action as that term is defined in FRCP 19 (entitled “Required Joinder of
Parties”);  therefore,  he  was  not  required  to  be  joined  in  the  lawsuit.
Aside from situations in which Rule 19 requires joinder, the rules of
claim  preclusion  do  not  (with  very  few  exceptions,  none  applicable
here)  require  a  claimant  to  join  in  one  lawsuit  all  parties  to  the
transaction. Thus, Plaintiff was not required to join Taxi Driver in his

1380

original  lawsuit.  As  is  described  further  in  the  discussion  of  Choice
(C),  Taxi  Driver  was  a  stranger  to  the  lawsuit  between  Plaintiff  and
Defendant and therefore cannot invoke the benefits and is not bound by
the burdens of the judgment in that earlier lawsuit.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the rule that it mentions does not apply on these facts.

If Plaintiff had had two different claims against Defendant arising
out of the same transaction, and Plaintiff had asserted only one of those
claims  against  Defendant  in  the  first  action,  Plaintiff  would  indeed
probably  now  be  precluded  from  bringing  a  separate  suit  against
Defendant on the second claim (assuming that no procedural rule would
have  prevented  Plaintiff  from  bringing  both  claims  in  a  single
proceeding). And this choice would be correct in asserting that whether
Plaintiff was required to join both claims against Defendant in a single
suit  would  be  determined  based  on  a  “transactional  test,”  i.e.,  on
whether  both  claims  arose  out  of  the  same  transaction.  But  the
transactional  test  has  no  relevance  to  a  situation  in  which  a  plaintiff
brings one claim against one defendant in Suit 1 and a different claim
against  a  different  defendant  in  Suit  2—the  mere  fact  that  different
defendants are involved is enough to prevent the transactional test from
applying (and the plaintiff won't be precluded from bringing the second
suit against the second defendant, as further described in Choice (C)).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the rule it states is not pertinent.

Whether or not the State B judgment is final, it cannot be raised as a
bar by Taxi Driver because he is not a party to that judgment. It's true
that as between the same parties, a judgment must be valid and final to
have claim preclusive effect. But the finality of the judgment in the first
action is irrelevant on the issue of whether that judgment is binding in
favor of, or against, a stranger to the first action who is now a party to
the second action. So although this choice correctly states that the court
will deny the motion, the choice is incorrect in citing the possible lack
of finality of the first judgment as the reason for the denial.

 Answer 22

 (D) is the best response,

1381

because,  although  the  certification  is  hearsay,  it  qualifies  under  FRE
803(10), the hearsay exception for a certification offered to prove the
absence of a public record.

FRE 803(10) gives a hearsay exception for “[A] certification under
Rule 902 . . . that a diligent search failed to disclose a public record or
statement  if  the  .  .  .  certification  is  admitted  to  prove  that:  (A)  the
record or statement does not exist[.]” The certification here meets the
requirements of FRE 902, since it was prepared and signed by a state
public  official  and  indicates  that  a  diligent  search  of  the  records  was
conducted. So the certificate is self-authenticating.

The certification is offered for the proper inference that if a license
had  been  issued,  it  would  have  been  recorded  in  the  public  record.
Thus,  the  fact  that  there  was  no  record  found  is  probative  (and
admissible) evidence that a license was never issued.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the certification qualifies under FRE 803(10), the hearsay
exception  for  a  certification  offered  to  prove  the  absence  of  a  public
record.

To  be  admissible,  the  certification  must  be  prepared  by  a  public
official  and  must  on  its  face  indicate  that  a  diligent  search  of  the
records was conducted. This certification satisfies the requirements of
the exception.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  no  extrinsic  evidence  of  authenticity  is  required  to  admit  a
domestic  public  document  bearing  a  government  seal  under  FRE
902(1).

Here, the certification is from a public agency of a U.S. state, and
bears  the  agency's  seal.  Therefore,  it  is  self-authenticating  under  Rule
902(1),  and  is  admissible  under  FRE  803(10),  the  hearsay  exception
for a certification offered to prove the absence of a public record.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  certification  qualifies  under  FRE  803(10),  the  hearsay
exception  for  a  certification  offered  to  prove  the  absence  of  a  public
record.

The certification can be offered for its truth (i.e., that there was no
record  of  any  issuance  of  a  license  to  the  defendant).  Therefore  its

1382

admissibility  is  not  limited  to  impeachment;  it  can  be  used  both  for
impeachment and as substantive proof of the disputed fact.

 Answer 23

 (C) is the best response,

because  Congress  has  the  authority  to  tax  and  spend  for  the  general
welfare.

Congress can only act within the scope of its powers as enumerated
in Article I of the Constitution. Thus, whenever a problem asks whether
a statute passed by Congress is constitutional, the first step is to locate
the enumerated power under which the statute could have been passed.
In this case, the statute (1) imposes a tax on the sale of computers, and
(2)  uses  the  resulting  funds  to  purchase  software  for  U.S.  residents  to
use. Article I, § 8, gives Congress the power to tax and spend for the
general  welfare.  Since  this  statute  is  a  taxing  and  spending  law,  our
only  concern  is  whether  it  is  for  the  general  welfare.  Courts  review
taxing  and  spending  statutes  with  great  deference  to  congressional
judgment — a challenged statute will be upheld so long as the statute is
reasonably related to furthering the general welfare. The statute in this
problem clearly meets the test. The purpose of the tax is to provide a
useful  product  to  the  public  free  of  charge.  Since  this  would  enhance
the public welfare, the statute is constitutional.

 (A) is not the best response,

because Congress may impose direct taxes on U.S. citizens.

Article I, § 9, of the Constitution allows Congress to impose direct
taxes so long as the tax is “apportioned among the several States which
may  be  included  within  this  Union,  according  to  their  respective
Numbers[.]”  So,  a  direct  tax  is  constitutional  as  long  as  the  revenue
raised from each state is proportional to that state's share of the national
population.  Most  taxes  imposed  by  Congress  (e.g.,  income  tax)  are
“indirect.”  The  most  common  “direct”  tax  to  look  out  for  is  a  tax  on
real property.

 (B) is not the best response,

because no taking will occur as a result of the statute.

The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  Constitution  prohibits  the  government
from  taking  private  property  without  just  compensation.  However,

1383

under this statute, copies of the software will be purchased, not taken.
Further, the sale of the software is (presumably) voluntary on the part of
the  patent  or  copyright  holders.  The  Takings  Clause  applies  only  to
situations  where  the  government  forces  a  person  to  relinquish
possession  of  his  or  her  property.  Since  there  is  no  element  of
compulsion evident in this situation, the Takings Clause is not relevant
to the problem.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the patent power does not relate to taxing and spending.

Article  I,  §  8,  of  the  Constitution  gives  Congress  the  power  to
“promote  the  progress  of  science  and  the  useful  arts”  by  granting
patents to inventors. The clause makes no mention of imposing a fee on
patents.  Congress's  authority  to  tax  the  sale  of  new  computers  arises
under its taxing power, which is independent of the patent power.

 Answer 24

 (C) is the best response,

because supplemental jurisdiction applies, but the court has discretion
to  decline  to  exercise  that  jurisdiction  because  all  claims  over  which
the court had original jurisdiction have been dismissed.

The key to this question is to recognize that whether the court may
(or  indeed  must)  decide  the  state-law  false-arrest  claim  depends
entirely on whether and how the doctrine of supplemental jurisdiction
applies.  The  mechanics  of  supplemental  jurisdiction  are  laid  out  in
great  detail  in  28  U.S.C.  §1367,  and  everything  you  need  in  order  to
answer  this  question  can  be  found  somewhere  in  sub-sections  (a)
through (d) of §1367. First, let's look at sub-section (a), which contains
the main language granting the federal courts supplemental jurisdiction
over a claim that could be sued on if it were the only claim in the suit:

“(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) or as expressly
provided otherwise by Federal statute, in any civil action of which the
district courts have original jurisdiction, the district courts shall have
supplemental jurisdiction over all  other  claims  that  are  so  related
to  claims  in  the  action  within  such  original  jurisdiction  that  they
form  part  of  the  same  case  or  controversy  under  Article  III  of  the
United States Constitution. Such supplemental jurisdiction shall include
claims that involve the joinder or intervention of additional parties.”

1384

that 

language  means 

the  above-quoted 

Here, the federal court has (or, more accurately, it had, at the time
the suit was filed) “original jurisdiction” over the §1983 claim, since
that is a federal question claim (i.e., it arises under a federal statute).
the  court  also  has
So 
“supplemental  jurisdiction”  over  “all  other  claims  that  are  so  related
to” the §1983 claim that the other claims “form part of the same case or
controversy” as the §1983 claim. Where the “anchor claim” (here, the
§1983  federal-question  claim)  shares  the  same  “common  nucleus  of
operative facts”  as  the  “other  claim”  in  question  (here,  the  state-law
false-arrest  claim),  that's  clearly  a  sufficiently  close  relationship  to
make the two claims part of the “same case or controversy.” Here, both
claims  arise  out  of  a  single  episode  or  transaction  (the  arrest  and
handcuffing of the plaintiff by the defendant), so the two claims share a
“common  nucleus  of  operative  facts,”  and  the  false-arrest  claim
therefore  satisfies  §1367(a)  and  triggers  supplemental  jurisdiction
unless something in §1367(b) or (c) changes this result.

Sub-section  (b)  (i.e.,  28  U.S.C.  §1367(b))  doesn't  apply  here  —
that sub-section applies only to cases where the only reason the “anchor
claim”  falls  within  the  court's  “original  jurisdiction”  is  because  of
diversity; here, the §1983 claim is a federal-question claim, so we can
ignore  §1367(b)  entirely.  Sub-section  (c),  however,  not  only  applies,
but is key to solving our question; here's what that section provides:

  “(c) The district courts may decline to exercise supplemental

jurisdiction over a claim under subsection (a) if —

(1) the claim raises a novel or complex issue of State law,
(2)  the  claim  substantially  predominates  over  the  claim  or  claims

over which the district court has original jurisdiction,

(3) the district court has dismissed all claims over which it has

original jurisdiction, or

(4)  in  exceptional  circumstances,  there  are  other  compelling

reasons for declining jurisdiction.”

As you can see, (3) above — “the district court has dismissed all
claims  over  which  it  has  original  jurisdiction”  –  fits  our  situation
exactly,  since  the  only  claim  over  which  the  court  ever  had  original
jurisdiction  was  the  §1983  claim,  and  that  claim  has  now  been
dismissed. Therefore, §1367(b)(3) says that the judge “may decline to
exercise  supplemental  jurisdiction”  over  any  remaining  claim.  And
Choice C correctly indicates that the court has such discretion.

But  what  about  the  last  phrase  of  Choice  C,  that  “federal  law

1385

guarantees  the  jogger  30  days  to  refile  the  claim  in  State  A  court”?
Well, sub-section (d) of §1367 says that:

“The  period  of  limitations  for  any  claim  asserted  under
subsection  (a),  and  for  any  other  claim  in  the  same  action  that  is
voluntarily dismissed at the same time as or after the dismissal of the
claim under subsection (a), shall be tolled while the claim is pending
and  for  a  period  of  30  days  after  it  is  dismissed  unless  State  law
provides for a longer tolling period.”

The  state-law  false-arrest  claim  is  a  “claim  asserted  under
subsection (a)” (i.e., it's a claim that triggers subsection (a)'s grant of
supplemental jurisdiction). Therefore sub-section (d) provides that the
statute of limitations for that state claim will be “tolled” not only for the
whole time the claim was “pending” (i.e., while the federal action was
pending),  but  also  for  a  minimum  of  30  days  after  the  federal  court
dismisses the claim, to give the jogger this period in which to re-file in
State A court. (If State A would grant a longer tolling period, the jogger
would get that longer time — but § 1367(d) guarantees her at least the
30  days.)  Normally,  federal  law  wouldn't  lengthen  the  statute  of
limitations  for  a  state-law  claim  asserted  in  state  court,  but  under  the
Supremacy Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause, Congress has
the power to do so in the exercise of Congress' power over the federal
judiciary,  and  it  has  chosen  to  use  that  power  to  guarantee,  to  any
claimant whose claim has been dismissed from the federal action based
on  the  court's  discretion,  the  time  to  refile  in  state  court.  Therefore,
Choice  C  correctly  indicates  that  the  judge  has  discretion  whether  or
not  to  hear  the  now  standalone  false  arrest  claim,  and  that  the  jogger
will have at least 30 days to refile in state court if the judge declines to
exercise  that  discretion.  (By  the  way,  on  these  facts,  the  judge  could
plausibly  go  either  way  on  the  dismissal  decision:  Generally,  federal
courts will dismiss the remaining state claim if all federal claims have
been  dismissed  before  the  start  of  trial;  but  if  the  judge  believes  that
both sides have expended significant resources in getting the surviving
state-court claim(s) ready for trial, and one party affirmatively desires
to  have  the  federal  court  try  the  surviving  claim,  the  court  may  well
accede to that request in the interest of judicial efficiency.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  federal  court  has  supplemental  jurisdiction  over  the
surviving state-law claim and may choose to exercise that discretion.

1386

As is described in detail in the discussion of choice (C) above, the
fact  that  the  federal  court  had  original  jurisdiction  over  the  federal-
question §1983 claim at the time the suit was filed was enough to give
the  court  supplemental  jurisdiction  over  the  transactionally  related
state-law false arrest claim; and that remained true even after the §1983
claim  was  dismissed.  This  choice,  by  saying  that  the  federal  court
“must” (rather than “may”) dismiss the state-law claim, is thus legally
incorrect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  federal  court  does  have  discretion  to  decline  to  exercise
supplemental jurisdiction over the state-law claim.

This  choice  correctly  states  that  supplemental  jurisdiction  applies
to the state-law false-arrest claim; the reason this is true is extensively
discussed  in  the  treatment  of  choice  (C).  But  this  choice  is  exactly
wrong in asserting that the court lacks discretion to decline to exercise
that jurisdiction. As the discussion of choice (C) indicates, §1367(b)(3)
gives  the  court  discretion  to  dismiss  the  supplemental-jurisdiction
claim(s) once all claims falling within the court's original jurisdiction
(here, the §1983 claim) have been dismissed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  court  has  discretion  about  whether  to  dismiss,  or  instead
try, the false-arrest claim.

As  is  described  in  the  treatment  of  choice  (C)  above,  the  federal
court  has  discretion  either  to  try  the  false-arrest  claim  or  dismiss  it.
Therefore,  this  choice  is  legally  incorrect  in  saying  that  the  court
“must”  dismiss  the  false-arrest  claim.  However,  the  second  clause  in
this  choice  is  exactly  correct;  if  the  court  does  dismiss  the  claim,
§1367(d) guarantees the jogger at least 30 days after dismissal to refile
that claim in State A court (and the jogger would have a longer period
in which to refile if State A law would grant her such a longer period
under the circumstances).

 Answer 25

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  doctor's  letter  is  not  a  business  record,  and  the  expert's
reliance on the letter is not enough to make it admissible.

1387

The  doctor's  letter  is  not  a  business  record  under  FRE  803(6)
because  it  was  not  prepared  in  the  ordinary  course  of  regularly
conducted activity. A letter from the plaintiff's doctor to his employer is
not  the  type  of  routine  business  transaction  contemplated  by  FRE
803(6),  as  it  is  a  specific  diagnostic  evaluation  of  a  patient  who  may
have an eye toward litigation.

In  addition,  it  cannot  be  admitted  simply  because  an  expert  relies
upon it. FRE 703 does allow an expert to rely on hearsay in reaching a
conclusion, so long as other experts in the field would reasonably rely
on such information. But the rule distinguishes between expert reliance
on  the  hearsay  and  admitting  the  hearsay  at  trial  for  the  jury  to
consider. As to admitting the hearsay itself, Rule 703 says “But if the
facts or data [relied on by the expert] would otherwise be inadmissible,
the proponent of the opinion may disclose them to the jury only if their
probative value in helping the jury evaluate the opinion substantially
outweighs their prejudicial effect.” That strict balancing test is not met
in this case due to the danger that the jury will misuse the evidence for
substantive  purposes  (i.e.,  the  truth  of  the  medical  diagnosis  in  the
letter)  rather  than  the  permissible  purpose  (i.e.,  assisting  the  jury  in
evaluating  the  expert's  opinion).  There  is  no  other  exception  that
appears even close to being applicable (and none listed in the possible
answers), so the letter is inadmissible hearsay.

 (B) is not the best response,

because unavailability is relevant only to the FRE 804 exceptions, and
none of them apply here.

The letter does not fit under FRE 804 exceptions such as statement
against interest or statement of personal or family history. Furthermore,
if the hearsay qualified as a hearsay exception under FRE 803 (e.g., if it
were  a  business  record),  then  the  doctor's  availability  would  be
completely  irrelevant,  because  unavailability  need  not  be  shown  for
those exceptions.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, under these facts, the expert's reliance on the hearsay will not
justify admission of the hearsay.

The letter cannot be admitted simply because an expert relies upon
it.  FRE  703  does  allow  an  expert  to  rely  on  hearsay  in  reaching  a
conclusion, so long as other experts in the field would reasonably rely

1388

on such information. But the rule distinguishes between expert reliance
on  the  hearsay  and  admitting  the  hearsay  at  trial  for  the  jury  to
consider.  Otherwise-inadmissible  items  relied  on  by  the  expert  are
admissible “only if their probative value in helping the jury evaluate
the  opinion  substantially  outweighs  their  prejudicial  effect,”  so  it's
not correct to say, as this choice does, that the mere fact that the expert
relied on the letter is enough to guarantee the letter's admission.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the doctor's letter is not a business record.

The  doctor's  letter  is  not  a  business  record  under  FRE  803(6)
because  it  was  not  prepared  in  the  ordinary  course  of  regularly
conducted activity. A letter from the plaintiff's doctor to his employer is
not  the  type  of  routine  business  transaction  contemplated  by  FRE
803(6),  as  it  is  a  specific  diagnostic  evaluation  of  a  patient  who  may
have an eye toward litigation.

 Answer 26

 (D) is the best response,

because it addresses the central issue under these facts, and resolves it
satisfactorily.

A prima facie case for false imprisonment has three elements: the
defendant's  act/omission  that  confines  or  restrains  the  plaintiff  to  a
bounded area (the plaintiff must believe there's no reasonable means of
escape), the defendant's intent to so confine or restrain the plaintiff, and
causation.  If  the  guard  knew  someone  was  in  the  lot,  you  could  infer
that  the  guard  intended  to  lock  that  person  inside.  (It  wouldn't  be
necessary  to  prove  he  intended  to  lock  up  the customer  specifically.)
Without  that  knowledge,  it  wouldn't  be  possible  to  prove  the  guard
intended  to  falsely  imprison  someone.  Since  D  focuses  on  the  issue
most in doubt on these facts — intent — and resolves it satisfactorily,
it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is insufficient to support a false imprisonment claim.

While  confinement  is  an  element  of  false  imprisonment,  there  are
other  elements,  one  of  which  is  a  central  issue  under  these  facts.  A
prima  facie  claim  for  false  imprisonment  requires  proof  of  the

1389

defendant's  act/omission  that  confines  or  restrains  the  plaintiff  to  a
bounded  area  (such  that  the  plaintiff  believes  there's  no  reasonable
means  of  escape),  the  defendant's  intent  to  so  confine  or  restrain  the
plaintiff, and causation. Thus, along with the confinement, the customer
would  have  to  prove  that  the  used  car  company  (through  its  agent)
intended  to  confine  him.  Since  A  doesn't  recognize  that  this  is  the
missing element, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  relies  on  an  element  that  need  not  be  proven  for  false
imprisonment.

A prima facie  case  of  false  imprisonment  has  three  elements:  the
defendant's  act/omission  that  confines  or  restrains  the  plaintiff  to  a
bounded area (the plaintiff must believe there's no reasonable means of
escape), the defendant's intent to so confine or restrain the plaintiff, and
causation. Thus, the fact that the customer was harmed will impact his
damages,  but  will  not  determine  if  his  claim  will  prevail.  Since  B
ignores the elements of a prima facie case for false imprisonment, it's
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  mental  element  it  states  would  be  insufficient  for  a  false
imprisonment claim.

Choice C suggests that negligence is all that such a claim requires.
In  fact,  the  plaintiff  must  prove  the  defendant  intended  to  confine  or
restrain the plaintiff. Thus, if the guard was only negligent, the used car
company  wouldn't  be  liable.  Since  C  suggests  otherwise,  it's  not  the
best response.

 Answer 27

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  characterizes  the  contract  here  as  a  unilateral
contract.

An offer for a unilateral contract is one that requests performance in
return  (unlike  a  bilateral  contract,  which  requests  a  return  promise).
Here, the investor asked the landowner to “make me a written, 30-day
offer . . . ” in return for which he would pay $200. Thus, he didn't want
a return promise, and the landowner's performing the requested act —

1390

making  the  written  offer  —  constitutes  consideration  for  the  contract,
making the contract enforceable. Thus, the combination of the investor's
oral promise and the landowner's writing creates a unilateral contract.
Since C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because consideration is missing, so there cannot be a firm option.

An  “option”  is  a  means  by  which  a  non-merchant  can  make  an
irrevocable  offer.  The  option  must  be  supported  by  consideration.
Typically, the offeree pays the offeror to keep the offer open for a given
period of time.

Without the irrevocability, an option is illusory, because the offeror
has  an  unrestricted  right  to  revoke  the  offer  (and  it's  the  restriction  of
this right that forms part of the consideration for the option). Here, the
landowner's right to revoke at any time defeats the option. Since choice
A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  promissory  estoppel  only  applies  when  consideration  is
lacking, and there's consideration here.

to  avoid 

Promissory  estoppel 

injustice  where
is  designed 
consideration is lacking for a contract. It comes into being when there
is a gratuitous promise that is likely to, and does, induce the promisee's
reliance.  As  choice  B  suggests,  in  theory  there  can  be  justifiable
reliance  on  a  promise  before  a  contract  is  created,  such  as  where  the
promisee  must  perform  before  the  offer  can  be  accepted  (e.g.,  a
businessman selling his business before he can buy a franchise). Thus,
there can  be  pre-contractual  promissory  estoppel,  which  can  make  an
offer  irrevocable  or  enforce  a  promise  made  during  preliminary
negotiations.  However,  it  doesn't  apply  to  these  facts,  because  the
investor  bargained  for,  and  got,  a  revocable  offer.  In  promissory
estoppel, the bargaining element is missing. Since promissory estoppel
doesn't apply to these facts, B isn't the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  quasi-contract  only  applies,  to  prevent  unjust  enrichment,
where no contract exists.

Under  quasi-contract,  a  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  recovery  where  he
conferred a benefit on the defendant with the expectation he would be

1391

paid,  defendant  knew  or  should  have  known  plaintiff  expected  to  be
paid,  and  defendant  would  be  unjustly  enriched  if  he  got  to  keep  the
benefit without paying for it. Thus, quasi-contract only applies when a
person  receives  benefits  in  the  absence  of  an  enforceable  promise  to
pay.

This doesn't apply here because there is a contract, and thus there's
no reason to turn to quasi-contractual recovery. The investor requested
that the landowner perform — i.e., make a written, revocable offer —
in return for $200. Once she did so, an enforceable unilateral contract
was  formed,  and  quasi-contract  isn't  relevant.  Since  D  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 28

 (B) is the best response,

because the restrictive covenant is enforceable by the man.

The  language  in  the  deed  conveying  the  40-acre  tract  to  the
developer, which restricted the use of that tract to residential purposes,
is a restrictive covenant. A restrictive covenant will be binding against
a  later  purchaser  of  the  promisor's  land  and  will  be  enforceable  by
later  purchasers  of  the  promisee's  land.  In  order  for  the  benefit  and
burden  of  the  restrictive  covenant  to  bind  successive  purchasers,  the
purchaser  must  have  notice,  either  actual  or  constructive,  of  the
covenant. Although the doctor in this problem did not have actual notice
of the restrictive covenant, she was on constructive notice of it because
it  was  recorded  in  her  chain  of  title.  As  a  result,  the  doctor  will  be
bound by the restrictive covenant, and the man, who still owns the five-
acre tract, will be able to enforce it against her.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the restrictive covenant was intended to benefit the man.

The  language  in  the  deed  conveying  the  40-acre  tract  to  the
developer, which restricted the use of that tract to residential purposes,
is a restrictive covenant. A restrictive covenant will be binding against
a  later  purchaser  of  the  promisor's  land  and  will  be  enforceable  by
later  purchasers  of  the  promisee's  land.  In  order  for  the  benefit  and
burden  of  the  restrictive  covenant  to  bind  successive  purchasers,  the
purchaser  must  have  notice,  either  actual  or  constructive,  of  the
covenant. Although the doctor in this problem did not have actual notice

1392

of the restrictive covenant, she was on constructive notice of it because
it was recorded in her chain of title. Any landowner who was intended
to  be  the  beneficiary  of  the  obligations  contained  in  a  restrictive
covenant  may  enforce  the  covenant.  As  a  result,  the  doctor  will  be
bound by the restrictive covenant, and the man, who still owns the five-
acre tract, will be able to enforce it against her.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  restrictive  covenants  are  unaffected  by  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities.

The  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  requires  that  interests  in  land  must
vest, if at all, within 21 years of a life in being at the time the interest
was created. However, a restrictive covenant is unaffected by the Rule
Against Perpetuities since there is no question as to whether or not the
right  to  enforce  the  restrictive  covenant  will  vest:  so  long  as  there  is
notice, the benefit and burden of the restrictive covenant will run with
the land and will be binding on successive purchasers.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  zoning  ordinance  does  not  override  the  restrictive
covenant.

While  it  may  be  the  case  that  the  local  zoning  ordinance  would
allow the doctor's proposed use, it has no effect on the enforceability of
the restrictive covenant. The man may enforce this restrictive covenant
against the doctor, because the doctor was on constructive notice of the
restrictive covenant, since it was in her chain of title. There is no rule
stating  that  a  zoning  ordinance  that  allows  certain  uses  of  land  will
preempt  a  restrictive  covenant  that  disallows  those  uses.  Such  a  rule
would not make sense, since it would render all restrictive covenants
ineffective, as they could not constrain what is allowed by zoning, nor
could they allow users what zoning does not.

 Answer 29

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  district  court  has  jurisdiction  over  claims  arising  under
treaties.

In order to fall within the subject matter jurisdiction of the federal
district  courts,  there  must  be  either  diversity  jurisdiction  or  federal

1393

question jurisdiction. Since we are told that the man and woman in this
problem  were  residents  of  the  same  state,  there  is  no  diversity
jurisdiction.  However,  there  is  federal  question  jurisdiction,  since
Article III, § 2, of the Constitution provides that “[t]he judicial power
shall  extend  to  all  cases,  in  law  and  equity,  arising  under  this
Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which
shall be made, under their authority.” Since the basis for the woman's
suit is the treaty that requires citizens to pay tort judgments awarded by
the  foreign  court,  the  suit  involves  a  “federal  question”  and  is  within
the district court's jurisdiction.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the suit raises a federal question.

In order to fall within the subject matter jurisdiction of the federal
district  courts,  there  must  be  either  diversity  jurisdiction  or  federal
question jurisdiction. Since we are told that the man and woman in this
problem  were  residents  of  the  same  state,  there  is  no  diversity
jurisdiction.  However,  there  is  federal  question  jurisdiction,  since
Article III, § 2, of the Constitution provides that “[t]he judicial power
shall  extend  to  all  cases,  in  law  and  equity,  arising  under  this
Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which
shall  be  made,  under  their  authority.”  (Emphasis  added.)  Since  the
basis for the woman's suit is the treaty that requires citizens to pay tort
judgments  awarded  by  the  foreign  court,  the  suit  involves  a  “federal
question” and is within the district court's jurisdiction.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Commerce  Power  applies  to  Congress,  not  the  federal
judiciary.

The  federal  district  court  will  have  jurisdiction  over  the  woman's
suit because the suit arises under a treaty of the United States, and thus
raises  a  “federal  question.”  If  you  selected  this  choice,  you  are
probably thinking that since the traffic accident was not a commercial
transaction,  Congress  could  not  pass  a  law  governing  the  accident
because the Commerce Power does not reach it. This line of reasoning
makes  two  errors.  First,  whether  or  not  Congress  could  legislate  an
issue  is  an  entirely  distinct  question  from  whether  the  federal  courts
have jurisdiction over a suit, which requires only that either diversity
or federal jurisdiction applies. Second, it erroneously implies that the

1394

Commerce  Power  is  the  only  power  under  which  Congress  may
legislate. This is not the case, as Article I, § 8, provides several other
enumerated  powers  of  the  legislative  branch.  (Although  none  of  these
other powers would allow Congress to legislate in this arena, that fact
does not make choice B any more correct.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is irrelevant.

The scope of the President's power to enter into treaties (with the
advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate)  is  very  broad.  However,  that
information  does  not  inform  the  question  asked,  which  is  whether  the
federal district court has subject matter jurisdiction to hear the woman's
claim.  In  this  case,  the  district  court  will  have  subject  matter
jurisdiction  because  the  woman's  claim  involves  a  federal  question.
Article III, § 2, of the Constitution provides that “[t]he judicial power
shall  extend  to  all  cases,  in  law  and  equity,  arising  under  this
Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which
shall  be  made,  under  their  authority.”  (Emphasis  added.)  Since  the
basis for the woman's suit is the treaty that requires citizens to pay tort
judgments  awarded  by  the  foreign  court,  the  suit  involves  a  “federal
question” and is within the district court's jurisdiction.

 Answer 30

 (B) is the best response,

because it identifies the correct use of the evidence.

If  the  pedestrian  did  not  exercise  due  care  for  his  own  safety,  his
contributory  negligence  will  bar  his  recovery,  even  if  the  driver  was
negligent.  The  statute  will  be  relevant  in  determining  the  pedestrian's
negligence;  so  will  the  trucker's  blocking  the  crosswalk,  since  it  may
indicate that the pedestrian's violating the statute was excusable. Thus,
the  trier  of  fact  should  be  able  to  examine  the  facts  determining  the
pedestrian's  negligence,  to  see  if  the  driver  will  have  a  valid
contributory  negligence  defense.  Since  B  recognizes  this,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the pedestrian's failure to cross at the crosswalk is relevant to
determining the pedestrian's rights.

1395

If failing to cross at the crosswalk were considered contributorily
negligent, it would bar the pedestrian from recovering at all. (Note that
you're  told  in  the  instructions  that  contributory,  not  comparative,
negligence  is  recognized.)  Since  A  mistakenly  considers  the  evidence
irrelevant, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  assumes  that  the  pedestrian  was  contributorily  negligent.
Why? Because C suggests that the driver's liability depends on the Last
Clear Chance doctrine (“in time to avoid the impact” language).

Last  Clear  Chance  is  used  by  plaintiffs  to  rebut  a  claim  of
contributory  negligence.  It  allows  that  a  defendant  with  the  last  clear
chance  to  avoid  a  negligent  act,  but  who  fails  to  do  so,  is  liable.
However,  as  this  definition  indicates,  Last  Clear  Chance  presupposes
contributory  negligence.  Here,  the  pedestrian  was  only  contributorily
negligent if stepping off the crosswalk and around the truck amounted to
a failure to exercise due care for his own safety. If anything, these facts
would  suggest  the  pedestrian  was  not  negligent;  they  certainly  don't
suggest for sure that he was. While the driver's seeing the pedestrian in
time to avoid the impact will be relevant to the driver's negligence, it
won't be contingent on the pedestrian's contributory negligence. Since C
states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because negligence per se would not apply to these facts.

Negligence  per  se  occurs  when  a  court  decides  violation  of  a
statute will amount to negligence as a matter of law. However, this only
occurs in a small number of statutes, and generally only when a court
finds  the  legislature  intended  for  violation  of  the  statute  to  amount  to
negligence  per  se.  There's  no  evidence  here  that  that's  the  case.  As
such, D cannot be the best response.

 Answer 31

 (A) is the best response,

because it explains why Plaintiff has not met the requirements for use of
federal quasi in rem jurisdiction.

FRCP 4(n) allows the use of quasi in rem jurisdiction in a federal
lawsuit, but only in special circumstances where personal jurisdiction

1396

over the defendant cannot readily be obtained in the district where the
plaintiff plans to bring the action. Rule 4(n)(2) says that “On a showing
that  personal  jurisdiction  over  a  defendant  cannot  be  obtained  in
the  district  where  the  action  is  brought  by  reasonable  efforts  to
serve a summons under this rule, the court may assert jurisdiction over
the  defendant's  assets  found  in  the  district.”  (The  reference  to  “this
rule” refers to the entirety of FRCP 4, which includes 4(e) and 4(k)(1);
those two sub-sections, when taken together, would allow service in the
U.S.  outside  of  State  A  on  any  defendant  if  State  A's  long-arm  would
allow the exercise of personal jurisdiction.)

So  if  Plaintiff  had  been  able  to  “show[]  that  personal  jurisdiction
over  [Defendant]  cannot  be  obtained  in  [N.D.  State  A]  by  reasonable
efforts  to  serve  a  summons  under  [FRCP  4],”  Plaintiff  would  indeed
have  been  entitled  to  assert  quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  based  on
attachment  of  “defendant's  assets  found  in  the  district”  (the  storage
facility).  But  the  facts,  by  citing  Defendant's  Internet  statement  that  its
personnel often visit State A to solicit business, indicate that Defendant
has the “minimum contacts” with State A that would suffice for the state
to  exercise  personal  jurisdiction  over  Defendant.  (And  Statute  1  is  a
long-arm that would suffice to let State A exercise that jurisdiction.) In
other words, it is clearly not the case that “personal jurisdiction over
[Defendant] cannot be obtained in [N.D. State A] by reasonable efforts
to serve a summons,” and indeed Plaintiff has not even tried to make the
showing that it is the case. So FRCP 4(n)(2) doesn't apply, and there is
no  other  provision  allowing  quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  in  this  type  of
case either. (If there were a federal statute that authorized quasi in rem
jurisdiction for the type of case in question, FRCP 4(n)(1) would allow
that  statute  to  serve  as  the  basis  for  quasi in rem  jurisdiction;  but  the
facts tell you that there is no such federal statute.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because compliance with Statute 2 is not sufficient to establish a basis
for the federal court's exercise of quasi in rem jurisdiction.

As  explained  in  Choice  (A),  Plaintiff  must  show  that  personal
jurisdiction  cannot  be  obtained  over  Defendant  “in  the  district  where
the action is brought by reasonable efforts to serve a summons.” FRCP
4(n)(2).  And  Plaintiff  has  not  even  tried  to  make  this  showing,  nor
could  he  do  so  successfully,  given  Defendant's  more-than-minimum
contacts with State A.

1397

(C) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  rules  governing  when  a  federal  court  can
exercise quasi in rem jurisdiction.

As explained in Choice (A), a federal court is permitted to exercise
quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  over  property  located  in  the  district  upon  a
showing that due process is satisfied and that the requirements of FRCP
4(n)—mainly  the  unavailability  of  in  personam  jurisdiction—are
satisfied. This choice, by asserting that no federal statute or rule ever
authorizes quasi  in  rem  jurisdiction  in  federal  lawsuits,  states  a  rule
that  is  incorrectly  broad  (even  though  the  choice  reaches  the  correct
conclusion).

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the constitutional principles governing the exercise
of quasi in rem jurisdiction.

An action quasi in rem seeks to impose a monetary judgment on the
defendant. Property is attached as a basis for the court's power and as a
means  to  secure  any  eventual  judgment  that  the  plaintiff  obtains.  One
use of quasi in rem jurisdiction is to adjudicate the rights of ownership
of particular persons to the attached property. The other use is to obtain
a basis for jurisdiction. In the latter use, the property that is attached is
unrelated to the subject matter of the lawsuit. Here, Plaintiff is using
quasi in rem jurisdiction for that latter purpose, to secure jurisdiction.
So the fact that the storage facility is unrelated to his contract and other
claims  against  Defendant  does  not  matter.  (Notice,  by  the  way,  that  if
Defendant  does  not  make  a  general  appearance  in  the  suit,  the  very
nature of quasi in rem jurisdiction means that Defendant's exposure to
liability will be capped at the value of the property that is attached—in
this case, $95,000.)

 Answer 32

 (D) is the best response,

because  Supreme  Court  precedents  do  not  furnish  a  defense  on  either
grounds.

With  respect  to  the  kidnapped  citizen,  the  Supreme  Court  held  in
Ker  v.  Illinois  (1886)  that  “forcible  abduction  is  no  sufficient  reason
why the party should not answer when brought within the jurisdiction of

1398

the court which has the right to try him for such an offence.” Ker was a
case  in  which  agents  abducted  an  American  citizen  from  a  foreign
country,  so  it's  on  all  fours  with  the  facts  here  (and  it's  never  been
overruled).

As  to  the  accomplice,  the  analysis  is  somewhat  different.  The
warrantless entry into the accomplice's home to arrest her violated her
Fourth  Amendment  rights.  See  Payton  v.  New  York  (1980)  (warrant
required for entry into private dwelling to arrest the inhabitant, if there
are  no  exigent  circumstances).  This  violation  would  have  entitled  the
accomplice  to  suppress  any  evidence  found  incident  to  the  arrest.  Id.
But the violation does not entitle the accomplice to have the indictment
dismissed, because the indictment preceded the arrest, and was not in
any  way  the  product  of  the  later  illegality.  (The  mere  fact  that  the
prosecution had the ability to try the accomplice because it had her in
custody  through  an  illegal  arrest  does  not  make  a  difference.  “Illegal
arrest  does  not  void  a  subsequent  prosecution.”  Gerstein  v.  Pugh
(1975).) In summary, neither defense works.

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best response,

because each answer incorrectly asserts that at least one of the defenses
will be successful.

 Answer 33

What's going on here? The prosecutor is attempting to enter evidence of
an  unrelated  instance  of  misconduct  —  the  other  robbery.  As  such,  it
will require independent relevance in order to be admissible.

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  that  evidence  of  the  other  robbery  will  be
admissible to establish an identifying circumstance.

Here, the prosecutor is attempting to enter evidence of an unrelated
instance of misconduct — the other robbery. The danger of this is that
the jury is likely to convict the defendant because he's a “bad man,” not
because  he's  guilty  in  this  instance.  Nonetheless,  under  FRE  404(b),
evidence of other, specific instances of misconduct will be admissible
when  they  have  independent  relevance.  These  include  knowledge,
absence of mistake or accident, preparation, plan, opportunity, motive,
intent, and identity. Here, the evidence will do more than just identify
the  defendant  as  a  habitual  armed  robber;  it  helps  establish  that  the

1399

identifying  an  unusual
defendant  committed 
circumstance,  known  to  have  occurred  at  the  victim's  robbery,  which
happened at another robbery the defendant committed.

robbery  by 

the 

The  common  identity  will  provide  the  “independent  relevance”
necessary  to  make  the  evidence  admissible,  and  since  A  recognizes
this, it is the best response.

 (B) is not the best answer,

because  it  misstates  the  purpose  for  which  the  evidence  will  be
admissible.

Under  the  doctrine  of  “limited  admissibility,”  evidence  may  be
admissible  for  one  purpose  and  against  one  party,  but  not  admissible
for  some  other  purpose  or  against  some  other  party.  For  instance,
insurance can be admitted to show ownership but not the ability to pay.
Here, evidence of other instances of misconduct is never admissible to
show  the  defendant's  propensity  to  commit  crimes,  because  the  jury
would  be  likely  to  convict  the  defendant  because  of  his  general
criminal  propensities  —  ”since  he  did  it  before,  he  probably  did  it
again” — not because he's guilty in this instance.

Instead, under FRE 404(b), evidence of other, specific instances of
misconduct will only be admissible when they have relevance to some
contested  issue  other  than  character.  Under  404(b)(2),  these  include
knowledge,  absence  of  mistake  or  accident,  preparation,  plan,
opportunity,  motive,  intent,  and  identity.  Here,  the  evidence  will
establish  that  the  defendant  committed  the  robbery  by  identifying  an
unusual circumstance, known to have occurred at the victim's robbery,
which happened at another robbery that the defendant has already been
proven  to  have  committed.  Of  course,  it  will  also  prove  that  the
defendant is a habitual robber, which is going to be the most likely thing
the jury will remember. (Wouldn't you?) But since the evidence fits the
requirements  of  FRE  404(b)(2)  on  independent  relevance,  it  will  be
admissible. Since B states otherwise, it is not the best answer.

 (C) is not the best answer,

because  although  it  correctly  characterizes  the  evidence  here  as
character  evidence,  and  character  evidence  as  a  general  rule  is
inadmissible,  it  fails  to  recognize  that  the  character  evidence  here  is
admissible because it has independent relevance; it's not being offered
for  the  impermissible  purpose  of  showing  the  defendant's  criminal

1400

propensities.

Here, the prosecutor is offering evidence of another, specific act of
misconduct: the defendant's holding up the witness with a pistol painted
red.  Specific  acts  of  misconduct  are  admissible  against  criminal
defendants when the instances have independent relevance under FRE
404(b)(2).  These  include  knowledge,  absence  of  mistake  or  accident,
preparation,  plan,  opportunity,  motive,  intent,  and  identity.  Here,  the
evidence  will  do  more  than  just  identify  the  defendant  as  a  habitual
armed  robber;  it  helps  establish  that  the  defendant  committed  the
robbery  by  identifying  an  unusual  circumstance,  known  to  have
occurred at the victim's robbery, which happened at another robbery the
the
defendant  committed.  The  common 
“independent  relevance”  necessary  to  make  the  evidence  admissible.
Since C does not recognize this, it is not the best response.

identity  will  provide 

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it's  not  a  bad  response,  it  does  not  correctly
characterize  the  facts.  In  fact,  this  is  a  reasonably  tough  question,
because you have to do some balancing and make a judgment call.

D suggests that the evidence will not be admissible because it is not
legally  relevant:  if  the  probative  value  of  a  piece  of  evidence  is
substantially  outweighed  by  the  danger  of  unfair  prejudice  it  will
engender,  then  it  is  not  admissible,  even  if  it  satisfies  every  other
obstacle of admissibility.

The danger here is that the jury will place too much weight on the
witness's  testimony,  and  convict  the  defendant  because  he's  a  habitual
criminal, not because he committed the crime for which he's being tried
— holding up the victim. However, this is a balancing test, and the fact
is  that  the  witness's  testimony  has  a  great  deal  of  probative  value.  It
was  evidence  of  a  similar  robbery,  only  a  week  after  the  victim's
alleged  robbery,  committed  with  a  gun  with  a  very  unusual
characteristic — a barrel painted red. While of course the jury will be
prejudiced  by 
legal  relevance  addresses  unfair
prejudice, and the prejudice here would not likely be considered unfair.
Instead,  the  witness's  testimony  is  character  evidence  that  fits  the
“independent relevance” requirements of FRE 404(b)(2): It is evidence
of a common plan and identity. Since it will not unfairly prejudice the
defendant,  it  will  be  admitted.  Since  D  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not
the best response.

this  evidence, 

1401

Answer 34

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  represents  a  valid  means  by  which  the  statute  could  be
considered constitutional.

The  main  problem  with  the  statute  here  has  to  do  with  equal
protection.  Public  school  desegregation  plans  are  addressed  at  curing
problems  of  equal  protection;  thus,  by  forbidding  federal  courts  from
enforcing  desegregation  plans,  Congress  seems  to  be  acting  in
derogation of the constitution.

By forbidding the federal courts from ordering the implementation
of  such  plans,  the  law  in  these  facts  does  an  “end  run”  around  the
constitutionality issue.

Under  Article  III,  §  2,  of  the  Constitution,  Congress  is  given  the
power to regulate the appellate (but not original) jurisdiction of federal
courts.  Thus,  Congress  could,  for  instance,  stop  federal  courts  from
hearing appeals in cases involving abortion, and it could likewise stop
the  courts  from  hearing  cases  like  the  one  under  these  facts.  Since  B
offers  a  basis  on  which  the  congressional  act  could  be  found
constitutional, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law: Congress doesn't have the power to define
equal protection violations — that's a judicial function.

The judiciary has the power to declare unconstitutional the acts of
other branches of government. Marbury v. Madison  (1803).  Congress
is  the  exclusive  holder  of  the  legislative  power,  and  the  judiciary  has
the power to determine the constitutionality of Congress's actions. Thus,
Congress  could  not  determine  whether  its  own  conduct  violates  the
Equal  Protection  Clause.  Since  A  states  otherwise,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there's no evidence here that transportation of students would
affect interstate commerce.

Congress has power to regulate interstate commerce, under Article
I,  §  8,  cl.  3,  of  the  Constitution.  Under  the  “affectation  doctrine,”
Congress  can  regulate  any  activity  that  has  any  appreciable  direct  or

1402

indirect  effect  on  interstate  commerce  (states  may  regulate  commerce
when Congress intended that the states be able to regulate the activity in
question). While the commerce power is admittedly broad, it would be
unlikely  that  the  power  could  be  interpreted  broadly  enough  to
encompass  the  facts  here.  Public  school  desegregation  would  only
concern  local  transportation,  not  interstate  transportation,  and  it
wouldn't  have  any  appreciable  effect  on  any  interstate  activity.  As  a
result,  the  commerce  power  would  not  be  a  good  basis  for  the
constitutionality  of  the  act.  Since  C  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  Congress  can  attach  “strings”  to  federal  grants,  it
couldn't do so under these facts.

Public  school  desegregation  plans  are  designed  to  promote  equal
protection of the law. Presumably, failure to implement such a plan in
the  face  of  an  equal  protection  violation  would  be  unconstitutional.
Thus,  if  Congress  were  to  insist  that  federal  courts  not  order
desegregation,  it  would  be  promoting  an  equal  protection  violation.
While  Congress  can  attach  “strings”  to  federal  grants  to  encourage
permissible  goals,  like  general  welfare  objectives,  it  can't  act  in
derogation of those goals — and that's what the argument in choice D
would do. As a result, D is not the best response.

 Answer 35

 (B) is the best response,

because FRCP 23(f) gives the court of appeals discretion to allow the
appeal if the plaintiffs petition for permission to appeal within 14 days
after the trial judge entered her order denying certification.

This  question,  like  most  MBE  Civil  Procedure  questions,  can  be
reliably  answered  solely  by  looking  at  the  text  of  the  relevant  rule  or
statute. In this case, the relevant provision is FRCP 23(f). (Remember
that Rule 23 sets out most details regarding how and when federal class
actions are permitted.) The first sentence of 23(f) says that “A court of
appeals may  permit  an  appeal  from  an  order  granting  or  denying
class-action certification under this rule if a petition for permission to
appeal is filed with the circuit clerk within 14 days after the order is
entered.” The Advisory Committee's Notes to Rule 23(f) make it clear

1403

that this provision gives full discretion to the Court of Appeals — the
court  can  hear,  or  reject,  the  immediate  appeal  for  any  reason  or  no
reason.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  asserts  that  the  court  of  appeals  does  not  have
jurisdiction to hear the immediate appeal even if it wishes to do so.

As the discussion of Choice (B) makes clear, FRCP 23(f) gives the
court of appeals complete discretion to hear the immediate appeal, so
long as the named plaintiffs file their petition to appeal with that court
within 14 days of the entry of the trial court's denial of certification. In
other words, the court of appeals has jurisdiction to hear the appeal if it
wishes to do so; this choice, by asserting that the court does not have
jurisdiction, is flatly incorrect.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly asserts that the plaintiffs may immediately appeal
as of right.

As the discussion of Choice (B) shows, FRCP 23(f) leaves it to the
court  of  appeals  to  decide,  in  its  discretion,  whether  to  hear  the
immediate  appeal.  Choice  (C),  by  asserting  that  the  named  plaintiffs
have  a  “right”  to  take  the  appeal  if  they  file  promptly,  is  inconsistent
with  Rule  23(f).  (To  look  at  it  another  way,  federal  appeals  are
generally allowed as of right only after the entry of a “final judgment”
in the case. Here, where the trial judge is willing to have the case go
forward to trial on the five named plaintiffs' individual claims, no final
judgment  has  yet  been  entered;  the  order  denying  certification  is  not
viewed as a “final judgment” for this purpose.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the trial judge does not have the power to allow the immediate
appeal, at least for the reasons stated in the choice.

In limited circumstances, a federal district judge has the power to in
effect  urge  the  court  of  appeals  to  hear  an  interlocutory  appeal.  28
U.S.C. §1292(b) says:

“When a district judge, in making in a civil action an order not otherwise
appealable . . . , shall be of the opinion that such order involves a
controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for

1404

difference of opinion and that an immediate appeal from the order may
materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation, he shall so
state in writing in such order. The Court of Appeals which would have
jurisdiction of an appeal of such action may thereupon, in its discretion,
permit an appeal to be taken from such order, if application is made to it
within ten days after the entry of the order[.]”

But  there  are  at  least  two  reasons  why  Choice  (D)  is  not  correct
despite §1292(b): (1) that section applies only where the district judge
believes  that  her  order  (in  this  case,  the  denial  of  class  certification)
involves a “controlling question of law as to which there is substantial
ground  for  difference  of  opinion,”  and  there's  nothing  in  the  facts  to
indicate  that  the  judge  believes  that  this  “ground  for  difference  of
opinion” requirement is satisfied (and the fact that denial will sound the
“death knell” of the suit is not at all the same concept); and (2) even if
the  district  judge  does  invoke  §1292(b)  in  a  written  order,  this  fact
doesn't  automatically  bring  about  an  interrogatory  appeal  —  it's  still
within the complete discretion  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  to  hear  or  not
hear the appeal. (But as a practical matter, if the named plaintiffs here
were able to convince the trial judge to include a §1292(b) statement in
the  order,  that  statement  would  materially  increase  the  odds  that  the
Court  of  Appeals  would  exercise  its  discretion  to  hear  the  immediate
appeal.) Therefore, Choice (D) is not the best response.

 Answer 36

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  parties'  course  of  dealing  will  control  the  terms  of  the
discount.

Generally, when there is a final written agreement between parties,
the parol evidence rule bars introduction of evidence of prior writings
or discussions that contradict the writing. However, where the writing
is  ambiguous  or  the  contract  is  silent  on  an  issue,  extrinsic  evidence
may be used to interpret the contract. Since this contract is for the sale
of goods, the Uniform Commercial Code is applicable. UCC 2-202(1)
specifically addresses the forms of extrinsic evidence that may be used
to aid in interpreting a contract. Three forms of evidence may be used:
course  of  dealing,  usage  of  trade,  and  course  of  performance.  When
more than one of these types of evidence is available, the most specific

1405

controls.  In  this  problem,  the  usage  of  trade  is  to  allow  a  2  percent
discount for payment within ten days. Additionally, there is a course of
dealing that has arisen from the buyer and seller's hundreds of previous
transactions  with  each  other,  which  allows  a  5  percent  deduction  if
payment is received within 15 days. The seller's note is not a course of
performance  because  it  does  not  describe  how  this  particular
transaction has been proceeding. Rather, it is an additional demand that
has been made after the seller's performance is complete. Since both a
usage  of  trade  and  a  course  of  dealing  are  available,  the  latter  will
control,  since  it  is  more  specifically  related  to  the  parties  in  this
contract.  As  a  result,  the  buyer  is  entitled  to  continue  with  the  prior
understanding and take a 5 percent discount if payment is made within
15 days.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  applies  the  usage  of  trade  when  evidence  of  the  course  of
dealing between the two parties is available.

When  choosing  between  usage  of  trade,  course  of  dealing,  and
course of performance evidence, the most specific pattern will control.
Since the prior transactions between buyer and seller are more specific
than  the  general  custom  in  the  grain  trade,  the  course  of  dealing  will
control.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there has been no waiver.

A  waiver  is  the  intentional  foregoing  of  the  right  to  enforce  a
condition.  While  it  may  seem  that,  by  allowing  the  buyer  to  take  a
discount on prompt payments in the past, the seller has waived the right
to be paid the full contract price, there is no indication in this problem
that it was ever the intention of the parties that prompt payments not be
given  a  discount.  The  seller  could  only  waive  a  condition  if  he
originally had the right to enforce it. In this case, the evidence provided
by the course of dealing between the buyer and seller indicates that they
always  intended  there  to  be  a  discount  for  prompt  payments,  even  if
they never put the discount in writing. A court interpreting this contract
would read it as if the discount allowance was included in the writing.
As a result, the seller never had the right to demand full payment if the
buyer paid within 15 days. Since the seller never had the benefit of a
condition, he had nothing to waive.

1406

(D) is not the best response,

because, as discussed above in the explanation of choice B, UCC 2-202
allows consideration of certain extrinsic evidence that would otherwise
be barred by the parol evidence rule when the meaning of a term in a
written contract is ambiguous.

Since there is a latent ambiguity in the price term of this contract, a
court  may  consider  extrinsic  evidence,  in  the  form  of  usage  of  trade,
course of dealing, or course of performance, in its determination of the
meaning of the term.

 Answer 37

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  risk  the  defendant  created  was  high  enough  to  justify  a
murder conviction.

Common-law murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with
malice aforethought. While murder does not require intent, the type that
does  not  require  it  —  depraved  heart  murder  —  requires  that  the
defendant  engage  in  extremely  negligent  conduct,  which  a  reasonable
person would realize creates a very high degree of risk to human life,
and which results in death. Here, the defendant's conduct — shooting a
gun into a crowded party — creates just such a risk. A wrinkle in this
choice is that you're told the defendant was “angered.” While this might
trigger thoughts of provocation — and thus voluntary manslaughter, not
murder  —  keep  in  mind  that  the  provocation  must  be  of  the  type  that
would  provoke  a  reasonable  person,  not  just  the  defendant.  While  a
reasonable  person  might  be  provoked  sufficiently  to  call  the  police
under these circumstances, whipping out a gun and shooting the partying
crowd would certainly be three standard deviations away from what a
reasonable person would do under the circumstances. Since A provides
the  facts  most  likely  to  result  in  a  murder  conviction,  of  these  four
choices, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  would  likely  be  liable  for  only  voluntary
manslaughter, not murder.

Voluntary  manslaughter  is  murder  committed  under  the  “heat  of
passion.” Thus, it's an unlawful killing with malice aforethought (either

1407

intent  to  kill  or  do  serious  bodily  injury,  depraved  heart,  or  felony
murder), where the act was provoked. The provocation must be one that
would provoke a reasonable person and in fact provoked the defendant;
and  the  defendant  must  not  have  calmed  down  since  the  provocation,
and a reasonable person would similarly not have calmed down in time
for the killing. Here, you're only told that the defendant's cousin slapped
the  defendant  during  an  argument,  and  the  defendant  shot  him  in
response. Without more, it's not crystal clear that the defendant would
only  be  liable  for  voluntary  manslaughter  instead  of  murder,  but  what
facts there are suggests it's a strong possibility. As a result, B is not the
best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it's unlikely that the risk the defendant created would be great
enough to convict him of murder.

Common-law  murder  requires  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice
aforethought. While malice can take several forms, the one that does not
require  intent  —  depraved  heart  murder  —  does  require  extremely
negligent  conduct,  which  a  reasonable  person  would  realize  creates  a
very  high  degree  of  risk  to  human  life.  If  the  risk  is  not  that  high,  but
still  criminally  negligent,  the  defendant  will  be  liable  for  criminal
negligence-type  involuntary  manslaughter,  which  is  probably  the  case
here. While running a red light does create some danger to human life,
without  other  facts,  the  risk  would  not  be  high  enough  to  justify  a
common law conviction. As a result, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it's unlikely that the risk the defendant created would be great
enough to justify a murder conviction.

Common-law  murder  requires  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice
aforethought.  While  malice  has  several  forms,  the  one  that  does  not
require  intent  —  depraved  heart  murder  —  does  require  extremely
negligent  conduct,  which  a  reasonable  person  would  realize  creates  a
very high degree of risk to human life. Creating a lower level of risk,
which  is  still  criminally  negligent,  would  result  in  liability  for
involuntary  manslaughter  of  the  criminal  negligence  type.  That's
probably the result here.

Punching  the  victim  in  the  face  is  an  act,  in  and  of  itself,  that  a
reasonable person would not anticipate resulting in a very high degree

1408

of risk to human life. Thus, D is not the best response.

 Answer 38

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the reason for inadmissibility as the fact
that the evidence is not legally relevant.

etc.  However, 

A  piece  of  evidence,  apart  from  meeting  every  other  hurdle  of
admissibility, must be legally relevant — in other words, its probative
value  cannot  be  substantially  outweighed  by  the  probability  of  undue
prejudice. FRE 403. This happens most frequently with “inflammatory”
evidence  in  criminal  cases  —  graphic  and  gruesome  photos,  body
parts, 
reasonably
straightforward,  since  the  jury  is  likely  to  be  unduly  influenced  by  its
reaction  to  the  defendant's  heroin  addiction.  This  is,  of  course,  a
judgment  call,  but  legal  relevance  should  always  come  to  your  mind
when the evidence is particularly shocking. Since C correctly identifies
the evidence here as being inadmissible due to the probability of undue
prejudice it will invoke, it's the best response.

applicability  here 

its 

is 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it ignores the issue of legal relevance.

Here,  the  prosecution  is  offering  evidence  of  another  instance  of
misconduct  in  order  to  prove  the  defendant's  guilt.  The  problem  with
such  evidence  is  its  logical  relevance.  Under  FRE  404(b),  such
evidence  can  only  be  admissible  when  it  has  independent  relevance,
such as to show:

1. Knowledge;
2. Absence of mistake or accident;
3. Preparation;
4. Plan;
5. Opportunity;
6. Motive;
7. Intent; or
8. Identity.

As you can see, motive is one of these. However, what this ignores
is  the  fact  that  the  evidence  must  still  meet  the  legal  relevance

1409



requirement  of  FRE  403.  That  is,  the  probative  value  of  the  evidence
must  not  be  substantially  outweighed  by  the  probability  of  undue
prejudice.  While  this  happens  most  frequently  with  “inflammatory”
evidence in criminal cases (graphic and gruesome photos, body parts,
etc.),  the  jury  here  is  likely  to  be  unduly  influenced  by  the  heroin
evidence.  Since  A  does  not  take  this  into  account,  it  is  not  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states a clearly impermissible goal for the evidence.

Here,  the  prosecution  is  offering  evidence  of  another  instance  of
misconduct  in  order  to  prove  the  defendant's  guilt.  The  problem  with
such  evidence  is  its  logical  relevance.  Under  FRE  404(b),  such
evidence  can  only  be  admissible  when  it  has  independent  relevance,
such as to show:

1. Knowledge;
2. Absence of mistake or accident;
3. Preparation;
4. Plan;
5. Opportunity;
6. Motive;
7. Intent; or
8. Identity.

Evidence is never admissible to prove the defendant's propensity to
commit crimes, because if a person's character is shown through such
evidence, the jury is likely to be unduly influenced by its reaction to the
person,  not  by  his  actions  under  the  circumstances  in  question.  As  a
result, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly applies the “Mercy Rule” to these facts.

Under  the  Mercy  Rule  of  FRE  404(a)(2)(A),  the  defendant  can
introduce  evidence  of  his  own  good  character  to  show  he  did  not
commit  the  crime  in  question.  Once  a  defendant  has  done  so,  the
prosecutor  can  rebut.  FRE  405(a)  limits  both  the  defendant  and  the
prosecutor to reputation and opinion evidence. Here, the evidence is in
the form of a specific act — the defendant's possession of heroin and a

1410



hypodermic needle on one occasion — not reputation or opinion, so it
could not be admitted under the Mercy Rule even if the defendant had
already  offered  evidence  of  his  good  character.  Since  D  misstates  the
rule, it's not the best response.

 Answer 39

 (C) is the best response,

because the man has used the path for the statutory period without the
neighbor's consent.

An  easement  by  prescription  can  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  the
easement,  without  permission  of  the  servient  landowner,  openly  and
continuously  for  the  statutory  period.  Here,  the  man  never  had  the
permission of his neighbor to use the path on the neighbor's land, and he
used the path for 15 years — a period that exceeds the statute's ten-year
requirement  for  acquiring  an  easement  by  prescription.  The  man  has
used the land continuously and without interruption. As a result, the man
has  acquired  an  easement  by  prescription.  Note  that  the  fact  that  the
man's  use  was  not  exclusive  does  not  defeat  his  claim;  there  is  no
general rule that easements must interfere with the servient landowner's
use of his land.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the requirements for adverse possession have not been met.

In  order  to  acquire  title  by  adverse  possession,  a  party  must
continuously possess the property in a manner that is “open, notorious,
and  visible”  and  hostile  to  the  title  owner's  interest  for  the  statutory
period. While the man's use of the path satisfies most of these criteria,
he failed to “possess” the land, since his use was not exclusive. Since
the hallmark of ownership of property is the right to exclude others, and
the man never attempted to do so, he never manifested ownership of the
land, as required to acquire title by adverse possession.

 (B) is not the best response,

because there was no common ownership of the two parcels.

A  court  will  find  an  easement  by  necessity  if  two  parcels  are
situated such that the easement is strictly necessary for the enjoyment of
one  parcel  (for  example,  if  the  only  access  to  the  dominant  parcel
involves  crossing  the  servient  parcel).  In  addition  to  the  above

1411

requirement,  an  easement  by  necessity  will  only  arise  when,  at  one
time,  the  two  parcels  were  under  common  ownership.  Neither
requirement has been met in this case. We do not know that it would be
impossible for the man to construct a path on his own land to reach the
highway,  and  there  is  no  indication  that  the  two  parcels  were  ever
under  common  ownership.  Accordingly,  there  is  no  easement  by
necessity.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the man has acquired an easement by prescription.

An  easement  by  prescription  can  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  the
easement,  without  permission  of  the  servient  landowner,  openly  and
continuously  for  the  statutory  period.  Here,  the  man  never  had  the
permission of his neighbor to use the path on the neighbor's land, and he
used the path for 15 years — a period that exceeds the statute's ten-year
requirement  for  acquiring  an  easement  by  prescription.  The  man  has
used the land continuously and without interruption. As a result, the man
has  acquired  an  easement  by  prescription.  Note  that  the  fact  that  the
man's  use  was  not  exclusive  does  not  defeat  his  claim:  there  is  no
general rule that easements must interfere with the servient landowner's
use of his land.

 Answer 40

 (D) is the best response,

is  required  for  a  contract 

because a promise to pay a debt after the statute of limitations has run is
enforceable without consideration.
Generally,  consideration 

to  be
enforceable.  However,  there  are  several  exceptions  to  this  rule.  One
such  exception  is  a  promise  to  pay  a  debt  that  would  be  otherwise
unenforceable because it is barred by the statute of limitations. In order
for this exception to be applicable, most states require that the promise
be made in writing. In addition, if the promisor only promises to pay a
part of the debt, the promise will only be enforceable up to the amount
of  the  new  promise,  not  the  full  amount  of  the  debt.  Since  the  debtor
made  his  promise  to  pay  $500  in  writing,  his  comments  will  be
enforceable up to that amount, even without consideration.

 (A) is not the best response,

1412

because it is irrelevant.

The question asked whether the debtor's new promise to pay $500
is enforceable, not whether he will plead the statute of limitations in a
suit  seeking  to  recover  the  original  $1,500  debt.  As  discussed  in  the
explanation of choice D above, the debtor's promise to pay $500 of the
otherwise 
time-barred  debt  will  be  enforceable  even  absent
consideration.  Therefore,  the  lender  will  be  able  to  enforce  this  new
promise,  but,  should  the  lender  seek  to  recover  the  full  amount  of  the
debt,  the  debtor  will  be  able  to  plead  the  statute  of  limitations  as  a
defense.

 (B) is not the best response,

because no consideration is needed to support a promise to pay a debt
otherwise unenforceable due to the statute of limitations.

Generally,  consideration 

is  required  for  a  contract 

to  be
enforceable.  However,  there  are  several  exceptions  to  this  rule.  One
such  exception  is  a  promise  to  pay  a  debt  that  would  otherwise  be
unenforceable because it is barred by the statute of limitations. In order
for this exception to be applicable, most states require that the promise
he made in writing. In addition, if the promisor only promises to pay a
part of the debt, the promise will only be enforceable up to the amount
of  the  new  promise,  not  the  full  amount  of  the  debt.  Since  the  debtor
made  his  promise  to  pay  $500  in  writing,  his  comments  will  be
enforceable up to that amount, even without consideration.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  address  the  issue  of  whether  the  lender  has
provided consideration.

Generally,  consideration 

is  required  for  a  contract 

to  be
enforceable.  However,  there  are  several  exceptions  to  this  rule.  One
such  exception  is  a  promise  to  pay  a  debt  that  would  be  otherwise
unenforceable because it is barred by the statute of limitations. In order
for this exception to be applicable, most states require that the promise
be made in writing. In addition, if the promisor only promises to pay a
part of the debt, the promise will only be enforceable up to the amount
of  the  new  promise,  not  the  full  amount  of  the  debt.  Since  the  debtor
made  his  promise  to  pay  $500  in  writing,  his  comments  will  be
enforceable up to that amount, even without consideration. It is clear in
this case that the debtor is providing consideration (the promise to pay

1413

$500  on  his  debt).  What  seems  to  be  missing  is  consideration  on  the
part of the lender, who is not giving up anything because, even absent
the new agreement, he would be unable to enforce the debtor's debt in
court.

 Answer 41

 (B) is the best response,

because the law will be judged using rational basis review.

Unless a law falls into one of the limited categories which require a
heightened level of review, a court will assess the constitutionality of
the law using rational basis review. The law prohibiting the operation
of diagnostic centers unaffiliated with the hospital does not fall into one
of  these  categories.  Heightened  levels  of  scrutiny  are  generally
reserved for cases that implicate Equal Protection or First Amendment
concerns. Since this law is neither, it will be upheld if it is rationally
related  to  a  legitimate  state  interest.  Since  it  is  possible  that  the  state
legislature rationally believed that the law would be in the best interest
of  the  population's  health  (a  legitimate  state  interest)  to  have  this
restriction, the law will be upheld.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is too broad.

While  it  is  true  that  the  provision  of  medical  services  is  a
traditional matter of local concern, it is not the case that a state's ability
to regulate in the arena is beyond judicial review. All laws passed by a
state legislature must fall within constitutional limitations. For example,
a law that prohibited members of a certain minority group from being
admitted to state hospitals would clearly violate Equal Protection, and
a court would properly strike such legislation. However, in this case no
such  class-based  determinations  are  being  made,  so  the  law  will  be
upheld  as  it  survives  rational  basis  review.  Remember  that  there  is  a
difference  between  a  law  being  constitutional  and  the  law  being
unreviewable.  Even  though  the  law  in  this  problem  will  be  upheld,  a
court may still review it for constitutionality.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it raises an irrelevant concern.

Whether  the  law  imposes  an  undue  burden  on  access  to  medical

1414

services  is  only  a  concern  if  such  access  is  a  fundamental  right.  The
Supreme  Court  has  not  held  that  access  to  medical  services  is  a
fundamental  right,  so  no  heightened  level  of  judicial  scrutiny  is
appropriate.  As  a  result,  the  law  will  be  judged  under  rational  basis
review,  and  will  likely  be  upheld  since  the  state  legislature  could
rationally believe that the law would promote the general welfare of its
citizenry (which is a legitimate state interest).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the suit is ripe.

In order for a suit to be heard in federal court, it must be ripe for
adjudication. A controversy is ripe when harm to the plaintiff either has
occurred  or  is  reasonably  likely  to  occur  imminently.  The  latter
condition is satisfied here. The physicians group presently has plans to
open a diagnostic center, unaffiliated with a hospital, in the state. The
state statute prohibiting such centers is an imminent threat to their plan.
Since  the  harm  threatened  to  the  physicians  group  is  not  merely
theoretical, but is reasonably likely to occur in the near future, the case
is ripe, and may be heard on its merits.

 Answer 42

 (D) is the best response,

because a federal district court sitting in diversity in a particular state
is required to apply the same rule of decision as a state court sitting in
that same state would apply.

This means that if the State B conflict-of-law rule requires a State
B state court to apply the GPDA to the dispute, a federal court sitting in
State B is required to as well. This result follows indirectly from Erie
Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64 (1938), in which the Supreme
Court  held  that  in  the  absence  of  federal  statutory  law  on  point,  a
federal  district  court  sitting  in  diversity  must  follow  the  common-law
decisions  as  well  as  state  statutes  and  state  constitutional  rules  of  the
state  where  the  federal  court  sits.  More  directly,  the  Court  held  post-
Erie in Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Mfg. Co., 313 U.S. 487 (1941)
that the Erie doctrine requires a federal district court sitting in diversity
to apply not only the substantive rules of decision of the state in which
it sits but also that state's choice-of-law (i.e., conflicts) rules. (The
Klaxon  rule  has  the  advantage  that  it  discourages  the  parties  from

1415

forum shopping. Thus a plaintiff will not get the benefit of a different
substantive rule by filing in a federal court for State X rather than in a
State  X  state  court;  likewise,  a  defendant  will  not  get  the  benefit  of  a
different substantive rule by removing the action from a state court to a
federal court in that same state.)

Choice  (D),  by  making  the  federal  court's  decision  on  whether  to
apply the State B statute turn on whether the State B courts would apply
the statute to this same dispute, correctly expresses the Klaxon choice-
of-law-based  rule.  Under  that  rule,  for  instance,  if  the  State  B  courts
would apply State A rather than State B substantive contracts principles
to this dispute because delivery was to occur in State A and/or because
the Plaintiff was a citizen of State A, then the federal court would also
be free to disregard the State B statute.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  this  choice  ascribes  to  the  federal  court  a  power  it  does  not
have.

Under a long-standing federal statute called the Rules of Decision
Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1652, a federal court is required, in the absence of a
contrary  federal  statute  or  rule,  to  apply  “the  laws  of  the  several
states,” which are to be treated as “rules of decisions” in federal civil
actions.  The  phrase  “the  laws  of  the  several  states”  has  long  been
interpreted to include a state's statutes. (Erie v. Tompkins expanded the
meaning  of  the  phrase  to  include  a  state's  judicial  decisions  in  the
category  of  “laws  of  [a]  state.”  But  even  pre-Erie,  a  state's  statutes
were always treated as being part of that state's laws.) Here, there is no
federal statute or rule governing the issue. So even if the federal court
thinks that federal “common law” (the body of non-statutorily-focused
decisions by federal judges on analogous issues) would supply a good
rule  for  deciding  the  issue  of  whether  Defendant's  delay  constituted  a
material breach, the Rules of Decision Act requires the court to defer to
any  State  B  statute  on  point,  if  the  State  B  courts  would  apply  that
statute to the case at hand in a state-court suit. Since choice (A) ignores
the effect of the Rules of Decision Act, it is not the correct answer.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the rule it states does not apply to the facts.

The state of incorporation is relevant to determining the citizenship
of  a  corporation  for  purposes  of  determining  whether  diversity

1416

jurisdiction  exists  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1332.  But  the  citizenship  of  the
defendant corporation here is not directly relevant to the issue of what
body  of  law  should  control  on  the  substantive  issue  of  whether  the
Defendant has materially breached the contract. In determining whether
to  apply  state  law  to  a  dispute,  the  federal  diversity  court  in  the  first
instance must look to the choice-of-law rule of the state in which the
federal court sits—whichever state's substantive law would be applied
by  the  state  where  the  federal  court  sits,  the  federal  court  must  apply
that state's law. So here, the question is, “Under State B's choice-of-law
rules,  which  state's  substantive  contracts  law—State  A  or  State  B—
would  be  applied  by  the  State  B  courts,  if  the  State  B  courts  were
hearing this case?” State B's choice of law rules might or might not give
weight to the Defendant's state of incorporation; and if State B wouldn't
consider that state of incorporation as part of the state's choice-of-law
analysis,  the  federal  court  may  not  do  so  either.  So  Choice  (B),  by
implying  that  the  federal  court  must  use  the  substantive  law  of  the
Defendant's state of incorporation, makes an incorrect statement of law.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly imposes a condition on the federal court's duty to
apply the State B statute.

Under  the  federal  Rules  of  Decision  Act,  28  U.S.C.  §  1652,  a
federal court, assuming no federal statute or rule applies, is required to
apply  state  law  to  resolve  the  dispute  before  it.  So  the  federal  court
here, where no federal statute or rule applies, must apply the relevant
State B law —first, the State B choice-of-law rule (State B's method of
deciding  which  state's  substantive  law  should  apply),  and  then,  the
substantive law of State B if that's the body of law the State B courts
would apply on these facts. When the federal court carries out this task
of  ascertaining  state  law,  it  of  course  looks  to  any  decisions  by  the
state's highest court, so the federal court here would indeed look to see
what  State  B's  highest  court  has  to  say  about  the  choice-of-law  issue
and thus about whether the GPDA would apply to this suit. But whether
or not the highest state court has ruled, the federal court is not free to
disregard the GPDA if it believes State B's trial courts would choose to
apply that statute to the dispute before it. Since choice (C) suggests that
the federal court must apply the GPDA only if the highest court of State
B  has  held  that  the  statute  applies  to  this  sort  of  dispute,  the  choice
places an incorrect limit on the federal court's duty to apply the GPDA.

1417

Answer 43

 (C) is the best response,

because  this  statement  impeaches  the  witness's  credibility,  but  it  does
not fall under a hearsay exception.

Here,  the  witness's  prior  statement  is  plainly  inconsistent  with  his
current testimony, as he “denied making any statements to the contrary.”
Therefore, the prior inconsistent statement can be used to impeach the
witness's  credibility  and  demonstrate  that  his  trial  testimony  is  not
believable.

In order for the statement to be admissible to prove the defendant's
involvement  (a  substantive  rather  than  impeaching  use),  it  must  be
offered for the truth of the matter asserted and therefore must satisfy a
hearsay  exception.  The  closest  possible  exception  for  an  inconsistent
prior  statement  of  a  witness  is  FRE  801(d)(1)(A),  but  that  exception
mandates that the prior statement be given under oath at a trial, hearing,
or  other  proceeding.  As  this  prior  statement  was  not  under  oath,  that
exception will not apply. Since no other hearsay exception is satisfied
under the facts, the statement will come in only to impeach the witness
and not for its truth.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is wrong legally.

Pursuant to FRE 607, the credibility of a witness may be attacked
by any party, including the party calling the witness. Here, the witness's
prior statement is plainly inconsistent with his current testimony, as he
“denied  making  any  statements  to  the  contrary.”  Therefore,  the  prior
inconsistent statement can be used to impeach the witness's credibility
and demonstrate that his trial testimony is not believable. The fact that
the party calling the witness impeaches the witness is irrelevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, while it is inadmissible hearsay if offered for the truth of the
matter asserted, it is still admissible to impeach.

As the call of the question asked if this testimony is admissible, all
grounds  for  admissibility  must  be  explored,  including  impeachment.
The  witness's  prior  statement  is  plainly  inconsistent  with  his  current
testimony,  as  he  “denied  making  any  statements  to  the  contrary.”

1418

Therefore, the prior inconsistent statement can be used to impeach the
witness's  credibility  and  demonstrate  that  his  trial  testimony  is  not
believable.

 (D) is not the best response,

because, while it is admissible to impeach, it is inadmissible hearsay if
offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted.

Here,  the  witness's  prior  statement  is  plainly  inconsistent  with  his
current testimony, as he “denied making any statements to the contrary.”
Therefore, the prior inconsistent statement can be used to impeach the
witness's  credibility  and  demonstrate  that  his  trial  testimony  is  not
believable. But in order for the statement to be admissible to prove the
defendant's  involvement,  it  must  be  offered  for  the  truth  of  the  matter
asserted  and  therefore  must  satisfy  a  hearsay  exception.  The  closest
possible  exception  for  an  inconsistent  prior  statement  of  a  witness  is
FRE 801(d)(1)(A), but that exception mandates that the prior statement
be  given  under  oath  at  a  trial,  hearing,  or  other  proceeding.  As  this
prior statement was not under oath, that exception will not apply. Since
no  other  hearsay  exception  is  satisfied  under  the  facts,  the  statement
will come in only to impeach the witness and not for its truth.

 Answer 44

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  seller's  obligation  to  convey  title  clear  of  encumbrances
benefits only the buyer.

The  contract  is  silent  as  to  the  quality  of  title  that  the  seller  must
convey.  When  the  contract  for  sale  is  silent  on  this  issue,  a  duty  to
convey  marketable  title  will  be  implied.  Because  of  the  corporation's
easement, the seller will not be able to do so. However, the condition
requiring  the  delivery  of  marketable  title,  which  is  read  into  the
contract, is designed only to benefit the buyer. Consequently, the buyer
is free to waive that condition and insist that the seller go through with
the sale. Here, the buyer was aware of the corporation's easement, but
elected to go forward anyway. As a result, the seller will be obligated
to  sell  the  land,  but  the  buyer  will  be  unable  to  claim  that  the  seller
breached her duty to deliver marketable title in any later action.

 (A) is not the best response,

1419

because  the  buyer  waived  the  requirement  that  the  seller  convey
marketable title.

The  contract  is  silent  as  to  the  quality  of  title  that  the  seller  must
convey.  When  the  contract  for  sale  is  silent  on  this  issue,  a  duty  to
convey  marketable  title  will  be  implied.  Because  of  the  corporation's
easement, the seller will not be able to do so. However, the condition
requiring  the  delivery  of  marketable  title,  which  is  read  into  the
contract, is designed only to benefit the buyer. Consequently, the buyer
is free to waive that condition and insist that the seller go through with
the sale. Here, the buyer was aware of the corporation's easement, but
elected to go forward anyway. As a result, the seller will be obligated
to  sell  the  land,  but  the  buyer  will  be  unable  to  claim  that  the  seller
breached her duty to deliver marketable title in any later action.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer  waived  the  requirement  that  the  seller  convey
marketable title.

The  contract  is  silent  as  to  the  quality  of  title  that  the  seller  must
convey.  When  the  contract  for  sale  is  silent  on  this  issue,  a  duty  to
convey  marketable  title  will  be  implied.  Because  of  the  corporation's
easement, the seller will not be able to do so. However, the condition
requiring  the  delivery  of  marketable  title,  which  is  read  into  the
contract, is designed only to benefit the buyer. Consequently, the buyer
is free to waive that condition and insist that the seller go through with
the sale. Here, the buyer was aware of the corporation's easement, but
elected to go forward anyway. As a result, the seller will be obligated
to  sell  the  land,  but  the  buyer  will  be  unable  to  claim  that  the  seller
breached her duty to deliver marketable title in any later action.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  buyer  waived  the  requirement  that  the  seller  convey
marketable title.

The  contract  is  silent  as  to  the  quality  of  title  that  the  seller  must
convey.  When  the  contract  for  sale  is  silent  on  this  issue,  a  duty  to
convey  marketable  title  will  be  implied.  Because  of  the  corporation's
easement, the seller will not be able to do so. However, the condition
requiring  the  delivery  of  marketable  title,  which  is  read  into  the
contract, is designed only to benefit the buyer. Consequently, the buyer
is free to waive that condition and insist that the seller go through with

1420

the  sale.  In  this  case,  the  seller  did  not  discover  the  corporation's
easement  until  after  the  contract  date.  She  was  therefore  under  an
obligation to promptly disclose this information to the buyer, which she
did. The buyer's willingness to go forward with the deal, even though
he  only  learned  of  the  corporation's  easement  four  days  before  the
closing  date,  is  clear  evidence  that  the  buyer  did  not  consider  the
notification untimely. As a result, the seller will be obligated to sell the
land, but the buyer will be unable to claim that the seller breached her
duty to deliver marketable title in any later action.

 Answer 45

 (A) is the best response,

because  in  this  battle  of  dueling  undisputed  evidence,  the  defendant
(i.e., the decedent's estate) has rebutted the plaintiff's prima facie case.
Under the doctrine of “negligence per se,” where a legislature has
enacted a statute that is intended to prescribe the standard of conduct of
a  reasonable  person  in  a  particular  situation,  an  excused  violation  of
that  standard  that  leads  to  the  harm  will  constitute  a  prima  facie
showing  of  negligence  if  certain  requirements  are  met  (e.g.,  that  the
statute was intended to guard against the type of harm and to protect the
class  of  persons  at  issue  in  the  present  case).  So  if  the  statutory
violation  were  the  only  evidence  regarding  negligence  that  had  been
presented  on  either  side,  the  plaintiff  would  win.  But  notice  that  the
above formulation refers to an unexcused violation of the statute.

Here, the decedent's estate, by demonstrating that the decedent had
an  unforeseeable  heart  attack  while  otherwise  driving  reasonably,  has
established that the statutory violation was excused. See, e.g., Rest. 2d
Torts,  §  288A(2)(a)  (giving  an  excuse  for  a  statutory  violation  where
“the violation is reasonable because of the actor's incapacity”). Since
this  evidence  of  excuse  is  undisputed,  and  since  there  is  no  other
evidence of negligence, the decedent's estate wins.

 (B) is not the best response,

because,  while  this  answer  correctly  states  that  the  decedent's  estate
will prevail, it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

The  plaintiff's  evidence  that  the  decedent  violated  the  statute  by
crossing over into her lane of traffic does establish a prima facie case
of negligence. (That is, if it were the only evidence of negligence in the

1421

case,  plaintiff  would  be  entitled  to  go  to  the  jury.)  Nevertheless,  the
decedent's  estate  successfully  rebutted  the  plaintiff's  evidence  by
providing an uncontested explanation of how the accident happened that
is  inconsistent  with  a  finding  of  negligence  (that  the  decedent's
unforeseeable heart attack made her unable to comply with the statute,
or  indeed  with  any  standard  of  care).  Keep  in  mind  that  when  a
statement  says  that  the  plaintiff  has  or  has  not  “established  a  prima
facie  case  for  liability,”  the  statement  is  referring  merely  to  the  facts
presented by the plaintiff in the plaintiff's case, not to the overall set of
proven facts after both sides have rested. So it can happen — as it did
here — that the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case in her own case,
but  that  the  defendant  then  produces  counterproof  to  rebut  that  prima
facie case, entitling the defendant to a verdict (perhaps even a directed
verdict that takes the case away from the jury).

 (C) is not the best response,

because while it may or may not be true that accidents of this type do
not  ordinarily  happen  in  the  absence  of  negligence,  that  is  beside  the
point.  This  choice  is  suggesting  the  applicability  of  res  ipsa  loquitur,
one  requirement  for  which  is  that  the  accident  be  of  a  type  that
ordinarily does not happen in the absence of negligence.

There are two problems with the use of res ipsa here: (1) it is far
from clear that median-crossing accidents “do not ordinarily happen in
the absence of negligence” (there are a lot of heart attack, seizure, and
other  involuntary  median-crossing  scenarios,  perhaps  amounting  to  a
majority);  and  (2)  even  where  the  “does  not  usually  happen  without
negligence” requirement is met, the doctrine will not be applied where
there  is  direct  and  unrebutted  evidence  that  something  other  than  the
defendant's negligence was the cause. (Here, that evidence exists in the
form of the heart attack evidence.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  plaintiff's  evidence  that  the  decedent  violated  the  statute
and crossed over into her lane of traffic establishes only a prima facie
case of negligence.

The  decedent's  estate  successfully  rebutted  the  plaintiff's  evidence
— and thus made the “negligence per se” doctrine inapplicable — by
providing an undisputed explanation of how the accident happened that
is inconsistent with a finding of negligence.

1422

Answer 46

 (B) is the best answer,

because for a 23(b)(3) class action, common issues of law or fact must
predominate.

The facts tell you that the case has been brought as a (b)(3) action,
which is both the most common kind of class action and the only type
whose principal object can be the award of compensatory damages. (In
other  words,  where  the  plaintiff  representing  the  class  is  mainly
interested in obtaining compensation for the members, a (b)(3) action is
usually the only realistic alternative.) But as 23(b)(3) says in its initial
words,  a  (b)(3)  is  suitable  where  (and  only  where),  among  other
factors, “the court finds that the questions of law or fact common to
class  members  predominate  over  any  questions  affecting  only
individual members.”

Here, the facts tell you that Title I only prohibits intentional race or
gender discrimination. The facts also tell you that there are nearly 100
low-level  managers  who  each  made  his  or  her  own  decision  about
whether  to  hire  or  promote  a  particular  class  member.  Therefore,  for
the  fact-finder  to  decide  which  of  the  plaintiffs  had  her  Title  I  rights
violated by Defendant (and even ignoring the further issue of damages),
the  fact-finder  would  have  to  consider  the  relevant  manager's  mental
state  concerning  separately  as  to  each  hiring  decision,  in  order  to
determine  whether 
intentionally
the  class  member  was 
discriminated  against  by  her  manager.  Therefore,  it's  unlikely  that  the
trial judge can or will conclude that questions of law or fact “common
to class members” will indeed predominate over these intent-focused
issues that will have to be resolved on a per-claimant basis. See, e.g.,
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct. 2541, 2561 (2011), noting
that  in  the  employment-discrimination  class  suit  there,  the  corporate
defendant  would  have  to  be  given  the  chance  to  “demonstrate  that
[each] individual applicant was denied an employment opportunity for
lawful reasons,” thereby preventing common issues from predominating
over individual issues. In any event, the question asks you to choose the
objection  that  is  most likely  to  succeed  for  Defendant,  and  while  the
argument  here  might  not  succeed,  it  is  the  only  one  that  offers  even  a
decent possibility of success.

indeed 

 (A) is not correct,

1423

because  it's  not  likely  that  the  100  potential  class  members  will  be
found insufficiently non-numerous.

It's  true  that  according  to  Rule  23(a)(1),  no  class  action  (i.e.,
regardless  of  whether  the  action  is  brought  under  23(b)(1),  (b)(2),  or
(b)(3)) may be certified unless the court concludes that “the class is so
numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable[.]” There is no
hard  and  fast  rule  on  how  large  the  class  must  be  to  meet  this
requirement.  Classes  as  small  as  14  members  have  been  found
sufficient  to  meet  the  numerosity  requirement,  although  generally  the
class must include at least forty members. See Consolidated Rail Corp.
v. Town of Hyde Park, 47 F.3d 473, 483 (2d Cir. 1995). Here, where
there are about 100 potential class members, it's unlikely that the court
would  find  that  the  number  of  members  is  so  small  as  to  be
disqualifying.  In  any  event,  the  common-question  objection  cited  in
Choice (B) is far more likely to succeed than the numerosity objection
here.

 (C) is not correct,

because it states a rule that is irrelevant to these facts.

It's of course true that class actions, like all actions filed in federal
court,  must  satisfy  subject-matter  jurisdiction  requirements.  But  here,
the  complaint  alleges  a  violation  of  a  federal  statute,  making  this  a
“federal question” class action rather than a class action based solely
on diversity. And in federal question suits, jurisdiction does not require
the showing of any amount in controversy (see 28 U.S.C. §1331), and
that's just as true with respect to class actions as in individual actions.
If you were attracted to this choice, you might have been thinking of the
one situation in which the availability of a class action does depend on
at least $5 million being at stake: Under the Class Action Fairness Act
or  CAFA  (embodied  in  28  U.S.C.  §1332(c)(2)  and  (3)),  a  state-law-
based class action in which at least one class member is of citizenship
diverse to at least one defendant, the amount in controversy is satisfied
if at least $5 million is at stake in the aggregate, even if no single claim
would  meet  the  ordinary  $75,000  amount-in-controversy  requirement.
But  since  the  suit  here  is  based  on  a  federal  question,  CAFA  never
comes into play, and there is no amount in controversy requirement at
all.

 (D) is not correct,

1424

because the rule that it recites is not correct.

In  a  class  action,  the  court  must  be  able  to  exercise  personal
jurisdiction  over  defendant.  However,  there  is  no  requirement  that
the court determine whether it could exercise personal jurisdiction
over  the  class  members.  See  Phillips  Petroleum  Co.  v.  Shutts,  472
U.S. 797 (1985). Thus, even if the class members have no connection to
the  state  in  which  the  district  court  sits,  the  court  is  not  thereby
prevented  from  hearing  the  case.  (There  might  be  some  due  process
problems  if  the  absent  class  members  who  had  no  contacts  with  the
forum state were nonetheless bound by a negative outcome in the suit,
after those members were denied a chance to opt out from the suit. But
in a (b)(3) action, such as the one here, absentees are always given the
right  to  opt  out,  so  there  would  be  no  problem  in  binding  a  class
member  who  did  not  opt  out,  even  if  that  member  had  never  had  any
contacts with State A, where the class suit is proceeding.)

 Answer 47

 (D) is the best response,

The  slight  modifications 

because the friend and the man lacked the intent for a burglary.
to  common-law  burglary 

this
jurisdiction mean that the crime is defined as the breaking and entering
of  the  dwelling  or  other  structure  of  another  with  intent  to  commit  a
felony  therein.  Let's  see  how  each  of  the  three  potential  defendants
stacks up against this definition.

in 

The woman:  The  woman  meets  all  the  requirements  for  burglary.
She  broke  into  and  entered  the  dwelling  or  other  structure  of  another
(by means of an innocent agent — more about this below). She intended
to cause a felony to be committed therein: larceny of the saddle. What
she intended to bring about after the breaking and entering was indeed
larceny, because larceny is the trespassory taking and carrying away of
personal property of another with intent to steal. Since the woman knew
that the saddle belonged to the friend, and since she intended to steal it,
she  intended  to  commit  larceny  (and,  incidentally,  succeeded,  though
this isn't a requirement for the completed crime of burglary).

What  about  the  fact  that  the  woman  didn't  do  the  breaking  and
entering,  or  taking,  herself,  but  instead  used  the  man  to  do  it  for  her?
One who successfully recruits an “innocent agent” to carry out criminal
acts  is  guilty  as  a  principal,  if  the  person  doing  the  recruiting  has  the

1425

intent  required  for  the  crime.  So  the  woman  is  guilty  of  burglary  as  a
principal  (and  we  do  not  need  to  resort  to  the  theory  of  accomplice
liability to have her be guilty).

The man: The man is not guilty of burglary, because he lacked the
required  intent.  Burglary  requires  breaking  and  entering  with  intent  to
commit  a  felony.  Even  if  the  man  is  guilty  of  breaking  and  entering
(which he probably is), he can be guilty of burglary only if he intended
to  commit  a  felony  once  inside  the  structure,  and  the  only  plausible
felony here is larceny. But larceny requires intent to steal the property
of  another.  A  person  who  takes  what  he  honestly  (whether  reasonably
or  not)  believes  to  be  his  own  property,  or  the  property  of  someone
who  has  authorized  him  to  do  the  taking,  lacks  the  required  intent  to
“steal the property of another.” Since the man did not intend to do acts,
which,  if  carried  out,  would  have  constituted  a  felony,  he  cannot  be
guilty  of  burglary  even  though  he  unwittingly  enabled  the  woman  to
commit burglary.

The friend: The friend is not guilty of burglary, because she lacked
the  required  intent.  As  with  the  man,  the  friend  could  be  guilty  of
burglary  only  if  she  intended  to  commit  a  felony  once  she  broke  and
entered a structure, and the only plausible felony is larceny. But larceny
requires  intent  to  steal  the  property  of  another,  and  the  friend's  honest
belief (in this case, a correct belief — but the correctness of the belief
is  irrelevant)  that  what  she  would  be  taking  was  her  own  property
negates the requisite “intent to steal another's property.”

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best response,

because each is inconsistent in some way with the analysis in D above.

 Answer 48

 (A) is the best response,

because  nationwide  service  of  process  was  permissible  in  this
situation.

FRCP 4(k)(1) lists several situations in which serving a summons
“establishes personal jurisdiction over a defendant” for a federal-court
suit.  Rule  4(k)(1)(C)  covers  one  of  these  situations  by  saying  that
service  of  the  summons  will  establish  personal  jurisdiction  “when
authorized by a federal statute.” The purpose of FRCP 4(k)(1)(C) is
to allow Congress to add special rules of service, and special rules for

1426

ascertaining whether the federal court has personal jurisdiction over the
defendant, for particular statutes. This allows a defendant to be served
and subject to the federal court's personal jurisdiction without regard to
whether  the  defendant  has  minimum  contacts  with  the  state  where  the
federal  court  sits;  so  Congress  can  even  provide  for  “nationwide
service  of  process”  for  a  particular  category  of  federal  suits.  That's
what Congress has done here in Section 2 of the IFCA—Congress has
said that even if the defendant has no connection with the state where
the federal court hearing the IFCA claim is located (in this case, State
A), personal service on the defendant that occurs anywhere within the
United States will suffice to establish personal jurisdiction.

Keep in mind that even when Congress uses its power to authorize
nationwide service for a particular type of federal claim, the exercise
of  that  power  in  the  case  at  hand  must  still  comport  with
constitutional due process. See, e.g., Hogue  v.  Milodon  Eng'g,  Inc.,
736 F.2d 989, 991 (4th Cir. 1984) (“Where . . . Congress has authorized
nationwide  service  of  process  .  .  .  so  long  as  the  assertion  of
jurisdiction  over  the  defendant  is  compatible  with  due  process,  the
service  of  process  is  sufficient  to  establish  the  jurisdiction  of  the
federal court over the person of the defendant.”). Notice that the final
clause  of  choice  (A)  correctly  refers  to  this  requirement.  But  is  this
choice  also  correct  in  asserting  that  the  due  process  requirement  is
satisfied  on  these  facts?  Consider  these  points:  (1)  Congress  has  the
express  power  under  the  Constitution's  Commerce  Clause  to  regulate
interstate transactions; (2) Congress has a strong interest in providing a
local forum for anyone who is harmed by the sort of interstate Internet-
based fraud that the IFCA is directed against (rather than, say, requiring
the  person  harmed  to  sue  in  the  fraudster's  home  state);  and  (3)  as
Defendant knew when it took Plaintiff's order, the order by the Plaintiff
originated  from  Plaintiff's  State  A  office.  Therefore,  it  does  not  seem
especially unfair to Defendant to require it to defend in State A a suit
arising out of an order that as Defendant knew originated in State A. In
any  event,  it's  unlikely  that  a  court  would  hold  that  any  unfairness  is
great enough to constitute a violation of Defendant's due process rights.
And  that's  true  even  though  Defendant  shipped  the  computer  to  a  non-
forum state (State B).

 (B) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states applicable law.

1427

It is not true that in all federal-question suits, service may be made
anywhere in the U.S. where the defendant may be found. Rather, on our
present facts, nationwide service is permissible only because Congress
took the trouble to specify for ICFA suits in particular that service may
be made nationwide. If Congress had merely drafted the ICFA to create
a federal civil cause of action, and had not said anything about where
suit  on  such  a  claim  could  be  brought,  nationwide  service—as
conditionally allowed by FRCP 4(1)(k)(C)—would not apply. (Service
might still be valid under some other provision of the federal rules, but
this  choice  specifically,  and  incorrectly,  relies  on  the  availability  of
nationwide service.)

 (C) is not correct,

because the rule that it recites does not apply to these facts.

It's  true  that  a  federal  court  will  exercise  personal  jurisdiction
where service and personal jurisdiction would be allowed by the long-
arm of the state where the federal court sits. See FRCP 4(k)(1)(A),
so stating. But Choice (C) is a trick; the state whose long-arm is quoted
is State B (and the computer was indeed shipped into State B), but the
state  where  the  federal  court  is  sitting  is  State A,  not  State  B,  so  it's
State A's long-arm, assuming one existed, that would apply. (If the suit
were pending in State B federal court, this choice would be correct—
Rule 4(k)(1)(A) allows the plaintiff to rely on the local state long-arm
even if the suit is based on a federal question rather than on diversity.)

 (D) is not correct,

because it relies on an incorrect legal premise.

It's true that in a case based solely on diversity, the defendants' lack
of  minimum  contacts  with  the  state  where  the  federal  court  is  based
might well prevent the federal court from hearing the case, because it
may well be a due process violation to force the defendant to defend a
state-law-based  action  if  it  has  no  minimum  contacts  with  the  state
where  the  federal  court  sits.  (It's  possible  that  Congress  could
constitutionally  authorize  the  exercise  of  personal  jurisdiction  by  a
federal  court  sitting  in  diversity  even  in  this  circumstance  of  no-
contacts-with-the-forum-state, but that issue has never been decided by
the Supreme Court. In any event, it's clear that as a matter of practice,
federal  courts  won't  hear  diversity  actions  where  the  long-arm  of  the
state  where  the  federal  court  sits  wouldn't  allow  a  state-court  suit  on

1428

analogous  facts.)  But  the  Supreme  Court  has  never  held  that  minimum
contacts with the state where the federal court sits are necessary if the
suit  is  based  in  part  on  a  federally-created  right  of  action  (i.e.,  the
suit is a “federal question suit”). And, in fact, in those instances where
Congress has authorized nationwide service of process for a particular
type  of  federally-created  claim  (as  it  not  infrequently  does),  it's  often
the  case  that  the  defendant  does  not  have  minimum  contacts  with  the
state where the federal court is hearing the case. Since Choice (D) says
that the defendant's lack of minimum contacts with State A makes it an
automatic  due  process  violation  for  the  State  A  federal  court  to  hear
this federal-question case, it's wrong as a matter of law.

 Answer 49

 (C) is the best response,

because 
homeowners.

the  state 

insurance  statute  was  designed 

to  protect

the 

that  violates 

In  many  cases,  a  contract 

law  will  be
unenforceable  based  on  public  policy  grounds.  However,  if  the
violation is of a policy that is intended to protect only the party seeking
to enforce the contract, a court may enforce the contract so as to avoid
frustrating the objectives of the legislature in enacting the statute. In this
case,  the  requirement  that  insurance  policies  have  certain  coverage
terms  is  clearly  intended  to  benefit  homeowners  rather  than  insurance
companies. It would be inconsistent with the legislative intent to allow
insurance  companies  to  escape  liability  under  a  policy  based  on  their
own  violation  of  the  statue.  Accordingly,  a  court  will  protect  the
homeowner by enforcing the contract even though it does not meet all
statutorily mandated requirements.

 (A) is not the best response,

because divisibility is irrelevant to the situation.

A  contract  is  divisible  if  it  calls  for  a  party  to  perform  discrete
tasks,  each  of  which  may  be  completed  independently  of  the  others.
Under  a  divisible  contract,  a  party  that  has  only  completed  some,  but
not  all,  of  the  discrete  tasks  may  sue  the  other  party  for  non-
performance  even  though  his  own  performance  is  not  complete.
However, the divisibility of an insurance contract is not at issue here,
since  it  doesn't  address  the  key  issue  of  whether  the  contract  is

1429

enforceable despite its failure to comply with statutory requirements.

 (B) is not the best response,

because 
homeowners.

the  state 

insurance  statute  was  designed 

to  protect

the 

that  violates 

In  many  cases,  a  contract 

law  will  be
unenforceable  based  on  public  policy  grounds.  However,  if  the
violation is of a policy that is intended to protect only the party seeking
to enforce the contract, a court may enforce the contract so as to avoid
frustrating the objectives of the legislature in enacting the statute. In this
case,  the  requirement  that  insurance  policies  have  certain  coverage
terms  is  clearly  intended  to  benefit  homeowners  rather  than  insurance
companies. It would be inconsistent with the legislative intent to allow
insurance  companies  to  escape  liability  under  a  policy  based  on  their
own  violation  of  the  statue.  Accordingly,  a  court  will  protect  the
homeowner by enforcing the contract even though it does not meet all
statutorily mandated requirements.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it raises issues of interpretation rather than enforceability.

In most cases, it is true that ambiguous terms in a contract will be
interpreted against the drafter of the contract. It is also very likely that
the  insurance  company  drafted  the  homeowner's  policy.  However,  the
fact that ambiguities will be resolved against the insurance company is
not  the  issue  here.  We  are  concerned  with  whether  the  contract  is
enforceable,  not  how  it  should  be  interpreted.  Accordingly,  issues
pertaining to how the contract will be construed are irrelevant.

 Answer 50

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  photo  identification  will  be
admissible.

There are two separate issues here: first, whether the identification
itself  comports  with  the  defendant's  constitutional  rights,  which  is  a
criminal  procedure  issue;  and  second,  whether  the  victim's  in-court
testimony is admissible, which is an evidence issue.

First,  the  criminal  procedure  problem:  what's  involved  here  is  a
pre-trial  identification.  A  pre-trial  identification  procedure  only

1430

violates due process if two elements are satisfied:

1. The identification must be unnecessarily suggestive.
2. There must be a substantial likelihood of irreparable mistaken

identification.

This  is  a  difficult  standard  to  meet,  and  is  clearly  not  met  by  the
facts  here.  Furthermore,  there's  no  right  to  counsel  for  photo
identifications, so the evidence here won't be excludable on that basis.

Second, the evidence issue — more specifically, the problem is one
of  hearsay:  hearsay  is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the
truth of its assertion. Here, it's the victim's fingering of the defendant as
the  culprit,  out  of  court,  which  amounts  to  an  assertion,  since  she's  in
effect  saying,  “He  did  it!”  However,  as  a  prior  identification  of  a
person  made  by  a  presently  testifying  witness,  the  statement  will  be
excluded from hearsay, under FRE 801(d)(1).

There  may  be  another  evidence  issue  that  nagged  at  you  here,  and
that  is  that  the  victim  didn't  actually  see  the  defendant  —  she  was
clubbed from behind. However, this is an issue of credibility, and since
the victim is testifying, the defendant's lawyer could attack her on this
issue  on  cross-examination.  Perry  Mason  would  certainly  make
mincemeat  out  of  her.  However,  the  victim's  not  having  actually  seen
the defendant doesn't make her testimony inadmissible, as D identifies.
In fact, since D is the only choice that correctly identifies that the photo
identification will be admissible, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  represent  a  sound  basis  on  which  to  exclude  the
victim's pre-trial identification, and it arrives at the wrong result.

A  prior  identification  of  a  person,  made  by  a  presently  testifying
witness,  is  admissible  as  an  exclusion  from  the  hearsay  rule.  FRE
801(d)(1).  That's  what's  going  on  here.  The  victim  identified  the
defendant  from  the  photographs.  The  quality  of  the  declarant's
opportunity to see the person can be attacked on cross-examination. If
she didn't get a chance to see the defendant, the opposing attorney will
draw this out and destroy her credibility. This alone doesn't provide a
sound basis on which to exclude her testimony. This is actually quite a
difficult call, because an underlying issue here is the fact that the victim
didn't,  apparently,  see  the  defendant  at  all,  and  so  you  could  question
whether  she's  a  competent  witness  as  to  his  identity  (since  a  witness

1431



must  have  personal  knowledge  of  the  matter  on  which  she  testifies,
under  FRE  602).  However,  choice  A  gives  you  a  hint  that  it's  not  the
best response by adding the word “good” to the victim's opportunity to
see the defendant. Any opportunity, no matter how insignificant, would
give  her  a  basis  for  testifying;  choice  A  overstates  what  would  be
required  by  stating  that  the  opportunity  to  observe  must  be  “good.”
Since A doesn't recognize that the identification will be admissible, it
is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law, and arrives at the wrong result.

The correct rule is that the suspect does not have a right of counsel
at  a  photographic  identification.  U.S.  v.  Ash  (1973).  In  a  photo
identification,  the  suspect  is  not  even  present,  so  the  rationale  of  the
right  to  counsel  in  line-up  situations  —  to  prevent  the  suspect  from
suffering  for  his  inability  to  identify  and  object  to  prejudicial
conditions — does not exist.

In  fact,  the  prior  identification  will  be  admissible  as  an  exclusion
from the hearsay rule, since it fits all the requirements of the exclusion:
the victim is a presently testifying witness who can be cross-examined,
and  the  identification  was  made  after  perceiving  the  one  identified.
FRE  801(d)(1).  (If  the  identification  weren't  expressly  excluded  from
the hearsay rule, it would be considered hearsay, because it was an out-
of-court statement, in the form of assertive conduct, offered to prove the
truth of its assertion — that the defendant was the culprit. By identifying
him, the victim was effectively saying: “That's him!”) Although it's not
clear  from  these  facts  when  exactly  the  victim  snuck  a  peak  at  the
defendant, the defendant's lawyer will be able to attack her credibility
on  cross-examination.  Since  B  ignores  the  fact  that  the  identification
will be admissible, and states a criminal procedure problem where in
fact none exists, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  a  potential  theoretical  basis  on  which  to
exclude the evidence, it does not apply to these facts.

A photo identification can be “unnecessarily suggestive” where, for
instance, the other photos are of people who look significantly different
than the suspect (e.g., of a different race). Since this focuses attention
on  the  suspect,  it's  considered  a  due  process  violation.  Foster  v.

1432

California  (1969).  However,  this  doesn't  apply  to  these  facts,  which
state that the other seven people photographed “have the same general
features  as  the  defendant.”  As  a  result,  the  photo  identification  would
not be unnecessarily suggestive. Since choice C states an inappropriate
basis  on  which  to  exclude  the  pre-trial  identification,  and  in  fact  the
evidence  is  admissible  as  a  prior  identification  made  by  a  presently
testifying witness, C is not the best response.
