QUESTIONS

PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM

Question 101

A  four-year-old  child  sustained  serious  injuries  when  a  playmate  pushed
him from between two parked cars into the street, where he was struck by a
car.  The  child,  by  his  representative,  sued  the  driver  of  the  car,  the
playmate's  parents,  and  his  own  parents.  At  trial,  the  child's  total  injuries
were determined to be $100,000. The playmate's parents were determined
to be 20 percent at fault because they had failed to adequately supervise her.
The  driver  was  found  to  be  50  percent  at  fault.  The  child's  own  parents
were determined to be 30 percent at fault for failure to adequately supervise
him. The court has adopted the pure comparative negligence doctrine, with
joint  and  several  liability,  in  place  of  the  common-law  rules  relating  to
plaintiff's  fault.  In  addition,  the  common-law  doctrines  relating  to  intra-
family liability have been abrogated.

How much, if anything, is the child's representative entitled to recover

from the driver?

 (A) $30,000
(B) $50,000
(C) $100,000
(D) $0

 Question 102

In  2004,  the  owner  of  a  100-acre  tract,  prepared  and  duly  recorded  a
subdivision  plan  that  called  for  the  development  of  the  tract.  The  plan
showed  90  one-acre  lots  and  a  ten-acre  tract  in  the  center  that  was
designated ‘‘Future Public School.'' The owner published and distributed a
brochure  promoting  the  development  that  emphasized  the  proximity  of  the
lots to the school property and indicated potential tax savings ‘‘because the
school district will not have to expend tax money to acquire this property.''
There is no specific statute concerning the dedication of school sites.

The  owner  sold  50  of  the  lots  to  individual  purchasers.  Each  deed

1282

 
referred to the recorded plan and also contained the following clause: ‘‘No
mobile homes shall be erected on any lot within the development.'' A dentist
was one of the original purchasers from the owner.

In 2010, the owner sold the remaining 40 lots and the ten-acre tract to a
real estate speculator by a deed that referred to the plan and contained the
restriction  relating  to  mobile  homes.  The  speculator  sold  the  40  lots  to
individual  purchasers  and  the  ten-acre  tract  to  a  purchaser.  None  of  the
deeds from the speculator referred to the plan or contained any reference to
mobile homes.

The  purchaser  has  announced  his  intention  of  erecting  a  fast  food
restaurant on the ten-acre tract and the dentist has filed an action to enjoin
him. If the dentist wins, it will be because

 (A) the dentist has an equitable servitude concerning the use of the tract.
(B) the dentist, as a taxpayer, has legal interest in the use of the tract.
(C) the dentist is a creditor beneficiary of the owner's promise with respect

to the tract.

(D) the purchaser is not a bona fide purchaser.

 Question 103

A husband and wife took their 12-year-old son to a political rally to hear a
controversial  U.S.  senator  speak.  The  speaker  was  late,  and  the  wife
stepped  outside  to  smoke  a  cigarette.  While  there,  she  saw  a  man  placing
what she believed to be a bomb against a wall at the back of the building.
She  went  back  inside  and  told  her  husband  what  she  had  seen.  Without
alerting  anyone,  they  took  their  son  and  left.  Some  20  minutes  later,  the
bomb  exploded,  killing  8  persons  and  injuring  50.  In  the  jurisdiction,
murder in the first degree is defined as an intentional homicide committed
with premeditation and deliberation; murder in the second degree is defined
as all other murder at common law; and manslaughter is defined as either a
homicide  in  the  heat  of  passion  arising  from  adequate  provocation  or  a
to
homicide  caused  by  gross  negligence  or  reckless 
consequence.

indifference 

As  to  the  deaths  of  the  eight  persons,  what  crime,  if  any,  did  the  wife

commit?

 (A) Manslaughter
(B) Murder in the first degree
(C) Murder in the second degree

1283

(D) No crime

 Question 104

A  lender  met  a  borrower  on  the  street,  demanded  that  the  borrower  pay  a
debt owed to the lender, and threatened to punch the borrower in the nose. A
fight  ensued  between  them.  A  passerby  came  upon  the  scene  just  as  the
lender  was  about  to  kick  the  borrower  in  the  head.  Noting  that  the  lender
was getting the better of the fight, the passerby pointed a gun at the lender
and  said,  ‘‘Stop,  or  I'll  shoot.''  If  the  lender  asserts  a  claim  against  the
passerby based on assault, will the lender prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the passerby threatened to use deadly force.
(B) Yes, unless the passerby was related to the borrower.
(C) No, if it was apparent that the lender was about to inflict serious bodily

harm upon the borrower.

(D) No, because the lender was the original aggressor by threatening the

borrower with a battery.

 Question 105

In  January,  a  teacher  contracted  with  a  summer  camp  to  serve  as  its  head
counselor at a salary of $10,000 for ten weeks of service from the first of
June to the middle of August. In March, the camp notified the teacher that it
had  hired  someone  else  to  act  as  head  counselor  and  that  the  teacher's
services would not be needed. In April, the teacher spent $200 traveling to
interview at the only other nearby summer camp for a position as its head
counselor. The teacher was not chosen for that job. The teacher then took a
position  teaching  in  a  local  summer  school  at  a  salary  of  $6,000  for  the
same ten-week period as the summer camp.

In  a  breach-of-contract  action  against  the  camp,  to  which  of  the

following amounts, as damages, is the teacher entitled?

 (A) $4,000
(B) $4,200
(C) $10,000
(D) $10,200

 Question 106

A  state  legislature  received  complaints  from  accident  victims  who,  in  the

1284

days  immediately  following  their  accidents,  had  received  unwelcome  and
occasionally  misleading  telephone  calls  on  behalf  of  medical  care
providers. The callers warned of the risks of not obtaining prompt medical
evaluation  to  detect  injuries  resulting  from  accidents  and  offered  free
examinations to determine whether the victims had suffered any injuries.

In  response  to  these  complaints,  the  legislature  enacted  a  law
prohibiting  medical  care  providers  from  soliciting  any  accident  victim  by
telephone within 30 days of his or her accident.

Which of the following is the most useful argument for the state to use in

defending the constitutionality of the law?

 (A) Because the commercial speech that is the subject of this law includes
some speech that is misleading, the First Amendment does not limit the
power of the state to regulate that speech.

(B) Because the law regulates only commercial speech, the state need only
demonstrate that the restriction is rationally related to achieving the
state's legitimate interests in protecting the privacy of accident victims
and in regulating the medical profession.

(C) The state has substantial interests in protecting the privacy of accident

victims and in regulating the practice of medical care providers, and the
law is narrowly tailored to achieve the state's objectives.
(D) The law is a reasonable time, place, and manner regulation.

 Question 107

A plaintiff sues a bar for injuries suffered in an automobile accident caused
by a drunk motorist, who had been a patron of that bar. The plaintiff claims
that the motorist was permitted to drink too much liquor at the bar before the
accident.

A witness who was in the bar before the accident testified that, on the
night of the accident, the motorist was drunk. The witness then proposed to
testify that he remarked to his companion, ‘‘He [the motorist] is so drunk he
can't even stand up.''

The witness's remark to his companion is

 (A) admissible as an excited utterance.
(B) admissible as a prior consistent statement.
(C) admissible as a statement by the witness regarding a condition he

observed, made while he was observing it.

(D) inadmissible if there was no evidence that the witness had expertise in

1285

determining drunkenness.

 Question 108

A  sand  company  operated  an  installation  for  distributing  sand  and  gravel.
The installation was adjacent to a residential area. On the company grounds
there was a chute with polished metal sides for loading sand and gravel into
trucks. The trucks being loaded stopped on the public street below the chute.

After closing hours, a plywood screen was placed in the chute and the
ladder  used  for  inspection  was  removed  to  another  section  of  the
installation. For several months, however, a number of children, eight to ten
years of age, had been playing on company property and the adjoining street
after closing hours. The children found the ladder and also discovered that
they could remove the plywood screen from the chute and slide down to the
street below. The company knew of this activity.

One evening, the children were using the chute as a play device. As an
automobile  driven  by  a  commuter  approached  the  chute,  an  eight-year-old
boy  slid  down  just  in  front  of  the  automobile.  The  commuter  applied  her
brakes,  but  they  suddenly  failed,  and  she  hit  and  injured  the  boy.  The
commuter saw the child in time to have avoided hitting him if her brakes had
worked properly. Two days previously, the commuter had taken her car to a
garage  to  have  her  brakes  inspected.  The  garage  inspected  the  brakes  and
told her that the brakes were in perfect working order. Claims were asserted
on behalf of the boy by his proper legal representative against the company,
the commuter, and the garage.

On the boy's claim against the company, will the boy prevail?

 (A) Yes, if the company could have effectively secured the chute at

moderate cost.

(B) Yes, because the company is strictly liable for harm resulting from an

artificial condition on its property.

(C) No, if the commuter had the last clear chance to avoid the injury.
(D) No, because the boy was a trespasser.

 Question 109

A rectangular parcel of undeveloped land contained three acres and had 150
feet of frontage on a public street. The applicable zoning ordinance required
that a buildable lot contain at least two acres and have frontage of not less
than 100 feet on a public street.

1286

A brother and sister owned the land as tenants in common, the brother
owning  a  one-third  interest  and  the  sister  owning  a  two-thirds  interest.
Neither of them owned any other real property.

The  sister  brought  an  appropriate  action  to  partition  the  land  and
proposed that a two-acre rectangular lot with 100 feet of frontage be set off
to her and that a one-acre rectangular lot with 50 feet of frontage be set off
to the brother. The brother's defense included a demand that the land be sold
and  its  proceeds  be  divided  one-third  to  the  brother  and  two-thirds  to  the
sister.

Who will prevail?

 (A) The brother, because partition by sale is the preferred remedy, unless a

fair price is not the likely result of a sale.

(B) The brother, because the zoning ordinance makes it impossible to divide

the land fairly.

(C) The sister, because partition by sale is not appropriate if the subject

property can be physically divided.

(D) The sister, because the ratio of the two lots that would result from her

proposal conforms exactly to the ownership ratio.

 Question 110

Plaintiff is an insurance company that is incorporated in State A and has its
principal  place  of  business  in  State  B.  It  provides  liability  insurance
coverage  for  automobile  accidents.  Plaintiff  wrote  a  liability  policy  on
Driver,  a  State  C  resident,  the  face  value  of  which  was  $1  million.  (This
was  the  maximum  amount  Plaintiff  would  be  committed  to  pay  for  claims
against Driver arising out of multiple accidents in any single 6-month policy
period.)  Plaintiff  then  received  claims  filed  by  seven  different  individuals
against  Driver,  all  of  whom  were  involved  in  different  car  accidents  in
which  the  other  driver  was  Driver  during  a  single  6-month  policy  period.
Four  of  the  claimants  are  citizens  of  State  C;  two  of  the  claimants  are
citizens of State D; and the seventh is a citizen of State B. All had brought
suits in various state courts against Driver (who was and is insolvent) and
received  default  judgments  that  total  $2  million.  Under  relevant  state-law
insurance principles, Plaintiff is responsible to pay the full amount of these
judgments, subject to the $1 million aggregate policy limit.

Plaintiff  has  filed  a  statutory  interpleader  action  in  State  C  federal
district  court  to  determine  which  of  the  claimants,  if  any,  should  receive
payment  under  Driver's  insurance  policy  and  how  much  each  should

1287

receive.  Plaintiff  has  caused  service  to  be  made  on  each  of  the  seven
claimants.  One  claimant,  a  citizen  of  State  C,  has  moved  to  have  the
interpleader action dismissed for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction.

Should the court grant the motion to dismiss the interpleader action for

lack of subject-matter jurisdiction?

 (A) Yes, because complete diversity does not exist between Plaintiff and the

seven claimants.

(B) No, because two or more claimants are citizens of different states and

the amount in controversy exceeds the statutory amount.

(C) Yes, because although diversity-of-citizenship is present, the amount in
controversy is less than $5 million, the statutory amount for high-stakes,
multi-state disputes.

(D) Yes, because the competing claims do not have a common origin and do

not arise out of the same transaction.

 Question 111

A  father  was  fired  from  his  job.  Too  proud  to  apply  for  unemployment
benefits,  he  used  his  savings  to  feed  his  family.  When  one  of  his  children
became ill, he did not seek medical attention for the child at a state clinic
because he did not want to accept what he regarded as charity. Eventually,
weakened by malnutrition, the child died as a result of the illness. The father
has committed

 (A) murder.
(B) involuntary manslaughter.
(C) voluntary manslaughter.
(D) no form of criminal homicide.

 Question 112

In  a  personal  injury  case,  the  plaintiff  sued  a  retail  store  for  injuries  she
sustained  from  a  fall  in  the  store.  The  plaintiff  alleged  that  the  store
negligently allowed its entryway to become slippery due to snow tracked in
from the sidewalk. When the plaintiff threatened to sue, the store's manager
said, ‘‘I know that there was slush on that marble entry, but I think your four-
inch-high heels were the real cause of your fall. So let's agree that we'll pay
your medical bills, and you release us from any claims you might have.'' The
plaintiff  refused  the  offer.  At  trial,  the  plaintiff  seeks  to  testify  to  the
manager's statement that ‘‘there was slush on that marble entry.''

1288

Is the statement about the slush on the floor admissible?

 (A) No, because it is a statement made in the course of compromise

negotiations.

(B) No, because the manager denied that the slippery condition was the

cause of the plaintiff's fall.

(C) Yes, as an admission by an agent about a matter within the scope of his

authority.

(D) Yes, because the rule excluding offers of compromise does not protect

statements of fact made during compromise negotiations.

 Question 113

A driver was injured when her Model X car suddenly swerved off the road
and hit a tree. The driver sued the car's manufacturer in federal district court
based on diversity; the suit claimed that the steering wheel failed on account
of  a  manufacturing  defect,  causing  the  swerve.  At  an  appropriate  time,  the
driver's lawyer submitted a Rule 34 request that the manufacturer produce in
hard copy form all accident reports submitted to the manufacturer during the
prior 15 years by any owner of any make or model car manufactured by the
company,  if  the  owner  alleged  that  the  accident  may  have  been  due  to  a
product  defect,  whether  of  the  steering  wheel  or  any  other  part  of  the
vehicle. Within the time allowed for a response, the manufacturer submitted
a  written  response  to  the  request:  (1)  stating  that  it  would  make  available
for  inspection  all  accident  reports  in  which  the  owner  mentioned  a
possibility that the accident was caused by a steering-wheel defect; but (2)
objecting  to  the  request  as  it  related  to  reports  of  possible  defects  of
components other than the steering wheel, on the grounds that the burden and
expense of identifying and producing such documents was not proportional
to the needs of the case, and vastly outweighed the document's relevance to
the driver's claim.

After the driver's lawyer received this response, she made no attempt to
contact  the  manufacturer's  lawyer.  Instead,  the  driver's  lawyer  made  a
motion  in  the  court  where  the  action  was  pending,  seeking  an  order  to
compel  the  manufacturer  to  produce  the  accident  reports  as  to  which  the
manufacturer  had  made  its  objection.  The  court  gave  both  sides  the
opportunity  to  be  heard  both  with  respect  to  the  merits  of  the  driver's
motion,  as  well  as  with  respect  to  any  sanctions  against  the  losing  party
(whichever  party  that  turned  out  to  be)  that  might  be  appropriate  in  the
circumstances. Which of the following is the most legally accurate statement

1289

about what sanctions the court may, must, or may not issue after it decides
the motion on the merits?

 (A) If the court wholly denies the motion, the court must order the driver

(and/or her lawyer) to pay the manufacturer's attorney's fees incurred in
opposing the motion, if the court believes that the motion was not
substantially justified and that such a fee award would not be unjust.

(B) If the court wholly denies the motion, the court has discretion whether
or not to order the driver (and/or her lawyer) to pay the manufacturer's
attorney's fees incurred in opposing the motion, except that the court
may not order such a fee award if the court believes that the motion was
substantially justified or that such a fee award would not be unjust.
(C) If the court wholly denies the motion, the court may not order the driver
(and/or her lawyer) to pay the manufacturer's attorney's fees incurred in
opposing the motion, regardless of whether the motion was substantially
justified, because the manufacturer did not move for a protective order
before the driver made her motion to compel discovery.

(D) If the court wholly grants the motion, the court has discretion whether or
not to order the manufacturer (and/or its lawyer) to pay the driver's
attorney's fees, if the court concludes that the manufacturer's objection
was not substantially justified.

 Question 114

A man intensely disliked his neighbors, who were of a different race. One
night, intending to frighten his neighbors, he spray-painted their house with
racial epithets and threats that they would be lynched. The man was arrested
and prosecuted under a state law providing that ‘‘any person who threatens
violence against another person with the intent to cause that person to fear
for  his  or  her  life  or  safety  may  be  imprisoned  for  up  to  five  years.''  In
defense, the man claimed that he did not intend to lynch his neighbors, but
only to scare them so that they would move away.

Can the man constitutionally be convicted under this law?

 (A) No, because he was only communicating his views and had not

commenced any overt action against the neighbors.

(B) Yes, because he was engaged in trespass when he painted the words on

his neighbors' house.

(C) Yes, because his communication was a threat by which he intended to

intimidate his neighbors.

1290

(D) Yes, because his communication was racially motivated and thus

violated the protections of the Thirteenth Amendment.

 Question 115

A debtor's liquidated and undisputed $1,000 debt to a creditor was due on
March  1.  On  March  15,  the  creditor  told  the  debtor  that  if  the  debtor
promised  to  pay  the  $1,000  on  or  before  December  1,  then  the  creditor
wouldn't sue to collect the debt. The debtor orally agreed. On April 1, the
creditor sued the debtor to collect the debt that had become due on March 1.
The debtor moved to dismiss the creditor's complaint.

Should the court grant the debtor's motion?

 (A) No, because there was no consideration to support the creditor's

promise not to sue.

(B) No, because there was no consideration to support the debtor's promise

to pay $1,000 on December 1.

(C) Yes, because a promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past

debt is enforceable without consideration.

(D) Yes, because the debtor was bargaining for the creditor's forbearance.

 Question 116

During  a  comprehensive  evaluation  of  an  adult  patient's  psychiatric
condition, the psychiatrist failed to diagnose the patient's suicidal state. One
day  after  the  misdiagnosis,  the  patient  committed  suicide.  The  patient's
father,  immediately  after  having  been  told  of  his  son's  suicide,  suffered
severe  emotional  distress,  which  resulted  in  a  stroke.  The  patient's  father
was  not  present  at  his  son's  appointment  with  the  psychiatrist  and  did  not
witness the suicide. The father brought an action against the psychiatrist to
recover for his severe emotional distress and the resulting stroke.

Will the father prevail?

 (A) No, because the father did not sustain a physical impact.
(B) No, because the psychiatrist's professional duty did not extend to the

harms suffered by the patient's father.

(C) Yes, because the father was a member of the patient's immediate family.
(D) Yes, because the psychiatrist reasonably could have foreseen that a
misdiagnosis would result in the patient's suicide and the resulting
emotional distress of the patient's father.

1291

 Question 117

In  1995,  the  owner  in  fee  simple  absolute  of  a  five-acre  tract  of  land
conveyed his land. The relevant, operative words of the deed conveyed to
‘‘my  church  [a  duly  organized  religious  body  having  power  to  hold
property] for the life of my son [who was named in the deed], and from and
after the death of my said son, to all of my grandchildren and their heirs and
assigns  in  equal  shares:  provided,  my  church  shall  use  the  premises  for
church purposes only.''

In  an  existing  building  on  the  tract,  the  church  immediately  began  to
conduct  religious  services  and  other  activities  normally  associated  with  a
church.

In 2010, the church granted to a landscaper a right to remove sand and
gravel from a one-half acre portion of the tract upon the payment of royalty.
The landscaper has regularly removed sand and gravel since 2010 and paid
a  royalty  to  the  church.  The  church  has  continued  to  conduct  religious
services and other church activities on the tract.

All four of the living grandchildren of the owner, joined by a guardian
ad litem to represent unborn grandchildren, instituted suit against the church
and the landscaper seeking damages for the removal of sand and gravel and
an  injunction  preventing  further  acts  of  removal.  There  is  no  applicable
statute. Which of the following best describes the likely disposition of this
lawsuit?

 (A) The plaintiffs will succeed, because the interest of the church

terminated with the first removal of sand and gravel.

(B) The church and the landscaper will be enjoined, and damages will be

recovered but impounded for future distribution.

(C) The injunction will be granted, but damages will be denied, because the

owner and his son are not parties to the action.

(D) Damage will be awarded, but the injunction will be denied.

 Question 118

In which of the following cases is a conviction of the named defendant for
robbery LEAST likely to be upheld?

 (A) The defendant forced his way into a woman's home, bound her, and
compelled her to tell him that her jewelry was in an adjoining room.
The defendant went into the room, took the jewelry, and fled.

1292

(B) A confederate of the defendant pushed a man in order to cause him to
lose his balance and drop his briefcase. The defendant picked up the
briefcase and ran off with it.

(C) Having induced a woman to enter his hotel room, the defendant forced
her to telephone her maid to tell the maid to bring certain jewelry to the
hotel. The defendant locked the woman in the bathroom while he
accepted the jewelry from the maid when she arrived.

(D) The defendant unbuttoned the vest of a man too drunk to notice and

removed his wallet. A minute later, the victim missed his wallet and
accused the defendant of taking it. The defendant pretended to be
insulted, slapped the victim, and went off with the wallet.

 Question 119

A six-year-old child, while playing on the sidewalk in front of his parents'
home,  was  run  over  by  a  motorcyclist.  The  motorcyclist,  a  recent  college
graduate, was visiting his aunt and uncle, who lived next door to the child
and  his  family.  The  motorcycle  was  owned  by  the  aunt  and  uncle,  and  the
motorcyclist  had  borrowed  it  without  their  permission  or  knowledge.  The
child's  family  intends  to  file  a  federal  lawsuit  based  on  diversity,  seeking
recovery for the child's injuries on account of the motorcyclist's negligence.
Which of the following statements is correct about the parties to the action?

 (A) The child must be listed as the plaintiff, because he is the real party in

interest.

(B) A guardian or parent of the child may be listed as the plaintiff, without

the need to include the child as a plaintiff.

(C) The motorcyclist's insurance carrier must be joined as a defendant

because it is the real party in interest on the defense side.

(D) The motorcyclist's aunt and uncle must be joined as co-defendants

because they will be either primarily or secondarily liable.

 Question 120

A  creditor  received  a  valid  judgment  against  a  debtor  and  promptly  and
properly  filed  the  judgment  in  the  county.  Two  years  later,  the  debtor
purchased  land  in  the  county  and  promptly  and  properly  recorded  the
warranty  deed  to  it.  Subsequently,  the  debtor  borrowed  $30,000  from  his
aunt, signing a promissory note for that amount, which note was secured by
a mortgage on the land. The mortgage was promptly and properly recorded.
The  aunt  failed  to  make  a  title  search  before  making  the  loan.  The  debtor

1293

made no payment to the creditor and defaulted on the mortgage loan from his
aunt.  A  valid  judicial  foreclosure  proceeding  was  held,  in  which  the
creditor, the aunt, and the debtor were named parties. A dispute arose as to
which  lien  has  priority.  A  statute  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘Any
judgment properly filed shall, for ten years from filing, be a lien on the real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person against whom
the  judgment  is  rendered.''  A  second  statute  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:
‘‘No  unrecorded  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good
against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  without  notice,  who  shall  first
record.''

Who has the prior lien?

 (A) The aunt, because a judgment lien is subordinate to a mortgage lien.
(B) The aunt, because she is a mortgagee under a purchase money mortgage.
(C) The creditor, because its judgment was filed first.
(D) The creditor, because the aunt had a duty to make a title search of the

property.

 Question 121

At  a  trial  of  a  contract  dispute,  the  plaintiff  offered  to  testify  to  what  the
defendant said in a private conversation between the two of them, which the
plaintiff  had  secretly  recorded  on  an  audiotape  that  she  did  not  offer  in
evidence.

Is the plaintiff's testimony admissible?

 (A) Yes, because the plaintiff has personal knowledge of the statement of a

party-opponent.

(B) Yes, because the original document rule does not apply to audiotapes.
(C) No, because the statement must be proved by introduction of the

audiotape itself.

(D) No, because of the plaintiff's deception, even if the recording was not

illegal.

 Question 122

A  student  published  a  highly  critical  written  online  review  of  a  college
course  she  attended  taught  by  a  professor;  the  review  claimed  that  the
professor delivered false information and handed out written materials that
she had plagiarized. The professor filed a complaint for defamation against

1294

the  student  in  federal  court  based  on  diversity;  the  complaint  described  in
detail  the  student's  statements  and  how  they  were  false.  The  suit  sought
$100,000  in  damages  for  “intangible  injury  to  the  plaintiff's  professional
reputation,”  and  also  sought  “reasonable  attorney's  fees.”  The  professor's
lawyer arranged for proper personal service of the summons and complaint,
but  the  student  never  answered  the  complaint  or  took  any  other  action
regarding the suit. After several months passed, the clerk of the court noted
on  the  court's  docket  that  the  student  had  defaulted  and  sent  a  letter  to  the
student's  last  known  address  warning  that  a  default  judgment  would  be
entered  against  her  if  she  did  not  object  within  30  days.  After  the  30-day
period  passed  without  an  objection,  the  professor's  lawyer  applied  in
writing to have the clerk enter a default judgment for $110,000 against the
student; the application was accompanied by an affidavit from the professor
saying that she had suffered $100,000 in loss as claimed in the complaint,
plus had incurred legal fees (documented in the affidavit) of $10,000.

Is the clerk authorized to enter the requested $110,000 judgment against

the student?

 (A) No, because only the judge may enter such a judgment, and only after
having made an independent determination of what would constitute a
reasonable amount of damages and attorney's fees in the circumstances.

(B) No, unless the clerk conducts an evidentiary hearing, as the result of

which the clerk concludes that $100,000 is a reasonable estimate of the
damages actually suffered by the professor from the defamation and that
$10,000 was actually and reasonably spent by her on legal fees.

(C) Yes, because once the professor requested the entry of the judgment and

submitted an affidavit stating that the sum due was $110,000, the clerk
was required to enter judgment for that amount without further notice to
the student.

(D) Yes, but only if the professor's lawyer or the clerk serves the student
with at least seven days advance written notice that the clerk will
conduct an evidentiary hearing as to the amount of damages and the
clerk then conducts such a hearing based on which the clerk concludes
that the $110,000 is a reasonable estimate of the professor's damages
and attorney's fees.

 Question 123

A freelance photographer took a picture of a sports player in front of a shoe
store. The player was a nationally known amateur basketball star, who had

1295

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

received much publicity in the press. At the time, the window display in the
shoe store featured ‘‘Jumpers,'' a well-known make of basketball shoes. The
photographer  sold  the  picture,  greatly  enlarged,  to  the  shoe  store  and  told
the shoe store that the photographer had the player's approval to do so and
that  the  player  had  consented  to  the  shoe  store's  showing  the  enlarged
picture in the window. The shoe store made no effort to ascertain whether
the player had given his consent to the photographer. In fact, the player did
not  even  know  that  the  photographer  had  taken  the  picture.  The  shoe  store
put the enlarged picture in the window with the display of ‘‘Jumpers'' shoes.
The  college  that  the  player  attended  believed  that  the  player  had
intentionally endorsed the shoe store and ‘‘Jumpers'' shoes, and the college
cancelled his athletic scholarship.

If  the  player  asserts  a  claim  based  on  invasion  of  privacy  against  the

shoe store, will the player prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the photographer had no right to take the player's picture.
(B) Yes, because the shoe store, without the player's permission, used the

player's picture for profit.

(C) No, because the player was already a basketball star who had received

much publicity in the press.

(D) No, because the shoe store believed it had permission to put the picture

in its window.

 Question 124

Plaintiff, a State A partnership, filed suit in federal district court in State B
against  Defendant,  a  State  C  corporation.  The  complaint  alleged  that
Defendant violated a federal antitrust statute. The antitrust statute allows a
private party to bring a civil damage suit against violators of the statute. The
statute  also  provides  that  in  any  such  suit,  nationwide  service-of-process
may  be  made  against,  and  personal  jurisdiction  exercised  over,  any
defendant found within the United States.

Defendant  has  asserted  that  the  court's  exercise  of  in  personam
jurisdiction against Defendant would violate Defendant's constitutional right
to  due  process.  When  the  court  decides  whether  Defendant  is  correct,  the
primary issue will be whether:

 (A) Defendant has minimum contacts with State A, as required by the Due

Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

1296

(B) Defendant has minimum contacts with the United States, as required by

the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.

(C) Defendant has minimum contacts with State A, as required by the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

(D) Defendant has minimum contacts with the United States, as required by
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution.

 Question 125

A plaintiff sued a defendant on a product liability claim. A witness testified
for the plaintiff. On cross-examination, which of the following questions is
the trial judge most likely to rule improper?

 (A) ‘‘Isn't it a fact that you are the witness's close friend?''
(B) ‘‘Isn't it true that you are known in the community as a lush because of

your addiction to alcohol?''

(C) ‘‘Didn't you fail to report some income on your tax return last year?''
(D) ‘‘Weren't you convicted, seven years ago in this court, of obtaining

money under false pretenses?''

 Question 126

In  an  action  to  recover  for  personal  injuries  arising  out  of  an  automobile
accident,  a  plaintiff  calls  a  bystander  to  testify.  Claiming  the  privilege
against self-incrimination, the bystander refuses to answer a question as to
whether  she  was  at  the  scene  of  the  accident.  The  plaintiff  moves  that  the
bystander  be  ordered  to  answer  the  question.  The  judge  should  allow  the
bystander to remain silent only if

 (A) the judge is convinced that she will incriminate herself.
(B) there is clear and convincing evidence that she will incriminate herself.
(C) there is a preponderance of evidence that she will incriminate herself.
(D) the judge believes that there is some reasonable possibility that she will

incriminate herself.

 Question 127

The owner of a house and lot leased the same to a tenant for a term of five
years. In addition to the house, there was also an unattached, two-car brick
garage located on the lot. The tenant earned his living as an employee in a

1297

local grocery store, but his hobby consisted of wood carving and the making
of small furniture. The tenant installed a work bench, electric lights, and a
radiator  in  the  garage.  He  also  laid  pipes  connecting  the  radiator  with  the
heating plant inside the house. Thereafter the owner mortgaged the premises
to a bank to secure a loan. The tenant was not given notice of the mortgage,
but  the  mortgage  was  recorded.  Still  later,  the  owner  defaulted  on  the
mortgage payments, and the bank began foreclosure proceedings, as it was
entitled to do under the terms of the mortgage. By this time the tenant's lease
was  almost  ended.  The  tenant  began  the  removal  of  the  equipment  he  had
installed in the garage. The bank brought an action to enjoin the removal of
the equipment mentioned above. Both the tenant and the owner were named
as defendants.

If the court refuses the injunction, it will be because

 (A) the tenant was without notice of the mortgage.
(B) the circumstances reveal that the equipment was installed for the tenant's

exclusive benefit.

(C) in the absence of a contrary agreement, a residential tenant is entitled to
remove any personal property he voluntarily brings upon the premises.

(D) the Statute of Frauds precludes the bank from claiming any interest in

the equipment.

 Question 128

A bottling company sent a purchase order to a wholesaler that stated, ‘‘Ship
100,000 empty plastic bottles at the posted price.'' Two days after receipt of
this  purchase  order,  the  wholesaler  shipped  the  bottles  and  the  bottling
company  accepted  delivery  of  them.  A  week  after  the  bottles  were
delivered, the bottling company received the wholesaler's acknowledgment
form, which included a provision disclaiming consequential damages. After
using the bottles for two months, the bottling company discovered a defect
in  the  bottles  that  caused  its  product  to  leak  from  them.  The  bottling
company recalled 10,000 of the bottles containing its product, incurring lost
profits of $40,000.

Assuming  all  appropriate  defenses  are  seasonably  raised,  will  the
bottling company succeed in recovering $40,000 in consequential damages
from the wholesaler?

 (A) No, because buyers are generally not entitled to recover consequential

damages.

1298

(B) No, because the bottling company's acceptance of the goods also

constituted an acceptance of the terms included in the wholesaler's
acknowledgement.

(C) Yes, because the disclaimer of consequential damages is

unconscionable.

(D) Yes, because the wholesaler's acknowledgment did not alter the terms

of an existing contract between the parties.

 Question 129

The  owner  of  a  milk  container  manufacturing  firm  sought  to  focus  public
attention on the milk packaging law of a state in order to have it repealed.
On  a  weekday  at  12:00  p.m.,  he  delivered  an  excited,  animated,  and  loud
harangue  on  the  steps  of  the  state  capitol  building  in  front  of  the  main
entryway. An audience of 200 onlookers, who gathered on the steps, heckled
him  and  laughed  as  he  delivered  his  tirade.  The  owner  repeatedly  stated,
gesturing expressively and making faces, that ‘‘the damned milk packaging
law  is  stupid,''  and  that  ‘‘I  will  strangle  every  one  of  those  damned
legislators I can get hold of because this law they created proves they are
all too dumb to live.'' After about 15 minutes, he stopped speaking, and the
amused crowd dispersed.

There are three relevant statutes of the state. The first statute prohibits
‘‘all  speech  making,  picketing,  and  public  gatherings  of  every  sort  on  the
Capitol  steps  in  front  of  the  main  entryway  between  7:45  a.m.-8:15  a.m.,
11:45  a.m.-12:15  p.m.,  12:45  p.m.-1:15  p.m.,  and  4:45  p.m.-5:15  p.m.,  on
Capitol working days.''

If the owner is prosecuted under the ‘‘Capitol steps'' statute and defends
on constitutional grounds, which of the following best describes the proper
burden of proof?

 (A) He would have to prove that the state did not have a rational basis for

enacting this statute.

(B) He would have to prove that the state did not have a compelling need

for this statute or that it had less restrictive means by which it could
satisfy that need.

(C) The state would have to prove that it had a rational basis for enacting

this statute.

(D) The state would have to prove that it had a compelling need for this

statute and that there were no less restrictive means by which it could
satisfy that need.

1299

 Question 130

A motorist arranged to borrow his friend's car to drive for one day while the
motorist's  car  was  being  repaired.  The  friend  knew  that  the  brakes  on  his
car were faulty and might fail in an emergency. The friend forgot to tell the
motorist about the brakes when the motorist picked up the car, but the friend
did  telephone  the  motorist's  wife,  and  told  her  about  them.  The  wife,
however, forgot to tell the motorist.

The motorist was driving his friend's car at a reasonable rate of speed
and within the posted speed limit, with his wife as a passenger. Another car,
driven by a sightseer, crossed in front of the motorist at an intersection and
in  violation  of  the  traffic  signal.  The  motorist  tried  to  stop,  but  the  brakes
failed, and the two cars collided. If the brakes had been in proper working
order,  the  motorist  could  have  stopped  in  time  to  avoid  the  collision.  The
motorist and his wife were injured.

If  the  motorist  asserts  a  claim  against  the  friend,  will  the  motorist

prevail?

 (A) Yes, in negligence, because the friend knew the brakes were faulty and

failed to tell the motorist.

(B) Yes, in strict liability in tort, because the car was defective and the

friend lent it to the motorist.

(C) No, because the friend was a gratuitous lender, and thus his duty of care

was slight.

(D) No, because the failure of the wife to tell the motorist about the brakes

was the cause in fact of the motorist's harm.

 Question 131

In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be guilty
of larceny?

 (A) The defendant took the victim's television set, with the intention of

returning it the next day. However, he dropped it and damaged it beyond
repair.

(B) The defendant went into a victim's house and took $100 in the belief that

the victim had damaged the defendant's car to that amount.

(C) Mistakenly believing that larceny does not include taking a dog, the

defendant took his neighbor's dog and sold it.

(D) Unreasonably mistaking his neighbor's car for his own, the defendant

1300

got into his neighbor's car in a parking lot and drove it home.

 Question 132

A member of a state legislature is prosecuted in federal court for a violation
of the Federal Securities Act arising out of the activities of a state-owned
corporation.  The  legislator's  defense  includes  a  claim  that  the  alleged
wrongful acts were committed in the course of legislative business and are
immune from scrutiny.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  strongest  constitutional  argument

supporting the legislator?

 (A) Because of doctrines of federalism, federal law generally cannot be

applied to state legislators acting in the course of their official duties.
(B) State legislators enjoy the protection of the Speech and Debate Clause

of the U.S. Constitution.

(C) A federal court must follow state law respecting the scope of legislative

immunity.

(D) To apply the Federal Securities Act to state legislators would violate

the Due Process Clause.

 Question 133

A  defendant  was  charged  in  federal  court  with  selling  a  controlled
substance  (heroin)  in  interstate  commerce.  At  trial,  the  prosecutor
introduced  evidence  that  the  defendant  obtained  the  substance  from  a
supplier in Kansas City and delivered it in Chicago. The defendant denied
that  the  substance  in  question  was  heroin,  but  he  introduced  no  contrary
evidence on the issue of transportation.

Which  of  the  following  instructions  regarding  judicial  notice  may  the

judge legitimately give the jury?

 (A) ‘‘If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and

delivered them to Chicago, I instruct you to find that the substance was
sold in an interstate transaction.''

(B) ‘‘If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and
delivered them to Chicago, then the burden of persuasion is on the
defendant to establish that the transaction was not interstate.''

(C) ‘‘If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and
delivered them to Chicago, then you may, but you are not required to,

1301

find that the transaction was interstate in nature.''

(D) ‘‘I instruct you that there is a presumption that the substance was sold in
an interstate transaction, but the burden of persuasion on that issue is
still on the government.''

 Question 134

An  associate  professor  in  the  pediatrics  department  of  a  local  medical
school  was  denied  tenure.  He  asked  a  national  education  lobbying
organization  to  represent  him  in  his  efforts  to  have  the  tenure  decision
reversed.  In  response  to  a  letter  from  the  organization  on  the  professor's
behalf, the dean of the medical school wrote to the organization explaining
truthfully that the professor had been denied tenure because of reports that
he  had  abused  two  of  his  former  patients.  Several  months  later,  after  a
thorough investigation, the allegations were proven false and the professor
was granted tenure. He had remained working at the medical school at full
pay  during  the  tenure  decision  review  process  and  thus  suffered  no
pecuniary harm.

In  a  suit  for  libel  by  the  professor  against  the  dean  of  the  medical

school, will the professor prevail?

 (A) No, because the professor invited the libel.
(B) No, because the professor suffered no pecuniary loss.
(C) Yes, because the dean had a duty to investigate the rumor before

repeating it.

(D) Yes, because the dean's defamatory statement was in the form of a

writing.

 Question 135

Plaintiff, an individual who lives and works in State A, was visiting State
B. While crossing the street, he was struck by a car driven by Defendant, a
citizen  of  State  B.  Plaintiff  was  seriously  injured  and  brought  a  diversity
suit for negligence against Defendant in federal court for the district of State
B for $200,000. Plaintiff would like to obtain, during the discovery process,
as much information as possible about any liability insurance coverage that
Defendant may have that would cover a judgment that Plaintiff receives in
the  suit.  Also,  Plaintiff  would  like  to  obtain  that  information  with  as  little
effort as possible. The following statements about what information Plaintiff
is entitled to, and under what procedure, are arranged in descending order
of  their  desirability  from  Plaintiff's  perspective.  Which  one  represents  the

1302

MOST DESIRABLE (and thus earliest-listed) outcome to which Plaintiff is
entitled? Plaintiff is entitled to . . .

 (A) A copy of the policy, without Plaintiff's being required to make any

discovery request for it.

(B) A copy of the policy, upon Plaintiff's submission of a proper request for

document production.

(C) The name of the insurance company and the policy limits, upon

Plaintiff's submission of an interrogatory to Defendant asking for this
information.

(D) No information about any such policy, unless Plaintiff establishes good
cause for believing that the information would be relevant to a claim or
defense in the case.

 Question 136

Plaintiff  owns  and  operates  a  retail  store  in  State  A.  It  licenses  security
software from Defendant, a corporation specializing in security technology
with its principal place of business in State B and incorporated in State C.
Despite  the  software,  hackers  broke  into  Plaintiff's  financial  system.
Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in  a  state  court  in  State  C  for  breach  of  contract,
choosing  that  forum  because  of  the  three  plausible  fora,  State  C  had  the
longest  statute  of  limitations.  After  a  trial,  Plaintiff  lost  on  the  merits;  the
state  court  held  that  Plaintiff's  own  faulty  installation  of  the  software  was
the sole proximate cause of the vulnerability to hackers. Plaintiff then filed a
second lawsuit against Defendant, this time in federal court for the district
of State C, and based on diversity jurisdiction. (Other than filing the pair of
lawsuits,  Plaintiff  has  had  no  contacts  with  State  C.)  This  second  suit
essentially  repeated  the  breach-of-contract  claim  that  was  held  invalid  in
the first suit. Defendant in its answer raised the affirmative defense of claim
preclusion.  Defendant  also  asserted  a  counterclaim  alleging  that  Plaintiff's
filing  of  multiple  lawsuits  constituted  the  tort  of  wrongful  use  of  civil
proceedings; the counterclaim alleged that this tort had caused Defendant to
suffer  pecuniary  loss  (in  the  form  of  lost  business  profits)  in  excess  of
$75,000.

Plaintiff  therefore  moved  to  dismiss  the  counterclaim  for  (1)  lack  of
personal jurisdiction over him; and (2) failure to properly serve him, in that
no  summons  was  served  with  the  counterclaim  (a  factually-correct
allegation). The court should

1303

 (A) deny the motion because a compulsory counterclaim does not require an

independent basis for personal jurisdiction over the plaintiff.
(B) grant the motion because a permissive counterclaim requires an
independent basis for personal jurisdiction over the plaintiff.

(C) grant the motion on the grounds that Defendant failed to properly serve

Plaintiff.

(D) deny the motion because Plaintiff has effectively consented to the court's

exercise of personal jurisdiction over him.

 Question 137

Several  sites  on  a  mountain  within  federal  public  lands  are  regarded  as
sacred  to  a  group  that  for  years  has  gathered  there  to  perform  religious
ceremonies.  The  U.S.  Forest  Service  recently  issued  a  permit  to  a  private
developer to construct a ski facility in an area that includes the sites that are
sacred to the group.

The group filed suit in federal district court against the Forest Service to
force  cancellation  of  the  permit.  The  group  claimed  solely  that  the  permit
violated  its  First  Amendment  right  to  the  free  exercise  of  religion.  The
Forest Service conceded that the group's religious beliefs were sincere and
that the ski facility would adversely affect the group's religious practices.

In  order  to  prevail  in  its  First  Amendment  claim,  what  must  the  group

show?

 (A) Construction of the ski facility will have a discriminatory impact on the
group's religious practices in relation to the practices of other religious
groups.

(B) The burden on the group's religious practices imposed by construction
of the ski facility outweighs the government's interest in allowing the
facility.

(C) The Forest Service can achieve its legitimate interest in allowing the ski

facility by issuing a permit that is less burdensome on the group's
religious practices.

(D) The permit issued by the Forest Service is aimed at suppressing the

religious practices of the group.

 Question 138

In order to reduce the federal deficit, Congress enacted a statute imposing a
5 percent national retail sales tax. The tax was levied upon all retail sales in

1304

the United States and applied equally to the sales of all kinds of goods.

Is this tax constitutional as applied to retail sales of newspapers?

 (A) Yes, because it is within Congress's power to tax.
(B) Yes, because the tax is necessary to serve the compelling interest of

balancing the federal budget.

(C) No, because retail sales taxes are within the taxing power of the states.
(D) No, because the imposition of a tax on the sale of newspapers violates

the freedom of the press.

 Question 139

A bakery offered a chef a permanent full-time job as a pastry chef at a salary
of $2,000 per month. The chef agreed to take the position and to begin work
in two weeks. In her employment application, the chef had indicated that she
was  seeking  a  permanent  job.  One  week  after  the  chef  was  hired  by  the
bakery, a hotel offered the chef a position as a restaurant manager at a salary
of $2,500 a month. The chef accepted and promptly notified the bakery that
she would not report for work at the bakery.

Is the bakery likely to prevail in a lawsuit against the chef for breach of

contract?

 (A) No, because a contract for permanent employment would be interpreted

to mean the chef could leave at any time.

(B) No, because the position the chef took with the hotel was not

substantially comparable to the one she had agreed to take with the
bakery.

(C) Yes, because the chef's acceptance of a permanent position meant that

she agreed to leave the bakery only after a reasonable time.

(D) Yes, because the chef's failure to give the bakery a chance to match the
salary offered by the hotel breached the implied right of first refusal.

 Question 140

A defendant was charged with battery for allegedly attacking a man as they
left  a  local  bar  together.  No  one  else  witnessed  the  fight.  At  trial,  each
testified  that  he  had  acted  only  in  self-defense.  The  defendant  called  his
next-door  neighbor  as  a  witness  to  testify  as  to  the  defendant's  reputation
both  for  truthfulness  and  for  peacefulness.  The  government  objected  to  the
testimony in its entirety.

1305

How should the court proceed?

 (A) Admit the evidence in its entirety.
(B) Admit the evidence regarding the defendant's reputation for

peacefulness, but exclude the evidence regarding his truthfulness.

(C) Exclude the evidence regarding the defendant's reputation for

peacefulness, but admit the evidence regarding his truthfulness.

(D) Exclude the evidence in its entirety.

 Question 141

that 

Plaintiff 
is
is  a  privately  held  money-management  company 
incorporated in State A and has its headquarters in State B. Defendant is an
investment bank incorporated in State C and with its headquarters in State
D.  Plaintiff  bought  from  Defendant  certain  mortgage-backed  securities
issued by Defendant. Five-and-a-half years after the purchase, Plaintiff sued
Defendant  in  federal  district  court  for  the  district  of  State  C,  invoking
diversity  jurisdiction  and  asserting  that  under  State  C  contracts  law
Defendant was liable to Plaintiff for having fraudulently induced the sale by
misrepresenting  the  securities  as  a  triple-A  rated  investment  when  in  fact
they were of an inferior grade. Defendant has recently moved to dismiss the
action  as  time-barred,  on  the  assumption  that  State  C's  five-year  statute  of
limitations controls; the federal court has not yet ruled on this motion. (The
statute  of  limitations  in  States  A,  B,  and  D  is  six  years.)  For  unknown
reasons,  Plaintiff  has  now  moved  to  transfer  the  action  from  the  State  C
federal district court to the federal district court for State D (which has only
one judicial district). In support of this motion, Plaintiff argues (you should
assume  that  the  argument  is  factually  correct)  that  the  convenience  of
witnesses  and  counsel  will  be  better  served  by  having  the  action  tried  in
State D than in State C. Defendant refuses to consent to the transfer, though
its position stems from considerations not of convenience but of tactics (it
would  like  to  have  the  case  heard  by  the  particular  State  C  federal  judge
who has been assigned it).

Which of the following statements best describes the effect the Plaintiff's
transfer motion will have on the choice of which state's statute of limitations
should control?

 (A) If transfer is granted on Plaintiff's motion, the transferee court will

apply the statute-of-limitations law of the state in which it sits (State D)
to determine whether the action is time-barred, because the federal

1306

transfer-of-venue statute so requires.

(B) If transfer is granted on Plaintiff's motion, the transferee court will

apply whichever state's statute-of-limitations law a State C state court
would apply had the action been brought in that court, because Erie
principles so require.

(C) If transfer is granted on Plaintiff's motion, the transferee court will

apply the law of whichever state's statute-of-limitations law a State D
state court would apply had the action been brought in that court,
because the federal transfer-of-venue statute requires treating the case
as if it had originally been filed in the transferee court.

(D) Transfer will not be granted because, since Plaintiff chose the original
forum (State C federal court) and venue properly lies in that forum,
Plaintiff is not permitted to transfer the action; therefore, the State C
federal court will apply whichever state's statute-of-limitations law a
State C state court would apply had the action been brought in that court.

 Question 142

A  defendant  was  charged  with  murder.  His  principal  defense  was  that  he
had  killed  in  ‘‘hot  blood''  and  should  be  guilty  only  of  manslaughter.  The
judge instructed the jury that the state must prove guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt, that the killing was presumed to be murder, and that the charge could
be  reduced  to  manslaughter,  and  the  defendant  accordingly  found  guilty  of
this lesser offense, if the defendant showed by a fair preponderance of the
evidence  that  the  killing  was  committed  in  the  heat  of  passion  on  sudden
provocation.  The  defendant  was  convicted  of  murder.  On  appeal,  he  now
seeks a new trial and claims error in the judge's instructions to the jury.

The defendant's conviction will most probably be

 (A) affirmed, because the judge carefully advised the jury of the state's

obligation to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B) affirmed, because the defendant's burden to show hot blood was not one
of ultimate persuasion but only one of producing evidence to rebut a
legitimate presumption.

(C) reversed, because the instruction put a burden on the defendant, which

denied him due process of law.

(D) reversed, because presumptions have a highly prejudicial effect and

thus cannot be used on behalf of the state in a criminal case.

 Question 143

1307

Husband  and  Wife,  American  citizens,  were  married  in  State  A  and  then
moved, together with their two children, to State B. After a number of years,
Husband  relocated  to  State  C,  where  he  now  works,  insures  his  car,  and
votes. He decided to end his marriage and sued Wife for divorce in federal
district court for the district of State B. In addition to a divorce decree, he
sought joint custody of the children and a court order that each parent would
contribute $25,000 per year for the next ten years to support the children.

Wife has now moved to dismiss the State B federal-court action for lack

of subject-matter jurisdiction. The court should

 (A) deny the motion because diversity jurisdiction is present.
(B) remand the action to a state court in State B, since that is where

Husband should have brought it.

(C) transfer the action to the state courts of State A, where the marriage took

place.

(D) decline to exercise jurisdiction even if the case meets the requirements

for diversity jurisdiction.

 Question 144

National statistics revealed a dramatic increase in the number of elementary
and secondary school students bringing controlled substances to school for
sale. In response, Congress enacted a statute requiring each state legislature
to enact a state law making it a crime for any person to sell, within 1,000
feet  of  any  elementary  or  secondary  school,  any  controlled  substance  that
had previously been transported in interstate commerce.

Is the federal statute constitutional?

 (A) No, because Congress has no authority to require a state legislature to

enact any specified legislation.

(B) No, because the sale of a controlled substance in close proximity to a
school does not have a sufficiently close nexus to interstate commerce
to justify its regulation by Congress.

(C) Yes, because it contains a jurisdictional provision that will ensure, on a
case-by-case basis, that any particular controlled substance subject to
the terms of this statute will, in fact, affect interstate commerce.
(D) Yes, because Congress possesses broad authority under both the

General Welfare Clause and the Commerce Clause to regulate any
activities affecting education that also have, in inseverable aggregates, a
substantial effect on interstate commerce.

1308

 Question 145

On  a  camping  trip  in  a  state  park,  a  hiker  discovered  metal  signs  near  a
rubbish heap stating, ‘‘Natural Wildlife Area No Hunting.'' She took two of
the signs and used them to decorate her room at home. She is charged with
violation of a state statute, which provides, ‘‘Any person who appropriates
to  his  own  use  property  owned  by  the  state  shall  be  guilty  of  a  crime  and
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment for
not more than five years, or by both such fine and imprisonment.''

At trial, the hiker admits taking the signs but says she believed they had

been thrown away. In fact, the signs had not been abandoned.

The hiker should be found

 (A) guilty, because this is a public welfare offense.
(B) guilty, because she should have inquired whether the signs were

abandoned.

(C) not guilty if the jury finds she honestly believed the signs had been

abandoned.

(D) not guilty unless the jury finds that the state had taken adequate steps to

inform the public that the signs had not been abandoned.

 Question 146

In  1965,  the  owner  in  fee  simple  of  a  large,  undeveloped  tract  of  land
granted  an  easement  to  the  Water  District  ‘‘to  install,  inspect,  repair,
maintain, and replace pipes'' within a properly delineated strip of land 20
feet  wide  across  the  tract.  The  easement  permitted  the  Water  District  to
enter the tract for only the stated purposes. The Water District promptly and
properly  recorded  the  deed.  In  1966,  the  Water  District  installed  a  water
main that crossed the tract within the described strip; the Water District has
not since entered the tract.

In 1970, the owner sold the tract to a purchaser, but the deed, which was
promptly  and  properly  recorded,  failed  to  refer  to  the  Water  District
easement. The purchaser built his home on the tract in 1970, and since that
time  he  has  planted  and  maintained,  at  great  expense  in  money,  time,  and
effort,  a  formal  garden  area  that  covers,  among  other  areas,  the  surface  of
the 20-foot easement strip.

In 2011, the Water District proposed to excavate the entire length of its
main  in  order  to  inspect,  repair,  and  replace  the  main,  to  the  extent
necessary.  At  a  public  meeting,  at  which  the  purchaser  was  present,  the

1309

Water  District  announced  its  plans  and  declared  its  intent  to  do  as  little
damage as possible to any property involved. The purchaser objected to the
Water District plans.

The  purchaser  asked  his  attorney  to  secure  an  injunction  against  the
Water District and its proposed entry upon his property. The best advice that
the  attorney  can  give  is  that  the  purchaser's  attempt  to  secure  injunctive
relief will be likely to

 (A) succeed, because the purchaser's deed from the owner did not mention

the easement.

(B) succeed, because more than 40 years have passed since the Water

District last entered the tract.

(C) fail, because the Water District's plan is within its rights.
(D) fail, because the Water District's plan is fair and equitable.

 Question 147

A  woman  is  cited  for  contempt  of  the  House  of  Representatives  after  she
refused  to  answer  certain  questions  posed  by  a  House  Committee
concerning  her  acts  while  serving  as  a  U.S.  ambassador.  A  federal  statute
authorizes the attorney general to prosecute contempts of Congress. Pursuant
to  this  law,  the  House  directs  the  attorney  general  to  begin  criminal
proceedings against the woman. A federal grand jury indicts the woman, but
the attorney general refuses to sign the indictment.

Which  of  the  following  best  describes  the  constitutionality  of  the

attorney general's action?

 (A) Illegal, because the attorney general must prosecute if the House of

Representatives so directs.

(B) Illegal, because the attorney general must prosecute those who violate

federal law.

(C) Legal, because ambassadors are immune from prosecution for acts

committed in the course of their duties.

(D) Legal, because the decision to prosecute is an exclusively executive act.

 Question 148

A home improvement store telegraphed an appliances manufacturer on June
1,  ‘‘At  what  price  will  you  sell  100  of  your  QT-Model  garbage-disposal
units 
following
communications were exchanged:

for  delivery  around  June  10?''  Thereafter, 

the 

1310

  1. Telegram from the manufacturer received by the store on June 2:

‘‘You're in luck. We have only 100 QT's, all on clearance at 50 percent
off usual wholesale of $120 per unit, for delivery at our shipping
platform on June 12.''

2. Letter from the store received in U.S. mail by the manufacturer on June

5: ‘‘I accept. Would prefer to pay in full 30 days after invoice.''

3. Telegram from the manufacturer received by the store on June 6: ‘‘You

must pick up at our platform and pay C.O.D.''

4. Letter from the store received in U.S. mail by the manufacturer on June

9: ‘‘I don't deal with people who can't accommodate our simple
requests.''

5. Telegram from the store received by the manufacturer on June 10, after
the manufacturer had sold and delivered all 100 of the QT's to another
buyer earlier that day: ‘‘Okay. I'm over a barrel and will pick up the
goods on your terms June 12.'' The store now sues the manufacturer for
breach of contract.

  Which  of  the  following  arguments  will  best  serve  the  manufacturer's
defense?

 (A) The manufacturer's telegram received on June 2 was merely a price

quotation, not an offer.

(B) The store's letter received on June 5 was not an acceptance because it

varied the terms of the manufacturer's initial telegram.

(C) The store's use of the mails in response to the manufacturer's initial

telegram was an ineffective method of acceptance.

(D) The store's letter received on June 9 was an unequivocal refusal to

perform that excused the manufacturer even if the parties had previously
formed a contract.

 Question 149

A  man  died  testate.  The  man's  estate  consisted  of  a  residence  as  well  as
significant  personal  property.  By  his  duly  probated  will,  the  man  devised
the  residence  to  a  friend  who  was  specifically  identified  in  the  will.  The
residue of the estate was given to a stated charity.

The man's friend, although alive at the time the man executed the will,
predeceased the man. The friend's wife and their child, who has a disability,
survived the man.

The value of the residence has increased significantly because of recent

1311

zoning changes. There is credible extrinsic evidence that the man wanted his
friend to own the residence after the man's death so that the friend and his
wife could care for their child there.
There is no applicable statute.
If both the charity and the child claim the residence, to whom should the

estate distribute the residence?

 (A) The charity, because the devise to the friend adeemed.
(B) The charity, because the devise to the friend lapsed.
(C) The child, because extrinsic evidence exists that the man's intent was to

benefit the child.

(D) The child, because no conditions of survivorship were noted in the will.

 Question 150

On  the  lawn  in  front  of  a  homeowner's  home  and  within  five  feet  of  the
public  sidewalk  there  was  a  large  tree.  The  roots  of  the  tree  caused  the
sidewalk  to  buckle  severely  and  become  dangerous.  An  ordinance  of  the
city  in  which  the  homeowner  lives  requires  adjacent  landowners  to  keep
sidewalks in safe condition. The homeowner engaged a contractor to repair
the sidewalk, leaving it to the contractor to decide how the repair should be
made.

The contractor dug up the sidewalk, cut back the roots of the tree, and
laid a new sidewalk. Two days after the homeowner had paid the contractor
the agreed price of the repair, the tree fell over onto the street and damaged
a parked car.

The  driver  of  the  damaged  car  has  asserted  claims  against  the
homeowner  and  the  contractor,  and  both  defendants  admit  that  cutting  the
roots caused the tree to fall.

The theory on which the car driver is most likely to prevail against the

homeowner is that the homeowner is

 (A) strictly liable, because the tree was on his property.
(B) liable for the contractor's negligence if, to the homeowner's knowledge,

the contractor was engaged in a hazardous activity.

(C) liable, because he assumed responsibility when he paid the contractor

for the repair.

(D) liable on the basis of respondeat superior.

Question 151

1312

On March 1, a seller orally agreed to sell his land to a buyer for $46,000 to
be  paid  on  March  31.  The  buyer  orally  agreed  to  pay  $25,000  of  the
purchase price to a creditor in satisfaction of a debt that the seller said he
had promised to pay the creditor.

On  March  10,  the  buyer  dictated  the  agreement  to  his  secretary  but
omitted all reference to the payment of the $25,000 to the creditor. In typing
the  agreement,  the  secretary  mistakenly  typed  in  $45,000  rather  than
$46,000  as  the  purchase  price.  Neither  the  buyer  nor  the  seller  carefully
read the writing before signing it on March 15. Neither noticed the error in
price and neither raised any question concerning omission of the payment to
the creditor.

Which of the following would be most important in deciding an action

by the creditor against the buyer for $25,000?

 (A) Whether the buyer-seller agreement was completely integrated.
(B) Whether the buyer was negligent in not having carefully read the written

agreement.

(C) Whether the seller was negligent in not having carefully read the written

agreement.

(D) Whether the creditor was a party to the contract.

 Question 152

A  seller  who  owned  land  in  fee  simple  entered  into  a  valid  written
agreement to sell the land to a buyer by installment purchase. The contract
stipulated that the seller would deliver to the buyer, upon the payment of the
last  installment  due,  ‘‘a  warranty  deed  sufficient  to  convey  a  fee  simple
title.'' The contract contained no other provision that could be construed as
referring to title.

The  buyer  entered  into  possession  of  the  land.  After  making  10  of  the
300 installment payments obligated under the contract, the buyer discovered
that  there  was  outstanding  a  valid  and  enforceable  mortgage  on  the  land,
securing the payment of a debt in the amount of 25 percent of the purchase
price that the buyer had agreed to pay. There was no evidence that the seller
had  ever  been  late  in  payments  due  under  the  mortgage  and  there  was  no
evidence  of  any  danger  of  insolvency  of  the  seller.  The  value  of  the  land
was then four times the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage.

The buyer quit possession of the land, stopped making payments on the
contract, and demanded that the seller repay the amounts that the buyer had
paid under the contract. After the seller refused the demand, the buyer sued

1313

the seller to recover damages for the seller's alleged breach of the contract.

In such action, should damages be awarded to the buyer?

 (A) Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an

obligation to convey marketable title is implied.

(B) Yes, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a mortgage
and the outstanding mortgage impairs the buyer's equity of redemption.

(C) No, because an installment purchase contract is treated as a security

device.

(D) No, because the time for the seller to deliver marketable title has not

arrived.

 Question 153

A state statute divides murder into degrees. First degree murder is defined
as  murder  with  premeditation  and  deliberation  or  a  homicide  in  the
commission of arson, rape, robbery, burglary or kidnapping. Second degree
murder is all other murder at common law.

In  which  of  the  following  situations  is  a  defendant  most  likely  to  be

guilty of first degree murder?

 (A) Immediately after being insulted by an acquaintance, the defendant takes

a knife and stabs and kills the acquaintance.

(B) Angered over having been struck by a bicyclist, the defendant buys rat
poison and puts it in the bicyclist's coffee. The bicyclist drinks the
coffee and dies as a result.

(C) Intending to injure his co-worker, the defendant lies in wait and, as the

co-worker comes by, the defendant strikes him with a broom handle. As
a result of the blow, the co-worker dies.

(D) The defendant, highly intoxicated, discovers a revolver on a table. He
picks it up, points it at the babysitter, and pulls the trigger. The gun
discharges, and the babysitter is killed.

 Question 154

In  2010,  a  utility  constructed  a  new  plant  for  the  generation  of  electricity.
The  plant  burns  lignite,  a  low-grade  fuel,  which  is  available  in  large
quantities.  Although  the  plant  was  constructed  in  accordance  with  the  best
practicable  technology,  the  plant  emits  a  substantial  quantity  of  invisible
fumes.  The  only  way  the  utility  can  reduce  the  fumes  is  by  the  use  of
scrubbing  equipment  that  would  cost  $50  million  to  install  and  would

1314

increase  the  retail  price  of  generated  electricity  by  50  percent  while
reducing the volume of fumes by only 20 percent. Because of the expense of
such  equipment  and  its  relative  ineffectiveness,  no  other  generating  plants
burning lignite use such equipment.

The  plant  is  located  in  a  sparsely  settled  rural  area,  remote  from  the
large city served by the utility. A farmer owned a farm adjacent to the plant.
He  had  farmed  the  land  for  40  years  and  lived  on  the  premises.  The
prevailing winds carried fumes from the new plant over the farmer's land.
His 2010 crop was less than half the average size of his crop in each of the
five  years  immediately  preceding  the  construction  of  the  plant.  It  can  be
established that the fumes caused the crop reduction.

The farmer's hay fever, from which he had long suffered, became worse
in 2011. Physicians advised him that the lignite fumes were affecting it and
that serious lung disease would soon result unless he moved away from the
plant. He did so, selling his farm at its reasonable market value, which was
then $10,000 less than before the construction of the plant.

If  the  farmer  asserts  a  claim  based  on  nuisance  against  the  utility  for

damages for personal injuries, will the farmer prevail?

 (A) No, because there is no practicable way for the utility to reduce the

fumes.

(B) No, because the utility's acts constituted a public nuisance.
(C) Yes, because the farmer's personal injuries were within the scope of the

liability imposed on the utility.

(D) Yes, because the generation of electricity is an ultrahazardous activity.

 Question 155

A  collector  bought  from  a  gallery  a  painting  correctly  described  in  the
parties' signed contract as a ‘‘one-of-a-kind self-portrait'' by a famous artist
who  had  recently  died.  The  contract  price  was  $100,000  in  cash,  payable
one month after a truck carrier delivered the painting to the collector.

The  painting  was  damaged  in  transit.  The  collector  timely  rejected  it
after  inspection  and  immediately  notified  the  gallery  of  the  rejection.  The
gallery then sold the painting to a third party. It informed the collector that it
would  pick  up  the  painting  within  a  couple  of  weeks.  Two  weeks  later,
before the gallery picked up the painting, the collector sold the painting to
an art admirer for $120,000 cash, after notifying her about the damage.

If  the  collector's  sale  of  the  painting  was  NOT  an  acceptance  of  the
goods,  what  is  the  maximum  amount  that  the  gallery  is  entitled  to  recover

1315

from the collector?

 (A) $120,000 (damages for conversion).
(B) $100,000 (the collector-gallery contract price).
(C) $20,000 (the excess of the market price over the contract price).
(D) Only the allowance of lost profit to the gallery as a volume dealer.

 Question 156

A plaintiff sues a defendant for a libelous letter received by an investigator.
The authenticity and contents of the letter are disputed.

The plaintiff's attorney asks the investigator to testify that, a week before
receiving the libelous letter, he had written to the defendant inquiring about
the plaintiff.

The testimony is

 (A) admissible, provided this inquiry was made in the regular course of the

investigator's business.

(B) admissible, without production of the inquiry letter or the showing of its

unavailability.

(C) inadmissible, unless the plaintiff's attorney has given the defendant

notice of the investigator's intended testimony.

(D) inadmissible, unless the inquiry letter itself is shown to be unavailable.

 Question 157

A realty company acquired a large tract of land upon which it developed a
mobile  home  subdivision.  The  tract  was  divided  into  60  lots,  appropriate
utilities were installed, and a plat of the entire tract, including a Declaration
of  Restrictions,  was  properly  drawn  and  recorded.  The  Declaration  of
Restrictions  included  the  following:  ‘‘3.  Ownership  and/or  occupancy  are
restricted  to  persons  21  years  of  age  or  over;  one  family  per  lot.''  As  the
separate  lots  were  sold,  the  deed  to  each  lot  included  the  following
provision:  ‘‘As  shown  on  recorded  plat  [properly  identified  by  page  and
plat book reference] and subject to the restrictions therein contained.'' One
of the lots was purchased by a carpenter, who now resides in a mobile home
on the lot together with his wife and two children, aged 11 and 13. Other lot
owners  in  the  subdivision  brought  action  against  the  carpenter  to  enjoin
further occupancy by the children under 21 years of age. If judgment is for
the  carpenter,  the  issue  that  most  likely  will  determine  the  case  will  be
whether

1316

 (A) the mobile home is treated as personalty or realty.
(B) the restriction constitutes an unlawful restraint on alienation.
(C) enforcement of the restriction is considered a violation of the Equal

Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.

(D) the terms of the restriction are expressly repeated verbatim in the

carpenter's deed.

 Question 158

In  the  application  for  a  life  insurance  policy,  a  woman  answered  in  the
negative  the  question,  ‘‘Have  you  ever  had  any  heart  disease?''  Both  the
application and the insurance policy that was issued provided: ‘‘Applicant
warrants the truthfulness of the statements made in the application and they
are made conditions to the contract of insurance.'' Unknown to the woman,
she had had a heart disease at a very early age.

If the question is raised in an action against the insurance company, how
is  the  court  likely  to  construe  the  clause  dealing  with  the  truthfulness  of
statements in the application?

 (A) The clause is a condition, and because the condition was not met, the

company will not be liable.

(B) The clause is a condition, but it will be interpreted to mean,

‘‘truthfulness to the best of my knowledge.''

(C) The clause is not a condition, and therefore the company may be liable

even though the woman's statement was not true.

(D) The clause is not a condition but is a promise, and therefore the

company will have a cause of action against the woman's estate for any
losses it suffered because of her misstatement.

 Question 159

Plaintiff  owns  a  luncheonette  called  the  Healthy  Home.  Defendant  runs  a
company that sells baked goods that it labels as “organic.” Plaintiff entered
into  a  contract  with  Defendant  for  the  weekly  delivery  of  organic  oatmeal
cookies.  After  several  such  deliveries,  Plaintiff  learned  that  the  “organic”
cookies  were  really  repackaged  highly-processed  cookies  that  Defendant
bought in bulk from a foreign wholesale company. Plaintiff sued Defendant
in  federal  court,  alleging  diversity  jurisdiction.  The  complaint  included  a
proper jurisdictional statement and alleged that (1) Defendant entered into a
contract  with  Plaintiff  to  weekly  deliver  thirty  pounds  of  organic  oatmeal

1317

cookies;  and  (2)  Defendant  instead  knowingly  delivered  non-organic
cookies; (3) Defendant consequently engaged in fraud. The complaint made
no other statements regarding Defendant's conduct or state of mind.

Before answering, Defendant moved to dismiss the complaint for failing

to state a claim. The court will most likely

 (A) grant the motion because the complaint fails to plead Defendant's

alleged special matters.

(B) deny the motion because Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff can

prove no set of facts in support of the fraud claim.

(C) deny the motion because Defendant was required to move for judgment

on the pleadings.

(D) grant the motion because the complaint improperly joins a contract

claim with a tort claim.

 Question 160

A  defendant  was  tried  for  the  murder  of  a  victim.  The  alleged  killing
followed a barroom argument. The prosecution, in its case in chief, offered
evidence  that  the  defendant  acted  without  having  been  threatened  by  the
victim.  In  his  case  in  chief,  the  defendant  called,  as  his  first  witness,  a
friend  of  the  defendant  to  testify  to  the  defendant's  reputation  in  his
community as ‘‘a peaceable man.''

The testimony is

 (A) admissible as tending to prove the defendant is believable.
(B) admissible as tending to prove the defendant is innocent.
(C) inadmissible, because the defendant has not testified.
(D) inadmissible, because reputation is not a proper way to prove character.

 Question 161

In  2003,  a  man  was  appointed  to  a  tribunal  established  pursuant  to  a
congressional  act.  The  tribunal's  duties  were  to  review  claims  made  by
veterans  and  to  make  recommendations  to  the  Veterans  Administration  on
their  merits.  Congress  later  abolished  the  tribunal  and  established  a
different format for review of such claims. The man was offered a federal
administrative position in the same bureau at a lesser salary. He thereupon
sued the government on the ground that Congress may not remove a federal
judge  from  office  during  good  behavior  nor  diminish  his  compensation

1318

during continuance in office. Government attorneys filed a motion to dismiss
the action.

The court should

 (A) deny the motion because of the independence of the federal judiciary

constitutionally guaranteed by Article III.

(B) deny the motion, because the man has established a property right to his

federal employment of the tribunal.

(C) grant the motion, because the man lacked standing to raise the question.
(D) grant the motion, because the man was not a judge under Article III and

is not entitled to life tenure.

 Question 162

In 1975, a cattle company paid $30,000 for a 150-acre tract of agricultural
land well suited for a cattle feed lot. The tract was ten miles from the city,
which  was  then  a  community  of  50,000  people,  and  five  miles  from  the
nearest home. By 2011, the city limits extended to the cattle company's feed
lot,  and  the  city  had  a  population  of  350,000.  About  10,000  people  lived
within three miles of the cattle feeding operation. The cattle company land
is  outside  the  city  limits  and  no  zoning  ordinance  applies.  The  cattle
company  land  is  now  worth  $300,000,  and  $25,000  has  been  invested  in
buildings and pens.

The  cattle  company,  conscious  of  its  obligations  to  its  neighbors,  uses
the best and most sanitary feed lot procedures, including chemical sprays, to
keep  down  flies  and  odors,  and  frequently  removes  manure.  Despite  these
measures,  residents  of  the  city  complain  of  flies  and  odors.  An  action  has
been filed by five individual homeowners who live within half a mile of the
cattle  company  feed  lot.  The  plaintiffs'  homes  are  valued  currently  at
$25,000  to  $40,000  each.  Flies  in  the  area  are  five  to  ten  times  more
numerous than in other parts of the city, and extremely obnoxious odors are
frequently carried by the wind to the plaintiffs' homes. The flies and odors
are a substantial health hazard.

If plaintiffs assert a claim based on public nuisance, the plaintiffs will

 (A) prevail if the plaintiffs sustained harm different from that suffered by the

public at large.

(B) prevail if the cattle company's acts interfered with any person's

enjoyment of his property.

(C) not prevail, because only the state may bring an action based on public

1319

nuisance.

(D) not prevail, because the plaintiffs came to the nuisance.

 Question 163

A  drug  dealer  agreed  with  another  individual  to  purchase  heroin  from  the
individual  in  order  to  sell  it  on  a  city  street  corner.  Unknown  to  the  drug
dealer,  the  other  individual  was  an  undercover  police  officer  whose  only
purpose was to arrest distributors of drugs. The drug dealer made a down
payment for the heroin and agreed to pay the remainder after he sold it on
the street. As soon as the undercover officer handed over the heroin, other
officers moved in and arrested the dealer.

The jurisdiction follows the common-law approach to conspiracy.
Could  the  dealer  properly  be  convicted  of  conspiring  to  distribute

drugs?

 (A) No, because there was no overt act.
(B) No, because there was no plurality of agreement.
(C) Yes, because neither an overt act nor plurality of agreement is required

under common law.

(D) Yes, because the dealer believed all the elements of conspiracy were

present and cannot take advantage of a mistake of fact or law.

 Question 164

A  mother,  the  owner  in  fee  simple  of  a  parcel  of  land,  by  quitclaim  deed
conveyed  the  parcel  to  her  daughter,  who  paid  no  consideration  for  the
conveyance. The deed was never recorded. About a year after the delivery
of  the  deed,  the  mother  decided  that  this  gift  had  been  ill-advised.  She
requested  that  her  daughter  destroy  the  deed,  which  her  daughter  dutifully
and voluntarily did. Within the month following the destruction of the deed,
both the mother and daughter were killed in a common disaster. Each of the
successors in interest claimed title to the parcel. In an appropriate action to
determine the title to the parcel, the probable outcome will be that

 (A) the mother was the owner of the parcel, because her daughter was a
donee and therefore could not acquire title by quitclaim deed.
(B) the mother was the owner of the parcel, because title to the parcel
reverted to her upon the voluntary destruction of the deed by her
daughter.

(C) the daughter was the owner of the parcel, because her destruction of the

1320

deed to the parcel was under the undue influence of her mother.

(D) the daughter was the owner of the parcel, because the deed was merely
evidence of her title, and its destruction was insufficient to cause title to
pass back to her mother.

 Question 165

Under the terms of a written contract, a builder agreed to construct a garage
for  a  homeowner  for  $10,000.  Nothing  was  stated  in  the  parties'
negotiations or in the contract about progress payments during the course of
the work.

After completing 25 percent of the garage according to the homeowner's
specifications,  the  builder  demanded  $2,000  as  a  reasonable  progress
payment. The homeowner refused, and the builder abandoned the job.

If  each  party  sues  the  other  for  breach  of  contract,  which  of  the

following will the court decide?

 (A) Both parties are in breach, and each is entitled to damages, if any, from

the other.

(B) Only the builder is in breach and is liable for the homeowner's

damages, if any.

(C) Only the homeowner is in breach and is liable for the builder's

damages, if any.

(D) Both parties took reasonable positions, and neither is in breach.

 Question 166

Plaintiff heads a company that sells photography equipment. Defendant, an
individual  who  owns  a  film  school,  bought  five  hundred  cameras  from
Plaintiff.  Defendant  received  the  cameras  but  refused  to  pay,  insisting  that
the  goods  did  not  meet  industry  standards.  Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in
federal  district  court  for  breach  of  contract,  invoking  the  court's  diversity
jurisdiction. Plaintiff knows from publicly available sources that Defendant
has  purchased  studio  lighting  from  a  particular  lighting  company.  Plaintiff
wants  to  find  out,  through  discovery,  whether  Defendant  also  defaulted  on
that contract.

Which  statement  best  describes  whether  Plaintiff  may  get  discovery

about any contract between Defendant and the lighting company?

 (A) Plaintiff may, during a deposition of Defendant, ask about the lighting

1321

contract so long as the information is not privileged, is relevant to a
claim or defense in the case, and is proportional to the needs of the
case.

(B) Plaintiff may not, during a deposition of Defendant, ask about the
lighting contract if the answer would not be admissible at trial.
(C) Plaintiff may propound interrogatories to the lighting company asking

about the company's contracts with Defendant, if that information would
be relevant to a claim or defense in the case.

(D) Plaintiff is entitled to receive a copy of the lighting contract as a part of

automatic initial disclosure from Defendant.

 Question 167

A pedestrian sued a driver for injuries suffered in a hit-and-run accident. At
trial, the pedestrian called a witness who testified that he saw the accident
and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license number into his
properly operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no
longer remembered the number.

May the tape recording be played?

 (A) Yes, as a present sense impression only.
(B) Yes, as a recorded recollection only.
(C) Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.
(D) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

 Question 168

Acting  on  an  anonymous  telephone  call,  police  went  to  a  defendant's
apartment,  knocked  on  the  door,  and  demanded  to  search  it  for  narcotics.
When the defendant refused, the police forced the door open and placed him
under arrest. As they were removing him from the apartment, the defendant
offered  to  give  the  officers  ‘‘valuable  information''  in  exchange  for  his
release.  Before  he  could  say  anything  else,  the  defendant  was  given
Miranda warnings by the police. Thereafter, he told the police that he had
stored some heroin in his friend's apartment and that he and his friend had
been  going  to  sell  it.  The  heroin  was  recovered,  and  the  defendant  was
prosecuted for conspiracy to sell narcotics and for possession of narcotics.
At  his  trial,  the  defendant  moved  to  suppress  his  statements.  Which  of  the
following  is  the  defendant's  best  argument  in  support  of  the  motion  to
suppress?

1322

 (A) The defendant is entitled to know the identity of his accuser, and the

state cannot supply this information.

(B) The police should have given the defendant Miranda warnings prior to
entry into the apartment, and the warnings were ineffectual once the
defendant offered to give the police information.

(C) The defendant was intimidated by the forced entry into the apartment,

and since the statements were involuntary and coerced, their use against
him would violate due process of law.

(D) The statements were fruits of an unlawful arrest, and though the

Miranda warnings may have been sufficient to protect his right against
self-incrimination, they were not sufficient to purge the taint of the
illegal arrest.

 Question 169

A  woman  occupied  an  apartment  in  a  building  owned  by  a  landlord.  She
paid  rent  of  $125  in  advance  each  month.  During  the  second  month  of
occupancy,  the  woman  organized  the  tenants  in  the  building  as  a  tenants'
association  and  the  association  made  demands  of  the  landlord  concerning
certain  repairs  and  improvements  the  tenants  wanted.  When  the  woman
tendered rent for the third month, the landlord notified her that rent for the
fourth  and  subsequent  months  would  be  $200  per  month.  The  woman
protested and pointed out that all other tenants paid rent of $125 per month.
Thereupon,  the  landlord  gave  the  required  statutory  notice  that  the  tenancy
was being terminated at the end of the third month.

By an appropriate proceeding, the woman contests the landlord's right to

terminate. If the woman succeeds, it will be because

 (A) a periodic tenancy was created by implication.
(B) the doctrine prohibiting retaliatory eviction is part of the law of the

jurisdiction.

(C) the $200 rent demanded violates the agreement implied by the rate

charged to other tenants.

(D) the law implies a term of one year in the absence of any express

agreement.

 Question 170

Congressional committees heard testimony from present and former holders
of  licenses  issued  by  state  vocational  licensing  boards.  According  to  the

1323

the  boards  had  unfairly  manipulated 

their  disciplinary
testimony, 
proceedings  in  order  to  revoke  the  licenses  of  some  license  holders  as  a
means of protecting favored licensees from competition.

In response, Congress enacted a statute prescribing detailed procedural
requirements  for  the  disciplinary  proceedings  of  all  state  vocational
licensing  boards.  For  example,  the  statute  required  the  state  boards  to
provide licensees with adequate notice and opportunity for an adjudicatory
hearing in all disciplinary proceedings. The statute also prescribed criteria
for  the  membership  of  all  state  vocational  licensing  boards  that  were
designed to ensure that the boards were likely to be neutral.

Which  of  the  following  provides  the  best  source  of  authority  for  this

federal statute?

 (A) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
(B) The General Welfare Clause of Article I, § 8.
(C) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV, § 2.
(D) The Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

 Question 171

A  photographer  lent  200  of  his  photographic  prints  to  a  museum  to  be
featured in an upcoming exhibit. The museum agreed to return all prints in
the  same  condition  as  it  received  them.  Due  to  staff  error,  the  museum
instead  sent  the  prints  to  a  recycling  bin,  where  they  were  compressed
beyond recognition. The photographer sued the museum in federal court for
breach of contract, alleging diversity jurisdiction, and sought to recover the
market value of the 200 prints. The evidence presented to the jury showed
that none of the photographer's photo prints throughout his career had ever
sold  for  more  than  $500  a  print.  No  motions  were  made  by  either  side
before the case went to the jury. The jury returned a verdict of $1 million.
The  judge  mentally  agreed  with  the  jury  that  the  museum  ought  to  be  held
liable  but  believed  that  the  jury's  award  reflected  an  arithmetic  error  and
that the jurors had intended to issue a verdict of $100,000 in damages rather
than $1 million.

After  judgment  was  entered  on  the  jury's  verdict  for  the  photographer,
the  museum  made  a  motion  for  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law,  by  which  it
asked the judge to set the judgment at $100,000 rather than $1 million. What
action can the judge take, if any, that is procedurally proper, is not wasteful
of judicial resources, and will correct the judgment to or near the $100,000
that the judge believes the jury intended?

1324

 (A) The judge should grant the museum's motion and enter judgment for

$100,000.

(B) The judge on her own initiative should conditionally order a new trial

unless the photographer agrees to a reduction of the damages to
$100,000, an amount set by the court.

(C) The judge on her own initiative should order a new jury trial solely on

the issue of damages.

(D) The judge must deny the museum's motion because the Seventh

Amendment requires that the judge accept the jury's damage award
without adjustment.

 Question 172

A  plaintiff  purchased  a  suit  of  thermal  underwear  made  of  synthetic
materials and manufactured by a company. While attempting to stamp out a
fire,  the  plaintiff's  thermal  underwear  caught  fire  and  burned  in  a  melting
fashion up to his waist. He suffered a heart attack a half hour later. In a suit
against  the  company,  the  plaintiff  alleged  that  negligence  and  breach  of
warranty caused both the burn and the heart attack.

The  plaintiff  testified  that  his  purchase  of  the  underwear  occurred  on
April 17th, a fact of minor importance in the case. He stated that he could
identify  the  date  because  his  secretary  had  taken  the  day  off  to  attend  the
first game of the baseball season and he had checked his company's payroll
records  to  verify  the  date.  The  clothing  company  moves  to  strike  the
testimony as to the date. The motion should be

 (A) sustained, because the best evidence of the information contained in the

payroll records is the records themselves.

(B) sustained, because the plaintiff's testimony is based upon hearsay

declarations contained in the payroll records.

(C) overruled if the judge has personal knowledge of the date on which the

baseball season opened.

(D) overruled, because the payroll records relate to a collateral matter.

 Question 173

On March 1, a programmer orally agreed with a department store to write a
set of programs for the store's computer and to coordinate the programs with
its billing methods. A subsequent memo, signed by both parties, provided in
its entirety:

1325

‘‘The store will pay the programmer $20,000 in two equal installments
within  one  month  of  completion  if  the  programmer  is  successful  in
shortening by one-half the processing time for the financial transactions now
handled on the store's computer system; the programmer is to complete by
July 1. This agreement may be amended only by a signed writing.''

On June 6, the programmer demanded $10,000, saying the job was one-
half done. After the store denied liability, the parties orally agreed that the
store  should  deposit  $20,000  in  escrow,  pending  completion  to  the
satisfaction  of  the  store's  computer  systems  manager.  The  escrow  deposit
was  thereupon  made.  On  July  5,  the  programmer  completed  the  programs,
having used an amount of time in which it could have earned $18,000 had it
devoted  that  time  to  other  jobs.  Tests  by  the  programmer  and  the  store's
computer  systems  manager  then  showed  that  the  computer  programs,  not
being perfectly coordinated with the store's billing methods, cut processing
time  by  only  47  percent.  They  would,  however,  save  the  store  $12,000  a
year.  Further,  if  the  store  would  spend  $5,000  to  change  its  invoice
preparation  methods,  as  recommended  by  the  programmer,  the  programs
would cut processing time by a total of 58 percent, saving the store another
$8,000 a year.

The  store's  computer  systems  manager  refused  in  good  faith  to  certify
satisfactory completion. The store requested the escrow agent to return the
$20,000 and asserted that nothing was owed to the programmer even though
it has continued to use the programs.

If the store denies liability on the ground that the programmer had orally
agreed  to  coordinate  with  the  store's  methods  of  accounting,  and  the
programmer seeks in litigation to bar introduction of that agreement because
of the Parol Evidence Rule, the store's most effective argument is that

 (A) the Parol Evidence Rule does not bar the introduction of evidence for

the purpose of interpreting a written agreement.

(B) the memorandum was not a completely integrated agreement.
(C) the store detrimentally relied on the oral promise of coordination in

signing the memorandum.

(D) the memorandum was not a partially integrated agreement.

 Question 174

A federal statute required that any individual or entity owning more than 100
cars  had  to  ensure  that  at  least  10  percent  of  those  cars  were  electric
powered.

1326

A city filed suit in federal district court against the federal official who
enforced  this  requirement.  The  city  sought  an  injunction  prohibiting
enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was unconstitutional.

Should the court grant the injunction?

 (A) No, because the statute is valid under the Commerce Clause and does

not violate the Tenth Amendment.

(B) No, because the federal government has sovereign immunity and cannot

be sued without its explicit consent.

(C) Yes, because the statute violates the reserved rights of the states under

the Tenth Amendment.

(D) Yes, because as applied to state and local governments, the statute

exceeds Congress's power under the Commerce Clause.

 Question 175

A lumber supplier agreed to sell and a furniture manufacturer agreed to buy
all of the lumber that the manufacturer required over a two-year period. The
sales contract provided that payment was due 60 days after delivery, but that
a 3 percent discount would be allowed if the manufacturer paid within ten
days  of  delivery.  During  the  first  year  of  the  contract,  the  manufacturer
regularly  paid  within  the  ten-day  period  and  received  the  3  percent
discount.  Fifteen  days  after  the  supplier  made  its  most  recent  lumber
delivery to the manufacturer, the supplier had received no payment from the
manufacturer.  At  this  time,  the  supplier  became  aware  of  rumors  from  a
credible source that the manufacturer's financial condition was precarious.
The  supplier  wrote  the  manufacturer,  demanding  assurances  regarding  the
manufacturer's  financial  status.  The  manufacturer  immediately  mailed  its
latest audited financial statements to the supplier, as well as a satisfactory
credit report prepared by the manufacturer's banker. The rumors proved to
be  false.  Nevertheless,  the  supplier  refused  to  resume  deliveries.  The
manufacturer sued the lumber supplier for breach of contract.

Will the manufacturer prevail?

 (A) No, because the contract was unenforceable, since the manufacturer had

not committed to purchase a definite quantity of lumber.

(B) No, because the supplier had reasonable grounds for insecurity and was
therefore entitled to cancel the contract and refuse to make any future
deliveries.

(C) Yes, because the credit report and audited financial statements provided

1327

adequate assurance of due performance under the contract.

(D) Yes, because the supplier was not entitled to condition resumption of

deliveries on the receipt of financial status information.

 Question 176

A  state  legislature  passed  a  statute  providing  that  juries  in  criminal  trials
were to consist of 6 rather than 12 jurors, and providing that jury verdicts
did not have to be unanimous but could be based on 5 votes out of 6 jurors.
A defendant was tried for murder. Over his objection, he was tried by a jury
composed of 6 jurors. The jurors found him guilty by a vote of 5 to 1 and,
over  the  defendant's  objection,  the  court  entered  a  judgment  of  conviction,
which  was  affirmed  on  appeal  by  the  state  supreme  court.  The  defendant
seeks to overturn his conviction in a habeas corpus action in federal court,
claiming  his  constitutional  rights  were  violated  by  allowing  a  jury  verdict
that was not unanimous and by allowing a jury composed of fewer than 12
members.

How is the federal court likely to rule in this action?

 (A) It will set aside the conviction, because the jury was composed of

fewer than 12 members.

(B) It will set aside the conviction, because the 6-person jury verdict was

not unanimous.

(C) It will set aside the conviction for both reasons.
(D) It will uphold the conviction.

 Question 177

National  regulation  of  predatory  wild  animals  on  federal  lands  is  most
likely

 (A) constitutional, because the protection of wild animals is important to the

general welfare.

(B) constitutional, because Congress has authority to make regulations

respecting federal property.

(C) unconstitutional, because wild animals as defined by state common law

are not federal property.

(D) unconstitutional, because regulation and control of wild animals is

retained by the states under the Tenth Amendment.

 Question 178

1328

By her validly executed will, a woman devised a certain tract of land to her
son for his life with remainder to such of his children as should be living at
his death, ‘‘Provided, however, that no such child of my son shall mortgage
or  sell,  or  attempt  to  mortgage  or  sell,  his  or  her  interest  in  the  property
prior  to  attaining  25  years  of  age:  and,  if  any  such  child  of  my  son  shall
violate this provision, then upon such violation his or her interest shall pass
to and become the property of the remaining children of my son then living,
share and share alike.''

The woman's will included an identical provision for each of her four
other children concerning four other tracts of land. The residuary clause of
the will gave the residuary estate to the woman's five children equally. The
woman died and was survived by the five children named in her will and by
11 grandchildren. Several additional grandchildren have since been born.

In an action for a declaration of rights, it was claimed that the attempted
gifts to the woman's grandchildren were entirely void and that the interests
following the life estates to her children passed to the children absolutely by
the residuary clause. Assuming that the action was properly brought with all
necessary  parties  and  with  a  guardian  ad  litem  appointed  to  represent  the
interests of unborn and infant grandchildren, the decision should be that

 (A) the attempted gifts to grandchildren are void under the Rule Against

Perpetuities.

(B) the attempted gifts to grandchildren are void as unlawful restraints on

alienation.

(C) the provisions concerning grandchildren are valid and will be upheld

according to their terms.

(D) even if the provisions against sale or mortgage by the grandchildren are
void, the remainders to grandchildren are otherwise valid and will be
given effect.

 Question 179

A  landowner  who  owned  a  large  tract  of  land  in  the  mountains  sought  to
protect a herd of wild deer that frequented the area. Although the landowner
had  posted  signs  that  said,  ‘‘No  Hunting  —  No  Trespassing,''  hunters
frequently intruded to kill the deer. Recently, the landowner built an eight-
foot chain-link fence, topped by three strands of barbed wire, across a gully
on her land that provided the only access to the area frequented by the deer.

A wildlife photographer asked the landowner for permission to enter the
property  to  photograph  the  deer.  Because  the  landowner  feared  that  any

1329

publicity would encourage further intrusions, she denied the photographer's
request.  Frustrated,  the  photographer  attempted  to  climb  the  fence.  He
became  entangled  in  the  barbed  wire  and  suffered  extensive  lacerations.
The  wounds  became  infected  and  ultimately  caused  his  death.  The
photographer's  personal  representative  brought  an  action  against  the
landowner.

Will the plaintiff prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the landowner may not use deadly force to protect her land

from intrusion.

(B) Yes, because the landowner had no property interest in the deer that

entitled her to use force to protect them.

(C) No, because the photographer entered the landowner's land after the

landowner had refused him permission to do so.

(D) No, because the potential for harm created by the presence of the

barbed wire was apparent.

 Question 180

A  homeowner  sued  a  plumber  for  damages  resulting  from  the  plumber's
allegedly  faulty  installation  of  water  pipes  in  her  basement,  causing
flooding. At trial, the homeowner was prepared to testify that when she first
detected the flooding, she turned off the water and called the plumber at his
emergency  number  for  help.  The  plumber  responded,  ‘‘I'll  come  by
tomorrow and will redo the installation for free.''

Is the plumber's response admissible?

 (A) No, because it is an offer in compromise.
(B) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(C) Yes, as a subsequent remedial measure.
(D) Yes, as evidence of the plumber's fault.

 Question 181

A driver, returning from a long shift at a factory, fell asleep at the wheel and
lost control of his car. As a result, his car collided with a police car driven
by an officer who was returning to the station after having responded to an
emergency.  The  police  officer  was  injured  in  the  accident.  The  police
officer sued the driver in negligence for her injuries. The driver moved for
summary judgment, arguing that the common-law firefighters' rule barred the
suit.

1330

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because the firefighters' rule does not apply to police officers.
(B) No, because the police officer's injuries were not related to any special

dangers of her job.

(C) Yes, because the accident would not have occurred but for the

emergency.

(D) Yes, because the police officer was injured on the job.

 Question 182

An owner owned a tract of land in fee simple. At a time when the tract was
in  the  adverse  possession  of  a  squatter,  a  neighbor  obtained  the  oral
permission of the owner to use as a road or driveway a portion of the tract
to reach adjoining land which the neighbor owned in fee simple. Thereafter,
during  all  times  relevant  to  this  problem,  the  neighbor  used  this  road
regularly for ingress and egress between his land and a public highway.

The  squatter  quit  possession  of  the  tract  before  acquiring  title  by
adverse  possession.  Without  communicating  further  with  the  owner,  the
neighbor continued to use the road for a total period, from the time he first
began to use it, sufficient to acquire an easement by prescription. The owner
then blocked the road and refused to permit its continued use. The neighbor
brought suit to determine his right to continue use of the road. The neighbor
should

 (A) win, because his use was adverse to the squatter and once adverse it
continued adverse until some affirmative showing of a change.

(B) win, because the neighbor made no attempt to renew permission after

the squatter quit possession of the tract.
(C) lose, because his use was with permission.
(D) lose, because there is no evidence that he continued adverse use for the

required period after the squatter quit possession.

 Question 183

A  state  requires  licenses  of  persons  ‘‘who  are  engaged  in  the  trade  of
barbering.''  It  will  grant  such  licenses  only  to  those  who  are  graduates  of
barber  schools  located  in  the  state,  who  have  resided  in  the  state  for  two
years, and who are citizens of the United States.

The requirement that candidates for license must be graduates of barber

1331

schools in the state is probably

 (A) unconstitutional, as an undue burden on interstate commerce.
(B) unconstitutional, as a violation of the Privileges and Immunities Clause

of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) constitutional, because the state does not know the quality of out-of-state

barber schools.

(D) constitutional, because barbering is a privilege and not a right.

 Question 184

Plaintiff,  a  black  woman,  worked  for  a  bookstore  owned  by  Defendant,  a
large corporation with stores in many states. The bookstore where Plaintiff
worked was in State A. Plaintiff's supervisor, the store manager, passed her
over  for  a  promotion.  Believing  she  had  been  passed  over  because  of  her
race  and/or  gender,  Plaintiff  sued  Defendant  in  federal  district  court  for
State  A,  alleging  discrimination  in  violation  of  federal  employment-
discrimination  statutes.  The  complaint  has  survived  a  motion  to  dismiss.
Plaintiff's lawyer now wants to depose a man who was her colleague at the
store, where he served as a cashier; the lawyer believes the colleague has
knowledge of the circumstances under which Plaintiff was passed over for
the promotion. The colleague, who has since left the employ of Defendant,
now  works  and  lives  in  State  B,  at  a  location  200  miles  from  the  federal
courthouse in State A where the suit is pending; he rarely travels more than
50  miles  from  his  present  home  and  place  of  business.  Plaintiff's  lawyer
wishes  to  depose  the  colleague  in  person  at  the  lawyer's  office,  which  is
next  door  to  the  State  A  federal  courthouse.  Can  the  lawyer  require  the
colleague  to  attend  the  deposition  at  this  office,  assuming  the  lawyer  will
choose  a  date  when  the  colleague  has  no  conflicting  appointments  and
assuming  that  the  lawyer  pays  the  colleague's  reasonable  expenses  of
travelling to the deposition?

 (A) Yes, but only if the lawyer issues a subpoena.
(B) Yes, and the lawyer may do so by means of a notice of deposition.
(C) Yes, so long as the lawyer demonstrates good cause for not holding the
deposition in State B at a location within 100 miles of the colleague's
home or place of business.

(D) No, because the colleague is not a party or an officer of a party.

 Question 185

1332

In financial straits and needing $4,000 immediately, a nephew orally asked
his uncle for a $4,000 loan. The uncle replied that he would lend the money
to  the  nephew  only  if  the  nephew's  mother  ‘‘guaranteed''  the  loan.  At  the
nephew's  suggestion,  the  uncle  then  telephoned  the  nephew's  mother,  told
her  about  the  loan,  and  asked  if  she  would  ‘‘guarantee''  it.  She  replied,
‘‘Surely. Lend my son the $4,000 and I'll repay it if he doesn't.'' The uncle
then lent $4,000 to the nephew, an amount the nephew orally agreed to repay
in six weeks. The next day, the nephew's mother wrote to him and concluded
her letter with the words, ‘‘Son, I was happy to do you a favor by promising
your  uncle  I  would  repay  your  six-week  $4,000  loan  if  you  don't.  /s/
Mother.''  Neither  the  nephew  nor  his  mother  repaid  the  loan  when  it  came
due and the uncle sued the mother for breach of contract. In that action, the
mother raised the Statute of Frauds as her only defense.

Will the mother's Statute Frauds defense be successful?

 (A) No, because the amount of the loan was less than $5,000.
(B) No, because the mother's letter satisfies the Statute-of-Frauds

requirement.

(C) Yes, because the mother's promise to the uncle was oral.
(D) Yes, because the nephew's promise to the uncle was oral.

 Question 186

A husband and wife, walking on a country road, were frightened by a bull
running  loose  on  the  road.  They  climbed  over  a  fence  to  get  onto  the
adjacent  property,  owned  by  a  grower.  After  climbing  over  the  fence,  the
husband  and  wife  damaged  some  of  the  grower's  plants,  which  were  near
the  fence.  The  fence  was  posted  with  a  large  sign  that  said,  ‘‘No
Trespassing.''

The grower saw the husband and wife and came toward them with his
large watchdog on a long leash. The dog rushed at the wife. The grower had
intended only to frighten the husband and the wife, but the leash broke, and
before the grower could restrain the dog, the dog bit the wife.

If the wife asserts a claim based on battery against the grower, will the

wife prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the grower intended that the dog frighten the wife.
(B) Yes, because the breaking of the leash establishes liability under res

ipsa loquitur.

(C) No, because the wife made an unauthorized entry onto the grower's land.

1333

(D) No, because the grower did not intend to cause any harmful contact with

the wife.

 Question 187

In  a  civil  action  for  breach  of  an  oral  contract,  the  defendant  admits  that
there had been discussions, but denies that he ever entered into an agreement
with the plaintiff.

Which of the following standards of admissibility should be applied by
the court to evidence proffered as relevant to prove whether a contract was
formed?

 (A) Whether a reasonable juror would find the evidence determinative of

whether the contract was or was not formed.

(B) Whether the evidence has any tendency to make the fact of contract

formation more or less probable than without the evidence.

(C) Whether the evidence is sufficient to prove, absent contrary evidence,

that the contract was or was not formed.

(D) Whether the evidence makes it more likely than not that a contract was

or was not formed.

 Question 188

A defendant was arrested and taken to police headquarters, where she was
given  her  Miranda  warnings.  The  defendant  indicated  that  she  wished  to
telephone her lawyer and was told that she could do so after her fingerprints
had  been  taken.  While  being  fingerprinted,  however,  the  defendant  blurted
out, ‘‘Paying a lawyer is a waste of money because I know you have me.''

At  trial,  the  defendant's  motion  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  the

statement she made while being fingerprinted will most probably be

 (A) granted, because the defendant's request to contact her attorney by

telephone was reasonable and should have been granted immediately.

(B) granted, because of the ‘‘fruit of the poisonous tree'' doctrine.
(C) denied, because the statements were volunteered and not the result of

interrogation.

(D) denied, because fingerprinting is not a critical stage of the proceeding

requiring the assistance of counsel.

 Question 189

1334

The owner of a shopping mall hired a construction company to design and
construct  the  entryway  to  the  mall.  The  construction  company  negligently
selected an unusually slippery material for the floor covering. A customer at
the  mall  slipped  on  the  floor  of  the  entryway,  sustaining  injuries.  The
customer  sued  the  mall  owner  for  the  construction  company's  negligent
design of the mall's entryway.

Will the injured customer recover damages?

 (A) No, if the construction company was an independent contractor.
(B) No, if no customers had previously slipped on the floor.
(C) Yes, if the customer intended to make a purchase at the mall.
(D) Yes, if the mall's duty to maintain safe conditions was nondelegable.

 Question 190

A brother and sister acquired as joint tenants a 20-acre parcel of land. They
contributed  equally  to  the  purchase  price.  Several  years  later,  the  brother
proposed that they build an apartment development on the parcel. His sister
rejected  the  proposal  but  orally  agreed  with  her  brother  that  he  could  go
ahead on his own on the northerly half of the parcel and she could do what
she  wished  with  the  southerly  half.  The  brother  proceeded  to  build  an
apartment  development  on,  and  generally  developed  and  improved,  the
northerly  ten  acres  of  the  parcel.  The  sister  orally  permitted  the  southerly
ten  acres  of  the  parcel  to  be  used  by  a  conservation  group  as  a  nature
preserve. The brother died, leaving his entire estate to his son. The brother's
will named his sister as executrix of his will, but she refused to so serve.

In  an  appropriate  action  to  determine  the  respective  interests  of  the
sister  and  the  brother's  son  in  the  parcel,  if  the  son  is  adjudged  to  be  the
owner of the northerly ten acres of the parcel, the most likely reason for the
judgment will be that

 (A) the close blood relationship between brother and sister removes the

necessity to comply with the Statute of Frauds.

(B) the sister's conduct during her brother's lifetime estops her from

asserting title to the northerly half of the parcel.

(C) the joint tenancy was terminated by the oral agreement of the brother

and sister at the time it was made.

(D) the sister has a fiduciary obligation to her nephew by reason of her

being named executrix of her brother's will.

1335

 Question 191

A  seller  and  a  buyer  entered  into  a  written  agreement  providing  that  the
seller  was  to  deliver  1,000  cases  of  candy  bars  to  the  buyer  during  the
months of May and June. Under the agreement, the buyer was obligated to
make a selection by March 1 of the quantities of the various candy bars to
be  delivered  under  the  contract.  The  buyer  did  not  make  the  selection  by
March  1,  and  on  March  2  the  seller  notified  the  buyer  that  because  of  the
buyer's  failure  to  select,  the  seller  would  not  deliver  the  candy  bars.  The
seller had all of the necessary candy bars on hand on March 1 and made no
additional  sales  or  purchases  on  March  1  or  March  2.  On  March  2,  after
receiving the seller's notice that it would not perform, the buyer notified the
seller of its selection and insisted that the seller perform. The seller refused.

If the buyer sues the seller for breach of contract, is the buyer likely to

prevail?

 (A) No, because a contract did not exist until selection of the specific candy

bars, and the seller withdrew its offer before selection.

(B) No, because selection of the candy bars by March 1 was an express

condition to the seller's duty to perform.

(C) Yes, because a delay of one day in making the selection did not have a

material effect on the seller.

(D) Yes, because upon the buyer's failure to make a selection by March 1,

the seller had a duty to make a reasonable selection.

 Question 192

A consumer became physically ill after drinking part of a bottle of soda that
contained  a  large  decomposed  snail.  The  consumer  sued  the  store  from
which she bought the soda to recover damages for her injuries. The parties
agreed that the snail was put into the bottle during the bottling process, over
which the store had no control. The parties also agreed that the snail would
have been visible in the bottle before the consumer opened it.

Will the consumer prevail in her action against the store?

 (A) No, because the consumer could have seen the snail in the bottle.
(B) No, because the store was not responsible for the bottling process.
(C) Yes, because the consumer was injured by a defective product sold to

her by the store.

(D) Yes, because the store had exclusive control over the bottle before

1336

selling it to the consumer.

 Question 193

A painter had painted a homeowner's house under a contract that called for
payment of $2,000. The homeowner, contending in good faith that the porch
had not been painted properly, refused to pay anything.

The homeowner's refusal to pay anything to the painter when he finished

painting was a

 (A) partial breach of contract only if the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

(B) partial breach of contract whether or not the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

(C) total breach of contract only if the painter had properly or substantially

painted the porch.

(D) total breach of contract whether or not the painter had properly or

substantially painted the porch.

 Question 194

The  strongest  constitutional  basis  for  the  enactment  of  a  federal  statute
requiring  colleges  and  universities  receiving  federal  funds  to  offer  student
aid solely on the basis of need is the

 (A) police power.
(B) war and defense power.
(C) power to tax and spend for the general welfare.
(D) power to enforce the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth

Amendment.

 Question 195

A defendant was charged with manslaughter. At the preliminary hearing, the
magistrate  dismissed  the  charge  on  the  grounds  that  the  evidence  was
insufficient. The prosecutor then brought the case before a grand jury. After
hearing the evidence presented by the prosecutor, the grand jury refused to
return an indictment. The prosecutor waited a few months until a new grand
jury had been impaneled and brought the case before that grand jury, which
returned  an  indictment  charging  the  defendant  with  manslaughter.  The
defendant moves to dismiss the indictment on double jeopardy grounds.

1337

Should the motion be granted?

 (A) No, because jeopardy had not attached.
(B) No, because there has been no conviction or acquittal.
(C) Yes, because any proceeding after the preliminary hearing would

violate double jeopardy.

(D) Yes, because bringing the case before the second grand jury was a

violation of double jeopardy.

 Question 196

Thirty years ago, a landowner conveyed land by warranty deed to a church
(a charity) ‘‘so long as the land herein conveyed is used as the site for the
principal religious edifice maintained by said church.''

Twenty  years  ago,  the  landowner  died  intestate,  survived  by  a  single

heir.

One year ago, the church dissolved and its church building situated on

the land was demolished.

There  is  no  applicable  statute.  The  common  law  Rule  Against

Perpetuities is unmodified in the jurisdiction.

In an appropriate action, the landowner's heir and the attorney general,
who is the appropriate official to assert public interests in charitable trusts,
contest the right to the land.

In such action, who will prevail?

 (A) The landowner's heir, as successor to the landowner's possibility of

reverter.

(B) The landowner's heir, because a charity cannot convey assets donated to

it.

(C) The attorney general, because cy pres should be applied to devote the
land to religious purposes to carry out the charitable intent of the
landowner.

(D) The attorney general, because the landowner's attempt to restrict the

church's fee simple violated the Rule Against Perpetuities.

 Question 197

A  physician  called  as  a  witness  by  the  defendant  was  asked  to  testify  to
statements made by her patient, for the purpose of obtaining treatment from
the  physician.  Which  of  the  following  is  the  best  basis  for  excluding
evidence  of  the  patient's  statements  in  a  jurisdiction  with  a  doctor-patient

1338

privilege?

 (A) An objection by the physician asserting her privilege against disclosure

of confidential communications made by a patient.

(B) An objection by the plaintiff's attorney on the grounds of the doctor-

patient privilege.

(C) A finding by the trial judge that the patient had left the office without

actually receiving treatment.

(D) The assertion of a privilege by the patient's attorney, present at the trial
as a spectator at the patient's request, and allowed by the trial judge to
speak.

 Question 198

A roofer entered into a written contract with a homeowner to repair the roof
of her home, the repairs to be done ‘‘in a workmanlike manner.'' The roofer
completed  the  repairs  and  took  all  of  his  equipment  away,  with  the
exception of a 20 foot extension ladder, which was left against the side of
the house. He intended to come back and get the ladder the next morning. At
that  time,  the  homeowner  and  her  family  were  away  on  a  trip.  During  the
night, a thief, using the ladder to gain access to an upstairs window, entered
the  house  and  stole  some  valuable  jewels.  The  homeowner  has  asserted  a
claim against the roofer for damages for the loss of the jewels.

In her claim against the roofer, the homeowner will

 (A) prevail, because by leaving the ladder the roofer became a trespasser

on the homeowner's property.

(B) prevail, because by leaving the ladder, the roofer created the risk that a

person might unlawfully enter the house.

(C) not prevail, because the act of the thief was a superseding cause.
(D) not prevail, because the homeowner's claim is limited to damages for

breach of contract.

 Question 199

Congress decides that the application of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code
(UCCC)  should  be  the  same  throughout  the  United  States.  To  that  end,  it
enacts  the  UCCC  as  a  federal  law  directly  applicable  to  all  consumer
credit,  small  loans,  and  retail  installment  sales.  The  law  is  intended  to
protect  borrowers  and  buyers  against  unfair  practices  by  suppliers  of
consumer credit.

1339

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  may  be  most  easily

used to justify federal enactment of this statute?

 (A) The Obligation of Contracts Clause
(B) The Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
(C) The Commerce Clause
(D) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment

 Question 200

On  March  1,  a  homeowner  contacted  a  builder  about  constructing  an
addition  to  the  homeowner's  house.  The  builder  orally  offered  to  perform
the work for $200,000 if his pending bid on another project was rejected.
The homeowner accepted the builder's terms and the builder then prepared a
written  contract  that  both  parties  signed.  The  contract  did  not  refer  to  the
builder's pending bid. One week later, upon learning that his pending bid on
the  other  project  had  been  accepted,  the  builder  refused  to  perform  any
work for the homeowner.

Can the homeowner recover for the builder's non-performance?

 (A) No, because efficiency principles justify the builder's services being

directed to a higher-valued use.

(B) No, because the builder's duty to perform was subject to a condition.
(C) Yes, because the builder's attempt to condition his duty to perform

rendered the contract illusory.

(D) Yes, because the parol evidence rule would bar the builder from

presenting evidence of oral understandings not included in the final
writing.

ANSWERS

PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM

 Answer 101

 (C) is the best response,

because  under  joint  and  several  liability  the  entire  amount  can  be
collected from any one of the defendants.

Here,  there  are  three  defendants,  all  of  whom  were  a  proximate
cause of the plaintiff's harm. In this situation, the plaintiff may recover
his  full  damages  from  one  defendant.  That  defendant  can  seek  to
recover  a  proportional  share  of  the  damages  from  other  defendants.
Furthermore, because the plaintiff was not found to be at fault, he may
recover  the  full  amount  of  his  damages  under  pure  comparative
negligence.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it applies a pro rata allocation of damages rather than applying
joint and several liability.

Under joint and several liability the entire amount can be collected
from any one of the defendants. Here, there are three defendants, all of
whom were a proximate cause of the plaintiff's harm. In this situation,
the  plaintiff  may  recover  his  full  damages  from  one  defendant.  That
defendant can seek to recover a proportional share of the damages from
other defendants. Furthermore, because the plaintiff was not found to be
at  fault,  he  may  recover  the  full  amount  of  his  damages  under  pure
comparative negligence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  applies  several  liability,  rather  than  joint  and  several
liability, to the fact pattern.

Under joint and several liability the entire amount can be collected
from any one of the defendants. Here, there are three defendants, all of
whom were a proximate cause of the plaintiff's harm. In this situation,
the  plaintiff  may  recover  his  full  damages  from  one  defendant.  That
defendant can seek to recover a proportional share of the damages from

1519

other defendants. Furthermore, because the plaintiff was not found to be
at  fault,  he  may  recover  the  full  amount  of  his  damages  under  pure
comparative negligence.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  applies  contributory  negligence,  rather  than  comparative
negligence, to the fact pattern.

As the plaintiff was not found to be at fault, he may recover the full
amount  of  his  damages  in  a  pure  comparative  negligence  jurisdiction
where  the  negligence  of  the  parents  is  not  imputed  to  the  child.
Furthermore, under joint and several liability the entire amount can be
collected  from  any  one  of  the  defendants.  Here,  there  are  three
defendants, all of whom were a proximate cause of the plaintiff's harm.
In  this  situation,  the  plaintiff  may  recover  his  full  damages  from  one
defendant. That defendant can seek to recover a proportional share of
the damages from other defendants.

 Answer 102

 (A) is the best response,

because it applies to these facts, it would be relatively easy to prove,
and it overcomes a central obstacle in the case.

This  problem  indicates  a  pattern  found  in  many  MBE  property
questions: you have to be familiar with several areas of law in order to
answer correctly. Here, you need to know contract law, to eliminate the
creditor beneficiary choice in C, and constitutional law, to eliminate the
taxpayer choice in B.

In order to bind a subsequent purchaser, an equitable servitude must
meet the following requirements: there must be notice, whether actual,
constructive, or inquiry (here, there is constructive notice); there must
be  an  intent  that  it  bind  subsequent  purchasers;  and  the  benefit  and
burden both must touch and concern the land.

(Note  that  under  the  modern  rule,  as  represented  by  §  3.2  of  the
Restatement  (Third)  of  Property,  the  touch  and  concern  requirements
are  entirely  eliminated.)  The  notice  requirement  is  satisfied,  because
although the purchaser's deed did not refer to the restriction on use of
the  ten-acre  tract,  the  restriction  is  present  in  a  prior  recording  in  the
chain  of  title,  thus  satisfying  “constructive  notice.”  The  intent  to  bind
subsequent  purchasers  exists,  because  such  a  restriction  in  the  deed

1520

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

would be meaningless otherwise. The “benefit and burden” requirement
is satisfied because, according to most courts, the benefit attaches to the
properties of owners of other tracts in the development, as long as the
common scheme is in existence for lots sold both before and after the
one in question. The restriction itself constitutes a burden. As a result,
the  facts  here  fit  the  requirements  of  an  equitable  servitude  relatively
easily,  and,  in  doing  so,  would  bind  the  purchaser,  as  a  subsequent
purchaser — and this is exactly what the dentist wants to do. Since A
applies  to  the  facts  here,  is  not  difficult  to  prove,  and  addresses  a
central issue in the case, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, while it is factually correct, it does not provide a strong basis
for the dentist's prevailing in the action.

In  general,  the  dentist's  status  as  a  state  or  municipal  taxpayer
would not give her a status sufficient to merit her recovery. Her status
as a taxpayer gives her, at best, an indirect interest in the use of the ten-
acre  tract;  it's  her  position  as  one  of  the  surrounding  landowners  that
gives her an opportunity for relief. Since B does not recognize this, it's
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  could  be  factually  correct,  it  does  not  provide  a
strong basis for the dentist's prevailing in the action.

In  order  to  be  a  creditor  beneficiary  to  the  owner/purchaser
contract,  the  owner  would  have  to  owe  the  dentist  a  preexisting  duty,
which  the  purchaser's  performance  will  fulfill,  and  the  dentist  would
have to prove that the owner specifically intended that the purchaser's
performance benefit her. Under these facts, it's unlikely that the owner
intended  the  owner/purchaser  contract  to  benefit  the  dentist  in  any
significant way, and, beyond that, it would be difficult to characterize
her  as  a  creditor  of  the  owner's,  since  she  only  purchased  a  lot  from
him.  While  the  dentist  could,  in  theory,  prevail  on  a  third-party
beneficiary  theory,  these  factors  indicate  that  it  would  be  a  very
difficult case to prove. As a result, C is not the best answer.

 (D) is not the best response,

because, although it is factually correct, it does not offer a strong basis
for the dentist's prevailing in the action.

1521

A bona fide purchaser is a subsequent purchaser, who pays value,
without notice of any prior conveyance, and is of good faith. Here, the
purchaser has at least  constructive  notice  of  the  owner's  intent  to  use
the ten-acre tract for a school, since the owner's plan was recorded. As
a  result,  the  purchaser  is  not  a  bona  fide  purchaser.  However,  the
purchaser's  non-bona-fide-purchaser  status  would  only  deal  with  his
being  bound  by  the  recorded  notice;  it  would  not  have  a  significant
impact on a dispute between the purchaser and the dentist. Since it does
not impact a major issue in the dispute, D is not the best response, even
though it is factually correct.

 Answer 103

 (D) is the best response,

because there was no legal duty requiring the wife to act.

A  special  legal  duty  to  act  may  exist  when  there  is  a  special
relationship  between  the  defendant  and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty
based on contract, when the danger was caused by the defendant, and/or
when the defendant attempts to give assistance. Based on these facts, no
special  legal  duty  to  act  existed,  as  the  wife  had  no  relationship  with
the  crowd,  did  not  cause  the  danger,  and  did  not  attempt  to  give
assistance. Accordingly, the defendant did not commit a crime.

 (A) is not the best response,

because there was no legal duty requiring the wife to act.

While the facts may arguably demonstrate a “reckless indifference
to consequence,” a special legal duty to act must still exist in order for
criminal liability to attach. A special legal duty to act may exist when
there is a special relationship between the defendant and victim, when
there  is  a  duty  based  on  contract,  when  the  danger  was  caused  by  the
defendant, and/or when the defendant attempts to give assistance. Based
on these facts, no special legal duty to act existed, as the wife had no
relationship  with  the  crowd,  did  not  cause  the  danger,  and  did  not
attempt to give assistance. Accordingly, the defendant did not commit a
crime.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is not legally or factually supported.

Legally, there was no duty for the wife to act. A special legal duty

1522

to  act  may  exist  when  there  is  a  special  relationship  between  the
defendant and victim, when there is a duty based on contract, when the
danger  was  caused  by  the  defendant,  and/or  when  the  defendant
attempts to give assistance. Based on these facts, no special legal duty
to act existed, as the wife had no relationship with the crowd, did not
cause  the  danger,  and  did  not  attempt  to  give  assistance.  Accordingly,
the  defendant  did  not  commit  a  crime.  Additionally,  the  facts  do  not
support  that  the  defendant  intentionally  committed  a  homicide  with
premeditation  and  deliberation,  as  the  defendant  did  not  actively  seek
the death of the victims or even know if they would occur.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there was no legal duty requiring the wife to act.

While  the  facts  may  arguably  demonstrate  second  degree  murder
through a “depraved heart” theory, a special legal duty to act must still
exist in order for criminal liability to attach. A special legal duty to act
may  exist  when  there  is  a  special  relationship  between  the  defendant
and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty  based  on  contract,  when  the  danger
was  caused  by  the  defendant,  and/or  when  the  defendant  attempts  to
give  assistance.  Based  on  these  facts,  no  special  legal  duty  to  act
existed, as the wife had no relationship with the crowd, did not cause
the  danger,  and  did  not  attempt  to  give  assistance.  Accordingly,  the
defendant did not commit a crime.

 Answer 104

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the central issue that will determine the
passerby's liability.

A tricky “twist” to this question is that you aren't told who threw the
first  punch.  If  the  borrower  did,  he  wouldn't  be  privileged  to  defend
himself (unless the fight “escalated”), so that would call into question
whether  the  passerby  could  use  force  to  protect  him.  The  courts  are
split  on  this  issue,  that  is,  whether  a  third  party  can  defend  a  person
who wouldn't be privileged to defend himself. This question prudently
avoids this issue altogether.

Note that since C uses the qualifier “if” instead of “because,” you
needn't determine if the facts represent the proposition in C — that the
lender  was  about  to  inflict  serious  bodily  harm  on  the  borrower.

1523

Instead,  you  need  only  determine  that  it's  possible  this  could  be  true
under these facts, that this determines an issue central to the passerby's
liability, and that the result is consistent with the reasoning.

This is the rule on privilege to defend others: anyone can go to the
defense of another threatened with serious bodily injury. The third party
may  use  any  force  reasonably  necessary  for  such  defense  (thus,
unnecessary force will be subject to liability). The threat of harm to the
other person must be immediate (so past attacks or future threats won't
be sufficient). The courts are split as to whether mistake — as to belief
that  intervention  is  required  or  that  the  one  being  attacked  would  be
privileged to use self-defense (i.e., he was the “aggressor”), or that the
force applied is called for — will be a defense.

Thus,  whether  the  lender  appeared  to  be  about  to  inflict  serious
bodily harm on the borrower will be the central issue determining the
passerby's  liability.  Since  C  correctly  identifies  this,  and  resolves  it
satisfactorily, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  under  these  facts  the  passerby  might  be  privileged  to  use
deadly force.

The rule is that anyone can go to the defense of another threatened
with  serious  bodily  injury.  The  third  party  may  use  any  force
reasonably necessary for such defense (thus, unnecessary force will be
a  source  of  liability).  The  threat  of  harm  to  the  other  person  must  be
immediate  (so  past  attacks  or  future  threats  won't  be  sufficient).  The
courts  are  split  as  to  whether  mistake  —  either  as  to  belief  that
intervention  is  required,  or  that  the  one  being  attacked  would  be
privileged to use self-defense (i.e., he was the “aggressor”), or that the
force applied is called for — will be a defense.

Here,  choice  A  says  the  passerby  will  be  liable  because  he
threatened  to  use  deadly  force.  However,  this  is  not  necessarily  true.
The  facts  say  the  lender  was  about  to  kick  the  borrower  in  the  head.
This could well be justification for threatening deadly force. Even if the
passerby  were  mistaken  as  to  the  need  for  deadly  force,  in  some
jurisdictions he'd avoid liability anyway. Since A states as a concrete
proposition that threatening deadly force will make the passerby liable,
and there are at least some circumstances under these facts under which
it won't, A is not the best response.

1524


(B) is not the best response,

because  it  cites  a  fact  that  is  irrelevant.  The  passerby's  right  to  use
force depends on whether he'd fit the privilege to defend another.

Note  that  choice  B  uses  the  modifier  “unless.”  This  means  that,  if
the  passerby  was  related  to  the  borrower,  there's  no  way  under  these
facts  that  he  could  be  liable.  In  fact,  that's  not  true:  The  passerby's
liability does not depend on whether he's related to the borrower.

The rule is that anyone can go to the defense of another threatened
with  serious  bodily  injury.  The  third  party  may  use  any  force
reasonably necessary for such defense (thus, unnecessary force will be
subject  to  liability).  The  threat  of  harm  to  the  other  person  must  be
immediate  (so  past  attacks  or  future  threats  won't  be  sufficient).  The
courts  are  split  as  to  whether  mistake  —  either  as  to  belief  that
intervention  is  required,  or  that  the  one  being  attacked  would  be
privileged to use self-defense (i.e., he was the “aggressor”), or that the
force applied is called for — will be a defense.

Thus,  the  issue  of  relationship  between  the  defender  and  the  one
being defended is not relevant. If the defender fits the rule, he'll avoid
liability  due  to  the  defense  of  privilege;  if  he  doesn't,  he'll  be  liable
even if he's related to the victim.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been  thinking  of  the  old
rule  that  provided  members  of  the  same  family  with  the  privilege  to
defend each other. However, this rule has given way completely to the
modern  rule,  as  stated  above.  Since  B  focuses  on  an  irrelevant  issue,
it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it implies an incorrect rule of law, and in any case focuses on
an irrelevant point.

The passerby's liability will turn on whether he was privileged to
defend the borrower with the amount of force he used. The rule is that
anyone can go to the defense of another threatened with serious bodily
injury. The third party may use any force reasonably necessary for such
defense  (thus,  unnecessary  force  will  create  liability).  The  threat  of
harm  to  the  other  person  must  be  immediate  (so  past  attacks  or  future
threats won't be sufficient). The courts are split as to whether mistake
— either as to belief that intervention is required or that the one being
attacked  would  be  privileged  to  use  self-defense  (i.e.,  he  was  the
“aggressor”),  or  that  the  force  applied  is  called  for  —  will  be  a

1525

defense.

As a result, the fact that D cites that the lender initially threatened
the borrower will not determine the passerby's liability. In most cases,
a mere threat does not generally justify an apprehension of immediate
harm, and thus wouldn't merit the use of force. Even if the lender were
considered  the  “aggressor,”  if  deadly  force  were  not  reasonably
required,  the  passerby  would  be  liable  for  using  unnecessary  force.
Since  D  focuses  on  a  point  that  would  not  determine  the  passerby's
liability, it's not the best response.

 Answer 105

 (B) is the best response,

because the teacher is entitled to expectation damages as a result of the
summer camp's breach.

When an employer breaches an employment contract, the employee
may  recover  expectation  damages,  which  are  designed  to  put  the
employee  in  the  same  position  as  he  or  she  would  have  been  had  the
employer  not  breached.  The  formula  for  expectation  damages  is  the
contract  price  minus  whatever  benefit  the  non-breaching  party  has
gained  by  not  having  to  perform,  plus  reasonable  incidental  costs
incurred in mitigating damages. Here, the teacher expected to work for
ten weeks and be paid $10,000 (the contract price). As a result of the
camp's  breach,  he  had  to  accept  substitute  employment  paying  $6,000
for the same period (which is a benefit he would not have received had
he worked for the summer camp instead). Additionally, he had to spend
$200 in his search for alternate employment (an incidental cost). Thus,
his  expectation  damages  are  $10,000  –  $6,000  +  $200  =  $4,200.  Put
another  way,  the  teacher  expected  to  have  $10,000  at  the  end  of  the
summer,  but  because  of  the  breach  he  only  has  $5,800  (the  $6,000  he
was paid less the $200 he had to spend). In order to put him in the same
position as he would have been without the breach, he has to recover
$10,000 – $5,800 = $4,200.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  account  for  the  incidental  expense  the  teacher
incurred searching for a different job.

If  you  chose  this  response,  you  took  the  difference  between  the
contract salary and the salary that the teacher was able to get from the

1526

summer  school.  However,  this  response  neglects  to  compensate  the
teacher for the $200 he spent traveling to the other summer camp in his
attempt  to  get  a  job  there.  This  additional,  incidental  expense  was
incurred  in  the  teacher's  attempt  to  mitigate  damages  by  seeking
alternate employment for the summer. Since $200 to travel to the only
other  summer  camp  in  the  area  for  an  interview  is  a  reasonable  cost
related to mitigating the teacher's loss, he will be able to recover it in
an action against the summer camp.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it ignores the teacher's duty to mitigate damages and does not
award reasonable incidental expenses to the teacher.

When  one  party  to  a  contract  anticipatorily  repudiates  a  contract,
the non-breaching party has a duty to mitigate damages. In the case of an
employment  contract,  the  non-breaching  employee  does  this  by
attempting to find alternate employment elsewhere. In this problem, the
teacher  successfully  found  another  job  teaching  at  a  local  summer
school.  The  $6,000  he  was  paid  for  this  work  he  would  not  have
received  had  he  worked  for  the  summer  camp,  and  therefore  needs  to
be  subtracted  from  the  contract  price  when  calculating  the  teacher's
expectation  damages.  In  addition,  the  teacher's  expectation  damages
include the $200 he spent traveling to the other camp for an interview,
since he did so in a reasonable attempt to find another job as a camp
counselor.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores the teacher's duty to mitigate damages and does not
award reasonable incidental expenses to the teacher.

When  one  party  to  a  contract  anticipatorily  repudiates  a  contract,
the non-breaching party has a duty to mitigate damages. In the case of an
employment  contract,  the  non-breaching  employee  does  this  by
attempting to find alternate employment elsewhere. In this problem, the
teacher  successfully  found  another  job  teaching  at  a  local  summer
school. The $6,000 he was paid for this work is money he would not
have received had he worked for the summer camp, and therefore needs
to be subtracted from the contract price when calculating the teacher's
expectation damages.

 Answer 106

1527

(C) is the best response,

because the statute regulates commercial speech.

Since the statute is only applicable to medical care providers, it is
a  regulation  of  commercial  speech,  which  does  not  receive  the  same
level  of  protection  under  the  First  Amendment  as  do  other  forms  of
speech.  In  particular,  a  statute  that  restricts  commercial  speech  that  is
not  false,  deceptive,  or  illegal  is  only  valid  if  it  directly  advances  a
substantial  government  interest  and  is  reasonably  tailored  to  achieve
the government's objective. Choice C correctly identifies this test as the
one  the  state  must  pass  in  order  to  defend  the  constitutionality  of  the
statute. Note that this answer does not guarantee that the state will win,
but  only  identifies  their  best  argument  in  defense  of  the  statute,  as  the
question asked.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the statute regulates speech that is not misleading.

While  we  are  told  that  the  telephone  calls  were  occasionally
misleading,  the  statute  seeks  to  prohibit  all  such  calls,  not  just  the
misleading ones. While, factually, this choice is inaccurate, the rule of
law  identified  is  correct.  A  state  may  validly  prohibit  commercial
speech that is false or deceptive. So, if the statue were instead written
to prohibit medical care providers from making misleading statements
in their solicitations to victims within 30 days of the victim's accident,
it  would  be  constitutional  as  a  restriction  on  deceptive  commercial
speech.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly identifies the level of scrutiny used to assess the
constitutionality of a restriction on commercial speech.

Since the statute is only applicable to medical care providers, it is
a  regulation  of  commercial  speech,  which  does  not  receive  the  same
level  of  protection  under  the  First  Amendment  as  do  other  forms  of
speech.  In  particular,  a  statute  that  restricts  commercial  speech  that  is
not  false,  deceptive,  or  illegal  is  only  valid  if  it  directly  advances  a
substantial  government  interest  and  is  reasonably  tailored  to  achieve
the government's objective. Thus, the correct level of scrutiny for non-
deceptive  commercial  speech  is  an  intermediate  level  of  scrutiny,
rather than rational basis review, as identified by choice B.

1528

(D) is not the best response,

because the statute is not a time, place, and manner restriction.

A  time,  place,  and  manner  restriction  regulates  speech  based  on
where and when the speaking takes place, without regard to the content
of the speech. That is not the case in this law, which only regulates a
particular  type  of  speech  (solicitation  by  medical  service  providers)
based  on  its  content.  Since  this  is  a  regulation  pertaining  to  non-
deceptive  commercial  speech,  the  proper  inquiry  is  whether  the  law
directly  advances  a  substantial  government  interest  and  is  reasonably
tailored to achieve its objective.

 Answer 107

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly infers that the witness's remark will be admissible
under the “present sense impression” hearsay exception.

FRE  803(1),  entitled  “Present  Sense  Impression,”  gives  a  hearsay
exception  for  “A  statement  describing  or  explaining  an  event  or
condition,  made  while  or  immediately  after  the  declarant  perceived
it.”  That's  what  the  witness's  statement  does.  Such  statements  are
considered  trustworthy  —  the  hallmark  of  hearsay  exceptions  —
because they are made contemporaneously with the event they concern,
and thus the statement suffers no defects in memory. Furthermore, since
such a statement usually would have been made to someone else who
was also present, there was an opportunity for at least one other person
to correct the statement.

Note  that  the  witness's  statement  is  hearsay  even  though  he's
repeating  it  himself.  A  hearsay  statement  is  an  out-of-court  statement
offered to prove the truth of its assertion. Here, the witness's statement
says that the witness is drunk, and it's offered to prove that the motorist
was  indeed  drunk,  so  it's  hearsay.  However,  since  it  fits  the  present
sense  impression  hearsay  exception,  it  will  be  admissible.  Since  C
recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the facts here do not fit that the witness was excited when he
made the comment.

In order to be admissible under the “excited utterance” exception to

1529

the  hearsay  rule,  an  out-of-court  statement  must  meet  the  requirements
in FRE 803(2). It must have been made while a declarant was under the
stress  of  excitement,  it  must  have  been  due  to  a  startling  event  or
condition, and it must relate to the event or condition. Such statements
are considered trustworthy because the “stress of excitement” generated
by the event minimizes the possibility of fabrication, since the declarant
doesn't have time to consciously reflect on the event.

Under these facts, the key word is “remarked.” An excited utterance
would  require  some  evidence  that  the  declarant  was  under  stress  of
excitement  when  the  statement  was  made;  simply  “remarking”  would
not qualify.

Instead,  the  witness's  statement  would  most  likely  be  admissible
under the present sense impression hearsay exception, FRE 803(1), as
further described in Choice C.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  statement  here  does  not  satisfy  the  prior  consistent
statement hearsay exclusion under the FRE.

Under FRE 801(d)(1)(B), a prior consistent statement of a currently
testifying  declarant  is  admissible  only  if  it  is  “offered  to  rebut  an
express or implied charge that the declarant recently fabricated it or
acted  from  a  recent  improper  influence  or  motive  in  so  testifying.”
There's no indication here that the party not sponsoring the witness (the
defendant)  has  made  any  express  or  implied  charge  of  recent
fabrication or recent improper influence or motive.

If  you  chose  B,  it's  probably  because  you  were  seduced  by  the
words  themselves  —  ”prior  consistent  statement”  sounds  as  though  it
should  be  correct.  Keep  in  mind  that  the  prior  statements  hearsay
exclusion for testifying witnesses, FRE 801(d)(1)(B), is both extremely
narrow and a popular MBE distractor.

Instead,  the  witness's  statement  would  most  likely  be  admissible
under the present sense impression hearsay exception, FRE 803(1), as
discussed in Choice C.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  appearance  of  drunkenness  is  a  subject  that  is

appropriate for lay opinion testimony.

As  a  general  rule  —  and  “general”  is  the  operative  word  here,
since there are many exceptions — lay witnesses cannot offer opinion

1530

testimony.  However,  under  FRE  701,  where  a  lay  opinion  would  be
helpful to understanding the witness's testimony or determining a fact in
issue,  and  is  rationally  based  on  the  witness's  firsthand  knowledge,
such opinion testimony will be admissible. Testimony is often admitted
on this basis when it is a kind of shorthand for various factors that the
witness has observed and processed. Here, the witness has presumably
observed  various  aspects  of  the  motorist's  behavior  (including  his
inability to stand up), so his conclusion that the witness was “so drunk
he can't even stand up” would be admissible as a helpful summary of
the  witness's  observations  and  conclusion,  based  on  firsthand
knowledge.

Beyond  that,  another  problem  with  choice  D  is  that  it  does  not
address  the  fact  that  the  witness's  statement  is  hearsay.  Here,  the
witness's  statement  is  being  offered  to  prove  that  the  motorist  was
crocked;  thus,  it's  hearsay,  and  any  correct  response  would  have  to
address this issue. Since D doesn't do this, and it doesn't recognize that
lay  opinion  testimony  would  be  appropriate  here,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 108

 (A) is the best response,

because it addresses the central issue and resolves it satisfactorily.

There are two alternative sources for the company's liability, under
these  facts:  attractive  nuisance  and  landowner's  duty  to  “discovered”
trespassers.  Under  the  attractive  nuisance  doctrine,  landowners  must
use  ordinary  care  to  avoid  harm  to  children  (those  too  young  to
appreciate risk), which is due to a reasonably foreseeable risk, caused
by  artificial  conditions  on  the  land.  Also,  the  risk  of  injury  must
outweigh  the  cost  of  remedying  the  dangerous  condition.  Note  that
choice  A  states  that  the  company  will  only  be  liable  if  securing  the
chute  could  be  accomplished  at  moderate  cost.  That  means  that  this
must be plausibly applicable to the facts, and it must resolve a central
issue in the case. That's exactly what A does, since if securing the chute
could  be  done  at  moderate  expense,  the  company  would  not  be
exercising ordinary care by failing to do so, and would be liable due to
an “attractive nuisance.”

Another  alternative  is  garden-variety  landowner  liability.  The
modern trend is to impose a duty of reasonable care on the landowner

1531

as to all entrants. At common law, the duty depends on the status of the
entrant  (e.g.,  licensee,  invitee).  A  discovered  trespasser  (of  whose
presence  the  landowner  has  reason  to  know)  is  owed  the  duty  of
reasonable care for the trespasser's safety, as to artificial conditions on
the  property.  Thus,  even  under  standard  landowner  liability  analysis,
choice A would be a good choice, since it requires reasonability. As a
result, A is the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  standard  for  determining  the  company's
liability.

There  are  three  general  sources  of  strict  liability:  animals,  ultra-
hazardous activities, and defective products (strict liability can also be
imposed by case law or statute). There is no strict liability just because
an injury occurs on one's property or an unsafe condition exists thereon;
fault, at least negligence, must be proven.

Since  B  would  make  the  company  strictly  liable  for  the  boy's
injuries  just  because  of  an  artificial  condition  on  its  property,  it's  not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of Last Clear Chance does not apply to these facts.
Last  Clear  Chance  is  used  by  plaintiffs  to  rebut  a  claim  of
contributory negligence; it states that a person with the last clear chance
to  avoid  an  act,  who  fails  to  do  so,  is  liable.  It  is  used  to  avoid  the
harsh results of contributory negligence.

Choice  C  would  use  Last  Clear  Chance  as  a  defense  by  the
company,  not  as  a  rebuttal  by  the  boy  to  a  contributory  negligence
defense.  Unless  the  commuter's  conduct  is  considered  a  superseding
force between the company's negligence and the boy's injuries, it's the
company's own negligence that will determine its liability. Since choice
C fails to recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not determine the company's liability.

The  duty  a  landowner  owes  to  various  entrants  onto  his  land  is
traditionally determined by a hierarchy of duties, depending on whether
the  entrant  is  an  undiscovered  trespasser,  a  discovered  trespasser,  a
licensee, or an invitee. A discovered trespasser is one whose presence

1532

should  be  known  to  defendant  —  here,  you  know  the  boy  is  a
discovered  trespasser  because  the  facts  state  that  the  company  knew
children were using the slide. A discovered trespasser is owed the duty
of reasonable care for the trespasser's safety as to artificial conditions
on  the  land.  Thus,  even  as  a  trespasser,  the  company  would  owe  the
boy  a  duty  of  reasonable  care.  This,  coupled  with  the  attractive
nuisance  doctrine,  would  require  that  the  company  take  reasonable
steps for the safety of the children. Since D ignores this, it's not the best
response.

 Answer 109

 (B) is the best response,

because it is impossible for both siblings to obtain usable lots.

There are two different schemes when a tenant in common brings an
action  to  partition  property.  The  first,  and  preferred,  method  is
“partition  in  kind,”  in  which  the  court  will  physically  divide  the
property  between  the  tenants  in  common.  The  second  is  “partition  by
sale,”  in  which  the  property  is  sold,  with  the  proceeds  going  to  the
tenants  in  common  in  proportion  to  their  share  in  ownership  of  the
property. Partition by sale will only be ordered when it is impossible
to come up with a fair and equitable partition in kind. In this example, it
is impossible to come up with an equitable physical division of the lot
since  it  is  not  large  enough  to  divide  into  two  buildable  lots.  As  a
result, the court will order a partition by sale and will rule in favor of
the brother.

 (A) is not the best response,

because partition in kind is the preferred remedy.

There are two different schemes when a tenant in common brings an
action  to  partition  property.  The  first,  and  preferred,  method  is
“partition  in  kind,”  in  which  the  court  will  physically  divide  the
property  between  the  tenants  in  common.  The  second  is  “partition  by
sale,”  in  which  the  property  is  sold,  with  the  proceeds  going  to  the
tenants  in  common  in  proportion  to  their  share  in  ownership  of  the
property. Partition by sale will only be ordered when it is impossible
to come up with a fair and equitable partition in kind. In this example, it
is impossible to come up with an equitable physical division of the lot
since  it  is  not  large  enough  to  divide  into  two  buildable  lots.  As  a

1533

result, the court will order a partition by sale, and rule in favor of the
brother.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the parcel cannot be partitioned equitably.

There are two different schemes when a tenant in common brings an
action  to  partition  property.  The  first,  and  preferred,  method  is
“partition  in  kind,”  in  which  the  court  will  physically  divide  the
property  between  the  tenants  in  common.  The  second  is  “partition  by
sale,”  in  which  the  property  is  sold,  with  the  proceeds  going  to  the
tenants  in  common  in  proportion  to  their  share  in  ownership  of  the
property. Partition by sale will only be ordered when it is impossible
to come up with a fair and equitable partition in kind. In this example, it
is impossible to come up with an equitable physical division of the lot
since  it  is  not  large  enough  to  divide  into  two  buildable  lots.  As  a
result, the court will order a partition by sale, and rule in favor of the
brother.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores the zoning ordinance.

Choice  D's  statement  is  factually  true.  If  the  lot  were  to  be
partitioned  in  kind,  it  would  be  appropriate  to  give  her  two-thirds  of
the  area  since  she  is  the  owner  of  a  two-thirds  interest  in  the  land.
However, the result of such a partition would be that the brother would
get a lot that is too small and lacking sufficient frontage to build upon,
rendering  the  brother's  parcel  worthless.  Consequently,  the  only
equitable solution would be to order the sale of the land (partition by
sale) and distribute the proceeds to the siblings: two-thirds to the sister
and one-third to the brother.

 Answer 110

 (B) is the best response,

because it states the correct rule and applies it properly to the facts.

Interpleader  is  a  joinder  device  that  allows  a  person  who  faces
multiple  and  possibly  conflicting  claims  to  property  to  resolve  all
claims in one proceeding. Interpleader can be used when the property
is  a  “common  fund,”  making  it  a  very  useful  procedural  device  in  the
insurance  context.  In  the  federal  system  a  stakeholder  can  use  one  of

1534

two different interpleader mechanisms: statutory interpleader, under 28
U.S.C.  §  1335,  or  rule  interpleader,  under  FRCP  22.  Statutory
interpleader  eases  the  subject-matter  jurisdictional  requirements  in  a
way  that  Rule  interpleader  does  not.  The  question  tells  you  that  the
stakeholder has commenced a statutory interpleader action. The statute,
28 U.S.C. § 1335(a), applies when “[t]wo or more adverse claimants,
of diverse citizenship . . . , are claiming or may claim to be entitled to
.  .  .  money  or  property”  that  the  stakeholder  has  in  its  “custody  or
possession . . . of the value of $500 or more.” The action that Plaintiff
has  commenced  here  easily  meets  the  requirements  of  statutory
interpleader.  First,  statutory  interpleader's  watered-down  diversity
requirements are met; the statute requires only “minimal” diversity, i.e.,
requires only that two or more of the adverse claimants be citizens of
different  states  (versus  the  usual  requirement  of  complete  diversity  as
between all plaintiffs and all defendants). Since there are at least two
“adverse  claimants”  that  are  of  different  citizenship  from  each  other
(e.g., a State B claimant and a State C claimant), that's enough to create
minimal  diversity.  (In  other  words,  it's  irrelevant  that  Plaintiff,  the
stakeholder,  is  a  citizen  of  State  B  given  that  its  principal  place  of
business  is  there  and  that  one  claimant  is  also  a  citizen  of  State  B.)
Second,  the  watered-down  amount-in-controversy  requirement  is  also
met, because the value of the fund (here, $1 million) exceeds $500.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  rule  of  diversity  that  it  applies  does  not  apply  to  federal
statutory interpleader.

The  federal  statutory  interpleader  mechanism  provides  an
exception to the usual rule of complete diversity. That is, as long as
there  is  diversity  between  two  or  more  of  the  adverse  claimants,
diversity under the federal interpleader statute is met. (See the language
of 28 U.S.C. § 1335(a), quoted in the discussion of Choice (B) above.)
The fact that the individual commencing the interpleader action — the
stakeholder who is in custody of the property, here, Plaintiff — is not
diverse  from  all  the  claimants  is  irrelevant.  See  State  Farm  Fire  &
Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U.S. 523, 530-531 (1967).

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  amount-in-controversy  requirement  that  it  mentions  is
irrelevant.

1535

There is  a  context  in  which  the  amount  in  controversy  must  be  $5
million  or  more,  but  that  context  involves  class  actions;  under  the
Class Action Fairness Act (CAFA), embodied in 28 U.S.C. § 1332(d),
any class action in which at least $5 million is in controversy meets the
jurisdictional  amount,  and  the  requirement  of  diversity  is  satisfied  as
long as at least one member of the plaintiff class is diverse with at least
one  defendant.  But  here,  since  the  action  is  not  a  class  action,  this
Choice is not correct.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  rule  of  joinder  that  it  applies  is  irrelevant  to  federal
statutory interpleader actions.

It is true that many federal joinder rules limit joinder to claims that
share common facts or law and that are therefore likely to arise from a
common origin or from the same transaction. See, e.g., Fed. R. Civ. P.
24(b)(A)(B)  (permitting  permissive  intervention  by  “anyone  .  .  .  who
. . . has a claim or defense that shares with the main action a common
question  of  law  or  fact”).  But  statutory  interpleader  is  not  one  of  the
joinder devices that requires that the claims have a common origin or
arise  out  of  a  single  transaction.  In  fact,  statutory  interpleader
specifically  authorizes  the  court  to  maintain  the  action  “although  the
titles  or  claims  of  the  conflicting  claimants  do  not  have  a  common
origin, or are not identical.” 28 U.S.C. § 1335(b). What is critical is
the fact that the claims to be resolved “are adverse to and independent
of  one  another.”  Id.  And  when  the  stakeholder  is  confronted  by
competing  demands  for  payment  by  beneficiaries  under  insurance
policies,  the  “adverse  and  independent  claims”  requirement  is
satisfied.

 Answer 111

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  father  will  be  guilty  of
involuntary manslaughter.

Remember the process of elimination you should go through when
you  encounter  a  homicide  problem.  First,  look  at  murder  as  a
possibility.  A  murder  is  an  unlawful  killing  (neither  justifiable  nor
excusable)  with  malice  aforethought.  While  malice  doesn't  require
intent,  it  can  be  satisfied  by  “depraved  heart,”  that  is,  the  actor

1536

disregards  an  unreasonably  high  risk  of  harm  to  human  life.  Here,  the
father's  omission  would  not  rise  to  this  level  of  negligence  (since
depraved  heart  is  generally  viewed  objectively).  Since  he  won't  be
guilty  of  murder,  the  next  possibility  is  involuntary  manslaughter,  of
which the father will be guilty.

type,  unlawful  act  manslaughter, 

Specifically,  the  father  will  be  guilty  of  criminal  negligence
is  a
manslaughter  (the  other 
manslaughter  that  occurs  as  a  result  of  or  during  a  malum  in  se
misdemeanor  or  a  felony  that  is  not  sufficient  for  felony  murder).
Predictably,  criminal  negligence  manslaughter  is  manslaughter  that
occurs through gross or criminal negligence (either by act or omission).
Criminal  negligence  is  a  somewhat  stricter  standard  than  tortious
negligence,  which  requires  a  higher  degree  of  unreasonability.
(However,  criminal  negligence,  like  tortious  negligence,  is  generally
judged objectively.) Under the facts here, the father knew the child was
ill, but refused to seek help at a state clinic solely because of his pride.
This kind of conduct could easily be considered a criminally negligent
omission, especially in view of the father's fiduciary relationship with
his  children.  Since  B  best  characterizes  the  facts  here,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the father's conduct would not qualify as murder.

Common-law murder is an unlawful killing (neither justifiable nor
excusable)  with  malice  aforethought.  While  malice  aforethought  does
not require ill-will, it would require either intent to kill, knowledge that
death or unreasonably high risk of injury will result, or intent to commit
a  felony.  While  the  father  will  be  culpable  for  failing  to  get  medical
attention  for  his  child,  this  would  not  rise  to  the  level  of  intent  or
knowledge of an unreasonably high risk of injury. As a result, A is not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because 
manslaughter.

the  father's  conduct  would  not  qualify  as  voluntary

Voluntary manslaughter is essentially murder except it is committed
under adequate provocation (e.g., heat of passion). Under the facts here,
the father didn't commit a murder. Common-law murder is an unlawful
killing  (neither  justifiable  nor  excusable)  with  malice  aforethought.

1537

While  malice  aforethought  does  not  require  ill-will,  it  would  require
either intent to kill, knowledge that death or unreasonably high risk of
injury will result, or intent to commit a felony. While the father will be
culpable for failing to get medical attention for his child, this would not
rise to the level of intent or knowledge of an unreasonably high risk of
injury.

In  any  case,  even  if  the  father's  conduct  did  rise  to  the  level  of
murder,  he  wasn't  provoked,  so  he  couldn't  be  guilty  of  voluntary
manslaughter. As a result, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the father will be guilty of involuntary manslaughter.

type.  Criminal  negligence  manslaughter 

In fact, the father will be guilty of involuntary manslaughter of the
criminal  negligence 
is
manslaughter that occurs through gross or criminal negligence (either by
act or omission). Under the facts here, the father knew the child was ill,
but  refused  to  seek  help  at  a  state  clinic  solely  because  of  his  pride.
This kind of conduct could easily be considered a criminally negligent
omission, especially in view of the father's fiduciary relationship with
his children.

If you chose this response, it could be because you placed too much
importance  on  the  fact  that  the  child  died  as  a  result  of  the  illness.
However, a “killing” takes place whenever a death is hastened by any
time  at  all  (e.g.,  killing  someone  who  was  to  be  executed  in  five
minutes  could  still  be  murder,  if  the  requisite  mens rea  existed).  The
facts  here  state  that  the  child's  death  was  hastened  because  he  was
weakened  by  malnutrition.  Thus,  the  father  is  guilty  of  some  form  of
homicide, making D not the best response.

 Answer 112

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  statement  falls  within  FRE  408's  blanket  prohibition  of
settlement statements offered to prove liability for a disputed claim.

FRE  408  covers  not  only  statements  that  relate  to  the  proposed
settlement  itself,  but  also  collateral  statements  (what  the  rule  calls
“conduct or a statement made during compromise negotiations about the
claim[.]”) Here, the statement about slush was made during the course
of settlement negotiations, since the plaintiff “threatened to sue” and the

1538

manager sought a “release . . . from any claims” of the plaintiff. So the
statement,  though  arguably  collateral,  is  covered.  (The  fact  that  the
conversation  also  concerned  payment  of  medical  bills  —  as  to  which
collateral  statements  are  not  excluded,  under  FRE  409  —  doesn't
matter,  because  the  statement  at  issue  must  survive  both  the  bans  in
FRE 408 and 409 in order to be admissible.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  although  the  statement  may  be  an  admission  by  a  party
opponent,  it  still  falls  within  FRE  408's  blanket  prohibition  of
settlement statements offered to prove liability for a disputed claim.

As the defendant's statement is being offered by a party opponent, it
would not be considered hearsay under FRE 801(d)(2)(A), but it still
must  survive  an  objection  under  FRE  408.  Here,  they  were  in
settlement  negotiations,  as  the  plaintiff  “threatened  to  sue”  and  the
manager  sought  a  “release  .  .  .  from  any  claims”  of  the  plaintiff.
Introducing  the  statement  of  slush  on  the  entry  is  an  attempt  to  prove
liability  through  a  statement  made  during  the  course  of  settlement
negotiations and will be excluded.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although the statement may be an admission by an agent about a
matter within the scope of his authority, it still falls within FRE 408's
blanket  prohibition  of  settlement  statements  offered  to  prove  liability
for a disputed claim.

As  the  defendant's  statement  is  being  offered  by  a  party  opponent,
and  the  manager  was  discussing  matters  within  a  manager's  scope  of
authority, it would not be considered hearsay under FRE 801(d)(2)(D),
but it still must survive an objection under FRE 408. Here, the parties
were in settlement negotiations, as the plaintiff “threatened to sue” and
the  manager  sought  a  “release  .  .  .  from  any  claims”  of  the  plaintiff.
Introducing  the  statement  of  slush  on  the  entry  is  an  attempt  to  prove
liability  through  a  statement  made  during  the  course  of  settlement
negotiations and will be excluded.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  any  “conduct  or  a  statement  made  during  compromise
negotiations about the claim” is excluded by FRE 408. In other words,
even  statements  that  are  somewhat  collateral  to  the  discussion  of

1539

settlement itself are excluded, if the statements were part of the general
settlement discussion.

Here,  the  parties  were  in  settlement  negotiations,  as  the  plaintiff
“threatened  to  sue”  and  the  manager  sought  a  “release  .  .  .  from  any
claims” of the plaintiff. Introducing the statement of slush on the entry is
an attempt to prove liability through a statement made during the course
of settlement negotiations and will be excluded.

 Answer 113

 (A) is the best response,

because  if  the  court  denies  the  motion  under  the  circumstances
described  in  this  choice,  Rule  37(a)(5)(B)  leaves  the  court  no  choice
but to make the attorney's fee award.

Before we look at the attorney's-fees-as-sanctions issue, it's worth
examining  the  procedural  correctness  of  the  manufacturer's  conduct:
Notice  that  the  manufacturer  raised  its  objection  to  the  document-
production  request  but  then  took  no  other  affirmative  acts  to  shield
itself  from  the  request.  The  manufacturer  could  have  taken  the
affirmative step of seeking a “protective order” from the trial court, as
authorized by Rule 26(c)(1). But the manufacturer was not required to
take this step, and did not expose itself to any serious “extra” sanctions
by not seeking the order and instead waiting for the driver to move to
compel  discovery  (since  the  manufacturer  faced  the  same  risk  of
sanctions if its refusal to produce was held to be wrongful whether the
court's holding came in response to the manufacturer's motion to protect
or in response to the driver's motion to compel).

Once  the  driver  moved  for  an  order  compelling  the  document
production,  the  motion  was  governed  by  Rule  37.  More  specifically,
Rule 37(a)(3)(B) says that

“A party seeking discovery may move for an order compelling an answer
[or]  production[.]  This  motion  may  be  made  if:  .  .  .  (iv)  a  party  fails  to
produce documents . . . as requested under Rule 34.”

But Choice (A) tells you to assume that the court “wholly denies”
the motion. (Such a denial is a very plausible holding for the court to
make  on  these  facts:  Rule  26(b)(1)  says  that  “Parties  may  obtain
discovery  regarding  any  nonprivileged  matter  that  is  relevant  to  any
party's  claim  or  defense  and  proportional  to  the  needs  of  the  case,

1540


considering  the  importance  of  the  issues  at  stake  in  the  action,  the
amount  in  controversy,  the  parties'  relative  access  to  relevant
information,  the  parties'  resources,  the  importance  of  the  discovery  in
resolving  the  issues,  and  whether  the  burden  or  expense  of  the
proposed  discovery  outweighs  its  likely  benefit.”  Requiring  the
manufacturer  to  supply  documents  about  accidents  having  no  apparent
connection to steering wheel problems is just the sort of large-scale and
time-consuming  request  that  a  court  might  well  decide  was  wholly
disproportional to the “needs of the case.”)

So we need to know how Rule 37 deals with sanctions in the event
the court denies the motion to compel. That issue is dealt with by Rule
37(a)(5)(B), which says:

“If  the  motion  [to  compel  discovery]  is  denied,  the  court  may  issue  any
protective  order  authorized  under  Rule  26(c)  and  must,  after  giving  an
opportunity  to  be  heard,  require  the  movant,  the  attorney  filing  the
motion, or both to pay the party or deponent who opposed the motion
its  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  opposing  the  motion,  including
attorney's fees.  But  the  court  must  not  order  this  payment  if  the  motion
was  substantially  justified  or  other  circumstances  make  an  award  of
expenses unjust.”

The  key  word  in  the  above-quoted  passage  is  the  word  “must”  in
the  middle  of  the  first  sentence  --  that  word  means  that  if  the  court
wholly  denies  the  motion,  the  court  has  no choice  but  to  “require  the
movant  [and/or  her  lawyer]  to  pay  the  party  .  .  .  who  opposed  the
motion  its  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  opposing  the  motion,
including attorney's fees[,]”  unless  the  special  circumstances  spelled
out in the second sentence are present. But here, Choice (A) tells you to
assume  that  the  court  “believes  that  the  motion  was  not  substantially
justified and that such a fee award would not be unjust,” thus making it
clear that none of the special conditions that would relieve the court of
its obligation (and even its authority) to order payment of the expenses
as a sanction exist here. So Choice (A), by emphasizing that an order
that  the  driver  pay  the  manufacturer's  attorney's  fees  incurred  in
opposing  the  motion  to  compel  is  not  discretionary  but  mandatory  on
the part of the court, is legally correct.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly says that the court has discretion to order or not

1541


order the driver to reimburse the attorney's fees.

As is discussed more fully in the treatment of Choice (A) above, if
the court wholly denies the motion to compel, and neither of the special
circumstances  in  the  second  sentence  of  Rule  37(a)(5)(B)  (e.g.,  “the
motion  was  substantially  justified”)  is  present,  the  court  “must”  (not
“may”)  order  that  the  motion's  opponent  be  reimbursed  for  its
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred in opposing the
motion.  So  Choice  (B),  by  indicating  that  even  where  the  special
circumstances  are  not  present,  a  reimbursement  order  is  only
discretionary, is legally incorrect.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  sanction  of  expense-reimbursement  was  not  dependent  on
the manufacturer's having made a motion for a protective order.

It's  true  that  the  manufacturer  had  the  right  to  seek  a  protective
order  against  being  required  to  produce  the  objected-to  documents.
(For more about this right, see the first paragraph in the discussion of
Choice  (A)  above.)  But  such  a  motion  for  a  protective  order  was
optional  on  the  manufacturer's  part  —  the  manufacturer  was  free  to
instead  do  nothing  (beyond  noting  its  objection,  and  its  reasons  for
making that objection, in a timely response to the production request),
and wait for the requesting party (the driver) to make her own motion to
compel.  And  nothing  in  Rule  37(a)(5)(B)'s  procedures  regarding
sanctions  in  the  event  the  motion  to  compel  is  wholly  denied  makes
those sanctions  weaker  or  less  available  because  the  opponent  of  the
motion never sought a protective order. (The overall approach of Rule
37 — applicable whether the motion to compel succeeds or fails — is
that  “the  loser  pays”  the  winner's  litigation  expenses  in  making  or
the
the  motion.)  So  Choice  (C),  by  asserting 
opposing 
manufacturer's failure to seek a protective order prevents the court from
awarding sanctions to that party, relies on a wholly-irrelevant fact, and
is flatly incorrect.

that 

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  driver's  failure  to  try  to  resolve  the  dispute  without  court
action  would  eliminate  any  right  the  driver  might  otherwise  have  to
recover sanctions if she prevailed on the motion.

This  choice  is  a  bit  tricky,  because  its  wrongness  stems  from  the
non-occurrence  of  an  event  the  significance  of  which  would  be

1542

apparent only if you knew a particular detail about how Rule 37 limits
the award of sanctions to a successful movant. First, notice that of the
four  choices  this  is  the  only  one  that  assumes  that  the  driver  has
succeeded  in  her  motion.  Therefore,  sanctions  are  governed  by  Rule
37(a)(5)(A), which says that

“If the motion is granted — or if the disclosure or requested discovery
is  provided  after  the  motion  was  filed  --  the  court  must,  after  giving  an
opportunity  to  be  heard,  require  the  party  or  deponent  whose  conduct
necessitated  the  motion,  the  party  or  attorney  advising  that  conduct,  or
both  to  pay  the  movant's  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  making  the
motion,  including  attorney's  fees.  But  the  court  must  not  order  this
payment if:

(i)  the  movant  filed  the  motion  before  attempting  in  good  faith  to
obtain the disclosure or discovery without court action;(ii) the opposing
party's  nondisclosure,  response,  or  objection  was  substantially  justified;
or(iii) other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust.”

In analyzing Choice (D), the key provision in the above language is
subsection  (i):  the  court  not  only  isn't required  to  award  sanctions  to
the victorious movant, but is forbidden to award her sanctions, if “the
movant filed the motion before attempting in good faith to obtain the
disclosure or discovery without court action[.]” The facts tell us that
“After the driver's lawyer received this response, she made no attempt
to contact the manufacturer's lawyer. Instead, the driver's lawyer made
a motion. . . . ” If the driver's lawyer brought the motion without even
trying to contact her adversary, she couldn't have “attempt[ed] in good
faith to obtain the . . . discovery without court action.” And by failing to
try  to  resolve  the  matter  without  court  intervention,  she  deprived  the
judge of even the power — let alone the obligation — to award her any
expense reimbursement as a sanction in the event she prevailed on the
motion to compel. Therefore, Choice (D) — by asserting that the court
would  have  power  to  award  the  driver  attorney's  fees  assuming  the
manufacturer's objection was not “substantially justified” — is legally
incorrect.

 Answer 114

 (C) is the best response,

1543



because intimidation is not protected free speech.

To be valid, restrictions on the content of speech must be narrowly
tailored to promote a compelling government interest. As a result, there
are  several  narrow  categories  of  speech  where  such  a  restriction  is
justified and that do not receive protection from the First Amendment.
Speech within these categories can be validly prohibited based on the
content  of  the  speech.  One  such  category  is  words  intended  to
intimidate the person who is the target of the speech. It is permissible to
prohibit  such  speech  whether  or  not  the  speaker  actually  intends  to
carry out the threats. An example of such a statute is the one at issue in
Virginia v. Black (2003), in which the Supreme Court upheld a statute
that prohibited cross burning with the intent to intimidate. Although the
burning of a cross could be considered a form of symbolic speech, the
intent  to  intimidate  another  renders  it  a  “true  threat,”  even  if  the
individual burning the cross does not actually intend to harm the person
they are intimidating.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the man intended to intimidate his neighbor.

To be valid, restrictions on the content of speech must be narrowly
tailored to promote a compelling government interest. As a result, there
are  several  narrow  categories  of  speech  where  such  a  restriction  is
justified and that do not receive protection from the First Amendment.
Speech within these categories can be validly prohibited based on the
content  of  the  speech.  One  such  category  is  words  intended  to
intimidate the person who is the target of the speech. It is permissible to
prohibit  such  speech  whether  or  not  the  speaker  actually  intends  to
carry out the threats. An example of such a statute is the one at issue in
Virginia v. Black (2003), in which the Supreme Court upheld a statute
that prohibited cross burning with the intent to intimidate. Although the
burning of a cross could be considered a form of symbolic speech, the
intent  to  intimidate  another  renders  it  a  “true  threat,”  even  if  the
individual burning the cross does not actually intend to harm the person
they are intimidating.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is irrelevant whether or not he was trespassing.

It is not permissible for a state to punish an individual for speaking
simply because at the time they were also engaged in another criminal

1544

act. This answer choice correctly comes to the conclusion that the man
may be convicted under the statute, but arrives at that conclusion for the
wrong reason. The statute is constitutional because it is permissible to
prohibit speech that constitutes a “true threat.” (See the explanation for
choice C above.) Here, the man intended to intimidate his neighbor, in
violation of the statute, and may be convicted without regard to whether
or not he was trespassing at the time.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the Thirteenth Amendment is inapplicable to the situation.

The  Thirteenth  Amendment  prohibits 

involuntary  servitude
(slavery).  It  has  no  application  to  whether  or  not  racially  motivated
threats  may  be  prohibited  by  law.  The  reason  that  the  statute  under
which the man is being prosecuted is constitutional is that it prohibits
speech  that  constitutes  a  “true  threat.”  Content-based  restrictions  on
speech  are  only  valid  if  they  are  narrowly  tailored  to  achieve  a
compelling state interest, so the statute would not be constitutional if it
criminalized  all  racially  motivated  speech,  since,  absent  the  intent  to
intimidate another, there is no compelling interest served by restricting
the right of an individual to make such statements.

 Answer 115

 (A) is the best response,

because  there  was  no  consideration  for  the  creditor's  promise  not  to
sue.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  supported  by
consideration.  Here,  the  creditor  promised  not  to  sue  on  the  debt  (a
right he had since the debtor was late repaying the debt). Foregoing this
legal right furnishes consideration on the creditor's side. However, the
debtor  has  supplied  no  consideration.  His  only  promise  under  the
contract was to pay the liquidated debt by December 1st. However, the
debtor was already under that obligation — in fact, he was already late
in  paying.  In  essence,  he  has  only  promised  to  do  something  he  was
already legally obligated to do. The preexisting duty rule states that the
promise  to  do  something  one  is  already  obligated  to  do  is  not
consideration.  The  lack  of  consideration  embodied  in  the  debtor's
promise makes the contract fail for lack of consideration. Accordingly,
the creditor's promise is not binding.

1545

(B) is not the best response,

because the creditor has provided consideration.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  supported  by
consideration.  Here,  the  creditor  promised  not  to  sue  on  the  debt  (a
right he had since the debtor was late repaying the debt). Foregoing this
legal right furnishes consideration on the creditor's side. This contract
will  fail  because  of  the  debtor's  promise  failing  to  constitute
consideration, not the creditor's. The preexisting duty rule, discussed in
the explanation for choice A above, dictates that the debtor's promise to
pay  an  already-owed  liquidated  debt  cannot  furnish  consideration  for
the  creditor's  promise  to  refrain  from  suing,  which  is  consideration,
since the creditor is foregoing a legal right.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

The promise to allow a debtor to delay payment on a past debt is
only enforceable if consideration is provided by the debtor because of
the  preexisting  duty  rule.  The  preexisting  duty  rule  states  that  the
promise  to  do  something  one  is  already  obligated  to  do  is  not
consideration.  Thus,  for  the  promise  to  allow  additional  time  for  a
debtor  to  pay  a  liquidated  sum,  the  debtor  must  promise  to  provide
additional consideration (i.e., not simply to pay the sum already owed).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  promise  to  allow  more  time  to  pay  is  only  enforceable  if
the debtor provides additional consideration.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  supported  by
consideration.  Here,  the  creditor  promised  not  to  sue  on  the  debt  (a
right he had since the debtor was late repaying the debt). Foregoing this
legal right furnishes consideration on the creditor's side. However, the
debtor  has  supplied  no  consideration.  His  only  promise  under  the
contract was to pay the liquidated debt by December 1st. However, the
debtor was already under that obligation — in fact, he was already late
in  paying.  In  essence,  he  has  only  promised  to  do  something  he  was
already legally obligated to do. The preexisting duty rule states that the
promise  to  do  something  one  is  already  obligated  to  do  is  not
consideration.  The  lack  of  consideration  embodied  in  the  debtor's
promise means that there was no bargained-for exchange. As a result,

1546

the  contract  will  fail  for  lack  of  consideration,  and  the  creditor's
promise is not binding.

 Answer 116

 (B) is the correct response,

because  none  of  the  exceptions  to  the  general  rule  that  a  medical
professional's  duty  of  care  extends  only  to  his  or  her  patient  apply  in
this instance.

One  exception  to  this  rule  is  found  in  Tarasoff  v.  The  Regents  of
California (1976), which states that a medical professional does have
a  duty  of  care  to  others  when  the  patient  poses  a  threat  to  others.  But
this scenario was not presented by these facts. As the patient was only a
threat  to  himself,  and  was  an  adult,  the  doctor  did  not  owe  a  duty  of
care to non-patients. Additional facts in the problem further support that
no  duty  of  care  was  owed,  as  the  father  was  not  present  at  his  son's
appointment and did not witness his son's suicide.

 (A) is not the best response,

because physical impact is not required for the father to prevail.

Virtually  all  jurisdictions  have  rejected  the  impact  rule  in  cases
involving negligent infliction of emotional distress. Thus, this response
states the right result for the wrong reason. The correct reason is that, in
general, a medical professional's duty of care extends only to his or her
patients, and thus no duty of care is owed to the father of the patient. As
the patient was only a threat to himself, and was an adult, the doctor did
not owe a duty of care to non-patients. Additional facts in the problem
further  support  that  no  duty  of  care  was  owed,  as  the  father  was  not
present at his son's appointment and did not witness his son's suicide.

 (C) is not the best response,

because being a member of the patient's immediate family is irrelevant
in this kind of emotional distress case.

In  a  bystander  case,  a  family  member  who  suffers  emotional
distress upon witnessing a negligently caused injury to a family member
may recover. In this case, however, the facts do not support a bystander
case, as the father was not present at his son's appointment and did not
witness his son's suicide. This fact pattern instead focuses on the duty
of  care  owed  by  a  medical  professional.  The  general  rule  is  that  a

1547

medical professional's duty of care extends only to his or her patients,
so the plaintiff here cannot recover.

 (D) is not the best response,

because foreseeability is ordinarily not sufficient to create a duty to a
non-patient of a medical professional.

In general, a medical professional's duty of care extends only to his
or  her  patients,  and  thus  no  duty  of  care  is  owed  to  the  father  of  the
patient. As the patient was only a threat to himself, and was an adult,
the doctor did not owe a duty of care to non-patients. Additional facts
in  the  problem  further  support  that  no  duty  of  care  was  owed,  as  the
father was not present at his son's appointment and did not witness his
son's suicide.

 Answer 117

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  indicates  that  both  an  injunction  and  damages  are
appropriate remedies in this action.

The  grant  here  created  a  life  estate  determinable  pur  autre  vie  in
the church, and a vested remainder in the grandchildren as a class. As
life tenant, the church is obliged not to unreasonably impair the value of
the  property.  Since  the  church  allowed  the  sand  and  gravel  to  be
removed,  it  will  have  to  cease  doing  so  and  it  will  be  liable  for  the
damage  already  done.  The  added  wrinkle  here  is  that  the  vested
remaindermen  may  not  all  exist  yet,  since  there  may  yet  be  other
grandchildren  born  to  the  “class.”  Thus,  the  appropriate  remedy  is  to
impound the damages until no more members can be added to the class
of  grandchildren  —  that  is,  until  all  of  the  owner's  children  die,
because only then can the class of grandchildren be established. Since
B states the appropriate result, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because while it correctly recognizes that the plaintiffs will succeed, it
does not give the correct reason.

The  estates  created  in  the  conveyance  here  were  a  life  estate
determinable pur autre vie in the church, and a vested remainder in the
grandchildren  in  the  form  of  a  class  gift  (the  class  being  the  owner's
grandchildren).  As  a  life  estate  holder,  the  church  is  obliged  not  to

1548

unreasonably impair the value of the property. If the life estate holder
does  so,  his  estate  does  not  cease;  however,  he  will  be  liable  to  the
vested  remainderman  for  the  diminution  in  value.  Since  A  incorrectly
states  that  committing  waste  terminates  the  life  estate,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states that damages will not be awarded because
the owner and his son are not parties to the action.

In  fact,  the  relevant  parties  here  are  the  church  and  the  vested
remaindermen — the grandchildren and a representative for the as-yet
unborn  grandchildren,  as  a  class.  The  church,  because  it  is  allowing
waste  to  be  committed  on  the  premises,  is  liable  to  the  vested
remaindermen.  It  is  liable  for  the  damages  done  so  far,  and  can  be
enjoined  from  continuing  to  remove  the  sand  and  gravel.  Choice  C
incorrectly states that damages will not be available because the owner
and his son are not parties to the action. They aren't necessary, and so C
is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states that the injunction will be denied.

A  life  estate  holder,  as  the  church  is  here,  is  obliged  not  to
unreasonably  impair  the  value  of  the  property.  Allowing  sand  and
gravel  to  be  removed  would  constitute  waste.  As  a  result,  the  church
will be liable to the vested remaindermen for the diminution in value,
and will be required to stop the waste from occurring. Thus, the vested
remaindermen  should  recover  damages  and  the  injunction  should  be
granted. Since D is only half right, it is not the best response.

 Answer 118

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  element  of  force  or  fear  was  missing,  and  thus  the
defendant would not be liable for robbery.

The key here is simply to know the elements of robbery. Robbery is
a larceny from either a person or in the presence of a person, by either
force or fear. Here, the defendant's victim was not cognizant of the fact
his wallet was being taken, so he wasn't in fear, and since the defendant
merely removed his wallet, there wasn't force, either.

1549

The subsequent slap wouldn't be considered force for purposes of
determining the defendant's guilt, because the force did not relate to the
crime. While the use of force encompasses the period immediately after
the  taking,  this  only  controls  if  the  wrongdoer  uses  force  to  stop  the
victim from catching him or regaining the property.

Under  facts  like  the  ones  in  choice  D,  the  force  would  be
considered  separate  from  the  taking.  Since  the  defendant  would  not
satisfy  the  elements  of  robbery,  he  won't  be  guilty,  making  D  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant likely would be guilty of robbery.

Robbery  is  a  larceny  from  either  a  person  or  in  the  presence  of  a
person,  by  either  force  or  fear.  The  element  that's  most  in  question
under  the  facts  in  choice  A  is  the  larceny  from  the  person  or  in  the
presence of a person. However, the crime would be considered in the
woman's presence, since it involved the area she would control if not
for the force or fear used by the defendant. Since the defendant would
likely be guilty of robbery, A is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  would  likely  be  guilty  of  robbery  under  these
facts.

Robbery  is  a  larceny  from  either  a  person  or  in  the  presence  of  a
person,  by  either  force  or  fear.  Here,  although  the  defendant  did  not
employ force, his confederate did, and so together they would be liable
for robbery, since their conduct would fit all the elements of robbery.
Since the defendant would likely be guilty of robbery, B is not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant likely would be guilty of robbery.

Robbery  is  a  larceny  from  either  a  person  or  in  the  presence  of  a
person,  by  either  force  or  fear.  Here,  the  force  was  involved  in
compelling the woman to make the phone call. When the defendant later
took the jewels, he satisfied the remaining element of robbery. Since the
defendant would likely be guilty of robbery, C is not the best response.

 Answer 119

1550

(B) is correct,

because  a  suit  may  be  brought  on  behalf  of  a  minor  by  a  parent  or
guardian.

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 17(c)(1) says that “The following
representatives  may  sue  or  defend  on  behalf  of  a  minor  or  an
incompetent  person:  (A)  a  general  guardian  .  .  .  or  (D)  a  like
fiduciary.”  Rule  17(c)(2)  then  says  that  “A  minor  or  an  incompetent
person who does not have a duly appointed representative may sue by
a  next  friend  or  by  a  guardian  ad  litem.”  So  in  this  case,  assuming
that neither parent has been appoi nted to be a “general guardian” for
the child (i.e., his guardian for all legal purposes), either parent can file
suit as a “next friend” of the child, as authorized by 17(c)(2). “A next
friend  is  one  who,  without  being  [a]  regularly-appointed  guardian,
represents an infant plaintiff.” Till v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co., 124
F.2d  405,  408  (10th  Cir.  1941).  So  the  suit  would  be  captioned
“[Parent] as next friend of [Child] v. Motorcyclist.”

Not  only  is  the  parent  permitted  to  appear  as  the  named
plaintiff/next  friend,  but  under  the  Federal  Rules  there  must  be  some
competent adult who is given responsibility for protecting the interests
of the minor if the suit is brought solely in the name of the minor. That's
because the final sentence of Rule 17(c)(2) (which follows the sentence
quoted above) says that “The court must appoint a guardian ad litem
—  or  issue  another  appropriate  order  —  to  protect  a  minor  or
incompetent  person  who  is  unrepresented  in  an  action.”  So  it's  very
likely  that  the  court  will  either  require  that  the  child's  parent  be  the
named plaintiff as a “next friend” or insist that the parent or someone
else with the child's welfare at heart be named as a guardian ad litem
(i.e., guardian for the limited purposes of protecting the child's interest
in the litigation).

 (A) is not the best choice,

because the rule that it asserts — that the plaintiff in a lawsuit must be
the real party in interest — is correct in most situations, but not correct
in the special situation where the party in interest is a minor.

Federal Rule 17 (which is in fact entitled “Real Party in Interest”)
begins  by  announcing  the  general  rule  that  “An  action  must  be
prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest.” But Rule 17 then
goes on to list various exceptions to this rule. One exception is that a

1551

“guardian” is among several types of people all of whom “may sue in
their own names without joining the person for whose benefit the action
is  brought.”  Rule  17(a)(1)(C).  So  if  the  child's  parent  or  some  other
adult  had  been  appointed  as  the  child's  guardian  for  all  purposes,  the
guardian would be allowed to bring suit in his own name. Furthermore,
Rule  17(c)(1)  says  that  “A  minor  or  an  incompetent  person  who  does
not have a duly appointed representative may sue by a next friend or by
a  guardian  ad  litem.”  So  even  if,  say,  no  one  had  been  appointed  a
general guardian for the child, the child's parent could in effect appoint
himself  or  herself  “next  friend,”  and  bring  suit  in  his/her  name  as
authorized by 17(c)(1). So Choice (A), by saying that the child must be
named  as  plaintiff  because  he  is  the  real  party  in  interest,  is  simply
wrong.

 (C) is not the best choice,

because the insurance carrier is not in fact a “real party in interest.”

First, as a matter of nomenclature, under the FRCP, the phrase “real
party  in  interest”  refers  only  to  people  on  the  plaintiff  side  of  the
action, not those on the defense side. So even if there were some rule
requiring  that  the  insurance  carrier  be  made  a  defendant,  that  result
would not be correctly explained by saying that the carrier was a “real
party in interest.”

More substantively, there simply is no procedural rule in the federal
system that would require the joinder of the insurer as a party at all. It's
true that in some circumstances, a party must be joined — whether as a
plaintiff or as a defendant — because that party's presence in the action
is required in order for the court to do justice in the action. See FRCP
19. But a party is a required party only if one of several quite specific
fact  patterns  exists:  either  (1)  in  that  party's  absence,  the  court  cannot
accord  complete  relief  among  the  existing  parties,  or  (2)  the  person
alleged  to  be  required  to  be  joined  claims  an  interest  related  to  the
action's subject and that person is so situated that not joining the person
may  “impair  or  impede  the  person's  ability  to  protect  the  interest”  or
“leave an existing party subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,
multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations because of the interest.”
FRCP 19(a)(1)(B). Here, the motorcyclist's insurance carrier does not
fit  into  any  of  these  categories:  First,  the  carrier's  absence  does  not
prevent complete relief among the existing parties. Second, the carrier
does  not  have  an  interest  that  needs  to  be  protected  in  the  current

1552

lawsuit, because the motorcyclist's liability can be determined without
assessing his insurance situation. Finally, there is no person already a
party  (and  the  only  plausible  “already  present”  party  would  be  the
motorcyclist)  who  would  be  subjected  to  double,  multiple,  or
otherwise inconsistent obligations — the motorcyclist will be entitled
to  have  the  insurer  pay  any  judgment  and/or  legal  expense  up  to  the
policy limits, even if the carrier is not joined.

 (D) is not the best choice,

because  the  underlying  rule  of  liability  that  it  asserts  is  not  legally
correct.

Whether a party must be joined in a lawsuit is governed by the rules
determining  who  is  a  required  party,  and  those  rules  are  set  out  in
FRCP  19.  Even  if  the  aunt  and  uncle  were  joint  tortfeasors  with  the
motorcyclist, “[i]t has long been the rule that it is not necessary for all
joint  tortfeasors  to  be  named  as  defendants  in  a  single  lawsuit.”
Temple v. Synthes Corp., Ltd., 498 U.S. 5, at 7 (1990). The Advisory
Committee  Notes  to  the  1966  amendments  to  Rule  19(a)  state  that  “a
tortfeasor  with  the  usual  ‘joint-and-several'  liability  is  merely  a
permissive  party  to  an  action  against  another  with  like  liability.”
Therefore,  it  is  up  to  the  child  (or  his  lawyer  or  guardian)  to  decide
whether to make permissive joinder of the aunt and uncle.

Furthermore, as a matter of substantive tort law, it's not at all clear
that the aunt and uncle would indeed be primarily or secondarily liable
as  this  choice  asserts.  Since  they  didn't  give  the  motorcyclist
permission to use the cycle or even know that he was planning to do so,
they can't be primarily liable for, say, negligent entrustment. And unless
there  existed  a  somewhat  unusual  state  statute  making  them  strictly  or
vicariously  liable  for  damage  done  by  a  vehicle  or  instrument  they
owned, they would not have secondary liability.

 Answer 120

 (C) is the best response,

because the recording statute protects the creditor's interest.

Under  the  race-notice  statute  applicable  in  this  jurisdiction,  a
second-in-time transferee is only protected if she both takes for value
without  notice  of  the  prior  interest  and  records  her  conveyance  first.
Here,  the  aunt  meets  neither  of  these  requirements.  Although  the  aunt

1553

had no actual knowledge of the judgment lien on the debtor's land, she
will be charged with constructive notice because the creditor's interest
had  been  recorded  and  would  have  been  located  easily  had  the  aunt
conducted a title search before making the loan. Additionally, the aunt
did not record the mortgage until after the creditor's lien was recorded.
Although  the  creditor  never  filed  a  lien  on  the  debtor's  subsequently
acquired  land,  the  judgment  lien  statute  makes  the  already-recorded
judgment a lien on not only the land owned by the debtor at the time of
the  judgment,  but  also  any  property  acquired  within  ten  years  of  the
filing  of  the  judgment.  Since  the  debtor  purchased  the  mortgaged  land
only two years after the judgment was filed, a lien will be placed on the
land by operation of the statute. Because the creditor was first in time
and  the  recording  statute  does  not  protect  the  aunt,  the  creditor's  lien
will be prior to that of the aunt.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the creditor recorded first.

As  discussed  in  the  explanation  for  choice  C  above,  the
jurisdiction's  race-notice  statute  does  not  protect  the  aunt's  mortgage.
While in many circumstances a judgment lien will be subordinate to a
mortgage lien, this is not the case when the judgment lien creditor takes
first  and  records  first.  The  general  reason  why  a  judgment  lien  is  not
protected under a recording statute is that most jurisdictions do not treat
judgment  creditors  as  bona  fide  purchasers  for  value.  However,  the
protection  of  a  recording  statute  is  only  necessary  for  subsequent
purchasers.  In  this  case,  the  judgment  lien  is  first  in  time  and  was
recorded before the mortgage, so it has priority over the mortgage lien
without need for the protection of the recording statute.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the aunt was not a purchase money mortgagee.

As  discussed  in  the  explanation  for  choice  C,  above,  the
jurisdiction's  race-notice  statute  does  not  protect  the  aunt's  mortgage.
Additionally,  choice  B  incorrectly  states  that  the  aunt's  mortgage  is  a
purchase  money  mortgage.  A  purchase  money  mortgage  is  a  mortgage
on  property  that  is  given  as  security  for  a  loan  used  to  purchase  that
property.  In  this  problem,  the  debtor  already  owned  the  land  when  he
got the loan from his aunt.

1554

(D) is not the best response,

because the creditor's judgment lien will have priority whether or not
the aunt conducted a title search of the property.

As  discussed  in  the  explanation  for  choice  C  above,  the
jurisdiction's  race-notice  statute  can  only  protect  a  subsequent
conveyance  if  both  the  subsequent  interest-holder  takes  for  value  and
without notice and records first. Since the creditor's interest was first
recorded, it will be the prior lien on the debtor's property whether or
not  the  aunt  conducted  a  title  search.  There  is  no  requirement  that  a
purchaser of an interest in land conduct a title search, but it is generally
wise  to  do  so  in  order  to  avoid  being  in  the  aunt's  position  in  this
problem.

 Answer 121

 (A) is the best response,

because this is a statement of a party opponent, and the best evidence
rule does not apply to this particular audiotape.

What  the  defendant  said  to  the  plaintiff,  even  in  a  private
conversation, is an admission of a party. It can therefore be introduced
against  that  party,  under  FRE  801(d)(2)(A)'s  hearsay  exclusion  for  a
statement that “is offered against an opposing party and (A) was made
by the party in an individual or representative capacity.” The plaintiff
has  personal  knowledge  of  what  the  defendant  said  and  can  testify
about it.

The  fact  that  the  audiotape  might  be  better  evidence  of  what  the
defendant  actually  said  makes  no  difference.  The  Best  Evidence  Rule
(FRE  1002)  applies  only  where  a  party  is  trying  to  “prove  [the]
content”  of  a  writing,  recording  or  photograph.  Here,  because  the
plaintiff did not obtain all her knowledge of the conversation from the
audiotape,  she  is  not  “proving  the  content”  of  the  audiotape  —  she's
proving the content of a live discussion, and the fact that the statements
happen to have been captured on audiotape is just a coincidence. So the
Best Evidence Rule doesn't apply.

 (B) is not the best response,

because,  even  though  the  original  document  rule  (also  called  the
Best  Evidence  Rule)  does  apply  to  audiotapes,  the  plaintiff  is  not

1555

proving the contents of the recording.

The  original  document  rule,  FRE  Rule  1002,  applies  to  writings,
recordings,  and  photographs.  Nonetheless,  in  this  case,  the  original
document  rule  does  not  apply.  As  noted  in  the  analysis  of  choice  A
above, the testimony is admissible because the plaintiff will testify to
what she heard directly from the defendant, not about what she heard on
the  audiotape.  Therefore,  she  would  not  be  attempting  to  prove  the
content of the audiotape and there would be no violation of the original
document rule.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  FRE  Rule  1002  (the  Best  Evidence  Rule  or  the  “original
document  rule”)  requires  a  recording  to  be  introduced  only  when  its
contents are being proved, which is not the case in this problem.

Here the plaintiff is offering to testify about what she heard directly
from the defendant, not about what she heard on the audiotape. The fact
that an audiotape was contemporaneously made does not mean that the
tape has to be produced, since the plaintiff has independent knowledge
of  what  the  defendant  said.  If  the  problem  were  changed  so  that  the
plaintiff  only  learned  of  the  defendant's  statements  by  listening  to  an
audiotape, then the audiotape would have to be produced.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  there  is  no  rule  automatically  barring  evidence  obtained  by
deception.

Moreover,  the  evidence  obtained  by  deception  (the  secretly
recorded  audiotape)  was  not  in  fact  offered.  Some  state  and  federal
statutes do regulate secret recordings of conversations, and violation of
such  statutes  sometimes  means  that  recordings  obtained  in  violation
thereof must be excluded. But the recording was not offered in evidence
in  this  problem.  As  noted  in  the  discuss  of  choice  A  above,  only  the
statements  made  by  the  defendant  were  offered,  and  they  would  be
admissible whether or not a contemporaneous recording was made.

 Answer 122

 (A) is the best response,

because  under  the  federal  rules,  only  the  court  can  enter  a  default
judgment if plaintiff's claim is not “for a sum certain or a sum that can

1556

be made certain by computation.”

One  key  factor  that  determines  how  and  when  a  default  judgment
may  be  entered  is  whether  the  claim  can  be  considered  for  a  “sum
certain”  —  when  the  claim  meets  this  definition,  entry  of  a  default
judgment for that amount is essentially ministerial, whereas if the sum
is  not  certain,  the  procedure  is  far  more  complex  and  a  judge's
participation is required. The entry of default judgments is governed by
FRCP  55.  Rule  55(b)(1)  (entitled  “By  the  Clerk”),  says  that  “If  the
plaintiff's  claim  is  for  a  sum  certain  or  a  sum  that  can  be  made
certain by computation, the clerk — on the plaintiff's request, with an
affidavit  showing  the  amount  due  —  must  enter  judgment  for  that
amount and costs against a defendant who has been defaulted for not
appearing and who is neither a minor nor an incompetent person.” So at
least where the defendant never answers or otherwise “appears” in the
suit,  if  the  claim  is  for  a  “sum  certain”  (or  for  a  sum  that  “by
computation”  can  be  made  certain),  no  involvement  by  the  judge  is
necessary,  and  the  clerk  of  the  court  not  only  may  but  “must”  enter
judgment for that amount at the plaintiff's request, as long as the plaintiff
submits an affidavit showing the amount due. So if, on our facts here,
the  professor's  claim  met  the  requirements  for  a  “sum  certain,”  the
answer  to  the  question  would  be  yes,  the  clerk  could  enter  judgment
without further action by anyone (making Choice (C) correct).

However,  the  professor's  claim  here  is  definitely  not  one  “for  a
sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by computation.” A claim
is not for a sum certain “unless there is no doubt as to the amount to
which a plaintiff is entitled as a result of the defendant's default.” KPS
& Assocs. v. Designs by FMC, Inc., 318 F.3d 1, 19-20 (1st Cir. 2003).
Or,  as  the  idea  is  sometimes  put,  the  claim  must  be  for  some  sort  of
“liquidated  amount.”  Examples  of  sums  certain  include  a  suit  to
enforce another court's money judgment and a suit on a promissory note
— in those situations, the damages can be “determined without resort to
extrinsic  proof[.]”  Id.  Here,  the  professor  is  claiming  damages  for
“intangible harm” to her reputation, and it cannot be said that there is
“no doubt” about what the proper amount is (even assuming liability),
or that the amount can be determined without resort to proof other than
that contained in the complaint or the professor's affidavit. Furthermore,
where the plaintiff seeks attorney's fees, those fees are virtually never
deemed to constitute an “amount certain,” even if the claim being sued
on is for such an amount.

Once it's clear that the claim is not for “a sum certain or a sum that

1557

can be made certain by computation,” the method for entering a default
judgment  is  completely  different  than  the  clerk-administered  method
mentioned above for sum-certain claims. Now, the situation is governed
by  Rule  55(b)(2)  (entitled  “By  the  Court”).  Under  that  section,  “the
party must apply to the court for a default judgment.” If the defendant
has “appeared” in the action (which the student here did not do), seven
days  advance  notice  has  to  be  given  to  the  defendant  before  the  court
(i.e., the judge) can conduct any hearing. The judge then determines the
appropriate amount for the judgment. In doing so the court “may” (but is
not required to) “conduct hearings” in order to “determine the amount
of  damages.”  Even  when  the  judge  decides  that  the  hearing  is  not
necessary,  the  judge  will  typically  make  a  careful  review  of  the
pleadings, affidavits, documentary evidence submitted by the plaintiff,
etc.,  to  make  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the  actual  damages.  In  other
words, the judge does not simply reason that since the complaint was
not answered, the allegations in it about damages must be taken at face
value.  So  Choice  (A)  is  an  accurate  statement  about  the  steps  that  the
judge will have to go through before entering a default judgment on the
professor's claim.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  is  not  within  the  clerk's  authority  to  conduct  the  type  of
evidentiary hearing described.

If the claim here were for a “sum certain,” then as described in the
explanation of Choice (A), the clerk could, indeed would be required
to,  enter  judgment  —  but  that  would  happen  without  any  evidentiary
hearing or even examination of evidence. But the claim here is not for a
sum  certain,  so  the  job  of  fixing  the  amount  of  the  judgment  must  be
handled by the judge, not the clerk. And when the judge does this, the
judge is permitted — though not required — to conduct an evidentiary
hearing of the sort described in this choice.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the claim was not for a sum certain.

Under Rule 55(b)(1), if the claim was “for a sum certain or a sum
that can be made certain by computation,” then the clerk could indeed
enter  judgment  automatically  and  without  notice  to  the  student,  as
suggested in this choice (at least assuming that the student was neither a
minor nor an “incompetent person,” and that she had never appeared in

1558

the  action).  But  as  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  Choice  (A),  the  claim
here  does  not  meet  the  definition  of  “sum  certain.”  Therefore,  the
ministerial  procedure  carried  out  by  the  clerk,  as  described  in  this
choice, is not available.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  gives  a  role  to  the  clerk  as  hearing  officer  and
incorrectly requires notice to the student.

This choice is correct in suggesting that there are some scenarios in
which a seven-day notice has to be given to the defendant in advance of
a hearing at which the amount of damages will be set, but the present
fact pattern is not such a scenario. Rule 55(b)(2) says that in cases in
which the claim is not for a sum certain (so that the judge will have to
determine the appropriate judgment amount), seven days advance notice
of  any  hearing  by  the  judge  must  be  given  to  the  defendant  if  the
defendant “has appeared personally or by a representative” previously
in  the  action.  But  there  are  two  reasons  why  this  advance-notice
provision does not apply in the way suggested by this choice: First, the
facts tell you that the student never appeared in the action (so she is not
entitled  to  any  notice  at  all)  and  second,  this  choice  refers  to  an
evidentiary hearing that will be conducted by the clerk, but in reality if
an  evidentiary  hearing  is  to  be  conducted  (which  will  happen  only
where the claim is not for a sum certain) the hearing is conducted by the
judge,  not  the  clerk.  So  as  is  correctly  stated  in  Choice  (A),  any
evidentiary hearing will be conducted by the judge (and it will be in the
judge's discretion whether to conduct a true hearing or to simply review
documentary evidence), and no advance notice to the student will need
to be given if there is going to be a hearing.

 Answer 123

 (B) is the best response,

because it identifies the basis on which the shoe store will be liable.

Invasion  of  privacy  is  an  “umbrella”  tort  encompassing  four
individual torts: the defendant's appropriation of the plaintiff's picture
or name for the defendant's own commercial advantage; the defendant's
intrusion  on  the  plaintiff's  affairs  or  seclusion;  the  defendant's
publication  of  facts  that  place  the  plaintiff  in  a  false  light;  and  the
defendant's public disclosure of private facts about the plaintiff.

1559

The  first  type  (appropriation)  is  applicable  to  these  facts,  since  it
describes — as does choice B — that the shoe store used the player's
picture for profit. While “consent” would be a defense, the shoe store
did  not  have  permission  under  these  facts.  While  the  shoe  store
believed it had permission, this fact is irrelevant – even a reasonable
(but  mistaken)  belief  that  it  had  permission  would  not  be  a  defense,
unless  the  mistake  was  brought  about  by  the  plaintiff's  own  speech  or
conduct. In any event, here the store's mistake was unreasonable, given
the  store's  failure  to  even  attempt  to  verify  the  photographer's  self-
interested  claim  that  the  player  had  consented.  Since  B  accurately
describes  the  tort,  it's  applicable  to  these  facts,  and  since  no  other
choice is satisfactory, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law, and does not focus on a central issue.

It  isn't  the  photographer's  taking  the  picture  that  the  player  finds
objectionable, but the shoe store's use of the photo, falsely suggesting
the  player  endorsed  the  shoes.  In  fact,  merely  taking  one's  picture,  in
public, is not actionable; if you're out in public, you're pretty much fair
game for photographers. (Just ask Madonna.) Since A states otherwise
and ignores a central issue in the case, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

The  player's  status  as  a  celebrity  would  not  subject  him  to
unauthorized  use  of  his  name.  In  fact,  it's  the  player's  fame  that
prompted  the  shoe  store  to  misappropriate  his  picture  for  its
commercial  advantage;  simply  being  famous  doesn't  mean  the  player
has waived his right to sue for invasion of privacy. Instead, under these
facts, the player will have a valid claim for invasion of privacy in the
form  of  appropriating  the  plaintiff's  name  or  picture  for  commercial
advantage. As long as he proves this, his status is irrelevant. Since C
states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly suggests that the store's mistake as to consent is a
defense.

D  suggests  that  if  the  shoe  store  believed  it  had  the  player's
permission,  it  will  not  be  liable.  However,  in  an  invasion  of  privacy

1560

claim  based  on  misappropriation,  the  defendant's  mistaken  belief  that
the plaintiff has consented is fatal — even a reasonable mistake as to
consent  (as  long  as  it  is  not  induced  by  the  plaintiff's  own  ambiguous
conduct  or  speech)  would  not  be  a  valid  defense.  Here,  the  store's
mistaken belief that the player had consented was not even reasonable
(given  the  store's  complete  lack  of  effort  to  verify  the  photographer's
claim  of  consent),  so  the  mistake  is  certainly  not  a  defense,  as  D
suggests it is. So D is not the best response.

 Answer 124

 (B) is correct because,

it  correctly  recognizes  that  what's  at  issue  is  the  Fifth  Amendment's
impact on the federal government.

The  federal  government  operates  the  federal  courts,  and  the  Fifth
Amendment's Due Process Clause, binding on the federal government,
applies  to  the  federal  judiciary.  Therefore,  when  Congress  enacts  a
statute  creating  a  federal  cause  of  action  and  includes  a  nationwide
service-of-process  provision,  the  question  is  whether  the  federal
court's  exercise  of  power  to  hear  a  suit  comports  with  the  Fifth
Amendment  standard  of  due  process.  Answering  that  question  in  turn
requires  the  court  to  decide  whether  the  defendant  has  the  requisite
minimum  contacts  with  the  entire  nation,  not  merely  with  the  state
where  the  federal  court  hearing  the  suit  is  located.  See,  e.g.,  F,K&M
(4th),  §  3.18,  pp.  172-73,  approving  of  the  suggestion  that  “[i]n
applying the minimum-contacts standard to actions under some federal
statutes, such as antitrust, or in suits against alien defendants, the court
may consider the aggregate contacts of the defendants with the nation
as a whole, rather than simply contacts with the forum state.” So even
if  Defendant  has  no  contacts  whatsoever  with  State  B,  personal
jurisdiction  over  Defendant  will  likely  be  constitutional  if  the  sum  of
its  contacts  with  all  U.S.  states  and/or  territories  satisfies  the
requirement of Fifth Amendment due process.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly recites the entity with which the Defendant must
have the required minimum contacts.

When  Congress  enacts  a  statute  creating  a  federal  cause  of  action
and  includes  a  nationwide  service-of-process  provision  in  the  statute,

1561

test  for  determining  whether  service  establishes  personal
the 
jurisdiction is to look to at the defendant's minimum contacts with the
entire nation,  not  merely  contacts  with  the  state  in  which  the  federal
court sits. See the further discussion in Choice (B).

 (C) is not the best response,

because it refers to the wrong constitutional amendment and the wrong
sort of contacts.

First,  when  Congress  enacts  a  statute  and  includes  a  nationwide
service-of-process provision, the sufficiency of Defendant's contacts is
determined  by  reference  to  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth
Amendment (not of the Fourteenth Amendment) to the U.S. Constitution.
As  explained  in  Choice  (A),  the  federal  government  operates  the
federal  courts.  Therefore,  it's  the  Fifth  Amendment's  Due  Process
Clause  —  binding  on  the  federal  government  —  that  applies  to  this
federally-run operation. Since the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment  applies  only  to  the  states,  and  since  no  state  action  is
involved  here,  that  Amendment  is  irrelevant.  Second,  what  is
determinative  is  Defendant's  contacts  with  the  entire  nation,  not  just
with State B.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it refers to the wrong constitutional Amendment.

When Congress enacts a statute and includes a nationwide service-
of-process provision, the court assesses the sufficiency of Defendant's
contacts with the nation under the Fifth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, and not the Fourteenth Amendment, which applies only to
the states. See the further discussion in Choice (C).

 Answer 125

 (B) is the best response,

because it is irrelevant.

Impeachment is the means of casting doubt on the credibility of the
witness.  It  can  be  accomplished  via  either  reputation  or  opinion
testimony,  under  FRE  608(a).  The  problem  here  is  that  the  witness's
alcoholism would not reflect on his character for truthfulness, which is
what “credibility” is all about. Since the evidence isn't relevant to the

1562

witness's credibility, it's not admissible under FRE 608(a) (or any other
provision).

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is a question seeking to show bias or interest, which is a

proper basis for intrinsic impeachment under the FRE.

If  it's  true  that  the  witness  is  the  plaintiff's  close  friend,  this
indicates  bias,  since  it's  possible  that  he  would  lie  on  the  plaintiff's
behalf. Thus, the evidence will be relevant to the witness's credibility.
Since A fails to recognize that the evidence here will be a proper form
of intrinsic impeachment, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it is a question seeking to show a bad character for honesty via
unconvicted  bad  acts,  which  can  be  a  proper  basis  for  intrinsic
impeachment under the FRE.

Impeachment is the means of casting doubt on the credibility of the
witness. FRE 608(b) says that “Except for a criminal conviction under
Rule  609,  extrinsic  evidence  is  not  admissible  to  prove  specific
instances  of  a  witness's  conduct  in  order  to  attack  or  support  the
witness's  character  for  truthfulness.  But  the  court  may,  on  cross-
examination,  allow  them  [i.e.,  unconvicted  specific  instances]  to  be
inquired  into  if  they  are  probative  of  the  character  for  truthfulness  or
untruthfulness  of  (1)  the  witness[.]”  Failure  to  report  income  is  a
specific  instance  of  bad  conduct,  and  there's  no  indication  that  the
witness  was  convicted.  But  since  the  matter  is  probative  of  the
witness's character for truthfulness, the judge has discretion to allow it
to  be  inquired  into  on  cross  (which  is  what's  happening  here).  While
it's not certain that the court will allow the question, that's a much more
likely  outcome  than  that  the  court  will  allow  the  question  about
alcoholism (Choice B), which is not probative of truthfulness at all.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  is  a  question  seeking  to  show  a  prior  conviction,  which
because  of  the  nature  of  the  crime  is  a  proper  basis  for  impeachment
under the FRE.

Under  FRE  609(a)(2),  a  witness  can  be  impeached  by  proof  of  a
conviction “for any crime regardless of the punishment . . . if the court
can  readily  determine  that  establishing  the  elements  of  the  crime

1563

required  proving  —  or  the  witness's  admitting  —  a  dishonest  act  or
false statement.” So assuming the questioner had a good-faith basis for
believing  that  the  conviction  occurred,  the  question  is  proper  for
impeachment  whether  the  crime  involved  a  felony  or  a  misdemeanor,
because 
involved  dishonesty  or  false  statement.
Furthermore,  the  choice  indicates  that  the  conviction  is  only  seven
years old, so it meets the 10-year time limit of FRE 609(a).

it  necessarily 

 Answer 126

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly states the standard.

In both federal and state courts, a witness's proper invocation of the
privilege  against  self-incrimination  is  judged  under  the  “reasonable
possibilities” test. Under it, the court must find reasonable grounds for
believing the witness is subject to criminal liability (not civil liability
or public disgrace), and that his answer will at least provide a link to
evidence which may incriminate him, in order to allow him to remain
silent. Hoffman v. U.S. (1951). Since D correctly states this rule, it's the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it overstates the actual standard.

In both federal and state courts, a witness's proper invocation of the
privilege  against  self-incrimination  is  judged  under  the  “reasonable
possibilities” test. Under it, the court must find reasonable grounds for
believing the witness is subject to criminal liability (not civil liability
or public disgrace), and that his answer will at least provide a link to
evidence which may incriminate him, in order to allow him to remain
silent.  Choice  A  states  a  standard  that  is  much  stricter  than  the  actual
standard. As a result, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it overstates the standard.

In both federal and state courts, a witness's proper invocation of the
privilege  against  self-incrimination  is  judged  under  the  “reasonable
possibilities” test. Under it, the court must find reasonable grounds for
believing the witness is subject to criminal liability (not civil liability
or public disgrace), and that his answer will at least provide a link to

1564

evidence  that  may  incriminate  him,  in  order  to  allow  him  to  remain
silent. B states a standard that is much stricter than the real standard. As
a result, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it overstates the standard.

In both federal and state courts, a witness's proper invocation of the
privilege  against  self-incrimination  is  judged  under  the  “reasonable
possibilities” test. Under it, the court must find reasonable grounds for
believing the witness is subject to criminal liability (not civil liability
or public disgrace), and that his answer will at least provide a link to
evidence  that  may  incriminate  him,  in  order  to  allow  him  to  remain
silent.  C  states  a  standard  that  is  slightly  more  strict  than  the  real
standard. As a result, it's not the best response.

 Answer 127

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  addresses  the  central  issue  of  the  case:  whether  or  not  the
equipment will be characterized as a fixture.

The  factor  B  discusses  —  intent  —  is  the  single  most  important
factor  in  determining  whether  a  chattel  has  become  a  fixture.  If  the
intent is that the chattel not be considered annexed to realty and thus not
a  fixture,  this  will  be  a  strong  indication  that  the  chattel  will  be
considered personalty by a court. If, as B suggests, the equipment was
installed for the tenant's exclusive benefit, it would manifest an intent
on  his  part  that  the  equipment  not  be  considered  part  of  the  realty.
Under  these  facts,  this  would  mean  a  judgment  in  the  tenant's  favor,
refusing the injunction. As a result, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

The tenant's ability to remove the equipment turns on whether it will
be  characterized  as  a  fixture  or  not.  If  the  equipment  is  not  a  fixture,
then  he  will  be  able  to  remove  it.  If  it  is  considered  a  fixture,  it
becomes  part  of  the  realty,  and  he  cannot  remove  it  (at  which  point
notice  to  him  may  become  important).  Factors  that  will  be  taken  into
account in determining status as a fixture will include the annexation of
the chattel to realty, the appropriateness to the use of the realty to which

1565

the chattel is connected, and the intent to make a permanent accession.
Thus,  the  existence  of  the  landlord's  mortgage  will  not  enter  into  this
determination, making A not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, although it states a correct rule, the rule does not address the
central  issue  here:  whether  the  equipment  can  be  characterized  as
“personal property” at all.

The  major  issue  here  is  whether  or  not  the  equipment  could  be
characterized as a “fixture.” If it is, it will be regarded as real property,
and the tenant cannot remove it. If it is not, it will retain its character as
personalty, and he can remove it. The status as a fixture is determined
by analyzing these factors: The item's annexation to realty (e.g., heating
system  installed  =  fixture);  appropriateness  to  the  use  of  the  realty  to
which  it  is  connected  (the  more  appropriate,  the  more  likely  it's  a
fixture);  and,  most  importantly,  the  intent  to  make  a  permanent
accession,  viewed  objectively  (look  at,  e.g.,  any  agreement,  and
annexor's estate in the land). Since C fails to recognize the central issue
in the case, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  like  C,  it  fails  to  address  the  central  issue  in  the  case:  the
characterization of the equipment as real or personal property.

D  implies  that  the  equipment  is  real  property,  since,  if  that's  true,
then  the  Statute  of  Frauds  would  apply  (since  the  Statute  of  Frauds
requires  that  any  conveyance  of  real  property  must  be  in  writing).
However, on the facts here, it's not at all clear that the equipment would
be considered part of the real property, as a “fixture.” If the equipment
isn't a fixture, the Statute of Frauds would not be relevant. A fixture is a
chattel, which has been annexed to land in such a way as to be regarded
as real property. The status as a fixture is determined by analyzing these
factors: the item's annexation to realty (e.g., heating system installed =
fixture); appropriateness to the use of the realty to which it is connected
(the  more  appropriate,  the  more  likely  it's  a  fixture);  and,  most
importantly,  the  intent  to  make  a  permanent  accession,  viewed
objectively  (look  at,  e.g.,  any  agreement,  and  annexor's  estate  in  the
land). Since D does not recognize that this is the central issue, it's not
the best response.

1566

Answer 128

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  acknowledgment  letter  was  sent  after  the  bottles  were
shipped.

UCC  2-206  provides  that  an  offer  to  buy  goods  for  immediate
shipment  may  be  accepted  either  by  promising  to  ship  or  by  shipping
the  goods.  As  a  result,  the  contract  was  formed  at  the  moment  the
wholesaler shipped the bottles to the bottling company. The terms that
will govern the contract are those that the two parties had agreed upon
at  that  time.  Because  the  acknowledgment  letter  was  not  sent  until  a
week  following  delivery,  its  terms  cannot  constitute  an  effective
modification of the contract. Since, by default, consequential damages
are  allowed  in  a  contract  action,  and  the  wholesaler's  disclaimer  of
those damages was ineffective, the bottling company will succeed in its
suit to recover the $40,000 in lost profits, which were a consequence of
the wholesaler's breach.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

Article 2 of the UCC provides that, absent a contractual provision
to the contrary, buyers are generally allowed to recover consequential
damages in suits for breach, so long as the damages were foreseeable at
the  time  the  contract  was  made.  (This  is  the  rule  of  Hadley  v.
Baxendale (1854).) When a contract for the sale of goods is silent on
an  issue,  the  UCC  gap-fillers  will  augment  the  contract  as  written.
Since  the  UCC  default  provision  allows  consequential  damages,  and
the wholesaler's disclaimer of such damages was ineffective because it
was delivered too late, consequential damages will be recoverable by
the bottling company in its action.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the wholesaler's acknowledgement was sent after the contract
was formed, and thus could not affect the terms of that contract.

UCC  2-206  provides  that  an  offer  to  buy  goods  for  immediate
shipment  may  be  accepted  either  by  promising  to  ship  or  by  shipping
the  goods.  As  a  result,  the  contract  was  formed  at  the  moment  the
wholesaler shipped the bottles to the bottling company. The terms that

1567

will govern the contract are those that the two parties had agreed upon
at  that  time.  Because  the  acknowledgment  letter  was  not  sent  until  a
week  following  delivery,  its  terms  cannot  constitute  an  effective
modification  of  the  contract.  If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were
probably  thinking  of  the  “battle  of  the  forms,”  which  governs  sales
contracts  made  between  merchants.  Under  certain  conditions,
additional  terms  in  an  offeree's  acceptance  may  become  part  of  the
contract if not objected to by the offeror. This was inapplicable to this
situation  because  the  additional  term  was  not  included  in  the
wholesaler's acceptance but, rather, was sent a week after the contract
had been formed. The additional term in the acknowledgement was at
most a request for a modification of the contract, but even if it was, that
request was never accepted by the bottler, so no modification occurred.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  disclaimers  of  consequential  damages  are  sometimes

permissible.

This  choice  reaches  the  correct  conclusion  (that  the  buyer  will
win), but for the wrong reason. The bottling company will win because
the wholesaler's acknowledgment letter, which contained the disclaimer
of consequential damages, was not sent until a week after the contract
had  been  formed,  and  thus  was  not  part  of  the  contract.  (See  the
discussion  of  choice  D  above.)  While  it  is  true  that  under  certain
conditions,  a  disclaimer  of  consequential  damages  is  unconscionable,
there are situations where such disclaimers are permissible. Therefore,
the  better  reason  for  the  bottling  company's  ability  to  recover
consequential  damages  is  that  the  disclaimer  was  never  part  of  the
agreement,  not  that  the  courts  should  strike  the  disclaimer  based  upon
its unconscionability.

 Answer 129

 (D) is the best response.

because it correctly identifies both the level of the burden of proof, and
the party on which it is placed.

Here, the law limits the First Amendment, the fundamental right to
free  speech  in  a  public  place  —  the  capitol  steps.  The  right  to  such
speech  is  not  absolute;  it  can  be  limited,  for  instance,  by  valid  “time,
place,  and  manner”  regulations.  In  order  to  be  valid  as  such  a

1568

regulation:

1. The law must be neutral as to the content of the speech;
2. It must further a significant government interest that is not capable

of accomplishment by less restrictive means; and

3. There must be alternative media of communication available.

Thus,  the  law  must  promote  a  significant  governmental  interest;
choice D correctly recognizes this. Furthermore, it places the burden on
the  correct  party.  Once  a  law  is  shown  to  adversely  impact  a  First
Amendment right, the burden is on the state to prove that the statute is
valid.  Since  choice  D  correctly  identifies  the  burden  and  the  party  on
which it will be placed, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it both places the burden on the wrong party, and it misstates
the level of scrutiny the statute will undergo.

Here, the law limits the First Amendment, the fundamental right to
free  speech  in  a  public  place  —  the  capitol  steps.  The  right  to  such
speech  is  not  absolute;  it  can  be  limited,  for  instance,  by  valid  “time,
place,  and  manner”  regulations.  In  order  to  be  valid  as  such  a
regulation:

1. The law must be neutral as to the content of the speech;
2. It must further a significant government interest that is not capable

of accomplishment by less restrictive means; and

3. There must be alternative media of communication available.

Thus,  the  law  must  promote  a  significant  governmental  interest;
choice A understates the interest required by stating that the law need
only  meet  the  rational  basis  test.  The  rational  basis  test  is  used  for
economic  and  social  legislation,  not  laws  limiting  First  Amendment
rights (among others).

Furthermore, choice A misplaces the burden of proof. Once a law is
shown  to  adversely  impact  a  First  Amendment  right,  the  burden  is  on
the state to prove that the statute is valid. Since A puts the burden on the
wrong party, and misstates that burden, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

1569





because although it correctly states the burden of proof, it places it on
the wrong party.

Here, the law limits the First Amendment, the fundamental right to
free  speech  in  a  public  place  —  the  capitol  steps.  The  right  to  such
speech  is  not  absolute;  it  can  be  limited,  for  instance,  by  valid  “time,
place,  and  manner”  regulations.  In  order  to  be  valid  as  such  a
regulation:

1. The law must be neutral as to the content of the speech;
2. It must further a significant government interest that is not capable

of accomplishment by less restrictive means; and

3. There must be alternative media of communication available.

Here, choice B correctly identifies this burden — it just places that
burden  on  the  wrong  party.  All  the  owner  needs  to  prove  is  that  his
First Amendment rights were adversely impacted by the law. Then, it's
up to the state to prove that the statute is valid. Since B misplaces this
burden, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although it correctly identifies that the state bears the burden of
proof, it understates that burden.

Here, the law limits the First Amendment, the fundamental right to
free  speech  in  a  public  place  —  the  capitol  steps.  The  right  to  such
speech  is  not  absolute;  it  can  be  limited,  for  instance,  by  valid  “time,
place,  and  manner”  regulations.  In  order  to  be  valid  as  such  a
regulation:

1. The law must be neutral as to the content of the speech;
2. It must further a significant government interest that is not capable

of accomplishment by less restrictive means; and

3. There must be alternative media of communication available.

Thus,  the  law  must  promote  a  significant  governmental  interest;
choice C understates the interest required by stating that the law need
only  meet  the  rational  basis  test.  The  rational  basis  test  is  used  for
economic  and  social  legislation,  not  laws  limiting  First  Amendment
rights (among others).

Although  choice  C  understates  the  burden,  it  does  place  it  on  the
correct  party.  Once  a  law  is  shown  to  adversely  impact  a  First

1570





Amendment right, the burden is on the state to prove that the statute is
valid.  However,  since  choice  C  understates  the  state's  burden,  it's  not
the best response.

 Answer 130

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies a basis on which the friend will be liable
to the motorist.

Negligence requires that the defendant failed to exercise such care
as a reasonable person in his position would have exercised, this must
have been a breach of the duty to prevent the foreseeable risk of harm
to  anyone  in  the  plaintiff's  position,  and  this  breach  must  have  caused
the plaintiff's damages.

Here, the friend's failure to warn the motorist would be considered
a breach of duty, since he didn't exercise the care a reasonable person
in his position would have exercised. So much for duty and breach.

Damages are not an issue under these facts, so that leaves causation.
While the wife's failure to warn the motorist was a substantial factor in
causing  his  damages,  the  friend  was  negligent  in  failing  to  warn  the
motorist directly, since he had no right to rely on the wife to pass along
the  message,  and  the  warning  to  the  wife  could  not  be  imputed  to  the
motorist.  While  it's  true  that  you'd  expect  the  wife  to  pass  along  the
message, there's no legal basis for relieving the friend of his duty. Thus,
as  long  as  the  friend's  failure  to  warn  the  motorist  was  a  substantial
factor in causing his damages, the causation element is satisfied. Since
A  summarizes  the  elements  of  negligence  as  they  apply  to  these  facts,
and arrives at the correct conclusion, A is the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the reasoning does not support a finding of strict liability, and,
beyond that, it's unlikely strict liability would apply to these facts.

In  general,  strict  liability  has  four  elements:  an  absolute  duty  of
care; breach of duty, which proximately causes the plaintiff's injury; and
damages.  There  are  three,  general  sources  of  strict  liability:  animals,
abnormally  dangerous  activities,  and  defective  products.  (In  addition,
strict  liability  can  be  imposed  by  case  law  or  statutes.)  Thus,  it
wouldn't  be  enough,  as  B  suggests,  merely  for  there  to  be  a  defect:
There would also need to be an absolute duty. The friend wouldn't be

1571

liable for strict product liability, because, apart from anything else, he's
not a commercial supplier of cars. Lending a defective car would not
be considered an abnormally dangerous activity. Since the animal basis
wouldn't  apply,  and  there's  no  statutory  or  case  law  source  for  strict
liability on these facts, the friend wouldn't be strictly liable in tort.

Remember  that  this  doesn't  mean  the  friend  will  escape  liability
altogether;  it's  just  that  the  motorist  will  have  to  prove  some  fault,  at
least  negligence,  in  order  to  recover  (which  wouldn't  be  difficult  to
prove  on  these  facts).  Since  B  would  impose  liability  on  the  friend
without proof of fault, and fault would in fact need to be proven, B isn't
the best response.

 (C) isn't the best response,

because no matter how slight the friend's duty was, he breached it.

In fact, where a bailment is for the exclusive benefit of the bailee,
the  bailor's  duty  will,  as  C  states,  be  slight.  This,  however,  doesn't
mean  that  the  bailor  can  run  roughshod  over  the  bailee's  rights.  Here,
the  friend's  failing  to  tell  the  motorist  about  the  faulty  brakes  would
satisfy any standard of negligence, no matter how slight.

Since C fails to recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  states  that  the  wife's  negligence  was  the  sole
cause of the motorist's damages.

While  it's  true  that  the  wife  was  negligent  in  failing  to  pass  along
the  friend's  warning,  this  doesn't  mean  that  the  friend  is  relieved  of
liability  for  failing  to  warn  the  motorist  directly.  Unless  the  friend's
warning to the wife could be imputed to the motorist (for which there is
no  basis),  then  the  friend  would  be  required  to  inform  the  motorist
directly;  that  is,  he  had  no  right  to  rely  on  the  wife.  Thus,  while  the
wife's failure to warn contributed to the motorist's damages, the friend's
negligent  failure  to  warn  was  also  a  substantial  factor  in  causing  the
motorist's  injuries,  making  him  liable  in  negligence.  Since  D  would
improperly  shift  the  friend's  liability  to  the  wife,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 131

 (C) is the best response,

1572

because the defendant satisfies all the elements of larceny.

A  larceny  requires  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
another's personal property, with intent to steal it. Here, the defendant
is laboring under a mistake of law: he mistakenly believes that larceny
doesn't  include  taking  a  dog.  However,  mistake  of  law,  as  a  general
principle,  is  not  a  valid  defense.  Thus,  his  act  fulfills  all  the
requirements of larceny, and as a result he'd likely be convicted. Since
choice  C  presents  the  facts,  of  these  four  choices,  in  which  the
defendant  is  most  likely  to  be  found  guilty  of  larceny,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  one  of  the  elements  of  larceny  —  the  intent  to  steal  —  is
missing.

A  larceny  requires  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
personal property of another, with intent to steal it. Since the defendant
intended  to  return  the  TV  set  the  following  day,  his  intent  was  to
borrow, not steal. As a result, he cannot be liable for larceny — even
though the upshot of his act was the same — the plaintiff never got her
TV back intact. Since the defendant under the facts in choice A would
not be liable for larceny, A cannot be the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the defendant's belief that he had a right to the money negated
his intent to steal it.

Since larceny requires intent, the defendant could not be convicted
on  these  facts.  A  larceny  requires  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying
away of personal property of another, with intent to steal it. Here, the
defendant's “claim of right” is a valid defense to larceny, since it is not
larcenous to take another's property in repayment of a debt, as long as
it is done openly and with full explanation of why the property is being
taken.  The  theory  is  that  because  the  taking  is  being  done  to  repay  a
debt,  the  element  of  intending  to  deprive  another  of  his  property  is
missing.  Although  the  facts  here  do  not  describe  the  attendant
circumstances  —  i.e.,  whether  the  taking  was  done  openly  —  and
although  the  defendant  would  certainly  be  liable  for  some  crime,  it's
likely that the defendant would not be liable for larceny on these facts.
As a result, B is not the best response.

1573

(D) is not the best response,

because the neighbor's mistake negated one of the elements of larceny
— intent to steal.

Larceny requires the taking and carrying away of another's personal
property,  with  the  intent  to  steal.  Even  an  unreasonable  mistake  as  to
ownership  negates  the  “intent  to  steal”  requirement,  as  long  as  the
belief is honest. (Of course, the more unreasonable the belief, the less
likely it is that the jury will believe the mistake was “honest.”) Choice
D  is  an  attractive  response,  because  your  gut  reaction  is  that  an
unreasonable  mistake  cannot  be  a  defense  to  a  crime.  However,  as
noted above, it negates the intent to steal. As a result, D is not the best
response.

 Answer 132

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  recognizes  that  federalism  is  the  basis  of  the  legislator's
strongest argument.

Under  the  Tenth  Amendment,  the  states  and  the  people  retain  all
rights not delegated to the United States by the Constitution. Here, the
Federal Securities Act would have been passed pursuant to Congress's
broad  commerce  power.  While  that  power  is  broad,  it's  not  absolute.
The  concept  of  state  sovereignty  under  the  Tenth  Amendment  would
mean  that  some  state  functions  are  outside  the  scope  of  Congress's
commerce  power.  The  state's  legislative  functions  could  well  be
outside  the  ambit  of  federal  regulation.  While  this  isn't  an  airtight
argument,  it's  the  best  of  the  four  possibilities,  making  A  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Speech  and  Debate  Clause  does  not  apply  to  state
legislators.

Under Article I, § 6, of the Constitution, members of Congress enjoy
immunity  “for  any  Speech  or  Debate  in  either  House.”  The  immunity
covers  only  “legislative  acts,”  which  include  those  matters  that  form
“an  integral  part  of  the  deliberative  and  communicating  processes”  of
Congress.  This  provision  does  not  apply  to  the  states,  and  thus  the
legislator  could  not  use  it  as  an  argument.  Even  if  he  were  a  federal

1574

legislator, it's unlikely that the source of the prosecution — a Federal
Securities Act violation — could be considered “legislative business.”
In  any  case,  the  central  reason  this  argument  is  not  good  for  the
legislator is that he isn't covered by speech and debate immunity as a
state  legislator.  Since  B  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

due to operation of the Supremacy Clause.

Under  the  Supremacy  Clause,  found  in  Article  VI,  §  2,  of  the
Constitution, federal law takes precedence over inconsistent state laws.
That's  the  essence  of  the  issue  here.  Congress  would  have  power  to
legislate concerning securities under its commerce power, thus making
the Federal Securities Act valid. Thus, any state law contradicting the
federal  act  would  be  invalid.  In  fact,  under  these  facts  there  is  no
indication of any state law concerning legislative immunity. Under the
Supremacy  Clause,  it  doesn't  matter  —  as  long  as  Congress  has  the
power to legislate in an area, even if a state has the power to legislate
in that area as well, the federal law will control. (Note that this is only
true where the power is concurrent — that is, held by both the federal
and  state  governments).  Since  choice  C  ignores  the  application  of  the
Supremacy Clause, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  such  an  application  would  not  constitute  a  due  process
violation.

When  the  effect  of  a  governmental  activity  amounts  to  the
deprivation  of  a  property  interest  or  right,  there's  a  potential  due
process  problem.  However,  that's  not  what  the  legislator's  immunity
argument is about. Due process has nothing to do with immunity; it has
to  do  with  fair  process  when  a  right  or  privilege  is  limited.  Thus,
what's at issue here is not whether the legislator's rights or privileges
were  fairly  limited,  but  whether  he's  immune  from  prosecution
altogether;  as  a  result,  there's  no  due  process  issue.  Since  D  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 133

 (C) is the best response,

1575

because, in a criminal case, a judge may only instruct that it may accept
a judicially noticed fact as conclusive.

FRE 201(f) provides that “In a criminal case, the court must instruct
the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive.”
Therefore,  this  instruction  correctly  states  that  the  interstate  nature  of
the transaction is a permissible inference rather than a mandate the jury
must follow.

 (A) is not the best response,

because a judge may not instruct a jury to find a fact in a criminal case,
even if it is a fact that is subject to judicial notice.

FRE 201(f) provides that “In a criminal case, the court must instruct
the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive.”
Accordingly,  this  instruction  would  violate  201(f)  (as  well  as  the
accused's Sixth Amendment right to a trial by jury on all elements of the
crime). A proper instruction would inform the jury that it may accept a
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  government  has  the  burden  of  proving  all  elements  of  a
crime beyond a reasonable doubt.

FRE 201(f) provides that “In a criminal case, the court must instruct
the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive.” So
a  judicially  noticed  fact  in  a  criminal  case  cannot  shift  the
constitutionally  mandated  burden  of  proof  on  all  issues  from  the
prosecution  to  the  defendant.  Here,  the  court  may  instruct  on  a
permissible inference the jury may make, but nothing more.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  a  judicially  notice  fact  in  a  criminal  case  does  not  create  a
presumption.

There  is  a  chance  that  this  instruction  would  be  interpreted  by  a
reasonable  jury  to  establish  a  “mandatory”  presumption.  Mandatory
presumptions are not permitted in criminal cases, because they would
violate  the  accused's  Sixth  Amendment  right  to  have  the  prosecution
bear the full burden of proof (including the burden of production) on all
elements of the crime.

 Answer 134

1576

(A) is the best response,

because the dean has a valid defense.

The  professor  can  state  a  prima  facie  case  of  defamation.  (To
establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  either  libel  or  slander,  the  plaintiff
must  prove  a  defamatory  statement  concerning  him,  publication  of  the
statement  to  a  person  other  than  the  plaintiff,  fault  on  the  part  of  the
defendant, and harm.) But the professor cannot prevail because the dean
has  a  valid  defense  based  on  his  reasonable  belief  that  the  professor
invited him to speak. See Rest. 2d Torts, § 583 (“The consent of another
to  the  publication  of  defamatory  matter  concerning  him  is  a  complete
defense  to  his  action  for  defamation.”)  By  authorizing  his  agents  to
investigate  his  case,  the  professor  apparently  consented  to  limited
publication  in  response  to  their  inquiries.  By  the  way,  ill  will  on  the
part of the dean, even if it existed, would be irrelevant to this defense.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, while this answer correctly states that the professor will lose,
it misstates the legal basis for this conclusion.

Some jurisdictions may require evidence of pecuniary loss for oral
statements  that  are  not  slander  per  se,  but  this  is  a  written  statement.
Under  the  common  law  applicable  to  libel  (written  defamations),
damages to the professor's reputation would be presumed, allowing him
to recover even if he sustained no provable pecuniary loss.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  tort  of  defamation  does  not  turn  on  whether  an
investigation, reasonable or not, has been conducted.

It is true that defamation is not a strict liability tort, and requires at
least  negligence  by  the  defendant  (and  indeed  requires  knowledge  of
falsity  or  reckless  disregard  of  the  truth  if  the  plaintiff  is  a  public
figure). So the dean's failure to investigate might constitute negligence,
thereby supplying the requisite mental state. But even with the mental-
state requirement satisfied, the professor would lose on the grounds of
consent, as further detailed in the discussion of choice A above.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  that  the  statement  was  in  writing  does  not  affect  the

1577

outcome here.

Even  if  the  statement  were  oral,  the  professor  could  recover  for
slander  if  the  dean  were  shown  to  have  behaved  negligently  (e.g.,  by
not  investigating  the  rumor)  and  if  no  defense  applied.  But  a  defense
does apply, namely the defense of consent, as further detailed in choice
A above.

 Answer 135

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  federal  discovery  rules  make  the  disclosure  of  insurance
agreements  a  subject  of  mandatory  initial  disclosure  without  a
discovery request.

Under Rule 26(a)(1)(A)'s provisions governing “initial disclosure,”
a  party  must,  “without  awaiting  a  discovery  request,  provide  to  the
other parties” various items. One of those items (specified in 26(a)(1)
(A)(iv)) is “for inspection and copying . . . any insurance agreement
under  which  an  insurance  business  may  be  liable  to  satisfy  all  or
part of a possible judgment in the action or to indemnify or reimburse
for  payments  made  to  satisfy  the  judgment.”  As  with  the  other
mandatory  initial  disclosures,  the  copy  of  the  insurance  policy  must
normally be provided by the insured early in the case, at or within 14
days after the parties hold a Rule 26(f) mandatory conference in which
they plan for discovery and discuss settlement.

 (B) is not correct,

because Plaintiff need not make the request.

As  is  discussed  more  fully  in  the  treatment  of  Choice  (A)  above,
Defendant  must  furnish  Plaintiff  with  a  copy  of  the  policy  “without
awaiting a discovery request[.]” Rule 26(a)(1)(A), including 26(a)(1)
(A)(iv).

 (C) is not correct,

because  Plaintiff  is  entitled  to  receive  a  copy  of  the  full  insurance
policy.

The question asks you to select the choice that represents the largest
amount  of  relevant  information  to  which  Defendant  is  entitled  and
specifies  that  the  choices  are  in  descending  order  of  the  amount  of

1578

information  covered.  Since  Choice  (A)  correctly  says  that  Plaintiff  is
automatically  entitled  to  a  copy  of  the  full  policy,  and  that's  more
information  than  just  the  name  of  the  insurer  and  the  policy  limits,
Choice (A) is correct and Choice (C) is not.

 (D) is not correct,

because Plaintiff is entitled to the full policy, and without any showing
of relevance.

This  choice  hints  at  a  correct  statement  about  the  scope  of
discovery in federal suits: that as a normal matter, a party may obtain
discovery only of information that is “relevant to any party's claim or
defense  and  proportional  to  the  needs  of  the  case[.]”  (Rule  26(b)(1).
And, it will often be the case that liability insurance is not relevant to
any claim or defense in the case (and will usually not be admissible as
evidence, in part for that reason). But the federal rules reflect a policy
decision that the existence and terms of a defendant's liability insurance
coverage have such large practical implications for the plaintiff that the
former should be compelled to disclose the full details of that coverage
early in the case, and even without a request.

 Answer 136

 (D) is the correct answer,

because  Plaintiff  consented  to  personal  jurisdiction  by  filing  the
counterclaim.

A  plaintiff's  filing  of  a  lawsuit  is  treated  as  consent  by  the
plaintiff  to  personal  jurisdiction  in  the  forum  for  any  counterclaim.
Adam  v.  Saenger,  303  U.S.  59,  67-68  (1938).  As  the  Supreme  Court
has  explained,  deeming  the  plaintiff  to  have  consented  to  personal
jurisdiction  in  the  forum  in  which  he  has  elected  to  sue  “is  the  price
which the state may exact as the condition of opening its courts to the
plaintiff”  and  is  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  the  Due  Process
Clause. Id. Therefore, when Plaintiff chose to bring the second suit in
federal district court for State C, he availed himself of the benefits of
litigating  in  State  C.  By  doing  that,  Plaintiff  effectively  waived  any
objection  to  personal  jurisdiction  over  him  by  the  courts  in  State  C
(whether state or federal courts) with respect to the counterclaim. And
that  waiver  is  effective  even  though  Plaintiff  might  have  successfully
asserted lack of personal jurisdiction had Defendant brought a separate

1579

and independent suit against him in the state or federal courts of State C
for  the  same  wrongful-civil-proceedings  claim  that  Defendant  is  now
asserting via the counterclaim.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it relies on an irrelevant legal rule.

A compulsory counterclaim is a claim made by any party against an
opposing party that “arises out of the transaction or occurrence that is
the  subject  matter  of  the  opposing  party's  claim.”  FRCP  13(a)(1)(A).
And where a federal court has jurisdiction of an “anchor” claim by the
plaintiff  against  the  defendant,  the  court  will  also  have  “supplemental
jurisdiction”  over  closely-related  claims;  a  compulsory  counterclaim
(since by hypothesis it arises out of the same transaction or occurrence
as  the  main  claim)  will  always  be  sufficiently  closely  related  to  the
main  claim  as  to  fall  within  the  court's  supplemental  jurisdiction.  But
supplemental  jurisdiction  is  relevant  only  as  a  means  of  curing  a
problem  with  subject-matter  jurisdiction  (e.g.,  lack  of  complete
diversity  in  a  case  founded  solely  on  diversity,  or  failure  to  meet  the
amount-in-controversy requirement). Supplemental jurisdiction cannot
cure  a  lack  of  personal  jurisdiction  over  the  defendant  to  the
counterclaim. Since this choice says that the presence of a compulsory
counterclaim  can  cure  what  would  otherwise  be  a  lack  of  personal
jurisdiction over the Plaintiff, the choice is incorrect as a matter of law
— the cure comes not from the fact that a compulsory counterclaim is
involved, but from the fact that Plaintiff, by suing, is deemed to consent
to  the  court's  personal  jurisdiction  over  him  for  any  counterclaim,
compulsory or permissive (as discussed in the treatment of Choice (D)
above.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because it relies on an irrelevant legal rule.

A  permissive  counterclaim  is  defined  as  a  counterclaim  that  does
not  arise  out  of  the  same  transaction  or  occurrence  as  the  opposing
party's  claim.  See  FRCP  13(b).  Unlike  a  compulsory  counterclaim,  a
permissive  counterclaim  requires  an  independent  basis  of  subject-
matter jurisdiction. And most (though not all) federal courts have held
that  the  doctrine  of  supplemental  jurisdiction,  now  codified  in  28
U.S.C.  §  1367,  doesn't  change  this  rule.  See  W&K  (7th  Ed.),  §  79,  p.
573. But the entire issue of whether the counterclaim here is permissive

1580

or  compulsory  is  irrelevant  to  whether  there  is  personal  jurisdiction
over the defendant to the counterclaim (i.e., over the original plaintiff)
— even if the counterclaim here were compulsory, that fact would have
no bearing on the existence of personal jurisdiction. (See the discussion
of  Choice  (A)  above.)  Therefore,  since  this  choice  says  that  the
presence  of  a  permissive  counterclaim  is  what  creates  —  or  at  least
fails  to  cure  —  a  lack  of  personal  jurisdiction  over  the  Plaintiff,  the
choice is incorrect. (The cure to the lack of personal jurisdiction comes
from the fact that Plaintiff, by suing, is deemed to consent to the court's
personal jurisdiction over him for any counterclaim, as discussed in the
treatment of Choice (D) above.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the procedure for asserting a counterclaim.

A party asserts a counterclaim either by pleading the counterclaim
in  an  answer  or  by  raising  it  as  a  reply  to  a  prior-asserted
counterclaim.  In  either  scenario,  no  summons  is  required.  See
Schnabel  v.  Lui,  302  F.3d  1023,  1036  (9th  Cir.  2002)  (“Because  the
Third  Amended  Complaint  stated  claims  in  the  nature  of  compulsory
counterclaims, no service of summons was necessary to effect personal
jurisdiction.”).

 Answer 137

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the standard by which the validity of the
permit will be analyzed.

In  determining  whether  a  government  action  that  impinges  on  a
group's  religious  practices  violates  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  of  the
First Amendment, courts will uphold a facially neutral act unless it was
intended  to  target  the  practices  of  a  particular  religious  group.  If  the
action is found to have been aimed at suppressing a particular religion,
then the court will apply strict scrutiny to the action, upholding it only if
the government can show the action necessary to achieve a compelling
governmental  interest.  In  most  cases,  the  application  of  strict  scrutiny
will result in the government action being invalidated.

 (A) is not the best response,

1581

because  discriminatory 
governmental action.

impact 

is 

insufficient 

to 

invalidate  a

Discriminatory impact on a particular religious group is insufficient
by  itself  to  invalidate  a  government  action.  In  determining  whether  a
government  action  that  impinges  on  a  group's  religious  practices
violates the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment, courts will
uphold  a  facially  neutral  act  unless  it  was  intended  to  target  the
practices of a particular religious group. If the action is found to have
been  aimed  at  suppressing  a  particular  religion,  then  the  court  will
apply  strict  scrutiny  to  the  action,  upholding  it  only  if  the  government
can  show  the  action  necessary  to  achieve  a  compelling  governmental
interest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  level  of  scrutiny  that  will  be  applied  to  the
Forest Service's decision.

Choice  B  implies  that  the  utility  of  the  government's  act  will  be
weighed  against  its  discriminatory  impact.  This  is  not  the  case.  In
determining  whether  a  government  action  that  impinges  on  a  group's
religious  practices  violates  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  of  the  First
Amendment,  courts  will  uphold  a  facially  neutral  act  unless  it  was
intended  to  target  the  practices  of  a  particular  religious  group.  If  the
action is found to have been aimed at suppressing a particular religion,
then the court will apply strict scrutiny to the action, upholding it only if
the government can show the action necessary to achieve a compelling
governmental interest.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  strict  scrutiny  will  only  be  applied  if  the  group  can  show
intentional discrimination.

In  determining  whether  a  government  action  that  impinges  on  a
group's  religious  practices  violates  the  Free  Exercise  Clause  of  the
First Amendment, courts will uphold a facially neutral act unless it was
intended  to  target  the  practices  of  a  particular  religious  group.  If  the
action is found to have been aimed at suppressing a particular religion,
then the court will apply strict scrutiny to the action, upholding it only if
the government can show the action necessary to achieve a compelling
governmental interest. If the group can show that the permit was issued
in an attempt to impinge on their freedom to practice their religion and

1582

the  court  finds  that  the  ski  facility  is  a  compelling  governmental
objective  (which  is  extremely  unlikely),  only  then  will  it  become
relevant  if  a  less  restrictive  alternative  was  available  to  the  Forest
Service.

 Answer 138

 (A) is the best response,

because Congress has plenary power to raise revenue through taxes.

Article 1, § 8, of the Constitution provides that Congress may levy
taxes for the purpose of raising revenue. In general, the only limitation
on  a  generally  applicable  tax  is  that  it  must  be  designed  to  raise
revenue.  Whether  or  not  the  tax  has  incidental  effects  on  a  particular
industry is an irrelevant consideration. Since a 5 percent national retail
sales  tax  would  certainly  raise  funds,  and  the  freedom  of  the  press  is
not being curtailed because the tax is generally applied to all sales, the
tax is constitutional, both as written, and as applied to the newspapers.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  strict  scrutiny  does  not  apply  to  the  taxing  and  spending
powers.

Congress's  power  under  the  Constitution  to  raise  funds  through
taxes  is  limited  only  by  the  concern  of  whether  the  tax  is  designed  to
raise  revenue,  rather  than  to  affect  an  otherwise  unconstitutional  goal.
Here,  it  is  obvious  that  a  national  retail  sales  tax  would  raise  funds.
There is no indication in the law that seeks to target newspapers, nor is
there disproportionate impact since the tax is levied on all retail sales.
If  you  chose  this  response,  you  were  probably  thinking  that  strict
scrutiny  applies  to  certain  types  of  decisions  that  restrict  free  speech.
However, since this tax in no way targets the newspapers, or any other
form of speech, First Amendment analysis is not needed.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it mistakes the law.

The  Constitution  permits  Congress  to  enact  this  national  sales  tax
since doing so would be an exercise of the taxing and spending power
in  Article  one,  §  8.  The  Constitution  does  not  prohibit  states  from
enacting  their  own  sales  taxes,  but  it  also  does  not  prohibit  Congress
from  doing  so  as  well.  In  general,  the  only  limitation  on  a  generally

1583

applicable tax is that it must be designed to raise revenue. Whether or
not the tax has incidental effects on a particular industry is an irrelevant
consideration.  Since  a  5  percent  national  retail  sales  tax  would
certainly raise funds, and the freedom of the press is not being curtailed
because  the  tax  is  generally  applied  to  all  sales,  the  tax  is
constitutional, both as written, and as applied to the newspapers.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the tax is not targeting newspapers.

Article 1, § 8, of the Constitution provides that Congress may levy
taxes for the purpose of raising revenue. In general, the only limitation
on  a  generally  applicable  tax  is  that  it  must  be  designed  to  raise
revenue. Since this tax in no way targets the newspapers, or any other
form  of  speech,  First  Amendment  analysis  is  not  needed.  Since  a  5
percent  national  retail  sales  tax  would  certainly  raise  funds,  and  the
freedom of the press is not being curtailed because the tax is generally
applied  to  all  sales,  the  tax  is  constitutional,  both  as  written,  and  as
applied to the newspapers.

 Answer 139

 (A) is the best response,

because the chef was an at-will employee.

Even if a position is characterized as “permanent,” the position will
be  considered  at  will,  absent  any  defined  duration  in  the  employment
contract. Therefore, the chef was an at-will employee, and was free to
leave  the  job  at  any  time  and  for  any  reason  without  breaching  her
employment  contract.  As  a  result,  the  chef's  leaving,  even  though  it
occurred very soon after she was hired, does not constitute a breach of
contract.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the chef left by her own choice.

The chef has not breached her employment contract since she was
an  at-will  employee  and  free  to  cease  working  for  the  bakery  at  any
time.  (See  the  explanation  for  choice  A  above.)  If  you  chose  this
response, you were probably thinking of the limitations on a wrongfully
terminated  employee's  obligation  to  mitigate  damages  by  seeking
alternate  employment.  When  an  employer  breaches  an  employment

1584

contract,  the  employee  must  mitigate  damages  by  seeking  work
elsewhere. The employee's duty only extends to comparable positions
in  the  same  geographic  area.  This  is  not  at  issue  in  this  problem,
however, since the bakery has not breached its contract with the chef.

 (C) is not the best response,

because an at-will employee may leave his or her position at any time,
including soon after being hired.

Even if a position is characterized as “permanent,” the position will
be  considered  at  will,  absent  any  defined  duration  in  the  employment
contract. Therefore, the chef was an at-will employee, and was free to
leave  the  job  at  any  time  and  for  any  reason  without  breaching  her
employment  contract.  As  a  result,  the  chef's  leaving,  even  though  it
occurred very soon after she was hired, does not constitute a breach of
contract.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the bakery did not have a right of first refusal.

The  holder  of  a  right  of  first  refusal  is  given  the  opportunity  to
match the price offered by any other party. For example, if a developer
holds a right of first refusal on a plot of land, and the landowner offers
the land for sale to a buyer, the developer must be given the opportunity
to  match  the  buyer's  bid  and  purchase  the  land  for  the  agreed  price.
Rights  of  first  refusal  are  never  implied  —  they  must  be  explicitly
included  in  a  contract.  Additionally,  due  to  the  public  policy
consideration  of  not  forcing  an  individual  to  work  in  a  particular
position  against  their  will,  they  are  not  applicable  to  employment
contracts.  Since  there  was  no  right  of  refusal  to  enforce,  choice  D  is
incorrect.

 Answer 140

 (B) is the best response,

because the defendant's character for peacefulness is a pertinent trait of
character under FRE 404(a)(2)(A).

Under  FRE  404(a)(2)(A),  evidence  of  the  character  of  the
defendant  in  a  criminal  case  is  admissible  when  it  is  offered  by  the
defendant and it relates to a “pertinent” character trait. Plus, under FRE
405(a), such evidence of character is admissible only when it comes in

1585

the  form  of  opinion  or  reputation  testimony.  The  defendant's  character
for  peacefulness  is  a  pertinent  character  trait,  since  the  defendant  is
charged  with  battery,  a  crime  of  violence.  And  since  character  was
proven  here  through  reputation  evidence,  it  meets  the  requirements  of
FRE 405(a). So the evidence of the defendant's peaceful reputation is
admissible.

However,  the  evidence  of  the  defendant's  truthfulness  is  not
admissible  under  FRE  404(a)(2)(A),  because  it  is  not  pertinent  to  the
charge  of  battery.  It  is  also  true,  however,  that  the  defendant  was  a
witness.  And  evidence  of  a  pertinent  trait  of  character  of  a  testifying
witness  is  admissible  under  the  combination  of  FRE  404(a)(3)  and
608(a).  But  under  FRE  608(a),  evidence  of  a  witness's  truthful
character  is  admissible  “only  after  the  witness's  character  for
truthfulness  has  been  attacked.”  There  is  no  indication  that  the
defendant's  character  for  truthfulness  has  been  attacked.  (The  victim's
claim  that  contrary  to  the  defendant's  testimony,  the  defendant,  not  the
victim,  was 
impeachment  by
contradiction,  but  would  not  be  considered  to  be  an  attack  on  the
defendant's overall “character for truthfulness.”) Thus, the evidence of
the defendant/witness's truthful character must be excluded.

the  aggressor,  would  constitute 

 (A), (C), and (D) are not the best responses,

because,  to  the  extent  these  choices  each  fail  to  admit  the
peacefulness  testimony  or  admit  the  truthfulness  testimony,  each  is
wrong for the reasons described in the analysis of choice B above.

 Answer 141

 (B) is the best choice,

because a transfer does not change which state's substantive law should
apply, and under Erie the choice-of-law rule of the forum state controls.
This is a quite subtle problem — solving it requires you to combine
a  knowledge  of  Erie  principles  and  knowledge  of  how  the  Supreme
Court  has  interpreted  the  federal  transfer-of-venue  statute.  Let's  take
these one at a time. First, let's figure out what state's substantive statute-
of-limitation rule would have applied if the suit had been filed in State
C  federal  court  (as  indeed  it  was)  and  neither  party  had  ever  tried  to
have  it  transferred  elsewhere.  In  this  situation  the  Supreme  Court  has
always  held  —  ever  since  the  immediately-post-Erie  case  of  Klaxon

1586

Co. v. Stentor Manufacturing Co., 313 U.S. 487 (1941) — that where
Erie principles require following state law, the issue of which state's
law  should  be  followed  is  to  be  decided  by  using  the  conflicts  (i.e.,
“choice of law”) rule of the state where the federal court sits. (That's
the only way to ensure that a litigant cannot “forum shop” by choosing,
say,  the  federal  court  for  State  X  instead  of  the  State  X  state  courts;
requiring the federal court to apply whatever choice-of-law rule would
be  used  by  the  State  X  courts  ensures  that  the  same  underlying  state
substantive rule will apply regardless of whether the action is heard in
State X federal court or State X state court.) So here, since the suit was
brought in State C federal court, in a no-transfer-requested scenario the
federal court would have to use whichever state's statute-of-limitations
rule  would  be  applied  to  this  controversy  by  the  State  C  state  courts
had the action been brought there.

Next, we have to figure out whether the fact that a transfer based on
forum non conveniens — if it's granted by the federal court for State C
— would change the above result; is there something about the active
transfer that would cause the transferee federal court (here, the federal
court for State D) to use a different conflict rule than the conflict rule
that would have been applied by the transferor court (the federal court
for  State  C)?  The  answer  is  “no,”  because  the  Supreme  Court  has  so
held in a pair of cases squarely posing the issue. But before we get to
those  cases,  let's  take  a  quick  look  at  the  federal  statute  that  would
govern the request for transfer here. Assuming that the case is brought
in  a  federal  district  where  venue  is  proper  (and  that's  the  situation
here),  a  change  of  venue  is  governed  by  28  U.S.C.  §  1404.  The  main
provision  is  §  1404(a),  which  says  that  “For  the  convenience  of
parties and witnesses, in the interest of justice, a district court may
transfer  any  civil  action  to  any  other  district  or  division  where  it
might  have  been  brought  or  to  any  district  or  division  to  which  all
parties  have  consented.”  The  case  could  have  been  brought  originally
in  State  D  federal  court.  (That's  because  one  of  the  places  in  which
venue is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b) and (c) is a judicial district
in  which  the  sole  defendant  resides,  and  a  corporate  defendant  is
deemed  to  reside  in  a  district  in  which  it  is  headquartered,  so
Defendant is a resident of the sole district covering State D in view of
its  headquarters  location  there.)  Since  the  case  could  originally  have
been  brought  in  the  district  of  State  D,  the  State  C  federal  judge  is
authorized by 28 U.S.C. § 1404(a) to transfer it the district of State D
for convenience of the parties, even if Defendant refuses to consent.

1587

This  leads  us  to  the  ultimate  question:  Once  there  has  been  a
transfer  to  the  State  D  federal  court,  how  should  that  federal  court
decide  which  state's  statute  of  limitations  should  be  applied?  The
answer is that the State D federal court should apply the limitations law
of whichever state the federal judge in State C (where the action was
originally brought) would have applied — and we know from the first
major paragraph above (the one that cites Klaxon) that the federal judge
for the district of State C would have to select the limitations law that
would  be  selected  by  the  State  C  courts  when  the  latter  applied  their
own conflict-of-laws principles. Why is this the answer? Because the
Supreme  Court  has  held  that  “[a]  change  of  venue  under  §  1404(a)
generally  should  be,  with  respect  to  state  law,  but  a  change  of
courtrooms.”  Van  Dusen  v.  Barrack,  376  U.S.  612  (1964).  In  other
words,  once  the  plaintiff  (or  the  defendant  in  a  case  in  which  the
defendant  has  removed  a  case  filed  in  state  court)  has  chosen  an
original  forum  in  a  diversity  case,  the  fortuitous  fact  that  a  federal
statute allows a transfer for the convenience of the parties should not
result  in  a  change  of  the  underlying  substantive  law.  Van  Dusen
involved a transfer by request of the defendant, but the Supreme Court
has  reached  the  same  conclusion  in  the  case  of  a  transfer  made  by
request of the plaintiff, which is what we have here. See Ferens v. John
Deere Co., 494 U.S. 516 (1990) (the transferee court must “apply the
law  of  the  transferor  court,  regardless  of  who  initiates  the  transfer.  A
transfer under Section 1404(a), in other words, does not change the law
applicable to a diversity case.”).

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  states  how  the  federal  transfer-of-venue  statute
works.

As is explained with respect to Choice (B), the Van Dusen rule —
that the law of the transferor court applies to a transfer effected under
28  U.S.C.  §  1404(a)  —  governs  whether  it  is  the  plaintiff  or  the
defendant who moves to transfer the action. See Ferens v. John Deere
Co., 494 U.S. 516, 521 (1990) (the transferee court must “apply the law
of the transferor court, regardless of who initiates the transfer.”). So no
aspect of the substantive law of the state in which the transferee court
sits (State D) — whether we're talking about the statute-of-limitations
law  of  that  state  or  the  state's  conflicts  principles  —  would  have  any
role when the case was transferred to State D federal court.

1588

(C) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  states  how  the  federal  transfer-of-venue  statute
works.

As  with  Choice  (A),  this  choice  incorrectly  starts  with  the
proposition that some body of law that would be applied by the State D
state court is relevant, merely because the action has been transferred to
the  federal  court  sitting  in  that  state.  But  the  Van  Dusen  and  Ferens
cases (discussed supra, Choices (B) and (A)) make it clear that when a
case  is  transferred  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1404(a),  whatever  decision-
making  rules  would  have  been  used  to  pick  the  state  whose  statute  of
limitations  should  apply  had  the  case  not  been  transferred,  also  apply
post-transfer,  so  that  no  aspect  of  the  law  of  the  state  where  the
transferee court sits (here, State D) plays any role.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is based on an incorrect substantive rule.

This choice asserts that because Plaintiff originally elected to bring
suit in State C federal court, Plaintiff lost the right to request a transfer
to  a  more  convenient  venue  under  28  U.S.C.  §  1404(a).  But  this
assertion is false: As you can see by reading the excerpt from 28 U.S.C.
§  1404(a)  quoted  in  the  discussion  of  Choice  (B)  above  (see  the
paragraph starting with “Next, we have to figure out . . . ”), nothing in §
1404(a) bars the transfer from occurring in response to a request by the
plaintiff.  And,  in  fact,  in  the  one  of  the  two  key  Supreme  Court  cases
establishing  the  principle  that  a  §  1404(a)  transfer  of  a  diversity  case
doesn't result in a change of substantive law, Ferens v. John Deere Co.,
494  U.S.  516  (1990)  (discussed  in  connection  with  Choice  (B)),  the
request for transfer was successfully made by the plaintiff, even though
it  was  the  plaintiff  who  had  originally  selected  the  transferor  forum
before changing his mind.

 Answer 142

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  precisely  why  the  instructions  were
correct:  The  burden  of  ultimate  persuasion  remained  with  the
prosecution,  and  the  defendant  only  bore  the  burden  of  rebutting  a
presumption of murder.

1589

First, take a close look at what's going on here. The defendant was
charged  with  murder  —  that  is,  the  killing  of  another,  with  malice
aforethought. The burden of persuasion is on the prosecution to prove
every  element  of  the  crime  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt.  This  burden
does not shift throughout the trial. The burden of production, or “going
forward,”  requires  only  that  a  party  introduce  enough  evidence  on  an
issue  such  that  a  reasonable  jury  could  infer  the  fact  alleged.  If  the
defendant wants to claim an affirmative defense — like self defense or
provocation — he will have the burden of going forward.

The  judge's  instructions  create  a  rebuttable  presumption  that  a
killing  is  murder;  he  lays  the  burden  of  ultimate  persuasion  on  the
prosecution, to prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable
doubt; and he establishes that the defendant can rebut the presumption
of murder by producing evidence that shows, by a fair preponderance,
that  the  killing  was  committed  under  adequate  provocation.  Note  that
this  doesn't  shift  the  burden  of  persuasion  from  the  prosecution  to  the
defendant,  because  that  would  violate  the  defendant's  due  process
rights. Instead, it requires only that, once the state has borne its burden
of proving every element beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant has
the  burden  of  producing  evidence  on  his  affirmative  defense;  he  must
show it was more likely than not that he was adequately provoked.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  address  with  sufficient  precision,  unlike  response
(B), exactly why the defendant's conviction will be upheld.

Choice A ignores entirely the defendant's burden of going forward,
which is significant, due to the potential due process violation placing a
burden on a criminal defendant could create. As a result, A is not the
best response.

The  judge's  instructions  create  a  rebuttable  presumption  that  a
killing  is  murder;  he  lays  the  burden  of  ultimate  persuasion  on  the
prosecution, to prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable
doubt; and he establishes that the defendant can rebut the presumption
of murder by producing evidence that shows, by a fair preponderance,
that  the  killing  was  committed  under  adequate  provocation.  Note  that
this  doesn't  shift  the  burden  of  persuasion  from  the  prosecution  to  the
defendant,  because  that  would  violate  the  defendant's  due  process
rights. Instead, it requires only that, once the state has borne its burden
of proving every element beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant has
the  burden  of  producing  evidence  on  his  affirmative  defense;  he  must

1590

show it was more likely than not that he was adequately provoked. This
reflects  a  fair  distribution  of  the  burden  between  the  prosecution  and
the defendant, and so the defendant's conviction will be upheld.

What choice A does is to address only the state's burden of ultimate
persuasion. It does not address the defendant's burden of production at
all.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant was not denied due process of law, and, because
the judge correctly identified the burdens of proof for both the state and
the defendant, the conviction will be upheld.

Due  process  requires  fairness  of  process  in  circumstances  when
one is being deprived of life, liberty, or property. Here, if the defendant
were  required  to  prove  his  innocence,  he'd  be  denied  due  process.
However, he's only required to introduce enough evidence to create a
reasonable  doubt  in  the  minds  of  the  jury  that  he  was  adequately
provoked.  This  is  only  a  burden  of  going  forward,  and  is  thus
considered fair.

The  burden  of  persuasion  is  on  the  prosecution,  to  prove  every
element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. This burden does not
shift throughout the trial. The burden of production, or “going forward,”
requires  only  that  a  party  introduce  enough  evidence  on  an  issue  such
that  a  reasonable  jury  could  infer  the  fact  alleged.  If  the  defendant
wants  to  claim  an  affirmative  defense  —  like  self  defense  or
provocation — he will have the burden of going forward.

The  judge's  instructions  create  a  rebuttable  presumption  that  a
killing  is  murder;  he  lays  the  burden  of  ultimate  persuasion  on  the
prosecution, to prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable
doubt; and he establishes that the defendant can rebut the presumption
of murder by producing evidence that shows, by a fair preponderance,
that  the  killing  was  committed  under  adequate  provocation.  Note  that
this  doesn't  shift  the  burden  of  persuasion  from  the  prosecution  to  the
defendant,  because  that  would  violate  the  defendant's  due  process
rights. Instead, it requires only that, once the state has borne its burden
of proving every element beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant has
the  burden  of  producing  evidence  on  his  affirmative  defense;  he  must
show  it  was  more  likely  than  not  that  he  was  adequately  provoked.
Since C mistakenly states that the defendant's due process rights were
violated by the jury instructions, it's not the best response.

1591

(D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law: presumptions can, in fact, be used by the
state in a criminal case.

First, a little background. There are two types of burdens of proof:
the burden of persuasion and the burden of going forward. The burden
of persuasion is on the prosecution, to prove every element of the crime
beyond  a  reasonable  doubt.  This  burden  does  not  shift  throughout  the
trial. The burden of production, or “going forward,” requires only that a
party introduce enough evidence on an issue such that a reasonable jury
could  infer  the  fact  alleged.  If  the  defendant  wants  to  claim  an
affirmative defense — like self defense or provocation — he will have
the burden of going forward.

A  rebuttable  presumption  has  the  effect  of  shifting  the  burden  of
“going forward” to the party adversely effected by the presumption. It
does  not  shift  the  burden  of  persuasion,  which  cannot  shift  throughout
the trial.

Contrary to what D states, there are many, rebuttable presumptions
that  operate  validly  on  behalf  of  the  state  in  a  criminal  case.  For
instance,  as  a  general  rule,  people  who  commit  crimes  are  sane,
conscious,  sober,  and  not  operating  under  duress.  These  are,  as  a
general rule, presumptions that operate in favor of the state, such that it
need  not  prove  in  a  criminal  case  any  of  these  elements  —  that  is,
unless the defendant introduces evidence on any of these elements, or in
fact  any  justification  or  excuse  or  affirmative  defense.  Thus,  if  the
defendant  introduces  no  evidence  on  any  presumed  fact,  the  jury  can,
but doesn't have to, find that those facts exist. However, if the defendant
meets  the  burden  of  going  forward  —  that  is,  introduces  enough
evidence  to  create  a  reasonable  doubt  about  a  presumed  fact  in  the
minds of the trier of fact — then the state must prove the challenged fact
beyond a reasonable doubt. There's nothing legally repugnant about any
of  this;  the  only  presumptions  that  couldn't  operate  in  the  state's  favor
are those that address the ultimate issue of proof of a crime's elements.
As a result, C's statement, that presumptions cannot operate in favor of
a state in a criminal case, is incorrect, making C not the best response.

 Answer 143

 (D) is the best response,

because even though the case probably falls within the court's diversity

1592

jurisdiction,  federal  courts  will  abstain  from  exercising  such  power
when the lawsuit pertains solely to divorce and child custody.

Usually,  a  federal  court  is  required  to  exercise  subject-matter
jurisdiction over a state-law claim if the individual parties are citizens
of different states and the amount in controversy is satisfied. However,
the U.S. Supreme Court has long recognized an exception as a matter of
policy  in  diversity  actions  for  suits  that  seek  a  divorce  decree,  an
alimony award, or a child-custody determination. “The rationale for
this  limitation  is  that  family  relations  are  uniquely  a  matter  of  state
policy  and  state  interest,  with  which  the  federal  courts  should  not
interfere.”  F,K&M  (5th  Ed.),  §  2.5,  p.  29.  See  also  Ankenbrandt  v.
Richards, 504 U.S. 689 (1992). The Constitution does not mandate this
limitation; rather, the Court has based the limitation on the history and
statutory  language  of  the  grant  of  diversity  jurisdiction.  Since  what
Husband is seeking is precisely these three types of domestic-relations
orders,  the  district  court  must  obey  the  Supreme  Court's  policy
determination by declining to exercise diversity jurisdiction even if it is
present.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  court  won't  hear  the  case  regardless  of  whether  diversity
exists.

As  explained  with  respect  to  Choice  (D),  the  Supreme  Court  has
decided  that  federal  courts  should  decline  to  exercise  their  diversity
jurisdiction in cases that seek a divorce decree, an alimony award, or a
child-custody  determination.  So  whether  or  not  the  requirements  of
diversity  are  met  here  (which  they  probably  are),  this  choice,  by
implying that the court should hear the case, is not correct.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly assumes that a federal court can remand an action
when  a  party  moves  to  dismiss  the  action  for  lack  of  subject-matter
jurisdiction.

Remand is a procedure that applies only in removal situations; the
procedure requires the federal court to transfer an action back to state
court  when  defendant  has  improperly  removed  an  action  from  state
court to federal court. See 28 U.S.C. § 1441. Since the case here was
never  filed  in  state  court  and  was  never  “removed,”  the  federal  court
cannot “remand” it to that (or any) court.

1593

(C) is not the best response,

because a federal court can't “transfer” a case to a state court.

Although it is true that the district court will exercise discretion and
decline  to  exercise  diversity  jurisdiction  in  a  suit  that  pertains  to
divorce, alimony, or child custody, a federal court does not have power
to  “transfer”  a  federal  lawsuit  to  the  court  of  a  different  system,
including the court of a state system in the United States. The transfer
rules that apply in federal district court allow a district court to change
the  venue  of  an  action,  including  by  transferring  the  suit  to  another
federal  court  that  sits  in  a  state  different  from  the  one  in  which  the
transferor  court  sits.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1404.  However,  apart  from  the
special  case  of  a  remand  to  the  original  court  of  an  improperly-
removed action (see choice (B) above), a federal court may not transfer
a federal suit to a state court, whether it is a court of the state where the
federal court sits or a court of some other state.

 Answer 144

 (A) is the best response,

because Congress cannot force states to enact laws.

Principles of federalism, embodied in the Tenth Amendment, create
a system of dual sovereignty. Congress may legislate within the scope
of its enumerated powers, and the states may legislate in any manner not
inconsistent  with  federal  law.  However,  Congress,  even  if  it  is  acting
within the scope of its powers, cannot dictate what laws are passed by
a state legislature. (See New York v. U.S. (1992).) Here, although it is
arguably the case that Congress could pass a law making it a crime for
any  person  to  sell,  within  1,000  feet  of  any  elementary  or  secondary
school,  any  controlled  substance  that  had  previously  been  transported
in interstate commerce under its Commerce Power, it cannot force the
state legislatures to enact such a law.

 (B) is not the best response,

because these sales, in aggregate, have a substantial effect on interstate
commerce.

The  Commerce  Clause  allows  Congress  to  regulate  economic  or
commercial  activity  that  involves  the  transportation  of  goods  across
state  or  international  boundaries.  Here,  the  statute  specifically

1594

addresses  only  controlled  substances  that  have  been  transported  in
interstate commerce. However, the question remains whether there is a
substantial  effect  on  interstate  commerce  rather  than  a  negligible  one.
While  choice  B  correctly  states  that  a  single  sale  of  a  controlled
substance  in  proximity  to  a  school  is  unlikely  to  have  a  substantial
effect  on  interstate  commerce,  it  ignores  the  aggregation  principle.
When taken as a whole, if the aggregation of numerous transactions has
a substantial effect on interstate commerce, then it is within Congress's
power to legislate each individual transaction. In this problem, we are
told that “national statistics revealed a dramatic increase in the number
of  elementary  and  secondary  school  students  bringing  controlled
substances  to  school  for  sale.”  This  indicates  that  there  has  been  a
significant amount of commerce affected, rather than a minimal amount.
This  data,  combined  with  the  jurisdictional  requirement  in  the  statute,
provides a sufficient nexus with interstate commerce to allow Congress
to regulate in this area. However, as noted in the explanation for choice
A  above,  Congress  may  not  force  states  legislatures  to  enact  this
legislation.

 (C) is not the best response,

because Congress cannot force states to enact laws.

Principles of federalism, embodied in the Tenth Amendment, create
a system of dual sovereignty. Congress may legislate within the scope
of its enumerated powers, and the states may legislate in any manner not
inconsistent  with  federal  law.  However,  Congress,  even  if  it  is  acting
within the scope of its powers, cannot dictate what laws are passed by
a state legislature. (See New York v. U.S. (1992).) Here, although it is
arguably the case that Congress could pass a law making it a crime for
any  person  to  sell,  within  1,000  feet  of  any  elementary  or  secondary
school,  any  controlled  substance  that  had  previously  been  transported
in interstate commerce under its Commerce Power, it cannot force the
state legislatures to enact such a law.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it mistakes the law.

Congress  does  not  have  the  power  to  legislate  for  the  general
welfare; the police power is reserved to the states. This is a common
trap  on  the  MBE.  Congress  has  the  power  to  tax  and  spend  for  the
general welfare, but may not legislate for it. So, for example, Congress

1595

could conceivably refuse to provide federal education funding to states
that  do  not  criminalize  the  sale  of  controlled  substances  in  close
proximity  to  a  school.  (See  South  Dakota  v.  Dole  (1987).)  However,
this  choice  can  also  be  eliminated  because  it  comes  to  the  wrong
conclusion.  As  discussed  in  the  explanation  for  choice  A  above,  the
means used here by Congress — forcing states to enact legislation — is
impermissible under the rule of New York v. U.S. (1992).

 Answer 145

 (C) is the best response,

because it focuses on the central issue, and, based, on the condition it
provides, arrives at the correct result.

The key fact here is that, while it is not expressly mentioned in the
statute,  the  requirement  of  criminal  intent  will  be  implied.  That's
because  the  statute  here  would  not  be  considered  to  create  a  strict
liability  offense,  since  those  generally  involve  regulatory  offenses  or
serious potential harm to the public.

As a result, the hiker cannot be found guilty of any crime if she is
found  to  lack  criminal  intent.  An  honest  belief  that  the  signs  were
abandoned would preclude her guilt, since she would lack the intent to
appropriate  public  property.  Note  that  C  focuses  on  an  element  it
provides  itself.  Choice  C  states  that  she  won't  be  guilty  if  the  jury
believes her. The use of the modifier “if” means that the reasoning must
be plausible on the facts, it must address a central issue, and the result
must  be  consistent  with  the  reasoning.  Here,  it's  possible  that  the  jury
could believe the hiker. If the jury does believe her, it will believe that
she did not have the requisite criminal intent, and as a result she will be
found  not  guilty.  Since  C  correctly  identifies  the  central  issue  and
resolves it satisfactorily, and its result is consistent with its reasoning,
it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because regardless of whether the offense is a public welfare offense,
the  hiker  would  still  have  to  have  a  criminal  intent  in  order  to  be
convicted under the statute.

That's because the statute here would not be considered to create a
strict liability offense, since those generally involve regulatory offenses
or  serious  potential  harm  to  the  public.  Thus,  it  would  have  to  be

1596

proven  that  the  hiker  intended  to  appropriate  government  property  in
order  to  be  convicted.  Since  choice  A  suggests  the  hiker  would  be
guilty even without the requisite intent, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not focus on the central issue.

The  central  issue  under  these  facts  is  whether  the  hiker  had  the
requisite  intent  to  be  convicted.  That's  because  the  statute  here  would
not  be  considered  to  create  a  strict  liability  offense,  since  those
generally  involve  regulatory  offenses  or  serious  potential  harm  to  the
public.

If the hiker believed the signs were abandoned, then she would not
have the duty to inquire, since the two are mutually exclusive. Inquiring
about  whether  the  signs  were  abandoned  would  call  into  question  her
honesty  about  believing  they  were  abandoned.  Not  asking  about
whether the signs were abandoned would thus not establish her intent to
steal the signs. As a result, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whether  the  state  had  adequately  informed  the  public  that  the
signs  were  public  property  is  not  a  central  issue,  and,  by  using  the
modifier “unless,” choice D suggests that the state's lack of notice is a
prerequisite to the hiker's conviction.

The central issue instead is the hiker's criminal intent, since intent
will  have  to  be  proven  in  order  to  find  her  guilty  under  the  statute.
That's  because  the  statute  here  would  not  be  considered  to  create  a
strict liability offense, since those generally involve regulatory offenses
or  serious  potential  harm  to  the  public.  If  the  hiker  lacked  criminal
intent, then it wouldn't matter whether the state had adequately notified
the public that the signs weren't abandoned. Since D focuses on an issue
that is not controlling, it's not the best response.

 Answer 146

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  basis  on  which  the  Water  District
will prevail.

The Water District has a valid easement as to the tract. While there
are  several  bases  on  which  an  easement  can  be  terminated,  the  only

1597

ones that apply to an easement in gross under these circumstances are:

1. a release, in writing
2. abandonment
3. adverse use by servient tenement holder, for statutory period
4. estoppel

The facts here indicate that none of these have been satisfied, so the
easement is still in force. The general rule is that the dominant tenement
holder has both the right and the duty to maintain the easement. That's
what the Water District is doing.

Since  the  Water  District's  proposed  acts  will  do  no  more  than
maintain the easement, the adverse impact on the purchaser's property
will  not  change  the  result.  Since  C  correctly  identifies  the  basis  on
which the Water District will prevail, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not state a basis on which the purchaser can prevail.

While the deed itself does not mention the easement, the purchaser
is on constructive notice of the easement, since it appears in his “chain
of title.” The facts here state that the easement was properly and timely
recorded, and, as such, in most states the purchaser would take subject
to the easement, since an easement is considered an interest in property.
Since constructive notice is sufficient to give the purchaser notice of the
easement, the fact that the easement did not appear on his deed itself is
not enough for him to succeed. Note that this is yet another example of
how popular a topic “constructive notice” is on the MBE. Since A does
not take into account the fact that the purchaser would have constructive
notice of the easement, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not suggest a proper basis on which the purchaser could
prevail.

The Water District has a valid easement as to the tract. While there
are  several  bases  on  which  an  easement  can  be  terminated,  the  only
ones that apply to an easement in gross under these circumstances are:

1. a release, in writing
2. abandonment

1598




3. adverse use by servient tenement holder, for statutory period
4. estoppel

The facts here indicate that none of these have been satisfied, so the
easement is still in force. The general rule is that the dominant tenement
holder has both the right and the duty to maintain the easement. That's
what the Water District is doing.

In  fact,  it  couldn't  accurately  be  said  that  the  Water  District  hadn't
entered the tract for 40 years, because its entry has been continuous —
the  water  pipes  have  been  there  the  whole  time.  Nonetheless,  if  you
chose  this  response  you  might  have  done  so  due  to  a  notion  that  the
equitable  doctrine  of  laches  should  apply  to  these  facts,  since  “40
years”  indicates  a  length  of  time  that  that  doctrine  would  cover.
However,  the  doctrine  of  laches  only  applies  where  one  has  not
enforced  his  rights  for  an  unreasonable  period  of  time,  and  another
party has relied on this failure. As noted earlier, the doctrine of laches
would  not  apply  to  easements,  since  it  does  not  constitute  a  basis  on
which  an  easement  could  be  terminated.  The  “abandonment”  required
for an easement requires more than mere non-use — there must be acts
indicating  a  clear  intent  to  abandon.  Here,  that  could  entail,  for
instance,  digging  up  and  removing  the  pipes,  filling  in  the  space,  and
not  replacing  them.  However,  the  facts  here  indicate  that  the  Water
District  still  has  full  rights  to  the  easement,  so  B  is  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

Assuming D were true, it wouldn't make a difference to the outcome
here, since, even if the plan were fair and equitable, if it wasn't within
the  Water  District's  rights,  it  would  be  impermissible.  In  fact,  the
dominant estate holder (here, the Water District) has both the right and
the  duty  to  maintain  the  easement,  and  this  is  the  basis  of  its  right  to
excavate the pipe. As long as the Water District is within its rights in
doing so, any damage done to the property would not be actionable.

Since D would mistakenly pin the Water District's right to excavate

on whether the plan is fair and equitable, it's not the best response.

 Answer 147

1599



http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(D) is the best response,

because it recognizes that the attorney general is not subject to direction
from Congress as to whom to prosecute.

Law enforcement is an exclusively executive power. The President
is  the  only  source  of  executive  power,  under  Article  II,  §  1,  of  the
Constitution.  He  can,  of  course,  delegate  those  executive  functions  to
others  in  the  executive  branch.  The  attorney  general  is  the  chief  law
enforcement official. He can prosecute criminal activity as he sees fit,
and  in  his  discretion,  he  can  choose  not  to  do  so,  as  a  general  rule.
Since choice D recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  attorney  general  is  not  subject  to  any  orders  from  the
legislative branch.

The President is the only source of executive power, under Article
II,  §  1,  of  the  Constitution.  Many  of  his  duties  are  delegated  to  others
within  the  executive  branch,  including  the  attorney  general,  the  chief
law  enforcement  official.  The  law  enforcement  function  is  an
exclusively  executive  branch  power.  Thus,  Congress  enjoys  no  law
enforcement  powers,  and  could  not  direct  the  attorney  general  to
prosecute  anyone.  Since  A  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

Law enforcement is an exclusively executive power. The President
is  the  only  source  of  executive  power,  under  Article  II,  §  1,  of  the
Constitution.  He  can,  of  course,  delegate  those  executive  functions  to
others  in  the  executive  branch.  The  attorney  general  is  the  chief  law
enforcement official. He can prosecute criminal activity as he sees fit,
and  in  his  discretion,  he  can  choose  not  to  do  so,  as  a  general  rule.
Since B states that the attorney general must prosecute all federal law
violators when, in fact, prosecution is generally discretionary, B is not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the woman's immunity from prosecution for acts committed in
office  would  be  irrelevant  as  to  whether  the  attorney  general  must

1600

prosecute her for contempt.

When someone does not comply with a congressional investigation,
contempt  is  the  appropriate  punishment.  Here,  the  woman's  contempt
charge  is  due  to  her  failure  to  answer  questions  posed  during  a
congressional investigation, not due to any wrongdoing in the course of
her duties.

Instead, the reason the attorney general needn't prosecute is that law
enforcement is exclusively an executive function, and thus the House of
Representatives,  as  part  of  the  legislative  branch,  can't  order  the
attorney general to prosecute. Since C doesn't recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 148

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  makes  the  case  that  the  store's  June  9  letter  was
either a rejection or a breach.

The  manufacturer's  June  2  telegram  was  probably  specific  enough
to be an offer, since it included price, quantity, and delivery terms. The
fact that it did not include a time-for-payment term would not prevent
the  telegram  from  functioning  as  an  offer,  because  time-for-payment
terms are not so important that their absence indicates that no offer is
present, and because the UCC stands by with an appropriate gap-filler
(§  2-310(a):  “Unless  otherwise  agreed  (a)  payment  is  due  at  the  time
and  place  at  which  the  buyer  is  to  receive  the  goods  even  though  the
place of shipment is the place of delivery.”)

The store's June 5 letter was probably an acceptance, even though
the  store  said  that  he'd  “prefer  to  pay  in  full  30  days  after  invoice.”
This  is  probably  an  acceptance  because  §  2-207(1)  says  that  “[a]
definite  and  seasonable  expression  of  acceptance  .  .  .  operates  as  an
acceptance  even  though  it  states  terms  additional  to  or  different  from
those  offered  or  agreed  upon,  unless  acceptance  is  expressly  made
conditional  on  assent  to  the  additional  or  different  terms.”  Here,  the
store is not saying in effect, “I'm only accepting if you agree that I can
pay in 30 days”; it's saying something more like “I'm accepting. I hope
that  the  contract  we're  making  will  include  30  days  to  pay.”  So  its
response  is  not  “expressly  made  conditional  on  assent  to  the  different
[30-days-to-pay]  terms,”  and  is  thus  a  “definite  and  seasonable
expression of acceptance [that] operates as an acceptance even though

1601

it  states  terms  additional  to  or  different  from  those  offered  or  agreed
upon.”

If  the  June  5  letter  was  an  acceptance,  the  30-days  credit  request
was, under § 2-207(2), an “additional term [that is] to be construed as
[a] proposal for addition to the contract.” Section 2-207(2)(b) then says
that  “[b]etween  merchants[,  which  is  what  both  the  store  and  the
manufacturer  are]  such  [additional]  terms  become  part  of  the  contract
unless: . . . (b) [the additional term] materially alter[s] [the contract].”
A court  would  almost  certainly  conclude  that  when  the  offer  demands
C.O.D.  payment,  a  proposal  for  credit  constitutes  a  “material
alteration.”  In  that  event,  the  contract  that,  by  hypothesis,  was  formed
on June 5 did not include the 30-days credit term, since a proposal in
the  acceptance  for  a  “different”  term  doesn't  enter  the  contract  if  it
“materially  alters”  the  contract.  So  the  contract  that  was  formed
required C.O.D. payment.

If the store's June 5 letter indeed formed a contract, then its June 9
“I don't deal with people who can't accommodate our simple requests”
letter was a repudiation (and thus a breach). That's because the June 9
letter  unequivocally  stated  that  the  store  wouldn't  be  performing
(“deal[ing]  with”  the  manufacturer)  on  account  of  the  manufacturer's
refusal  to  give  him  credit,  and  no  credit  was  required  under  the
contract.  A  refusal  to  perform  unless  the  other  party  gives  up  a  right
under the contract is a repudiation and a breach. So by the “unequivocal
refusal to perform” defense asserted in choice D, the manufacturer wins
even if the “parties had previously formed a contract.”

Now,  what  happens  if  the  store's  June  5  letter  didn't  form  a
contract? In that event, this letter was probably a counteroffer. If it was
a  counteroffer,  then  either:  (a)  the  manufacturer's  June  6  “[y]ou  must
pay  C.O.D.”  telegram  was  a  rejection,  causing  the  counteroffer  to
terminate;  or  (b)  the  counteroffer  survived  the  manufacturer's  June  6
telegram,  in  which  case  the  store's  June  9  “I  don't  deal”  letter  was  a
revocation  of  the  counteroffer.  In  either  scenario,  there  was  no  offer
open  to  accept  by  the  time  the  store  owner  changed  his  mind  and
purported to accept on June 10.

So in summary, (1) if there was a contract formed prior to June 9,
the  store's  June  9  “I  don't  deal”  letter  was  a  repudiatory  breach,  the
store  loses  because  it  materially  breached;  and  (2)  if  there  wasn't  a
contract formed prior to June 9, no offer was open by the store's June
10 purported acceptance, so the store loses because there was never a
contract.

1602

(A) is not the best response,

because a court could find that the June 2 letter was an offer.

It is true that this argument might work — the court might conclude
that the June 2 letter was indeed only a price quote and not an offer. If
the  court  reached  this  conclusion,  the  manufacturer  would  probably
win,  because  nothing  else  that  happened  later  would  be  likely  to  be
found to constitute an offer and acceptance.

However, the court probably will not agree with the manufacturer's
contention  that  the  June  2  letter  was  not  an  offer,  for  several  reasons.
First, the store's June 1 telegram was pretty clearly an attempt to solicit
an offer (not just to solicit a quote), since it specified precise quantity
and  delivery-time  terms  —  a  court  would  probably  presume  that  the
response  to  this  solicitation-of-offer  was  in  fact  an  offer.  Second,  the
quote mentioned the exact quantity the seller had for sale, and when the
quantity  in  stock  is  mentioned  a  court  is  likely  to  find  an  offer  rather
than merely a quote. If the court did find that the June 2 letter was an
offer, then it would probably find that the store accepted on June 5, and
that the manufacturer breached by selling the units to someone else.

So  this  “quote  not  an  offer”  approach  is  merely  one  that  possibly

succeeds, whereas choice D almost definitely succeeds.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates how the UCC operates.

UCC 2-207(1) provides that any timely and definite “expression of
acceptance”  operates  as  an  acceptance,  “even  though  it  states  terms
additional  to  or  different  from  those  offered  .  .  .  unless  acceptance  is
expressly  made  conditional  on  assent  to  the  additional  or  different
terms.” Here, the store's June 5 letter was clearly timely and definite,
and  didn't  say  that  the  acceptance  was  “expressly  .  .  .  conditional  on
[the manufacturer's] assent to” any additional or different terms. So the
fact that the June 5 letter included an “additional” term (request for 30
days'  credit)  did  not  prevent  the  letter  from  being  an  acceptance.
(Whether  the  credit  request  became  part  of  the  contract  is  a  different
story — that would depend on whether this was a “material alteration,”
which  it  probably  was.  In  that  event,  the  credit  term  would  not  have
become part of the contract.)

Notice  that  this  answer  is  wrong  because  it  (incorrectly)  assumes
that  the  common-law  “mirror  image”  rule  (in  which  a  not-perfectly-
matching response cannot be an offer) applies in a UCC context. As the

1603

above analysis shows, the UCC rejects this common-law approach.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  use  of  the  mails  would  have  been  a  valid  method  of
acceptance.

It's true that an offer (which we can assume, for the purpose of this
discussion, was what the manufacturer's June 2 telegram was) can state
the  method  by  which  acceptance  is  to  be  made.  But  the  manufacturer
did  not  do  this.  The  mere  fact  that  the  manufacturer  used  a  telegram
doesn't  mean  that  the  manufacturer  was  in  effect  saying,  “you  must
accept, if at all, by a telegram.” So the store was free to accept by any
method that was reasonable under the circumstances. (See § 2-206(1):
“Unless  otherwise  unambiguously  indicated  by  the  language  or
circumstances  (a)  an  offer  to  make  a  contract  shall  be  construed  as
inviting acceptance in any manner and by any medium reasonable in the
circumstances[.]”)  And  given  that  there  was  no  indication  that  the
market  price  was  changing  rapidly  or  the  items  were  perishable,
acceptance by letter was reasonable here.

 Answer 149

 (B) is the best response,

because the friend predeceased the man.

When the recipient of a specific bequest in a will predeceases the
testator,  his  gift  will  lapse,  and  the  bequeathed  property  will  fall  into
the residuary estate. An exception to this rule occurs when a state anti-
lapse  statute  provides  for  a  substitute  taker  of  the  bequest.  However,
the  problem  states  that  there  is  no  anti-lapse  statute.  (Even  if  there
were, most anti-lapse statutes do not save gifts to non-family members.)
As  a  result,  the  gift  will  lapse,  and  the  residence  will  pass  to  the
charity, which will take the residuary of the estate.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the residence was in the man's estate when he died.

Ademption  occurs  when  the  object  of  a  specific  bequest  is  no
longer  in  the  testator's  estate  when  he  dies.  For  example,  if  the  man's
will directed that his Cadillac should be given to his wife, but he sold
the Cadillac two years before he died, then the gift will have adeemed.
This is not the situation here, since the man still owned the residence at

1604

the time of his death. Choice A comes to the right conclusion, but for the
wrong reason. The charity will take the residence because the gift to the
friend,  who  had  predeceased  the  man,  will  have  lapsed,  causing  the
residence to fall into the residuary of the man's estate.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the will was clear on who should take the residence.

The  man's  will  was  unambiguous  as  to  who  should  take  the
residence  upon  his  death  (his  friend).  Although  there  may  be  credible
extrinsic evidence that the he wanted his child to take, a court will not
consider that evidence. Had the man wished to bequeath his residence
to his child, the proper course of action would have been to revise his
will.  Although  the  gift  to  his  friend  lapsed  (see  the  explanation  for
choice  B  above),  the  law  dictates  that  the  residence  fall  into  his
residuary  estate.  The  court  will  not  rewrite  the  man's  will  based  on
extrinsic evidence absent significant ambiguities.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the charity takes the residuary of the man's estate.

When the recipient of a specific bequest in a will predeceases the
testator,  his  gift  will  lapse,  and  the  bequeathed  property  will  fall  into
the residuary estate. An exception to this rule occurs when a state anti-
lapse  statute  provides  for  a  substitute  taker  of  the  bequest.  However,
the  problem  states  that  there  is  no  anti-lapse  statute.  (Even  if  there
were, most anti-lapse statutes do not save gifts to non-family members.)
As  a  result,  the  gift  will  lapse,  and  the  residence  will  pass  to  the
charity, which will take the residuary of the estate. Had the man wanted
to leave his residence to his friend, but, in the event that the friend pre-
deceased him, to his child, he could have done so by including the child
as  an  alternate  taker  of  the  residence:  “I  leave  my  residence  to  my
friend, but should he pre-decease me, then to my child.”

 Answer 150

 (B) is the best response,

because it addresses the central issue under these facts, and resolves it
in  the  car  driver's  favor.  The  real  problem  here  is  pinning  the
contractor's conduct on the homeowner, since it's likely the contractor
would  be  considered  an  independent  contractor,  which,  as  a  general

1605

rule, would exonerate the homeowner from liability for the contractor's
conduct.

An  independent  contractor  is  distinguished  from  an  employee  in
that,  traditionally,  his  physical  conduct  in  performing  services  is  not
subject  to  a  right  of  control  by  the  employer;  a  servant's  is.  The  clue
under  these  facts  is  that  you're  told  that  the  homeowner  engaged  the
contractor to repair the sidewalk, “leaving it to the contractor to decide
how the repair should be made.” This simply suggests the contractor is
an independent contractor, not an employee.

As  a  result,  in  order  to  prevail,  the  driver  would  have  to  address
some  basis  on  which  either  the  contractor  could  be  considered  an
employee, or a basis on which the homeowner could be liable for the
contractor's  acts  as  an  independent  contractor.  There  are  two  general
grounds  on  which  employers  will  be  liable  for  the  conduct  of
independent  contractors:  first,  where  ultra-hazardous  activities  are
involved (e.g., demolition); or, second, the duty is non-delegable due to
public policy considerations (e.g., duty of railroad to fence in tracks).
Under these facts, it would be possible to characterize the contractor's
acts as hazardous, and if they were, the homeowner would be liable.

Note  that  B  is  stated  conditionally  that  is,  if  the  contractor  was
engaged in hazardous activity, the homeowner will be liable. Thus, all
that's  required  is  that  it  be  plausible  on  these  facts  that  the  conduct
could  be  considered  hazardous.  Had  B  used  the  word  “because”
instead  of  “if,”  the  facts  would  have  to  show  conclusively  that  the
activity  was  hazardous.  As  it  is,  B  addresses  the  central  issue  and
offers a plausible ground on which to resolve it in the driver's favor. As
a result, it's the driver's best theory of these four choices, making B the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it's unlikely a claim for strict liability would succeed on these
facts.

There are two principal problems with strict liability as it applies
here: one, it's not clear that the concept of strict liability would apply to
a  sidewalk  maintenance  statute;  and  two,  it's  not  clear  that  the
homeowner  would  be  responsible  for  the  contractor's  conduct  (since
the contractor created the risk).

There  are  three  general  sources  of  strict  liability:  animals,
abnormally dangerous activities, and defective products (strict liability
can  also  be  imposed  under  statute  or  case  law).  With  these,  there  is

1606

said to be an absolute duty of care, such that where there is a breach of
that  duty  that  causes  a  plaintiff's  damages,  a  plaintiff  can  recover
without proving fault.

Without  more,  it's  not  clear  that  the  facts  here  would  merit  strict
liability, and even if they did, it wouldn't be due to mere ownership of
the land, as choice A suggests.

Furthermore,  choice  A  does  not  address  the  contractor's  status  as
either  an  employee  or  an  independent  contractor.  This  is  critical
because,  in  general,  an  employer  is  vicariously  liable  for  the  torts  of
his  employees,  within  the  scope  of  employment,  but  not  for  torts  of
independent contractors (unless the activity is ultra-hazardous, or non-
delegable  due  to  public  policy).  The  two  are  distinguishable  in  that,
traditionally,  an 
in
performing services is not subject to a right of control by the employer,
and an employee's is. Under these facts, if the contractor is considered
an  independent  contractor  and  the  activity  is  non-hazardous,  the
homeowner  will  not  be  strictly  liable  even  though  the  tree  is  on  his
property.

independent  contractor's  physical  conduct 

In fact, the best argument for the driver is to claim that the activity
was hazardous and, as a result, the homeowner could be liable even if
the contractor is considered an independent contractor. Since A ignores
this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because merely paying for a repair would not, in and of itself, make the
homeowner liable.

Instead,  there  would  have  to  be  some  basis  on  which  the
homeowner himself should be held liable due to his own conduct, or a
means  by  which  he  would  be  vicariously  liable  for  the  contractor's
conduct. Paying for services would not be sufficient to assume liability
nor to relieve the contractor of liability. Since C fails to recognize this,
it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it's  unlikely  that  the  homeowner  would  be  liable  for  the
contractor's conduct on grounds of respondeat superior.

Under respondeat superior,  an  employer  is  liable  for  the  torts  of
his employees if the tort occurred within the scope of the employment.
The problem here is that the contractor is unlikely to be considered an

1607

employee;  rather,  he'd  be  considered  an  independent  contractor,  in
which  case  the  doctrine  of  respondeat  superior  would  not  result  in
liability for the homeowner. An independent contractor is distinguished
from  an  employee  in  that,  traditionally,  his  physical  conduct  in
performing services is not subject to a right of control by the employer;
a  servant's  is.  The  tip-off  under  these  facts  is  that  you're  told  that  the
homeowner engaged the contractor to decide how the repair should be
made.  This  suggests  a  lack  of  control  associated  with  independent
contractors.

Thus, in order to be correct, D would have to address some basis
for the homeowner to be liable even though the contractor is likely to
be an independent contractor. Since D doesn't do this, it's not the best
response.
