REAL PROPERTY Q&A BY TOPIC

References to “Rest. 2d” are to the Second Restatement of Property.

CHAPTER 1
ADVERSE POSSESSION

I.    “HOSTILE” POSSESSION

A.  Boundary disputes

Question 1: Twenty-five years ago a seller conveyed Lot 1 to
a  buyer  by  a  warranty  deed.  The  seller  at  that  time  also
executed and delivered an instrument in the proper form of a
deed,  purporting  to  convey  Lot  2  to  the  buyer.  The  seller
thought  she  had  title  to  Lot  2  but  did  not;  therefore,  no  title
passed  by  virtue  of  the  Lot  2  deed.  Lot  2  consisted  of  three
acres of brushland adjoining the west boundary of Lot 1. The
buyer has occasionally hunted rabbits on Lot 2, but less often
than annually. No one else came onto Lot 2 except occasional
rabbit hunters.

Twenty  years  ago,  the  buyer  planted  a  row  of  evergreens  in
the  vicinity  of  the  opposite  (east)  boundary  of  Lot  1  and
erected a fence just beyond the evergreens to the east. In fact
both the trees and the fence were placed on Lot 3, owned by a
neighbor,  which  bordered  the  east  boundary  of  Lot  1.  The
buyer was unsure of the exact boundary, and placed the trees
and the fence in order to establish his rights up to the fence.
The fence is located ten feet within Lot 3.
Now,  the  buyer  has  had  his  property  surveyed  and  the  title
checked and has learned the facts.
The  period  of  time  to  acquire  title  by  adverse  possession  in
the jurisdiction is 15 years.

536

The buyer consulted his lawyer, who properly advised that, in
an  appropriate  action,  the  buyer  would  probably  obtain  title
to

land,  meets 

(A)  Lot 2 but not to the ten-foot strip of Lot 3.
(B)  the ten-foot strip of Lot 3 but not to Lot 2.
(C)  both Lot 2 and the ten-foot strip of Lot 3.
(D)  neither Lot 2 nor the ten-foot strip of Lot 3.
Answer 1: Choice (B) is correct. Courts generally hold that
one who possesses an adjoining landowner’s land, under the
mistaken belief that he has only possessed up to the boundary
the  requirement  of  “hostile”
of  his  own 
possession and can become an owner by adverse possession.
This is especially likely where the possessor has both planted
and fenced in the land in question, since such actions are very
likely to bring home to the record owner that the possessor is
asserting an adverse claim. So the buyer is highly likely to be
found  to  have  gained  title  to  the  10-foot  strip  of  Lot  3  by
adverse possession. On the other hand, the buyer has not met
the  requirement  for  “continuous”  possession  of  Lot  2.  The
requirement  of  “continuous”  position  does  not  mean  that  the
possessor  must  be  physically  on  the  property  100%  of  the
time. However, a court would almost certainly require more
than the very occasional rabbit-hunting at issue here in order
to conclude that the buyer had “continuously” occupied Lot 2.

(A),  (C),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are  inconsistent
with the above analysis.

II.   CONTINUITY OF POSSESSION

A.  Continuity of possession

1.  Temporary or seasonal gaps in possession

Question 2: Brown owned Blackacre, a tract of undeveloped
land.  Blackacre  abuts  Whiteacre,  a  tract  of  land  owned  by
Agency, 
the  state’s  governmental  energy  agency.  At
Whiteacre,  Agency  has  operated  a  waste-to-electricity
recycling  facility  for  12  years.  Blackacre  and  Whiteacre  are
in a remote area and Whiteacre is the only developed parcel
of  real  estate  within  a  ten-mile  radius.  The  boundary  line

537

between  Blackacre  and  Whiteacre  had  never  been  surveyed
or marked on the face of the earth.

During the past 12 years, some of the trucks bringing waste to
the Agency facility have dumped their loads so that the piles
of waste extend from Whiteacre onto a portion of Blackacre.
However, prior to the four-week period during each calendar
year  when  the  Agency  facility  is  closed  for  inspection  and
repairs, the waste piles are reduced to minimal levels so that
during each of the four-week closures no waste was, in fact,
piled on Blackacre. Neither Brown nor any representative of
Agency knew the facts about the relation of the boundary line
to the waste piles.

The  time  for  acquiring  title  by  adverse  possession  in  the
jurisdiction is ten years.

Last year, Brown died, and his son, Silas, succeeded him as
the  owner  of  Blackacre.  Silas  became  aware  of  the  facts,
demanded that Agency stop using Blackacre for the piling of
waste,  and,  when  Agency  refused  his  demand,  brought  an
appropriate action to enjoin any such use of Blackacre in the
future.
If Agency prevails in that action, it will be because
(A)    the  facts  constitute  adverse  possession  and  title  to  the
portion of Blackacre concerned has vested in Agency.
(B)  Brown’s failure to keep himself informed as to Agency’s
use  of  Blackacre  and  his  failure  to  object  constituted
implied consent to the continuation of that use.

(C)    the  interest  of  the  public  in  the  conversion  of  waste  to
energy  overrides  any  entitlement  of  Silas  to  equitable
remedies.

(D)  the power of eminent domain of the state makes the claim

of Silas moot.

Answer  2:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Agency  will  win  on  an
adverse  possession  claim  if  its  possession  was  open,
notorious, visible, hostile and continuous. The requirement of
hostility  would  likely  be  deemed  satisfied,  because  in  a
boundary dispute an owner who openly occupies the adjacent
parcel  under  the  mistaken  belief  it  is  his  own  is  typically
found  to  meet  the  hostility  requirement.  The  only  other

538

requirement  that  is  seriously  in  issue  here  is  whether
Agency’s  possession  was  “continuous,”  in  the  light  of  the
annual  four-week  period  in  which  there  was  no  trespass.  A
court  would  likely  hold  that  this  brief  respite  each  year  did
not  prevent  the  possession  from  being  continuous,  because
Agency  was  treating  Blackacre  exactly  the  same  way  it
treated its own adjacent portion of Whiteacre — doing annual
cleanup  that  happened  to  have  the  unanticipated  effect  of
removing  the  trespass.  It  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would
conclude that the continuity requirement was met, but adverse
possession is the only one of the choices that would plausibly
yield a victory for Agency.

(B) is wrong because the only way in which Brown could be
found  to  have  given  an  implied  consent  to  Agency’s  use
would be if Brown’s silence was found to have created either
a  license  or  an  easement.  A  license  is  by  its  nature  a
revocable right of use, so even if Brown’s silence had created
a  license  by  implication,  Brown  or  his  successor  would  be
entitled to revoke the license  at  will,  and  Silas’s  suit  would
constitute  such  a  revocation.  As  for  an  easement,  easements
must  generally  satisfy  the  statute  of  frauds.  It  is  true  that  an
easement  by  “estoppel”  can  be  created,  but  this  occurs  only
when the owner of the servient tenement allows a use of his
land while he knew or should have known that the user would
change position in reliance; here there has been no meaningful
reliance by Agency, so this theory would not work.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(C) is wrong because Agency can win only if it obtained legal
title  to  the  part  of  Blackacre  in  question,  and  no  degree  of
“public interest” in waste-conversion could ever give Agency
title to the property by operation of law.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  concerns  the  wrong  area  of  law.
Agency  is  not  trying  to  obtain  title  to  the  relevant  portion  of
Blackacre  through  eminent  domain  (i.e.,  it  is  not  trying  to
obtain title by paying just compensation). Instead, it is acting
under  “color  of  title”  as  if  it  already  owned  the  portion  of
Blackacre  concerned.  Hence,  the  problem  calls  for  an
adverse possession analysis, not an eminent domain analysis.

539

CHAPTER 2
FREEHOLD ESTATES

I.    THE FEE SIMPLE

A.  Fee simple defeasible

1.  Determinable

a.  Distinguish from restrictive covenant

Question 3:  A  grantor  executed  an  instrument  in  the  proper
form of a warranty deed purporting to convey a tract of land
to his church. The granting clause of the instrument ran to the
church  “and  its  successors  forever,  so  long  as  the  premises
are used for church purposes.” The church took possession of
the  land  and  used  it  as  its  site  of  worship  for  many  years.
Subsequently, the church wanted to relocate and entered into a
valid  written  contract  to  sell  the  land  to  a  buyer  for  a
substantial price. The buyer wanted to use the land as a site
for business activities and objected to the church’s title. The
contract contained no provision relating to the quality of title
the  church  was  bound  to  convey.  There  is  no  applicable
statute. When the buyer refused to close, the church sued the
buyer  for  specific  performance  and  properly  joined  the
grantor as a party.

Is the church likely to prevail?

(A)    No,  because  the  grantor’s  interest  prevents  the  church’s

title from being marketable.

(B)    No,  because  the  quoted  provision  is  a  valid  restrictive

covenant.

(C)    Yes,  because  a  charitable  trust  to  support  religion  will

attach to the proceeds of the sale.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  grantor  cannot  derogate  from  his

warranty to the church.

Answer  3:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  warranty  deed
conveyed  a  fee  simple  determinable  title  to  the  church,  and
the  grantor  retained  the  future  interest  (a  possibility  of
reverter).  Such  a  reverter  becomes  possessory  immediately

540

upon the occurrence of the limitation. A title is unmarketable
when a reasonable person would not purchase it. This buyer
plans  to  use  the  land  as  a  site  for  business  purposes,  which
would  cause  the  limitation  to  occur  and  the  title  to  be
forfeited  automatically  to  the  grantor.  That  possibility  is
easily enough to render the title unmarketable.

(B) is incorrect. Although this answer correctly states that the
church  is  unlikely  to  prevail,  it  misstates  the  legal  basis  for
this  conclusion.  The  quoted  provision  creates  a  fee  simple
determinable title in the church (because the title in this case
will be automatically forfeited to the grantor if the land is not
used  for  church  purposes),  not  a  restrictive  covenant.  A
restrictive  covenant  involves  a  promise  regarding  the  use  of
the  land  and  is  not  the  title  itself  (though  the  existence  of  a
restrictive  covenant  barring  non-church  uses  would,  like  the
determinable 
title
unmarketable).

fee  here,  be  enough 

render 

to 

(C) is wrong because it cites an irrelevant fact. The “so long
as  .  .  .”  clause  created  a  possibility  of  reverter,  making  the
church’s title unmarketable. The clause will not create a trust
for the benefit of religion, as this choice asserts (and even if it
did,  that  wouldn’t  prevent  the  possibility  of  reverter  from
operating to divest the buyer of title if he were forced to close
on the sale).

(D) is wrong because it’s gibberish. The choice seems to be
asserted  that  the  grantor  can’t  have  a  possibility  of  reverter
because  such  an  interest  would  be  inconsistent  with  the
warranty deed that grantor gave. But that’s flatly untrue — the
warranty  deed  just  asserts  that  whatever  title  grantor  is
conveying, he has (and in this case, he gave a lesser interest
than he had, i.e., reserved a possibility of reverter to himself).

2.  Fee simple subject to condition subsequent

a.  Distinguishing fee simple subject to condition precedent

Question 4: A landowner owned land in fee simple. A small
house  on  the  land  was  occupied,  with  the  landowner’s  oral
permission,  rent-free,  by  the  landowner’s  son  and  the  son’s
college classmate. The son was then 21 years old.
The  landowner,  by  properly  executed  instrument,  conveyed

541

the land to “my beloved son, his heirs and assigns, upon the
condition precedent that he earn a college degree by the time
he reaches the age of 30. If, for any reason, he does not meet
this condition, then the land shall become the sole property of
my  beloved  daughter,  her  heirs  and  assigns.”  At  the  time  of
the conveyance, the son and the classmate attended a college
located  several  blocks  from  the  land.  Neither  had  earned  a
college degree.

One  week  after  the  delivery  of  the  deed  to  the  son,  the  son
recorded the deed and immediately told the classmate that he,
the son, was going to begin charging the classmate rent since
“I am now your landlord.” There is no applicable statute.

The  son  and  the  classmate  did  not  reach  agreement,  and  the
son  served  the  appropriate  notice  to  terminate  whatever
tenancy  the  classmate  had.  The  son  then  sought,  in  an
appropriate action, to oust the classmate.

Who should prevail?
(A)    The  son,  because  the  conveyance  created  a  fee  simple

subject to divestment in the son.

(B)  The son, because the landowner’s conveyance terminated

the classmate’s tenancy.

(C)    The  classmate,  because  the  landowner’s  permission  to
occupy preceded the landowner’s conveyance to the son.
(D)  The classmate, because he is a tenant of the landowner,

not of the son.

Answer 4: Choice (D) is correct. The conveyance to the son
was a gift of a fee simple subject to the condition precedent
that the son get a college degree prior to turning 30. Until the
son got the degree, the conveyance did not create any present
possessory  interest  in  him  (and  the  possessory  interest
remained  in  the  landowner,  with  an  executory  interest  in  the
daughter ready to spring out of the landowner if the son turned
30  without  getting  the  degree).  Therefore,  the  classmate
continued to be a tenant of the landowner, not of the son, with
the  result  that  the  son  did  not  have  the  right  to  terminate  the
classmate’s tenancy or oust him.
(A)  is  wrong  because  the  phrase  “upon  the  condition
precedent . . .” in the landowner-to-son conveyance made the

542

gift  a  fee  simple  subject  to  a  condition  precedent,  not  a  fee
simple subject to divestment. (If the gift had read, “to my son
and his heirs, but if my son turns 30 without having obtained a
college  degree,  then  to  my  daughter,”  then  the  son  would
indeed  have  had  a  fee  simple  subject  to  divestment,  and  the
son would have won the case, making this choice correct.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  a  conveyance  by  the  owner  will  not
normally terminate a tenancy, even where the conveyance is a
transfer  of  a  fee  simple  absolute  or  a  fee  simple  subject  to
divestment; furthermore, in this case the conveyance was of a
fee  simple  subject  to  a  condition  precedent,  so  it  was  even
further from terminating the classmate’s tenancy.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  permission  to  occupy
was both oral and rent-free establishes that it was a tenancy at
will  (or  else  a  license);  therefore,  it  could  be  terminated  at
any  time  by  either  party  acting  unilaterally.  Consequently,
although  this  choice  correctly  states  the  result  that  the
classmate  wins,  it  does  not  correctly  state  the  reason  this  is
so.

II.   THE LIFE ESTATE

A.  Duties and powers of life tenant

1.  Duties

a.  No waste

i.  Demolition and rebuilding

Question  5:  Alice  owned  a  commercial  property,  Eastgate,
consisting  of  a  one-story  building  rented  to  various  retail
stores and a very large parking lot. Two years ago, Alice died
and left Eastgate to her nephew, Paul, for life, with remainder
to  her  godson,  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Paul  was  30
years old and Richard was 20 years old when Alice died. The
devise  of  Eastgate  was  made  subject  to  any  mortgage  on
Eastgate in effect at the time of Alice’s death.
When  Alice  executed  her  will,  the  balance  of  the  mortgage
debt  on  Eastgate  was  less  than  $5,000.  A  year  before  her
death, Alice suffered financial reverses; and in order to meet

543

her  debts,  she  had  mortgaged  Eastgate  to  secure  a  loan  of
$150,000.  The  entire  principal  of  the  mortgage  remained
outstanding when she died. As a result, the net annual income
from  Eastgate  was  reduced  not  only  by  real  estate  taxes  and
regular  maintenance  costs,  but  also  by  the  substantial
mortgage interest payments that were due each month.

Paul was very dissatisfied with the limited benefit that he was
receiving from the life estate. When, earlier this year, Acme,
Inc.,  proposed  to  purchase  Eastgate,  demolish  the  building,
pay off the mortgage, and construct a 30-story office building,
Paul  was  willing  to  accept  Acme’s  offer.  However,  Richard
adamantly  refused  the  offer,  even  though  Richard,  as  the
remainderman,  paid  the  principal  portion  of  each  monthly
mortgage  amortization  payment.  Richard  was  independently
wealthy  and  wanted  to  convert  Eastgate  into  a  public  park
when he became entitled to possession.

When Acme realized that Richard would not change his mind,
Acme modified its proposal to a purchase of the life estate of
Paul.  Acme  was  ready  to  go  ahead  with  its  building  plans,
relying  upon  a  large  life  insurance  policy  on  Paul’s  life  to
protect it against the economic risk of Paul’s death. Paul’s life
expectancy was 45 years.
When  Richard  learned  that  Paul  had  agreed  to  Acme’s
modified  proposal,  Richard  brought  an  appropriate  action
against them to enjoin their carrying it out.

There is no applicable statute.

The best argument for Richard is that

(A)    Acme  cannot  purchase  Paul’s  life  estate,  because  life

estates are not assignable.

(B)  the proposed demolition of the building constitutes waste.
(C)    Richard’s  payment  of  the  mortgage  principal  has
subrogated him to Paul’s rights as a life tenant and bars
Paul’s  assignment  of  the  life  estate  without  Richard’s
consent.

(D)  continued existence of the one-story building is more in
harmony  with  the  ultimate  use  as  a  park  than  the
proposed change in use.

544

Answer 5: Choice (B) is correct. Ordinarily, a life tenant may
not  demolish  a  structure  on  the  premises,  even  in  order  to
build a bigger structure at his own expense that would render
the  future  interest  more  valuable;  such  a  demolition  is
classified  as  waste.  Courts  have  recognized  a  narrow
exception where changes in the character of the neighborhood
have deprived the property in its present form of “reasonable
productivity  or  usefulness,”  but  this  would  probably  not  be
found to have occurred here, since the structure is being used
for retail stores and produces meaningful rent. (The problem
is the substantial mortgage that eats up the rents, not the lack
of  any  reasonably-productive  use.)  It  is  not  certain  that
Richard  would  win  with  this  argument  (since  Paul  might
succeed  in  establishing  the  no-reasonably-productive-use-in-
present-form  exception),  but  this  is  the  only  one  of  the  four
listed  arguments  that  might  plausibly  produce  a  victory  for
Richard.

(A) is wrong because life estates are completely assignable,
without  the  consent  of  the  holder  of  the  future  interest;  the
assignee simply receives a life estate per autre vie.

(C)  is  wrong  because  Richard’s  payment  of  the  mortgage
principal  does  not  change  his  rights;  even  without  such
payments  he  would  be  entitled  to  veto  a  demolition  and
replacement  of  the  premises  unless  the  narrow  exception
described in (B) applied.

(D) is wrong because the maintenance of “harmony” with the
use  envisioned  by  the  future  interest  holder  is  not  a  relevant
factor in the decision about whether the proposed use violates
the  latter’s  rights;  the  issue  is  whether  the  proposed  use
would or would not constitute “waste,” and harmony with the
future holder’s desires is not part of the waste analysis.

b.  Current operating expenses

i.  Taxes

Question 6: Ody, owner of Profitacre, executed an instrument
in the proper form of a deed, purporting to convey Profitacre
“to Leon for life, then to Ralph in fee simple.” Leon, who is
Ody’s  brother  and  Ralph’s  father,  promptly  began  to  manage
Profitacre,  which  is  valuable  income-producing  real  estate.

545

Leon collected all rents and paid all expenses, including real
estate  taxes.  Ralph  did  not  object,  and  this  state  of  affairs
continued  for  five  years  until  2007.  In  that  year,  Leon
executed  an  instrument  in  the  proper  form  of  a  deed,
purporting  to  convey  Profitacre  to  Mona.  Ralph,  no  admirer
of Mona, asserted his right to ownership of Profitacre. Mona
asserted her ownership and said that if Ralph had any rights
he  was  obligated  to  pay  real  estate  taxes,  even  though  Leon
had  been  kind  enough  to  pay  them  in  the  past.  Income  from
Profitacre  is  ample  to  cover  expenses,  including  real  estate
taxes.

In an appropriate action to determine the rights of the parties,
the court should decide

(A)  Leon’s purported deed forfeited his life estate, so Ralph

owns Profitacre in fee simple.

(B)  Mona owns an estate for her life, is entitled to all income,
and must pay real estate taxes; Ralph owns the remainder
interest.

(C)  Mona owns an estate for the life of Leon, is entitled to all
income, and must pay real estate taxes; Ralph owns the
remainder interest.

(D)  Mona owns an estate for the life of Leon and is entitled to
all income; Ralph owns the remainder interest, and must
pay real estate taxes.

Answer 6: Choice (C) is correct. When Leon, the life tenant,
purported to convey the fee simple to Mona, this conveyance
had  the  effect  of  conveying  all  of  Leon’s  interest  in  the
property,  i.e.,  his  life  tenancy.  Therefore,  Mona  had  a  life
estate per autre vie, i.e., an estate for the life of Leon. Once
Mona  stepped  into  Leon’s  shoes  as  life  tenant,  she  had  the
right  to  collect  all  income  from  the  property,  but  also  the
obligation to pay all current operating expenses including real
estate taxes. Ralph always had a remainder interest following
Leon’s life estate, and Ralph’s interest was not changed in any
way by Leon’s conveyance of his own interest to Mona.
(A)  is  wrong  because  a  life  tenant’s  attempt  to  convey  a  fee
simple  does  not  cause  the  life  estate  to  be  forfeited;  such  a
conveyance merely transfers to the grantee the entirety of the

546

grantor’s interest (i.e., the life tenancy).

(B) is wrong because what Mona received is precisely what
Leon had, namely an estate for the life of Leon.

(D) is wrong because real estate taxes are the responsibility
of the life tenant, not the remainderman.

c.  Payment of mortgage

i.  No personal obligation

Question  7:  A  testator  owned  in  fee  simple  a  farm  of  300
acres. He died and by will duly admitted to probate devised
the farm to his surviving widow, for life with remainder in fee
simple  to  his  three  children,  two  daughters  and  a  son.  All
three children survived the testator.

At the time of the testator’s death, there existed a mortgage on
the farm that the testator had given ten years before to secure a
loan for the purchase of the farm. At his death, there remained
unpaid  $40,000  in  principal,  payable  in  installments  of
$4,000 per year for the next ten years. In addition, there was
due  interest  at  the  rate  of  10%  per  annum,  payable  annually
with the installment of principal. The widow took possession
and  out  of  a  gross  income  of  $50,000  per  year  realized
$25,000 net after paying all expenses and charges except the
installment of principal and interest due on the mortgage.

The daughters wanted the three children, including the son, to
each  contribute  one-third  of  the  amounts  needed  to  pay  the
mortgage  installments.  The  son  objected,  contending  that  the
widow should pay all of these amounts out of the profits she
had  made  in  operation  of  the  farm.  When  foreclosure  of  the
mortgage seemed imminent, the son sought legal advice.

If the son obtained sound advice relating to his rights, he was
told that
(A)  his only protection would lie in instituting an action for
partition  to  compel  the  sale  of  the  life  estate  of  the
widow  and  to  obtain  the  value  of  the  son’s  one-third
interest in remainder.

(B)  he could obtain appropriate relief to compel the widow
personally  to  pay  the  sums  due  because  the  income  is
more than adequate to cover these amounts.

547

(C)  he could be compelled personally to pay his share of the
amounts due because discharge of the mortgage enhances
the principal.

(D)  he could not be held personally liable for any amount but
that his share in remainder could be lost if the mortgage
installments are not paid.

Answer  7:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  general  rule  about
personal  liability  for  mortgage  payments  as  between  present
and future interests is that neither party has personal liability,
except  to  the  extent  that  party  is  receiving  net  operating
income from the property. Since the son as remainderman gets
no  operating  income  from  the  property,  he  has  no  personal
liability to make any mortgage payments. However, if neither
he nor anyone else makes all required mortgage payments, the
property  will  presumably  be  lost  to  foreclosure,  in  which
case the son’s remainder interest will be lost. Therefore, the
son  has  the  right  (which  he  may  well  want  to  exercise),  but
not  the  obligation,  to  contribute  his  one-third  share  of
whatever  mortgage  payments  that  the  widow  is  unable  or
unwilling to make.

(A) is wrong because the holder of a future interest generally
does  not  have  the  right  to  bring  a  partition  action  to  compel
the  sale  of  the  possessory  estate  (here,  the  widow’s  life
estate).

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  overstates  the  widow’s  obligation;
the  widow  probably  does  have  a  personal  obligation  to  pay
her fairly-allocated share of the mortgage payments (based on
the  relative  value  of  the  widow’s  life  estate  versus  the
remainder),  up  to  the  amount  of  net  income  she’s  receiving,
but  this  choice  incorrectly  suggests  that  she  would  be
personally liable to pay the entire installments rather than just
her share if the net income were large enough.
(C)  is  wrong  because  the  son,  as  a  remainderman,  has  no
personal liability to make mortgage payments at all (since he
is not getting any operating income out of which to pay them).

548

CHAPTER 3
FUTURE INTERESTS

I.    POSSIBILITY OF REVERTER; RIGHT OF RE-

ENTRY

A.  Possibility of reverter and right of re-entry

1.  Possibility of reverter

a.  Conflict between will and inheritance

Question  8:  Twenty  years  ago,  a  landowner  who  owned
Blackacre, a one-acre tract of land, duly delivered a deed of
Blackacre “to School District so long as it is used for school
purposes.”  The  deed  was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.
Five years ago, the landowner died, leaving Sonny as his only
heir  at  law.  The  landowner  left  a  duly  probated  will,  by
which he left “all my Estate” to his friend, who was a doctor.

Last  month,  School  District  closed  its  school  on  Blackacre
and  for  valid  consideration  duly  executed  and  delivered  a
quitclaim deed of Blackacre to a developer, who planned to
use the land for commercial development. The developer has
now  brought  an  appropriate  action  to  quiet  title  against  the
son, the doctor and School District.

The only applicable statute is a provision in the jurisdiction’s
probate code which provides that any property interest which
is descendible is devisable.

In such action, the court should find that title is now in

(A)  the developer.
(B)  the son.
(C)  the doctor.
(D)  School District.
Answer  8:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  When  the  landowner
conveyed to School District, School District got a fee simple
determinable (a fee simple that would automatically end if the
property  ever  ceased  to  be  used  for  school  purposes).  The
landowner  retained  a  possibility  of  reverter,  which  is  what

549

the grantor retains following a fee simple determinable, if the
fee  simple  determinable  doesn’t  specify  what  happens  upon
failure of the condition. In virtually all states, a possibility of
reverter can be inherited under the intestacy statute (i.e., it is
“descendible”). The probate provision here tells us that if the
interest is descendible, it is also devisable (i.e., can be left by
will).  Since  we  know  that  the  possibility  of  reverter  is
descendible,  we  therefore  know  that  it  is  also  devisable.
Since  the  landowner  left  a  will  devising  his  entire  estate  to
the doctor, the reverter will pass by devise (i.e., by the will),
not by inheritance. That’s because of the basic rule that where
a particular item of property is covered by a valid bequest in
a  will,  the  item  will  pass  by  will  rather  than  by  intestacy.
Therefore, the reverter goes to the doctor under the will.

(A) is wrong because once School District closed its school,
its interest in Blackacre was automatically extinguished, and
there  was  nothing  left  to  pass  to  the  developer  via  the
quitclaim deed.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  son’s  status  as  heir  (i.e.,  as  taker
under  the  intestacy  statute)  was  irrelevant  given  that  the
reverter  here  was  bequeathed  under  the  will,  and  was
therefore not available to be passed by inheritance.
(D) is wrong because once School District closed its school,
its interest was automatically extinguished.

II.   REMAINDERS

A.  Contingent remainders

Question 9: A testator owned a tract of land in fee simple. By
will  duly  admitted  to  probate  after  his  death,  the  testator
devised  the  land  to  “any  wife  who  survives  me  with
remainder to such of my children as are living at her death.”

The  testator  was  survived  by  his  widow  and  by  three
children,  who  were  an  accountant,  a  lawyer,  and  a  doctor.
Thereafter,  the  lawyer  died  and  by  will  duly  admitted  to
probate devised his entire estate to his friend. The accountant
and the doctor were the lawyer’s heirs at law.
Later the widow died. In an appropriate lawsuit to which the

550

accountant,  the  doctor,  and  the  friend  are  parties,  title  to  the
land is at issue.

In such lawsuit, judgment should be that title to the property is
in

(A)    the  accountant,  the  doctor,  and  the  friend,  because  the
earliest  vesting  of  remainders  is  favored  and  reference
to  the  surviving  wife’s  death  should  be  construed  as
relating to time of taking possession.

(B)    the  accountant,  the  doctor,  and  the  friend,  because  the
provision  requiring  survival  of  children  violates  the
Rule Against Perpetuities since the surviving wife might
have been a person unborn at the time of writing of the
will.

(C)    the  accountant  and  the  doctor,  because  the  lawyer’s
is  not

intestacy  and 

remainder  must  descend  by 
devisable.

(D)    the  accountant  and  the  doctor,  because  the  remainders

were contingent upon surviving the life tenant.

Answer 9:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  terms  of  the  bequest
made  it  clear  that  only  a  child  who  survived  the  testator’s
wife would take. Each child had a contingent remainder as of
the testator’s death. When the lawyer died before his mother
(the  widow)  died,  the  lawyer’s  contingent  remainder  was
nullified  without  ever  becoming  vested,  leaving  nothing  to
pass to the lawyer’s friend by devise. At the widow’s death,
the  contingent  remainders  in  the  accountant  and  the  doctor
vested (and, simultaneously, became possessory).

(A) is wrong for the same reason (D) is right: The remainders
were intended by the testator to be contingent unless and until
the  remaindermen  survived  the  widow,  at  which  time  they
would  vest.  So  when  the  lawyer  died,  his  contingent
remainder  was  destroyed  by  his  failing  to  have  survived  the
widow, and he had no interest to pass to the friend.
(B) is wrong because under the common law approach to the
Rule  against  Perpetuities,  the  time  for  evaluating  a  will  is
when the testator dies, not when the will was executed. At the
time the testator died, his widow (and, indeed, his children as
well)  were  necessarily  already  in  existence,  and  could

551

therefore serve as measuring lives. So there was no risk that
the  remainder  to  the  testator’s  children  would  vest  beyond
“measuring  lives  plus  21  years,”  making  the  gift  to  those
children valid contingent remainders.

(C) is wrong as a matter of law: Some remainders can indeed
descend  by  intestacy.  Example:  O  bequeaths  “to  A  for  life,
then to B.” Assume B is living at O’s death, but dies intestate
before  A,  and  with  C  as  his  heir  at  law.  At  B’s  death,  the
vested  remainder  in  B  passes  by  intestacy  to  C,  and  C  will
have a fee simple once B dies.

testator  wrote  and  executed,  with 

Question 10: A testator owned a tract of land in fee simple.
required
The 
formalities, a will that devised the tract to ‘‘my daughter for
life  with  remainder  to  my  descendants  per  stirpes.’’  At  the
time  of  writing  the  will,  the  testator  had  a  husband  and  no
descendants  living  other  than  her  two  children,  the  daughter
named in the will and a son.

the 

The testator died and the will was duly admitted to probate.
The testator’s husband predeceased her, but she was survived
by  her  daughter,  her  son,  four  grandchildren,  and  one  great-
grandchild.  The  testator’s  two  children  were  the  testator’s
sole  heirs  at  law.  The  testator’s  children  brought  an
appropriate  action  for  declaratory  judgment  as  to  title  of  the
tract. Guardians ad litem were appointed and all other steps
were  taken  so  that  the  judgment  would  bind  all  persons
interested whether born or unborn. In that action, if the court
rules that the daughter has a life estate in the whole of the tract
and  that  the  remainder  is  contingent,  it  will  be  because  the
court chose one of several possible constructions and that the
chosen construction
(A)  related all vesting to the time of writing of the will.
(B)  related all vesting to the death of the testator.
(C)    implied  a  condition  that  remaindermen  survive  the

daughter.

(D)  implied a gift of a life estate to the son.
Answer  10:  Choice  (C)  is  correct,  because  if  no  condition
that  the  remaindermen  survive  the  daughter  was  implied,  the
than  contingent.  A
remainder  would  be  vested  rather 

552

remainder  is  contingent  if  it  is  subject  to  a  condition
precedent  (other  than  the  mere  expiration  of  the  preceding
estate) that must be satisfied before the remainder can become
a  present  interest.  A  common  type  of  condition  precedent  is
the  requirement  that  the  holder  of  the  remainder  survive  the
holder of the previous estate (often a life estate), and that is
what  we  might  have  here.  There  are  two  most  plausible
interpretations  of  what 
testator  meant  by  “my
the 
descendants”:  (1)  “all  of  my  descendants  existing  and
identifiable  at  the  moment  of  my  own  death”  (when  the
remainder is being created); or (2) “all of my descendants in
existence when the remainder becomes possessory” (i.e., all
descendants who survive the daughter). If interpretation (1) is
chosen by the court, the remainder would be vested, because
at  the  moment  of  the  testator’s  death  we  would  know
everyone who was to take, and if any later pre-deceased the
daughter, their heirs could take. If interpretation (2) is chosen,
we  would  not  know  who  takes  until  the  daughter  dies,  at
which  point  we  would  look  to  which  descendants  of  the
testator  survived  the  daughter;  in  that  event,  the  remainder
would be contingent as of the testator’s death (because at the
moment  when  the  testator  created  the  interest  by  dying,  we
don’t  know  who  will  take).  So  it  is  only  if  the  court  selects
interpretation (2) (imputing a condition that the remaindermen
must survive the daughter in order to take) that the remainder
would be deemed contingent at the present time.

(A)  is  wrong  because  if  vesting  occurred  at  the  moment  the
will  was  written,  the  remainder  would  be  vested  as  of  the
testator’s death, not contingent. This choice is referring to the
possibility  that  the  court  would  conclude  that  the  bequest’s
reference  to  “my  descendants”  meant  “anyone  who  is  my
descendant  viewed  as  of  the  moment  when  I  am  writing  this
will.” If this were the interpretation, then at the moment of the
will-writing,  we  would  know  everyone  who  could  take
(they’re  all  identifiable,  and  their  remainder  interests  would
vest  immediately  even  though  the  remainder  would  not
become possessory until the daughter died). In that event, the
remainder would be vested, not contingent.
(B)  is  wrong  because  if  all  vesting  were  related  to  the

553

at 

the  remainder  would  be  vested,  not
testator’s  death, 
contingent, 
vesting/contingent
that  moment.  The 
determination  is  to  be  made  at  the  moment  the  interest  (the
remainder)  is  created.  That  moment  of  creation  is  the
testator’s  death.  Saying  that  “all  vesting  is  [related]  to  the
death  of  the  testator,”  as  this  choice  does,  is  equivalent  to
saying that to be a “descendant,” a person just has to survive
the testator, not the daughter. In that scenario, at the moment of
the  testator’s  death,  the  remaindermen  would  be  fully
identifiable,  and  would  be  certain  to  take  once  the  daughter
died.  So  on  this  analysis,  all  remainder  holders  would  be
vested (because fully identified as of the moment of creation
of the interest, and certain to take), not contingent.

(D) is wrong because an interpretation giving a remainder life
estate to the son wouldn’t automatically make that remainder
contingent. Even in the unlikely event the court implied a life
estate remainder to the son, we still wouldn’t know whether
that  remainder  was  vested  or  contingent,  since  we  wouldn’t
know whether there was a requirement that the son survive the
daughter  (it  would  be  contingent  if  there  were  a  survival
requirement,  vested  if  there  were  not).  In  other  words,
reading in a remainder for life to the son doesn’t fully answer
the vested/contingent question — of the four choices, only the
choice  that  implies  a  surviving-the-  daughter  condition
(Choice (C)) does that.

1.  Unborn or unascertained

a.  Remainder “to A and her heirs or assigns” is vested

Question 11: A grantor owned a tract of land in fee simple.
By warranty deed he conveyed the land to his nephew for life
“and from and after the death of my nephew to my niece, her
heirs and assigns.”
Subsequently the niece died, devising all of her estate to the
niece’s  boyfriend.  The  niece  was  survived  by  a  cousin,  her
sole heir-at-law.

Shortly  thereafter  the  nephew  died,  survived  by  the  grantor,
the niece’s boyfriend, and the niece’s cousin.
Title to the land now is in

554

(A)    the  grantor,  because  the  contingent  remainder  never
vested  and  the  grantor’s  reversion  was  entitled  to
possession immediately upon the nephew’s death.
(B)  the boyfriend, because the vested remainder in the niece

was transmitted by her will.

(C)  the cousin, because she is the niece’s heir.
(D)  either the grantor or the cousin, depending upon whether
the destructibility of contingent remainders is recognized
in the applicable jurisdiction.

Answer  11:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  remainder  to  “my
niece, her heirs and assigns” was a remainder to the niece in
fee  simple.  Since  the  niece  was  alive  and  identifiable  at  the
time  of  the  grantor’s  deed,  the  remainder  to  the  niece  was
vested. A vested remainder can be left by will. Therefore, the
remainder passed by the will to the boyfriend.

(A) is wrong because the remainder was never contingent, not
even for an instant.

(C)  is  wrong  because  a  vested  remainder  can  be  passed  by
will, and the will here devised the remainder to the boyfriend;
therefore, the fact that the niece’s cousin was the niece’s heir
at law is irrelevant.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  remainder  here  was  vested,  not
contingent; 
the  doctrine  of  destructibility  of
therefore, 
contingent remainders is irrelevant.

III.  THE RULE AGAINST PERPETUITIES (RAP)

A.  Applicability of Rule to various estates

1.  Options to purchase land

a.  Right of first refusal (RAP may apply)

Question 12: A grantor owned two tracts of land, one of 15
acres  and  another  of  five  acres.  The  two  tracts  were  a  mile
apart.
Fifteen years ago, the grantor conveyed the smaller tract to a
grantee. The grantor retained the larger tract. The deed to the
grantee contained, in addition to proper legal descriptions of
the
both  properties  and 

identifications  of 

the  parties, 

555

following:

                              I, the grantor, bind myself and my heirs and assigns that in the event that the larger tract that I now
retain is ever offered for sale, I will notify the grantee and his heirs and assigns in writing, and the
grantee  and  his  heirs  and  assigns  shall  have  the  right  to  purchase  the  larger  tract  for  its  fair
market  value  as  determined  by  a  board  consisting  of  three  qualified  expert  independent  real
estate appraisers.

With  appropriate  references  to  the  other  property  and  the
parties, there followed a reciprocal provision that conferred
upon  the  grantor  and  her  heirs  and  assigns  a  similar  right  to
purchase  the  smaller  tract,  purportedly  binding  the  grantee
and his heirs and assigns.

Ten years ago, a corporation acquired the larger tract from the
grantor. At that time, the grantee had no interest in acquiring
the  larger  tract  and  by  an  appropriate  written  document
released any interest he or his heirs or assigns might have had
in the larger tract.

Last  year,  the  grantee  died.  The  smaller  tract  passed  by  the
grantee’s  will  to  his  daughter.  She  has  decided  to  sell  the
smaller tract. However, because she believes the corporation
has been a very poor steward of the larger tract, she refuses to
sell  the  smaller  tract  to  the  corporation  even  though  she  has
offered it for sale in the local real estate market.

The  corporation  brought  an  appropriate  action  for  specific
performance  after  taking  all  of  the  necessary  preliminary
steps in its effort to exercise its rights to purchase the smaller
tract.

The daughter asserted all possible defenses.

The common law Rule Against Perpetuities is unmodified in
the jurisdiction.
If the court rules for the daughter, what is the reason?
(A)  The provision setting out the right to purchase violates the

Rule Against Perpetuities.

(B)  The grantee’s release 10 years ago operates as a waiver
regarding any right to purchase that the corporation might
have.

(C)  The two tracts of land were not adjacent parcels of real
estate,  and  thus  the  right  to  purchase  is  in  gross  and  is

556

therefore unenforceable.

(D)    Noncompliance  with  a  right  to  purchase  gives  rise  to  a
claim  for  money  damages,  but  not  for  specific
performance.

Answer  12:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Each  of  the  original
parties  granted  a  reciprocal  right  of  first  refusal  to  the  other
and  the  other’s  heirs  and  assigns.  A  right  of  first  refusal
provides  that  if  the  owner  ever  decides  to  sell  the  property,
the  one  holding  the  right  of  first  refusal  has  the  right  to
purchase it. A right of first refusal is therefore a conditional
option  to  purchase,  and  it  is  analyzed  for  Rule  Against
Perpetuities (RAP) issues like other purchase options that are
“in gross” (i.e., not associated with a lease). Courts are split
as  to  whether  to  apply  the  RAP  to  rights  of  first  refusal  or
other options in gross. We don’t know here that the RAP will
definitely be applied to such interests, but we do know that if
it’s applied, the daughter will win (and the question is asking
what  the  reason  will  be  if  the  daughter  wins).  Why  will  the
daughter win? Because the RAP invalidates an interest unless
it  can  be  said  with  certainty  at  the  time  of  creation  that  that
interest  will  vest  or  fail  to  vest  within  21  years.  Here,  the
right  of  first  refusal  extended  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the
original  parties,  so  the  decision  to  exercise  the  right  might
occur more than 21 years after a life in being at the time the
right  was  granted.  (For 
the  grantor’s  great-
grandchild  might  try  to  exercise  the  right  as  against  the
grantee’s  great-grandchild.)  The  RAP  in  this  jurisdiction  is
unmodified by statute — therefore, the right of first refusal is
deemed void as of the time it was created, and the court will
not  wait  to  see  whether  anyone  tries  to  exercise  that  right
more  than  21  years  after  a  life  in  being.  Consequently,  the
right  is  already  invalid,  even  though  only  15  years  have
passed since the right was created.

instance, 

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  grantee  chose  not  to
exercise his right of first refusal has no effect on whether the
grantor  can  exercise  the  reciprocal  right  of  first  refusal
regarding  the  land  originally  owned  by  the  grantee.  That  is,
even  if  the  grantee’s  decision  not  to  exercise  the  right  10
years ago was a waiver of any subsequent right of first refusal

557

on  the  part  of  the  grantee  or  his  heirs  (which  it  almost
certainly  was),  there  would  be  no  reason  why  that  decision
should  act  as  a  waiver  by  the  grantor  or  her  heirs  as  to  the
reciprocal right held by them.

(C) is wrong because it misstates the effect of the fact that the
option is “in gross.” An option “in gross” is an option that is
not  associated  with  a  lease  to  the  option-holder  of  the
property  to  which  the  option  applies.  So  the  right  of  first
refusal  here  is  indeed  an  option  in  gross,  as  the  choice
suggests.  But  the  choice  is  wrong  for  two  reasons:  (1)  an
option  in  gross  is  enforceable  as  long  as  the  time  period
during  which  it  can  be  enforced  is  not  longer  than  the  RAP
period (i.e., not longer than lives in being plus 21 years); and
(2) the fact that the parcels are not adjacent is irrelevant to the
analysis. (That is, even if the two parcels were adjacent, the
option would still be in gross because there is no lease.)

(D) is wrong because it misstates the remedies for breach of a
right of first refusal. A holder of a purchase option is entitled
to  a  decree  of  specific  performance,  under  which  the  other
party  will  be  compelled  to  make  the  sale  in  return  for  the
payment of the option’s strike price. A right of first refusal is
a  conditional  option  to  purchase.  Once  the  condition  is
satisfied (by the other party’s decision to sell), the holder of
the  option  has  the  same  right  to  a  decree  of  specific
performance  as  would  the  holder  of  an  unconditional
purchase option.

558

CHAPTER 4
CONCURRENT OWNERSHIP

I.    JOINT TENANCY

A.  Severance

1.  Conveyance by one joint tenant

a.  Most important on MBE

Question 13:  By  warranty  deed,  Marta  conveyed  Blackacre
to  Beth  and  Christine  “as  joint  tenants  with  right  of
survivorship.”  Beth  and  Christine  are  not  related.  Beth
conveyed  all  her  interest  to  Eugenio  by  warranty  deed  and
subsequently died intestate. Thereafter, Christine conveyed to
Darin by warranty deed.

There is no applicable statute, and the jurisdiction recognizes
the common-law joint tenancy.

                    Title to Blackacre is in
(A)  Darin.
(B)  Marta.
(C)  Darin and Eugenio.
(D)  Darin and the heirs of Beth.
Answer 13: Choice (C) is correct. When Beth conveyed her
interest to Eugenio, this act caused a severance, destroying the
joint tenancy immediately and leaving Eugenio and Christine
as  tenants  in  common.  When  Christine  conveyed  her  interest
to Darin, he stepped into Christine’s shoes, becoming a tenant
in common with Eugenia.
Choices  (A),  (B),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

b.  Motive irrelevant

Question 14: A brother and sister owned a large tract of land
in  fee  simple  as  joint  tenants  with  rights  of  survivorship.
While  the  sister  was  on  an  extended  safari  in  Kenya,  the
brother  learned  that  there  were  very  valuable  coal  deposits
within  the  land,  but  he  made  no  attempt  to  inform  his  sister.

559

Thereupon, the brother conveyed his interest in the land to his
wife, who immediately reconveyed that interest to the brother.
The common-law joint tenancy is unmodified by statute.

Shortly  thereafter,  the  brother  was  killed  in  an  automobile
accident.  His  will,  which  was  duly  probated,  specifically
devised his one-half interest in the property to his wife.

The  sister  then  returned  from  Kenya  and  learned  what  had
happened. The sister brought an appropriate action against the
brother’s  wife,  who  claimed  a  one-half  interest  in  the
property,  seeking  a  declaratory  judgment  that  she,  the  sister,
was the sole owner of the land.

In this action, who should prevail?

(A)  The brother’s wife, because the brother and sister were
tenants in common at the time of the brother’s death.
(B)    The  brother’s  wife,  because  the  brother’s  will  severed

the joint tenancy.

(C)  The sister, because the joint tenancy was reestablished by

the brother’s wife’s reconveyance to the brother.

(D)    The  sister,  because  the  brother  breached  his  fiduciary

duty as her joint tenant.

Answer  14:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  When  the  brother
conveyed  his  interest  in  the  property  to  his  wife,  this
conveyance  acted  as  an  immediate  severance,  transforming
the joint tenancy into a tenancy in common between the wife
and the sister. When the wife immediately reconveyed to the
brother, the brother and sister were tenants in common. When
the  brother  died,  his  interest  as  a  tenant  in  common  passed
back  to  his  wife,  making  her  a  tenant  in  common  with  the
sister.
(B) is wrong because the joint tenancy was severed before the
brother’s will took effect (at the moment the brother conveyed
to his wife).
(C)  is  wrong  because  once  the  joint  tenancy  was  broken  by
the conveyance from the brother to his wife, it could only be
reestablished by a new conveyance joined in by both tenants
in common, i.e., the wife and the sister (or, later, the brother
and sister).

560

(D)  is  wrong  because  a  conveyance  by  either  joint  tenant
severs  the  joint  tenancy  regardless  of  whether  the  conveying
joint  tenant  had  or  breached  any  fiduciary  obligation  to  the
other.

2.  Creditors of deceased joint tenant take nothing

Question  15:  A  brother  and  sister  owned  a  parcel  as  joint
tenants,  upon  which  was  situated  a  two-family  house.  The
brother lived in one of the two apartments and rented the other
apartment to a tenant. The brother got in a fight with the tenant
and  injured  him.  The  tenant  obtained  and  properly  filed  a
judgment for $10,000 against the brother.

The statute in the jurisdiction reads: “Any judgment properly
filed  shall,  for  ten  years  from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person
against whom the judgment is rendered.”

The  sister,  who  lived  in  a  distant  city,  knew  nothing  of  the
tenant’s  judgment.  Before  the  tenant  took  any  further  action,
the  brother  died.  The  common-law 
is
unmodified by statute.

tenancy 

joint 

The  sister  then  learned  the  facts  and  brought  an  appropriate
action against the tenant to quiet title to the land.

The court should hold that the tenant has
(A)  a lien against the whole of the property, because he was a
tenant of both the brother and the sister at the time of the
judgment.

(B)  a lien against the brother’s undivided one-half interest in
the  land,  because  his  judgment  was  filed  prior  to  the
brother’s death.

(C)    no  lien,  because  the  sister  had  no  actual  notice  of  the

tenant’s judgment until after the brother’s death.

(D)    no  lien,  because  the  brother’s  death  terminated  the

interest to which the tenant’s lien attached.

Answer  15:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Since  the  tenant’s
judgment  was  only  against  the  brother,  the  tenant’s  judgment
lien  was  only  against  the  brother’s  real  property,  not  the
sister’s  real  property.  That  real  property  consisted  of  the
brother’s joint tenancy interest. At the moment of the brother’s

561

death, that joint tenancy interest ceased to exist, and there was
nothing left for the judgment lien to be a lien against.

(A) is wrong because the basis for the tenant’s judgment (and
thus  for  his  judgment  lien)  was  the  brother’s  having  injured
him in the fight; since this had nothing to do with the tenant’s
having  been  a  tenant  of  both  brother  and  sister,  it  did  not
create any lien against the sister’s interest in the property.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  inaccurately  characterizes  the
brother’s  interest:  It  was  a  joint  tenancy,  not  an  “undivided
one-half interest” (a phrase that would be used to describe a
tenancy in common). Therefore, the fact that the judgment was
filed  while  the  brother  was  still  alive  is  irrelevant,  because
the  brother’s  joint  tenancy  ceased  to  exist  at  the  moment  he
died.

(C) is wrong because it cites an irrelevant factor; even if the
sister had had actual notice of the judgment while the brother
was still alive, there would be no lien after the brother died
for the reasons described in the discussion of (D).

II.   TENANCY IN COMMON

A.  Tenancy in common

1.  Conveyance by one co-tenant

a.  Grant of mortgage or judgment lien

Question 16: A mother owned a two-family apartment house
on a small city lot not suitable for partition-in-kind. Upon the
mother’s death, her will devised the property to “my son and
my daughter.”
A week ago, a creditor of the son obtained a money judgment
against the son, and properly filed the judgment in the county
where  the  property  is  located.  A  statute  in  the  jurisdiction
provides:  Any  judgment  properly  filed  shall,  for  ten  years
from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real  property  then  owned  or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the
judgment is rendered.
The son needed cash, but the daughter did not wish to sell the
property.  The  son  commenced  a  partition  action  against  the

562

daughter and the creditor.

Assume that the court properly ordered a partition by judicial
sale.

After the sale, the creditor’s judgment will be a lien on

(A)  all of the property.
(B)  only a one-half interest in the property.
(C)  all of the proceeds of sale of the property.
(D)  only the portion of the proceeds of sale due the son.
Answer 16: Choice (D) is correct. The mother’s will had the
effect  of  giving  the  property  to  the  son  and  the  daughter  as
tenants in common, with an undivided one-half interest going
to  each.  (A  conveyance  “to  A  and  B,”  without  further
specification,  creates  a  tenancy  in  common  with  equal
shares.)  At  the  time  the  creditor  got  his  money  judgment
against the son, that judgment became a lien only against real
property  owned  by  the  son,  and  the  son’s  real  property
consisted  of  his  undivided  one-half  interest.  When  the
partition  by  judicial  sale  occurred,  the  son’s  interest  in  the
property became sole ownership of one-half of the proceeds,
and  the  creditor’s  lien  became  a  lien  solely  on  that  share  of
the proceeds.

Choices  (A),  (B),  and  (C)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

563

CHAPTER 5
LANDLORD AND TENANT

I.    TORT LIABILITY OF LANDLORD AND

TENANT

A.  Landlord’s liability

1.  Common law

a.  Assignment of interest by L

Question 17:  Les  leased  a  barn  to  his  neighbor,  Tom,  for  a
term of three years. Tom took possession of the barn and used
it  for  his  farming  purposes.  The  lease  made  Les  responsible
for  structural  repairs  to  the  barn,  unless  they  were  made
necessary by actions of Tom.

One year later, Les conveyed the barn and its associated land
to  Lottie  “subject  to  the  lease  to  Tom.”  Tom  paid  the  next
month’s  rent  to  Lottie.  The  next  day  a  portion  of  an  exterior
wall  of  the  barn  collapsed  because  of  rot  in  the  interior
structure of the wall. The wall had appeared to be sound, but
a  competent  engineer,  on  inspection,  would  have  discovered
its  condition.  Neither  Lottie  nor  Tom  had  the  barn  inspected
by an engineer. Tom was injured as a result of the collapse of
the wall.

Les  had  known  that  the  wall  was  dangerously  weakened  by
rot  and  needed  immediate  repairs,  but  had  not  told  Tom  or
Lottie. There is no applicable statute.

Tom  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  Les  to  recover
damages for the injuries he sustained. Lottie was not a party.
Which  of  the  following  is  the  most  appropriate  comment
concerning the outcome of this action?
(A)    Tom  should  lose,  because  Lottie  assumed  all  of  Les’s

obligations by reason of Tom’s attornment to her.

(B)    Tom  should  recover,  because  there  is  privity  between
lessor and lessee and it cannot be broken unilaterally.
(C)  Tom should recover, because Les knew of the danger but

564

did not warn Tom.

(D)  Tom should lose, because he failed to inspect the barn.
Answer 17: Choice (C) is correct. A landlord generally does
not  have  tort  liability  for  accidents  that  arise  out  of  a
dangerous condition on the property. For example, a landlord
has  no  duty  to  inspect  the  property  to  discover  dangerous
conditions. But the landlord does have liability if he knows of
the danger, or is in possession of facts that would reasonably
have led a person in his position to know of the danger, and
the  tenant  does  not  know  of  the  danger.  Les  met  this
requirement because the facts tell us that he had “known that
the  wall  was  dangerously  weakened  by  rot  and  needed
immediate  repairs.”  When  Les  assigned  to  Lottie,  Les
remained liable until Lottie actually discovered the condition
and  had  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  fix  it.  Since  Lottie  had
only owned the property for one day before the accident, and
had not learned of the condition, liability had not yet passed
to  Lottie,  and  thus  remained  with  Les,  at  the  moment  of  the
accident.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  Lottie  took  “subject  to”  the
lease,  she  did  not  assume  Les’s  obligations  to  Tom,  and  her
receipt of a payment from Tom did not change this. By the rule
discussed  in  the  prior  paragraph,  Lottie  would  not  become
liable for the condition until she learned of it and had time to
fix  it  (unless  she  expressly  assumed  liability  for  conditions
not known to her, which didn’t happen here).

(B)  is  wrong  because  a  landlord  is  liable  to  the  tenant  for
failing to disclose a known dangerous condition. That liability
persists  regardless  of  whether  landlord  and  tenant  remain  in
privity  of  estate  (and  ends  only  when  the  successor  on  the
landlord  side  becomes  liable,  which  could  only  have  been
when the successor learned of the condition and had a chance
to fix it).
(D) is wrong because, where a landlord is actually aware of a
dangerous condition, and the tenant is not aware, the landlord
is liable regardless of whether the tenant could have (or even
reasonably  should  have)  inspected  the  premises.  In  other
words, the tenant has no duty to inspect, at least in a scenario
where the landlord has actual knowledge of the danger.

565

II.   TRANSFER AND SALE BY LESSOR;

ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING BY LESSEE

A.  Generally allowed

1.  Distinguish assignment from sublease

a.  Significance

i.  Question might not say “sublease”

Question 18:  A  landlord  leased  an  apartment  to  a  tenant  by
written lease for two years ending on the last day of a recent
month.  The  lease  provided  for  $700  monthly  rental.  The
tenant occupied the apartment and paid the rent for the first 15
months  of  the  lease  term,  until  he  moved  to  a  new  job  in
another city. Without consulting the landlord, the tenant moved
a  friend  into  the  apartment  and  signed  an  informal  writing
transferring  to  the  friend  his  “lease  rights”  for  the  remaining
nine  months  of  the  lease.  The  friend  made  the  next  four
monthly  $700  rental  payments  to  the  landlord.  For  the  final
five months of the lease term, no rent was paid by anyone, and
the friend moved out with three months left on the lease term.
The  landlord  was  on  an  extended  trip  abroad,  and  did  not
learn  of  the  default  and  the  vacancy  until  last  week.  The
landlord sued the tenant and the friend, jointly and severally,
for $3,500 for the last five months’ rent.

What is the likely outcome of the lawsuit?

(A)    Both  the  tenant  and  the  friend  are  liable  for  the  full
$3,500, because the tenant is liable on privity of contract
and the friend is liable on privity of estate as assignee.

(B)  The friend is liable for $1,400 on privity of estate, which
lasted only until he vacated, and the tenant is liable for
$2,100  on  privity  of  contract  and  estate  for  the  period
after the friend vacated.

(C)  The friend is liable for $3,500 on privity of estate and the
tenant  is  not  liable,  because  the  landlord’s  failure  to
object to the friend’s payment of rent relieved the tenant
of liability.

(D)  The tenant is liable for $3,500 on privity of contract and
the  friend  is  not  liable,  because  a  sublessee  does  not

566

have personal liability to the original landlord.

Answer  18:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  An  assignment  arises
when a tenant transfers all or some of the leased premises to
another  for  the  remainder  of  the  lease  term,  retaining  no
interest  in  the  assigned  premises.  In  this  case,  prior  to  the
agreement  with  the  friend,  the  tenant  had  privity  of  contract
with  the  landlord  because  of  the  lease.  The  tenant  also  had
privity  of  estate  because  the  tenant  was  in  possession  of  the
apartment. Subsequently, an assignment arose when the tenant
transferred the premises to the friend for the remainder of the
lease  term  of  nine  months.  The  friend  was  then  in  privity  of
estate  with  the  landlord  as  to  all  promises  that  run  with  the
land,  including  the  covenant  to  pay  rent.  (When  the  friend
moved out, this did not end the privity of estate, because the
friend did not assign to someone else, and simply abandoned
the  premises.  See  Rest.  2d  (Landlord  &  Tenant),  §  16.1,
Illustr.  24.)  The  tenant  was  not  released  by  the  landlord,
however, and thus remained liable on privity of contract.
(B)  is  incorrect,  because  the  friend  entered  privity  of  estate
with  the  landlord  when  he  received  the  assignment,  and  this
privity of estate remained with the friend until the end of the
lease  because  the  friend  made  no  assignment.  Therefore,  the
friend remained liable on privity of estate for the period after
he vacated. Furthermore, because the landlord never released
the  tenant,  the  tenant  remained  liable  for  the  full  $3,500  on
privity of contract.

(C)  is  incorrect,  because  the  landlord  never  released  the
tenant, thereby keeping the tenant liable on privity of contract
based  on  the  original  lease.  (There  was  no  express  release,
and  a  release  would  not  be  implied  merely  because  the
landlord accepted rent from the friend.)
(D)  is  incorrect,  because  this  choice  assumes  that  the  friend
was a sublessee, which he was not. A sublease arises when a
tenant  transfers  the  right  of  possession  to  all  or  some  of  the
leased premises to another for a time less than the remaining
time  of  the  lease,  or  when  the  tenant  retains  some  other
interest  in  the  premises.  Here,  the  tenant  transferred  all  the
remaining time of the lease to the friend and retained no other
interest.  Accordingly,  this  was  an  assignment  and  not  a

567

sublease.  As  an  assignee,  the  friend  was  in  privity  of  estate
with  the  landlord  as  to  all  promises  that  run  with  the  land,
including the covenant to pay rent.

B.  Running of benefit and burden

1.  Purchase options in leases

a.  Split on exercise apart from lease

Question 19:  Lanny,  the  owner  of  Whiteacre  in  fee  simple,
leased Whiteacre to Ten for a term of ten years by a properly
executed  written  instrument.  The  lease  was  promptly  and
properly recorded. It contained an option for Ten to purchase
Whiteacre by tendering $250,000 as purchase price any time
“during  the  term  of  this  lease.”  One  year  later,  Ten,  by  a
properly executed written instrument, purported to assign the
option to Oscar, expressly retaining all of the remaining term
of the lease. The instrument of assignment was promptly and
properly recorded.
Two years later, Lanny contracted to sell Whiteacre to Jones
and to convey a marketable title “subject to the rights of Ten
under  her  lease.”  Jones  refused  to  close  because  of  the
outstanding option assigned to Oscar.

Lanny brought an appropriate action against Jones for specific
performance.

If judgment is rendered in favor of Lanny, it will be because
the relevant jurisdiction has adopted a rule on a key issue as
to which various state courts have split.

Which  of  the  following  identifies  the  determinative  rule  or
doctrine  upon  which  the  split  occurs,  and  states  the  position
favorable to Lanny?
(A)    In  a  contract  to  buy,  any  form  of  “subject  to  a  lease”
clause that fails to mention expressly an existing option
means that the seller is agreeing to sell free and clear of
any option originally included in the lease.

(B)    Marketable  title  can  be  conveyed  so  long  as  any
outstanding option not mentioned in the purchase contract
has not yet been exercised.

(C)    Options  to  purchase  by  lessees  are  subject  to  the  Rule

Against Perpetuities.

568

(D)    Options  to  purchase  contained  in  a  lease  cannot  be

assigned separately from the lease.

Answer  19:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Courts  disagree  about
whether  a  purchase  option  embodied  in  a  lease  may  be
assigned  independently  of  the  lease.  Since  Lanny  is  arguing
that his title is marketable, the position that purchase options
cannot be assigned independently of the lease is favorable to
Lanny (because that position, if upheld, would certainly mean
that Oscar could not exercise the option, and might even mean
that  Ten  had  rendered  the  option  invalid  by  purporting  to
assign it independently of the lease).

(A)  is  wrong  because,  even  if  the  contract’s  “subject  to  a
lease”  language  meant  what  this  choice  says  it  means  (that
Lanny  is  committing  to  sell  free  and  clear  of  any  option),
Lanny  would  still  lose:  He  would  not  in  fact  be  able  to  sell
free and clear of the purchase option now purportedly held by
Oscar.
(B)  is  wrong  because  the  existence  of  a  purchase  option
renders title unmarketable, even though the option has not yet
been exercised. (If the rule were otherwise, the buyer would
be paying full dollar for property that might be “called away”
from  him  by  exercise  of  the  option  at  any  time,  perhaps  at  a
below-market price.)

(C)  is  wrong  because:  (1)  purchase  options  embodied  in
leases  are  typically  not  subjected  to  the  Rule  against
Perpetuities;  and  (2)  even  if  the  option  here  were  subject  to
the  Rule,  the  option  would  not  thereby  be  rendered  invalid
(since the option must be exercised during the lease term, and
the lease terms falls within “lives in being plus 21 years”).

C.  Agreement by the parties about transfer

1.  Generally enforced

a.  Condemnation awards

Question 20: Six years ago, a landlord and a tenant entered
into  a  ten-year  commercial  lease  of  land.  The  written  lease
provided  that  if  a  public  entity  using  the  power  of  eminent
domain  condemned  any  part  of  the  land,  the  lease  would
the  entire
terminate  and 

landlord  would  receive 

the 

569

condemnation  award.  Thereafter, 
approximately two-thirds of the land.

the  city  condemned

The  tenant  notified  the  city  and  the  landlord  that  an
independent appraisal of the value of the tenant’s possessory
interest established that it substantially exceeded the tenant’s
obligation  under  the  lease  and  that  the  tenant  was  entitled  to
share 
the  award.  The  appraisal  was  accurate.  In  an
appropriate action among the landlord, the tenant, and the city
as  to  the  right  of  the  tenant  to  a  portion  of  the  condemnation
award, for whom will the court likely find?

(A)  The landlord, because the condemnation superseded and

canceled the lease.

(B)  The landlord, because the parties specifically agreed as

to the consequences of condemnation.

(C)  The tenant, because the landlord breached the landlord’s

implied warranty of quiet enjoyment.

(D)    The  tenant,  because  otherwise  the  landlord  would  be

unjustly enriched.

Answer  20:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  lease  between  the
landlord  and  the  tenant  specifically  addressed  what  would
happen if a public entity condemned any part of the land under
its  power  of  eminent  domain.  That  agreement  between  the
parties  controls.  Thus,  the  court  will  find  for  the  landlord:
The  lease  will  terminate  and  the  landlord  will  receive  the
entire condemnation award.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  specific  terms  of  the  lease
supersede  the  condemnation,  not  vice  versa.  If  the  lease  had
been  silent  on  the  issue  of  condemnation,  then  the  result
would  have  depended  on  whether  the  condemnation  was  of
all  the  property,  or  of  just  part.  (With  a  total  condemnation
and  a  lease  silent  on  this  point,  the  leasehold  and  all  the
tenant’s  duties  under  the  lease  would  have  been  terminated,
and  the  tenant  would  have  been  entitled  to  share  in  the
condemnation  award  only  to  the  extent  that  the  fair  market
value  of  his  leasehold  exceeded  his  obligations  under  the
lease.  Had  the  city  condemned  just  part  of  the  property,  in
most  courts  the  tenant  would  have  been  required  to  continue
paying the full rent, but would have been entitled to a portion

570

of the condemnation award to compensate him for the portion
of  the  leasehold  no  longer  available  to  him.)  However,  this
“default” rule for handling a condemnation award will, in all
courts, not be applied if the parties have specified a different
treatment, as they did here.

(C) is wrong because it misstates the law. The taking of all or
part of the leased land, or the taking of some interest in it — 
say  an  easement — by  eminent  domain  does  not  constitute  a
breach  of  the  landlord’s  covenant  of  quiet  enjoyment  of  the
premises because it occurs through no fault of the landlord.

(D)  is  wrong  because  there  has  been  no  unjust  enrichment.
Had  the  lease  not  provided  for  the  consequences  of
condemnation,  the  lease  would  have  remained  in  force,  and
the tenant would, to prevent unjust enrichment of the landlord,
have  gotten  either  a  pro-rata  reduction  of  rent,  some  portion
of the award (if the lease was below-market), or both. But the
fact that the parties expressly agreed that the landlord would
keep the entire award means that there is no unjust enrichment
when the agreed-upon outcome is enforced.

571

CHAPTER 6
EASEMENTS AND SERVITUDES

I.    CREATION OF EASEMENTS

A.  Easement by prescription

1.  Adverse use

Question 21: Oxnard owned Goldacre, a tract of land, in fee
simple.  At  a  time  when  Goldacre  was  in  the  adverse
possession  of  Amos,  Eric  obtained  the  oral  permission  of
Oxnard to use as a road or driveway a portion of Goldacre to
reach  adjoining  land,  Twin  Pines,  which  Eric  owned  in  fee
simple. Thereafter, during all times relevant to this problem,
Eric  used  this  road  between  Goldacre  regularly  for  ingress
and egress between Twin Pines and a public highway.
Amos  quit  possession  of  Goldacre  before  acquiring  title  by
adverse  possession.  Without  any  further  communication
between Oxnard and Eric, Eric continued to use the road for a
total period, from the time he first began to use it, sufficient to
acquire an easement by prescription. Oxnard then blocked the
road and refused to permit its continued use. Eric brought suit
to determine his right to continue use of the road. Eric should
(A)    win,  because  his  use  was  adverse  to  Amos  and  once
adverse  it  continued  adverse  until  some  affirmative
showing of a change.

(B)  win, because Eric made no attempt to renew permission

after Amos quit possession of Goldacre.

(C)  lose, because his use was with permission.
(D)    lose,  because  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  continued
adverse  use  for  the  required  period  after  Amos  quit
possession.

Answer  21:  Choice  (C)  is  correct,  because  it  correctly
identifies the reason Eric will lose: His use of Goldacre was
not  “adverse,”  i.e.,  non-permissive.  The  key  facts  here  are
that Eric had oral permission from Oxnard originally  to  use
the  road  across  Goldacre,  and  Amos  quit  possession  of
Goldacre before acquiring title by adverse possession. What

572

does  this  mean?  That  Eric’s  use  of  Goldacre  was  never
adverse to the interests of the landowner, and that Amos never
had  any  enforceable  rights  to  Goldacre.  In  order  to  gain  an
easement  by  prescription,  one’s  use  of  another’s  property
must  be  actual,  open  and  notorious,  continuous  for  the
statutory  period,  exclusive,  and  hostile  and  adverse  (non-
permissive).  Here,  the  facts  specifically  state  that  Eric  had
Oxnard’s  oral  permission  to  use  the  road  across  Goldacre.
The  red  herring  here  is  the  presence  of  Amos.  However,
Amos  is  merely  in  possession  of  Goldacre.  The  facts  state
that he quit possession before he acquired title to it. Thus, the
elements of an easement by prescription would apply to Eric
vis-à-vis Oxnard, not Eric vis-à-vis Amos.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  focuses  on  the  wrong  fact.  Here,  it
doesn’t  matter  if  Eric’s  use  is  adverse  to  Amos,  because
Amos  is  not  the  landowner — Oxnard  is.  Eric’s  use  is  not
adverse to Oxnard, because the facts state that Oxnard granted
Eric  oral  permission  to  use  the  road  across  Goldacre.  An
easement  by  prescription  requires  use  of  another’s  property
that is actual, open and notorious, continuous for the statutory
period,  exclusive,  and  hostile  and  adverse.  “Hostile  and
adverse”  means  non-permissive  in  this  context.  Here,  since
Eric’s  use  was  with  the  permission  of  the  landowner  the
entire  time,  his  use  was  never  adverse.  Since  A  does  not
recognize this, it’s not the best response.

(B) is wrong because it falsely suggests that Amos’s quitting
possession  of  Goldacre  is  relevant.  It  is  not,  because  an
easement by prescription is gained by adverse use against the
landowner,  not  the  possessor.  Eric  could  only  gain  an
easement  by  prescription  if  his  use  of  Goldacre  as  against
Oxnard  was  actual,  open  and  notorious,  continuous  for  the
statutory period, exclusive, and non-permissive.
(D) is wrong because it focuses on a basically irrelevant fact.
What  matters  is  whether  Eric  had  the  requisite  open  and
hostile use as against the true owner, Oxnard. If Eric hadn’t
originally  gotten  permission  from  Oxnard,  his  time  of  use  of
the  driveway  while  Amos  was  in  adverse  possession  of  the
overall  tract  would  count  against  Oxnard.  So  the  problem  is
not that Eric didn’t use the driveway long enough once Amos

573

left,  it’s  that  Eric’s  entire  use  of  the  driveway  (even  when
Amos was there) wasn’t adverse as against Oxnard.

II.   SCOPE OF EASEMENTS

A.  Development of dominant estate

1.  Remedy for misuse is injunction or damages, not forfeiture

Question 22: A large tract of land was owned by a religious
order.  On  the  land,  the  order  erected  a  large  residential
building where its members reside. The land is surrounded by
rural  residential  properties  and  its  only  access  to  a  public
way  is  afforded  by  an  easement  over  a  strip  of  land  30  feet
wide. The easement was granted to the order by deed from a
the  adjacent  residential
neighbor,  who  owned  one  of 
properties.  The  order  built  a  driveway  on  the  strip,  and  the
easement was used for 20 years without incident or objection.
Last  year,  as  permitted  by  the  applicable  zoning  ordinance,
the  order  constructed  a  200-bed  nursing  home  and  a  parking
lot on their land, using all of the land that was available for
such  development.  The  nursing  home  was  very  successful,
and  on  Sundays  visitors  to  the  nursing  home  overflowed  the
parking  facilities  on  the  land  and  parked  all  along  the
driveway from early in the morning through the evening hours.
After 
resulting  congestion  and
the 
inconvenience,  the  neighbor  erected  a  barrier  across  the
driveway on Sundays preventing any use of the driveway by
anyone  seeking  access  to  the  order’s  land.  The  order
objected.

two  Sundays  of 

The  neighbor  brought  an  appropriate  action  to  terminate  the
easement.
The most likely result in this action is that the court will hold
for
(A)  the neighbor, because the order excessively expanded the

use of the dominant tenement.

(B)    the  neighbor,  because  the  parking  on  the  driveway

exceeded the scope of the easement.

(C)  the order, because expanded use of the easement does not

terminate the easement.

574

(D)  the order, because the neighbor’s use of self help denies

her the right to equitable relief.

Answer 22: Choice (C) is correct. The expanded use of the
easement here — especially the parking along the driveway at
all  hours — probably  does  represent  excessive  use  going
beyond the intended scope of the easement. However, a court
would  almost  certainly  limit  the  remedy  to  an  injunction
against  further  violations,  or  to  damages  for  the  two  past
violations, and would not order a forfeiture of the easement.
That’s  because  forfeitures  are  drastic  remedies,  and  will  be
awarded  in  excessive-use  situations  only  if  no  other  remedy
will  be  adequate,  which  would  not  be  the  case  for  the
violations here.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  order  has  indeed  probably
excessively  expanded  their  use  of  the  easement,  the  court
would  not  order  the  easement  forfeited  as  a  remedy,  for  the
reasons stated above.
(B) is wrong for the same reason (A) is wrong.
(D) is wrong because a court would not grant the neighbor the
extreme remedy of forfeiture whether or not she had used self-
help.

III.  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF

EASEMENTS

A.  Dominant owner’s rights

Question 23: Two adjacent, two-story, commercial buildings
were  owned  by  a  landowner.  The  first  floors  of  both
buildings were occupied by various retail establishments. The
second floors were rented to various other tenants. Access to
the second floor of each building was reached by a common
stairway  located  entirely  in  Building  l.  While  the  buildings
were being used in this manner, the landowner sold Building
1 to an accountant by warranty deed which made no mention
of  any  rights  concerning  the  stairway.  About  two  years  later
the  landowner  sold  Building  2  to  a  lawyer.  The  stairway
continued to be used by the occupants of both buildings. The
stairway became unsafe as a consequence of regular wear and

575

tear.  The  lawyer  entered  upon  the  accountant’s  building  and
began  the  work  of  repairing  the  stairway.  The  accountant
demanded  that  the  lawyer  discontinue  the  repair  work  and
vacate the accountant’s building. When the lawyer refused, the
accountant  brought  an  action  to  enjoin  the  lawyer  from
continuing the work.

Judgment should be for

(A)    the  accountant,  because  the  lawyer  has  no  rights  in  the

stairway.

(B)  the accountant, because the lawyer’s rights in the stairway
do  not  extend  beyond  the  normal  life  of  the  existing
structure.

(C)    the  lawyer,  because  the  lawyer  has  an  easement  in  the
stairway  and  an  implied  right  to  keep  the  stairway  in
repair.

(D)    the  lawyer,  because  the  lawyer  has  a  right  to  take
whatever  action  is  necessary  to  protect  himself  from
possible tort liability to persons using the stairway.
Answer  23:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  At  the  time  of  the
conveyance  by  the  landowner  to  the  lawyer,  the  lawyer
received  an  implied  easement  to  use  the  stairs  for  access  to
Building  2.  (The  three  requirements  for  an  easement  by
implication were met here: (1) the land was “severed” from
common  ownership  when  the  landowner  kept  Building  2
while  selling  Building  1;  (2)  the  use  of  the  stairway  for
access to Building 2 existed prior to this severance; and (3)
the easement was and is reasonably necessary to enjoyment of
Building 2.) The holder of the easement (the lawyer) therefore
had  an  implied  right  to  maintain  the  property  used  in  the
easement, given that the maintenance was compatible with the
intended  use  of  the  easement  and  did  not  unreasonably
interfere  with  the  servient  owner’s  (the  accountant’s)  use  of
the servient estate.
(A)  is  wrong  because  the  lawyer  does  have  rights  in  the
stairway, namely an implied easement.
(B) is wrong because the lawyer as easement holder has the
right  to  maintain  or  repair  the  structure  indefinitely,  not  just
for the normal life of the original staircase.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

576

(D) is wrong because it misstates the reason for the lawyer’s
repair right, which is that the lawyer has an implied easement;
if  the  lawyer  did  not  have  an  implied  easement,  he  would
probably  not  face  tort  liability  for  failing  to  correct  the
stairway  danger  on  property  belonging  to  another,  at  least  if
he  asked  the  owner  (the  accountant)  to  do  the  work  and  the
owner refused.

Question 24: Maria is the owner and possessor of Goodacre,
on which there is a lumber yard. Maria conveyed to Reliable
Electric Company the right to construct and use an overhead
electric  line  across  Goodacre  to  serve  other  properties.  The
conveyance was in writing, but the writing made no provision
concerning the responsibility for repair or maintenance of the
line. Reliable installed the poles and erected the electric line
in  a  proper  and  workmanlike  manner.  Neither  Maria  nor
Reliable  took  any  steps  toward  the  maintenance  or  repair  of
the  line  after  it  was  built.  Neither  party  complained  to  the
other  about  any  failure  to  repair.  Because  of  the  failure  to
repair  or  properly  maintain  the  line,  it  fell  to  the  ground
during a storm. In doing so, it caused a fire in the lumber yard
and  did  considerable  damage.  Maria  sued  Reliable  Electric
Company  to  recover  for  damages  to  the  lumber  yard.  The
decision should be for

(A)  Maria, because the owner of an easement has a duty to so
maintain 
to  avoid  unreasonable
interference with the use of the servient tenement by its
lawful possessor.

the  easement  as 

(B)    Maria,  because  the  owner  of  an  easement  is  absolutely
liable for any damage caused to the servient tenement by
the exercise of the easement.

(C)  Reliable Electric Company, because the possessor of the
servient tenement has a duty to give the easement holder
notice of defective conditions.

(D)    Reliable  Electric  Company,  because  an  easement
holder’s right to repair is a right for his own benefit, and
is  therefore  inconsistent  with  any  duty  to  repair  for  the
benefit of another.

Answer 24: Choice (A) is correct. Reliable has an expressly-
created easement for constructing and using overhead electric

577

lines. Since Reliable was given the right to use Maria’s land,
it’s  the  “dominant”  tenement  holder  (and  Maria  is  the
“servient” tenement holder, since it’s her land that’s burdened
by  the  easement).  The  rule  on  maintaining  easements  is  that
the dominant tenement holder has both the right and the duty
to  use  reasonable  care  to  maintain  the  easement.  Thus,
Reliable  would  have  the  right  to  enter  Maria’s  land  and
repair  the  line  and  poles,  as  necessary,  and  Maria  could  not
object  to  this  interference.  However,  Reliable  also  had  the
duty to use reasonable care to maintain the equipment so it did
not  pose  an  unreasonable  danger  to  Maria’s  land,  and  the
utility, by failing to maintain the line at all, did not fulfill that
duty. As a result, Maria will be able to recover for damages
to the lumber yard.

(B) is wrong because although it arrives at the correct result,
it misstates the responsibility of the dominant tenement holder.
There  is  no  doctrine  that  states  that  an  easement  owner  is
strictly liable for damage caused to the servient tenement by
the  exercise  of  the  easement.  Instead,  the  dominant  holder
merely  has  the  obligation  to  use  reasonable  care  to  maintain
the  easement  in  such  a  way  that  it  does  not  damage  the
servient  property.  If  the  accident  had  happened  without  the
lack  of  due  care  by  Reliable  (which  is  not  the  way  it
happened), Reliable would not be liable to Maria.
(C)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  duty  of  the  servient
tenement  holder,  and  arrives  at  the  wrong  result.  In  general,
the dominant holder has the obligation to use reasonable care
to maintain the easement so that it does not pose unreasonable
risk  to  the  servient  parcel.  This  obligation  includes  an
obligation to inspect. So the mere fact that Maria didn’t give
notice  of  the  problem  doesn’t  save  Reliable  from  liability.
(Indeed,  an  electric  utility  ought  to  be  able  to  recognize
maintenance issues more easily than a non-utility customer.)
(D) is wrong because it fails to recognize Reliable Electric’s
duty  to  Maria.  The  holder  of  an  easement  has  both  the  right
and  the  duty  to  take  reasonable  steps  to  maintain  the
easement.

1.  Limited right to contribution

578

Question 25: Beach owned a tract of land called Blackacre.
An  old  road  ran  through  Blackacre  from  the  abutting  public
highway.  The  road  had  been  used  to  haul  wood  from
Blackacre.  Without  Beach’s  permission  and  with  no  initial
right,  Daniel,  the  owner  of  Whiteacre,  which  adjoined
Blackacre, traveled over the old road for a period of 15 years
to  obtain  access  to  Whiteacre,  although  Whiteacre  abutted
another public road. Occasionally, Daniel made repairs to the
old road.

The  period  of  time  to  acquire  rights  by  prescription  in  the
jurisdiction is ten years.

After the expiration of 15 years, Beach conveyed a portion of
Blackacre to Carrol. The deed included the following clause:
“together with the right to pass and repass at all times and for
all purposes over the old road.” Carrol built a house fronting
on  the  old  road.  After  the  conveyance,  Beach  has  used  the
road  once  or  twice  per  year.  Daniel  almost  never  uses  the
road anymore.

The road was severely damaged by a spring flood, and Carrol
made substantial repairs to the road. Carrol asked Daniel and
Beach to contribute one-third each to the cost of repairing the
flood  damage.  They  both  refused,  and  Carrol  brought  an
appropriate  action  to  compel  contribution  from  Beach  and
Daniel.

In this action, Carrol will

(A)  lose as to both defendants.
(B)  win as to both defendants.
(C)  win as to Beach, but lose as to Daniel.
(D)  win as to Daniel, but lose as to Beach.
Answer 25: Choice (A) is correct. Carrol is the owner of the
dominant  tenement  (i.e.,  the  owner  of  the  easement),  and
Beach  is  the  owner  of  the  servient  tenement.  Beach,  as  the
servient  owner,  has  no  obligation  to  contribute  one-third  of
Carrol’s 
repair  expenditures.  Beach  may  have  some
obligation  of  reimbursement,  based  on  the  intensity  and
frequency of his bridge use versus Carrol’s, but certainly not
a one-third-of-total-cost obligation, since Beach clearly does
not represent one-third of the total usage of the bridge. As to

579

Daniel,  he  may  well  have  obtained  an  easement  by
prescription.  But  even  if  he  has  done  so,  he,  too,  has  no
obligation  to  reimburse  Carrol  for  one-third  of  the  latter’s
expenditures, because Daniel, like Beach, rarely makes use of
the bridge, and has at most an obligation to reimburse for his
small pro rata share of total usage.

Choices  (B),  (C),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

IV.  TRANSFER AND SUBDIVISION OF

EASEMENTS

A.  Transfer of benefit

1.  Transfer of easements appurtenant

a.  Deed to dominant parcel is silent

Question 26:  Olwen  owned  80  acres  of  land,  fronting  on  a
town  road.  Two  years  ago,  Olwen  sold  to  Buck  the  back  40
acres.  The  40  acres  sold  to  Buck  did  not  adjoin  any  public
road. Olwen’s deed to Buck expressly granted a right-of-way
over a specified strip of Olwen’s retained 40 acres, so Buck
could  reach  the  town  road.  The  deed  was  promptly  and
properly recorded.
Last year, Buck conveyed the back 40 acres to Sam. They had
discussed the right-of-way over Olwen’s land to the road, but
Buck’s deed to Sam made no mention of it. Sam began to use
the right-of-way as Buck had, but Olwen sued to enjoin such
use by Sam.

The court should decide for
(A)  Sam, because he has an easement by implication.
(B)  Sam, because the easement appurtenant passed to him as a

result of Buck’s deed to him.

(C)    Olwen,  because  Buck’s  easement  in  gross  was  not

transferable.

(D)  Olwen, because Buck’s deed failed expressly to transfer

the right-of-way to Sam.

Answer 26: Choice (B) is correct. What we have here is an

580

easement appurtenant, because the easement is for the benefit
of  a  particular  parcel  (the  back  40  acres).  An  easement
appurtenant passes to the new holder of the dominant tenement
automatically, even if the deed to the dominant tenement does
not mention the easement.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  easement  here  is  an  express
easement,  not  one  by  implication.  Furthermore,  even  if  the
easement  here  were  an  easement  by  implication,  it  would
automatically pass together with the dominant tenement.

(C) is wrong because the easement here is appurtenant, not in
gross. That is, it is clear from the surrounding circumstances
that the easement is being used to benefit a particular parcel
(the back 40 acres), not to benefit Buck irrespective of Buck’s
ownership  of  those  40  acres.  So  while  many  courts  indeed
hold  that  an  easement  in  gross  is  not  transferable  if  the
document creating it is silent on the issue, this principle won’t
apply to the facts here.

(D)  is  wrong  because,  as  described  in  the  answer  to  (B)
above,  an  easement  appurtenant  will  pass  together  with  the
dominant  tenement,  even  if  the  deed  conveying  the  dominant
tenement does not mention the easement.

V.   LICENSES

A.  Definition

1.  Oral agreement must produce a license, not an easement

Question  27:  A 
landowner  orally  gave  his  neighbor
permission  to  share  the  use  of  the  private  road  on  the
landowner’s  land  so  that  the  neighbor  could  have  more
convenient access to the neighbor’s land. Only the landowner
maintained the road. After the neighbor had used the road on a
daily basis for three years, the landowner conveyed his land
to  a  grantee,  who  immediately  notified  the  neighbor  that  the
neighbor  was  not  to  use  the  road.  The  neighbor  sued  the
grantee seeking a declaration that the neighbor had a right to
continue to use the road.

Who is likely to prevail?
(A)  The grantee, because an oral license is invalid.

581

(B)  The grantee, because the neighbor had a license that the

grantee could terminate at any time.

(C)    The  neighbor,  because  the  grantee  is  estopped  to

terminate the neighbor’s use of the road.

(D)  The neighbor, because the neighbor’s use of the road was
open and notorious when the grantee purchased the land.
Answer 27: Choice (B) is correct. A license is permission to
use the land of another. It is ordinarily revocable, and is not
subject  to  the  Statute  of  Frauds.  In  this  case,  because  the
neighbor had the landowner’s permission to use the road and
did not expend any money, property, or labor pursuant to the
agreement  (i.e.,  the  neighbor  did  substantially  rely  on  the
continued  availability  of  the  license),  the  neighbor  had  a
license  that  was  revocable — and  effectively  revoked — by
the grantee.

(A)  is  incorrect  because,  while  this  option  correctly  states
that the grantee will prevail, it misstates the reason why this
is  so.  A  license  (unlike  an  easement)  is  not  subject  to  the
Statute of Frauds; it may be oral, written, or implied.
(C)  is  incorrect  because  for  estoppel  to  apply  to  make  a
license  (which  is  ordinarily  revocable)  irrevocable,  the
neighbor  must  have  expended  money,  property,  or  labor
pursuant  to  the  agreement.  In  this  case,  the  landowner  alone
maintained  the  road.  The  neighbor’s  use  of  the  land  by
permission,  without  expense,  was  therefore  a  revocable
license that was effectively revoked by the grantee.

(D)  is  incorrect.  An  open  and  notorious  use  of  the  road
suggests  a  claim  for  an  easement  by  prescription.  However,
the  use  was  with  permission,  which  prevents  a  prescriptive
claim.  (Also,  the  use  was  for  just  three  years,  making  it
extremely  unlikely  that  the  statutory  period  for  adverse
possession-type  claims  could  have 
the
neighbor’s use of the land was a license that was effectively
revoked by the grantee.

Instead, 

run.) 

VI.  EQUITABLE SERVITUDES/RESTRICTIVE

COVENANTS

582

A.  Intent to benefit plaintiff’s parcel

Question  28:  A  landowner  owned  a  large  tract  of  land.
During the landowner’s lifetime, he conveyed the eastern half
of  the  tract  to  his  son,  and  the  western  half  to  his  daughter.
The  two  halves  of  the  tract  were  located  in  different
the  conveyances,  which  were
municipalities.  Each  of 
promptly  and  properly  recorded,  contained  the  following
language:

                              The parties agree for themselves and their heirs and assigns that the premises herein conveyed shall
be used only for residential purposes; that each lot created within the premises herein conveyed
shall contain not less than five acres; and that each lot shall have not more than one single-family
dwelling. This agreement shall bind all successor owners of all or any portion of the tract, and
any owner of any part of the tract may enforce this covenant.

After  the  landowner’s  death,  the  landowner’s  son  desired  to
build  houses  on  one-half  acre  lots  in  his  half  of  the  tract,  as
authorized by current applicable zoning and building codes in
its  municipality.  The  area  surrounding  the  son’s  half  of  the
tract  was  developed  as  a  residential  community  with  homes
built on one-half acre lots. The western half of the tract was
in  a  residential  area  covered  by  a  zoning  code  that  allowed
residential development only on five-acre tracts of land. In an
appropriate action brought by the daughter to enjoin the son’s
proposed  construction  on  one-half  acre  lots,  the  court  will
find the quoted restriction to be

(A)    invalid,  because  of  the  change  of  circumstance  in  the

neighborhood.

(B)    invalid,  because  it  conflicts  with  the  applicable  zoning

code.

(C)  valid, but only so long as the original grantees from the

landowner own their respective tracts.

(D)    valid,  because  the  provision  imposed  an  equitable

servitude.

Answer  28:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Where  a  promise
regarding  land  use  is  a  negative  one — i.e.,  one  forbidding
certain uses — the promise is called an “equitable servitude.”
An  equitable  servitude  is  not  enforceable  by  the  owner  of  a
particular  parcel  unless  the  original  parties  intended  to
benefit that particular parcel. The language in the deeds from

583

the  landowner  to  his  son  and  from  the  landowner  to  his
daughter specifically provided that “any owner of any part of
the  tract  may  enforce  the  covenant”;  the  fact  that  the
daughter’s parcel was part of the tract shows that that parcel
was  intended  to  be  benefitted  by  the  restriction.  Since  the
daughter’s  parcel  was  intended  to  be  benefitted,  and  since
equitable  servitudes  are  generally  enforceable,  the  daughter
wins.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  change  in  local  land  use  does  not
mean that the court will not enforce the servitude. There can
be  extreme  circumstances  in  which  a  change  of  land  use
throughout  an  entire  neighborhood  might  lead  a  court  to
conclude  that  it  should  no  longer  enforce  an  equitable
servitude;  but  the  mere  fact  that  uses  inconsistent  with  the
servitude are now prevalent in adjacent parcels would not be
enough.  That’s  especially  true  where,  as  here,  some  of  the
parcels near plaintiff (i.e., any parcel on the western side of
the  municipal  line)  are  used  in  a  way  that  is  consistent  with
the restriction.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  fact  that  a  use  forbidden  by  a
servitude  is  allowed  by  local  zoning  codes  won’t  cause  a
court  to  refuse  enforcement  of  an  otherwise  valid  restriction
unless the entire area in question has changed in such a way
that enforcement would be of little value. So where, as here,
use patterns on the western side are still five-acre minimums,
the fact that the zoning code applicable to the eastern side is
inconsistent  with  five-acre-minimums  would  not  induce  the
court to relax the enforcement of the servitude.

(C)  is  wrong,  because  courts  will  enforce  an  equitable
servitude  against  a  subsequent  owner  of  burdened  land  who
took with actual or constructive notice. So if, for instance, the
son  sold  to  a  buyer,  that  buyer  would  be  deemed  to  have
constructive notice of the restriction (it’s in her chain of title).
Consequently, 
landowner’s  daughter  could  get  an
injunction against the buyer even though the buyer was not an
“original grantee.”

the 

B.  Running of benefit and burden

Question 29: A landowner owned five adjoining, rectangular

584

lots,  numbered  1  through  5  inclusive,  all  fronting  on  Main
Street. All of the lots are in a zone limited to one- and two-
family residences under the zoning ordinance. Two years ago,
the  landowner  conveyed  Lots  1,  3,  and  5.  None  of  the  three
deeds  contained  any  restrictions.  Each  of  the  new  owners
built a one-family residence.

One year ago, the landowner conveyed Lot 2 to a developer.
The  deed  provided  that  each  of  the  developer  and  the
landowner,  as  well  as  their  respective  heirs  and  assigns,
would  use  Lots  2  and  4  respectively  only  for  one-family,
residential  purposes.  The  deed  was  promptly  and  properly
recorded. The developer built a one-family residence on Lot
2.  Last  month,  the  landowner  conveyed  Lot  4  to  an  investor.
The  deed  contained  no  restrictions.  The  deed  from  the
landowner  to  the  developer  was  in  the  title  report  examined
by  the  investor’s  lawyer.  The  investor  obtained  a  building
permit  and  commenced  construction  of  a 
two-family
residence  on  Lot  4.  The  developer,  joined  by  the  owners  of
Lots  1,  3,  and  5,  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  the
investor to enjoin the proposed use of Lot 4, or, alternatively,
damages caused by the investor’s breach of covenant. Which
is  the  most  appropriate  comment  concerning  the  outcome  of
this action?
(A)  All plaintiffs should be awarded their requested judgment
for injunction because there was a common development
scheme, but award of damages should be denied to all.

(B)  The developer should be awarded an appropriate remedy,

but recovery by the other plaintiffs is doubtful.

(C)    Injunction  should  be  denied,  but  damages  should  be
awarded  to  all  plaintiffs,  measured  by  diminution  of
market value, if any, suffered as a result of the proximity
of the investor’s two-family residence.

(D)    All  plaintiffs  should  be  denied  any  recovery  or  relief
because  the  zoning  preempts  any  private  scheme  of
covenants.

Answer 29: Choice (B)  is  correct.  The  plaintiff  owner  of  a
parcel  can’t  gain  enforcement  of  either  a  covenant  at  law  or
an  inequitable  servitude  against  a  defendant  who  is  the
“downstream” owner of a burdened parcel (i.e., one who took

585

after the burden was imposed), unless: (1) there was an intent
by the original parties to benefit the parcel now owned by the
plaintiff; and (2) the defendant was on actual or constructive
notice of the nature of the restriction at the time she took. In
the case of the suit by the developer on behalf of Lot 2, both
of  these  requirements  are  satisfied:  (1)  the  landowner-to-
developer  deed  made  it  clear  that  both  Lots  2  and  4  were
being  both  burdened  and  benefited  by  mutual  single-family-
only  restrictions  (so  the  requisite  intent  to  benefit  Lot  2  is
present);  and  (2)  the  investor  was  on  constructive  (and
probably  actual)  notice  of  the  restriction  on  the  lot  she  was
buying at the time she bought because it was mentioned in the
landowner-to-developer  deed  that  was  part  of  the  investor’s
title report (and, indeed, from this the investor knew that that
restriction  was  intended  to  benefit  Lot  2).  Therefore,  the
developer will likely be entitled to his choice of an injunction
and  damages  (i.e.,  to  recover  on  the  equitable  servitude  or,
alternatively, for breach of covenant at law).

The  owners  of  Lots  1,  3,  and  5,  by  contrast,  cannot  satisfy
either  of  these  requirements:  (1)  nothing  indicates  that  at  the
time  the  landowner  conveyed  these  three  lots,  he  was
intending (then or ever) to create any equitable restrictions on
any  of  his  five  lots,  so  the  present  owners  of  the  three  lots
cannot  show  that  their  parcels  were  ever  intended  to  be
benefited; and (2) the investor, at the time she took, was not
on  notice  that  Lots  1,  3,  and  5  were  to  be  benefited  by  any
restriction on the parcel she was buying. So these owners are
unlikely to get any relief against the investor.

(A)  is  wrong  because  there  was  no  common  development
scheme at the time Lots 1, 3, and 5 were conveyed. It’s true
that had there been in place, at the time Lots 1, 3, and 5 were
conveyed,  a  “plan  of  development”  (say,  a  filed  subdivision
plat) showing an intent to keep the whole development single-
family  residential,  the  owners  of  Lots  1,  3,  and  5  might
succeed with an “implied reciprocal servitude” argument, that
the landowner implicitly promised them that he’d burden his
remaining lots consistently with this plan and that the investor
should have known of this promise and be required to honor
it.  But  the  facts  do  not  indicate  that  any  such  plan  existed  at

586

the time the landowner sold Lots 1, 3, and 5.

(C) is wrong because, as noted in the analysis of Choice (B),
owners cannot recover damages (i.e., recover on a covenant
at law) unless they can show that there was an intent to give
their  parcels  the  benefit  of  the  restrictive  promise,  an  intent
which  is  absent  as  to  Lots  1,  3,  and  5.  The  fact  that  the
landowner  later  developed  such  a  purpose  to  burden  his
remaining lots doesn’t help — there must have been an intent-
to-burden at the time when the landowner still owned the lots
in question.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  existence  of  a  zoning  scheme  that
allows the activity in question doesn’t trump a stricter scheme
of  covenants.  If  the  zoning  scheme  was  stricter,  it  would
prevail  (landowners  can’t  by  mutual  agreement  cause  strict
zoning  rules  to  be  relaxed).  But  the  converse  is  not  true — 
indeed, the whole idea of restrictive covenants is that they can
be used to forbid uses that are allowed by the zoning rules.

to  build  and  maintain  within 

Question  30:  A  realty  company  developed  a  residential
development,  which  included  single-family  dwellings,  town
houses,  and  high-rise  apartments  for  a  total  of  25,000
dwelling units.
Included in the deed to each unit was a covenant under which
the  grantee  and  the  grantee’s  ‘‘heirs  and  assigns’’  agreed  to
purchase  electrical  power  only  from  a  plant  the  realty
company  promised 
the
development.  The  realty  company  constructed  the  plant  and
the  necessary  power  lines.  The  plant  did  not  supply  power
outside the development. An appropriate and fair formula was
used to determine price. After constructing and selling 12,500
of  the  units,  the  realty  company  sold  its  interest  in  the
development to an investor. The investor operated the power
plant  and  constructed  and  sold  the  remaining  12,500  units.
Each  conveyance  from  the  investor  contained  the  same
covenant relating to electrical power that the realty company
had  included  in  the  12,500  conveyances  it  had  made.  A
woman bought a dwelling unit from its former resident, who
had  purchased  it  from  the  realty  company.  Subsequently,  the
woman,  whose 
the
development,  ceased  buying  electrical  power  from  the

the  boundary  of 

lot  was  along 

587

in 

investor and began purchasing power from an outside electric
company,  which  provided  such  service 
the  area
surrounding  the  development.  Both  the  electric  company  and
the  investor  have  governmental  authorization  to  provide
electrical  services  to  the  area.  The  investor  instituted  an
appropriate  action  against  the  woman  to  enjoin  her  from
obtaining electrical power from the outside electric company.
Assume  that  the  jurisdiction  follows  the  traditional  rule  for
the running of covenants. If judgment is for the woman, it most
likely will be because

(A)  the covenant does not touch and concern the land.
(B)    the  mixture  of  types  of  residential  units  is  viewed  as

preventing one common development scheme.

(C)  the covenant is a restraint on alienation.
(D)  there is no privity of estate between the woman and the

investor.

Answer  30:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  covenant  here  is
ostensibly  a  ‘‘real’’  covenant,  which  is  a  promise  related  to
land  that  is  enforceable  by  (and  against)  subsequent  holders
of the land. Traditionally, for a covenant to be “real” (i.e., to
be enforceable by and against subsequent landholders) (1) the
original parties must have intended that the covenant run with
the land, (2) the covenant must “touch and concern” the land,
(3) the Statute of Frauds must be satisfied, and (4) privity of
estate  must  exist.  Choice  A  correctly  focuses  on  the  touch-
and-concern  requirement.  A  covenant  does  not  touch  and
concern the land if it doesn’t change the value, use, or utility
of the land. Most typically, covenants that touch and concern
the  land  are  building  restrictions,  although  even  payments  to
homeowner’s  associations  can  qualify.  However,  a  mere
agreement  to  purchase  electricity  from  the  realty  company’s
facility  would  traditionally  not  be  considered  to  touch  and
concern  the  residential  owner’s  land;  therefore,  it  couldn’t
‘‘run with’’ the land, and, as a result, the woman would not be
bound  by  it  without  her  personally  covenanting  to  do  so.
Since,  of  the  four  answer  choices  presented,  Choice  A
correctly identifies the most likely basis on which the woman
will  prevail,  it’s  the  best  response.  (Note  that,  under  the
modern  trend,  as  represented  by  §  3.2  of  the  Third

588

Restatement  (Servitudes),  the  covenant  need  not  fulfill  the
touch-and-concern  requirement  in  order  to  run.  But  you’re
told that the jurisdiction follows the “traditional rule” for the
running  of  covenants,  and  touch-and-concern  is  part  of  the
traditional set of rules.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law,  and,  in  any  case,
does correctly characterize these facts. The covenant here, if
it  is  enforceable  at  all,  is  a  “real  covenant,”  whose
requirements are summarized in the discussion of Choice (A)
above. The requirement to which Choice (B) refers is not for
a real covenant, but for an “implied reciprocal servitude.” An
implied  reciprocal  servitude  is  a  means  by  which  a
subsequent property owner can be bound by a covenant that is
not  present  in  his  own  deed  (or  in  the  deed  of  his
predecessor(s)),  but  that  is  present  in  deeds  from  the  same
grantor  to  prior  purchasers  of  different  parcels,  typically  in
the  same  subdivision.  That  isn’t  the  case  here,  since  the
covenant  appeared  in  the  deed  to  the  woman’s  predecessor.
So  there  is  no  place  for  the  doctrine  of  implied  reciprocal
servitudes. In any case, even if the doctrine applied, the fact
that  not  all  the  dwellings  were  of  the  same  type  would  not
prevent a common development scheme from existing.
(C) is wrong, because it does not focus on the correct issue,
and,  in  any  case,  misstates  the  law.  Restraints  on  alienation
are not per se invalid; for instance, promissory restraints are
valid,  as  in  the  case  of  prohibitions  against  subletting  and
assignment  in  landlord-tenant  agreements.  Restraints  are
viewed narrowly by courts, but they can be valid. While the
covenant here would be a restraint on alienation, it would not
be  invalid  for  that  reason,  since  if  the  covenant  touched  and
concerned  the  land,  it  would  be  enforceable  as  a  ‘‘real’’
covenant.
(D)  is  wrong,  because  it  is  factually  incorrect.  There  is
privity  between  the  woman  and  the  investor,  because  most
states hold that privity exists if both interests ultimately come
from  a  common  grantor  (here,  the  realty  company).  Instead,
the  problem  here 
touch-and-concern  element
traditionally  required  for  a  real  covenant,  as  discussed  in
Choice A.

the 

is 

589

1.  Requirement of notice

Question  31:  In  2000,  Oscar,  owner  of  a  100-acre  tract,
prepared and duly recorded a subdivision plan called Happy
Acres. The plan showed 100 one-acre lots, and said that these
lots would be “single-family, no mobile homes allowed.”

In  2001,  Oscar  sold  60  of  the  lots  to  individual  purchasers.
Each  deed  referred  to  the  recorded  plan  and  also  contained
the following clause: “No mobile homes shall be erected on
any  lot  within  Happy  Acres.”  Sarah  was  one  of  the  original
purchasers from Oscar.

In 2006, Oscar sold the remaining 40 lots to Max by a deed
which  referred  to  the  plan  and  contained  the  restriction
relating to mobile homes. Max sold the 40 lots to individual
purchasers,  whose  deeds  from  Max  did  not  include  the
mobile-home  restriction.  One  of  those  purchasers  was  Joe,
who did not know of the no-mobile-homes restriction in any
prior  deeds  within  Happy  Acres.  Joe  then  placed  a  mobile
home  on  his  lot.  Sarah  now  brings  an  action  against  Joe  to
force him to remove the mobile home. The result of this action
will be in favor of

(A)  Sarah, because the restrictive covenant in her deed runs

with the land.

(B)    Sarah,  because  the  presence  of  the  mobile  home  may

adversely affect the market value of her land.

(C)    Joe,  because  his  deed  did  not  contain  the  restrictive

covenant.

(D)    Joe,  because  he  is  not  a  direct  but  a  remote  grantee  of

Oscar.

Answer  31:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  A  restrictive  covenant
will  normally  run  with  the  land,  i.e.,  be  enforceable  by
subsequent  grantees  of  the  benefitted  parcels,  and  against
subsequent  grantees  of  the  burdened  parcels,  if  the  original
parties  intended  that  it  run.  The  existence  of  the  filed
subdivision  plat  with  the  restriction,  and  the  fact  that  Oscar
took  the  trouble  to  insert  the  restriction  in  all  his  deeds,
establish  that  he  and  his  grantees  intended  the  burden  and
benefit  of  the  restriction  to  run.  Meanwhile,  Joe,  as  a
subsequent  grantee,  will  only  be  bound  by  the  restrictive

590

covenant  if  he  was  on  actual  or  constructive  notice  when  he
took.  “Constructive”  notice  includes  “record”  notice.  Here,
Joe  was  on  record  notice  of  the  restriction.  That’s  true
because  although  Joe’s  deed  did  not  itself  refer  to  the  no-
mobile-homes  restriction,  that  restriction  was  present  in  a
prior  recording  in  his  chain  of  title  (the  Oscar-Max  deed).
And  a  purchaser  is  deemed  to  be  on  record  notice  of  any
restrictions in his chain of title. Intuitively, this makes sense 
— Joe’s lawyer could have and should have found the Oscar-
to-Max  deed,  and  noticed  the  restriction.  (Or,  the  lawyer
could have and should have noticed that the lot was part of a
filed subdivision plat that contained the restriction.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  it  cites  is  irrelevant  to  the
issues here. The mere fact that the presence of mobile homes
would  adversely  affect  the  value  of  Sarah’s  land  does  not
mean that Sarah has a legally cognizable right to forbid their
presence. As a general principle, the owner of land may put
the  land  to  any  lawful  use  he  chooses,  without  regard  to  the
impact  on  the  market  value  of  other,  neighboring  properties.
Thus,  even  if  (B)  were  true,  it  would  not  provide  a  sound
basis for Sarah to prevail.

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  does  not  correctly  cite  the  rule  on
restrictive  covenants  (or  “equitable  servitudes,”  as  they  are
also  called).  Restrictive  covenants  will  bind  subsequent
purchasers of the land as long as the original parties intended
that the agreement will run with the land, and the subsequent
purchaser had actual or constructive notice of the restriction.
Here,  Joe  had  constructive  notice  (namely,  record  notice)  of
the restriction, as further explained in (A). Therefore, the fact
that Joe’s own deed did not contain the covenant is irrelevant.
(D) is wrong because as long as the restriction was intended
to run with the land, the fact that the person sought to be bound
is a remote grantee of the original, covenanting party — here,
Oscar — is  irrelevant.  That’s  what  the  fact  that  the  covenant
or  restriction  “runs  with  the  land”  means — the  restriction
binds  remote  grantees  who  take  with  actual  or  constructive
(including record) notice.

Question 32: Able, owner of Blackacre and Whiteacre, two
to  Baker  and
adjoining  parcels,  conveyed  Whiteacre 

591

covenanted  in  the  deed  to  Baker  that  when  he,  Able,  sold
Blackacre he would impose restrictive covenants to prohibit
uses  that  would  compete  with  the  filling  station  that  Baker
intended to construct and operate on Whiteacre. The deed was
not recorded.

Baker constructed and operated a filling station on Whiteacre
and  then  conveyed  Whiteacre  to  Dodd,  who  continued  the
filling  station  use.  The  deed  did  not  refer  to  the  restrictive
covenant and was promptly and properly recorded.

Able  then  conveyed  Blackacre  to  Egan,  who  knew  about
Able’s covenant with Baker to impose a covenant prohibiting
the
the  filling  station  use  but  nonetheless  completed 
transaction  when  he  noted  that  no  such  covenant  was
contained  in  Able’s  deed  to  him.  Egan  began  to  construct  a
filling station on Blackacre.

Dodd brought an appropriate action to enjoin Egan from using
Blackacre for filling station purposes.
If Dodd prevails, it will be because
(A)    Egan  had  actual  knowledge  of  the  covenant  to  impose

restrictions.

(B)  Egan is bound by the covenant because of the doctrine of

negative reciprocal covenants.

(C)  business-related restrictive covenants are favored in the

law.

(D)    Egan  has  constructive  notice  of  the  possibility  of  the

covenant resulting from the circumstances.

Answer  32:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  Dodd  can  win  only  if
Egan is found to have been bound by Able’s promise to Baker
that  Able  would  impose  a  restriction  on  Blackacre  when  he
sold it. A subsequent purchaser of a use-restricted parcel can
be bound by the restriction only if he had some sort of notice
of the restriction at the time he took. Egan did not have record
notice  of  the  restriction  because  (1)  the  restriction  was  not
contained  in  the  Able-to-Egan  deed  by  which  Egan  took
Blackacre;  and  (2)  even  if  the  Able-to-Baker  deed  to
Whiteacre was held to be within Egan’s chain of title (which
it  wouldn’t  be),  that  wouldn’t  give  Egan  notice,  because  the
Able-to-Baker deed was not recorded, so Egan couldn’t have

592

discovered the restriction by tracing back title to Whiteacre in
the public records. Therefore, the only way Egan could have
received the required notice (and thus lose) is if he had actual
notice  or  some  form  of  constructive  notice  not  involving
record notice. (A), by referring specifically to Egan’s “actual
knowledge” of the restriction, is the only choice that satisfies
the  notice-to-Egan  requirement.  And  as  we  know  from  the
statement of facts, Egan indeed had such actual knowledge.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  doctrine  of  negative
reciprocal covenants might apply to restrict Whiteacre, Egan
wouldn’t be bound by that restriction if he didn’t have some
form  of  notice,  and  this  choice  does  not  refer  to  the  notice
problem.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  like  (B),  it  fails  to  refer  to  the  key
point, notice to Egan.

(D) is wrong because, while Egan might indeed lose if he had
constructive  notice  of  the  possibility  of  the  restriction,  such
constructive  notice  was  not  present  in  the  facts  here:  The
mere  fact  that  Able  sold  Whiteacre  to  Baker  and  that  Baker
put  a  filling  station  on  the  property  would  not  suggest  to  a
reasonable  purchaser  of  the  adjacent  Blackacre  parcel  that
Able would likely have restricted Blackacre by giving Baker
a non-compete. (Otherwise any purchaser of a commercially-
zoned  parcel  would  have  to  check  into  the  facts  surrounding
his seller’s sale of any other nearby parcel, to make sure that
the  seller  didn’t  give  a  non-compete,  too  large  a  burden  on
buyers to make sense.)

C.  Developer’s building plan

1.  Plan filed without restriction

Question  33:  A  fee-simple  landowner  lawfully  subdivided
his  land  into  10  large  lots.  The  recorded  subdivision  plan
imposed  no  restrictions  on  any  of  the  10  lots.  Within  two
months after recording the plan, the landowner conveyed Lot
1  to  a  buyer,  by  a  deed  that  contained  no  restriction  on  the
lot’s use. There was then a lull in sales. Two years later, the
real  estate  market  in  the  state  had  generally  improved  and,
during the next six months, the landowner sold and conveyed
eight of the remaining nine lots. In each of the eight deeds of

593

conveyance,  the  landowner  included  the  following  language:
“It is a term and condition of this conveyance, which shall be
a covenant running with the land for the benefit of each of the
10  lots  [with  an  appropriate  reference  to  the  recorded
subdivision plan], that for 15 years from the date of recording
of  the  plan,  no  use  shall  be  made  of  the  premises  herein
conveyed except for single-family residential purposes.” The
buyer  of  Lot  1  had  actual  knowledge  of  what  the  landowner
had done. The landowner included the quoted language in part
because  the  zoning  ordinance  of  the  municipality  had  been
amended  a  year  earlier  to  permit  professional  offices  in  any
residential  zone.  Shortly  after  the  landowner’s  most  recent
sale, when he owned only one unsold lot, the buyer of Lot 1
constructed a one-story house on Lot 1 and then conveyed Lot
1 to a doctor. The deed to the doctor contained no reference to
any restriction on the use of Lot 1. The doctor applied for an
appropriate  certificate  of  occupancy  to  enable  her  to  use  a
part of the house on Lot 1 as a medical office. The landowner,
on  behalf  of  himself  as  the  owner  of  the  unsold  lot,  and  on
behalf of the other lot owners, sued to enjoin the doctor from
carrying out her plans and to impose the quoted restriction on
Lot 1.

Who is likely to prevail?
(A)    The  doctor,  because  Lot  1  was  conveyed  without  the
inclusion  of  the  restrictive  covenant  in  the  deed  to  the
first buyer and the subsequent deed to the doctor.

(B)    The  doctor,  because  zoning  ordinances  override  private
restrictive covenants as a matter of public policy.
(C)    The  landowner,  because  the  doctor,  as  a  successor  in
interest to the first buyer, is estopped to deny that Lot 1
remains  subject  to  the  zoning  ordinance  as  it  existed
when Lot 1 was first conveyed by the landowner to the
first buyer.

(D)  The landowner, because with the first buyer’s knowledge
of  the  facts,  Lot  1  became  incorporated  into  a  common
scheme.

Answer  33:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  To  be  binding,  a
restrictive covenant must be placed on property at the time it
is conveyed. Here, neither the deed to the first buyer nor the

594

deed  to  the  doctor  contains  the  restrictive  covenant.  The
burden cannot be attached to Lot 1 at a later time by someone
who  has  no  interest  in  Lot  1,  even  if  that  person  (here,  the
landowner)  purports  to  be  acting  on  behalf  of  the  entire
subdivision. Therefore, the doctor may proceed with her plan
to use part of the property as a medical office.

(B)  is  incorrect,  because  although  this  option  correctly
concludes that the doctor will prevail, it misstates the reason
why  this  is  so.  Zoning  ordinances  do  not  automatically
override a private restrictive covenant. The stricter of either
the zoning ordinance or the covenant will prevail. In this case,
the  doctor  will  prevail  because  the  restrictive  covenant  was
not  in  the  deed  to  the  first  buyer  of  Lot  1,  nor  was  it  in  the
deed to the doctor.

(C) is incorrect. Public land use controls and private land use
controls  are  separate  issues.  Zoning  may  be  changed.  In  this
case,  the  zoning  was  changed  a  year  after  the  first  buyer
purchased Lot 1. The doctor’s use of Lot 1 is governed by the
zoning in existence during the time of the doctor’s ownership,
and  the  previous  zoning  of  the  property  is  irrelevant.  The
doctor may proceed with her plan to use part of the property
as a medical office, because the restrictive covenant was not
in the deed to the first buyer of Lot 1, nor was it in the deed to
the doctor.

(D) is incorrect. To be binding, a restrictive covenant must be
placed on property at the time when it is conveyed. The first
buyer’s learning of the covenant two years after he acquired it
is irrelevant, and does not incorporate Lot 1 into the common
scheme of the subdivision; nor does the actual knowledge of
any  subsequent  buyer  of  Lot  1  (even  knowledge  acquired
before he took) have any effect. A common-scheme argument
might prevail as to subsequent purchasers of other lots in the
subdivision who took from the landowner after the landowner
had already burdened other parcels with the restriction. As to
Lot 1, however, the doctor may proceed with her plan to use
part  of  the  property  as  a  medical  office,  because  the
restrictive covenant was not in the deed to the first buyer, nor
was it in the deed to the doctor.

595

VII. MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF

COVENANTS AND SERVITUDES

A.  Modification and termination generally

1.  Passage of time

Question 34:  A  grantor  owned  in  fee  simple  two  adjoining
lots,  Lots  1  and  2.  He  conveyed  in  fee  simple  Lot  1  to  an
investor. The deed was in usual form of a warranty deed with
the following provision inserted in the appropriate place:

                              Grantor, for himself, his heirs and assigns, does covenant and agree that any reasonable expense
incurred  by  grantee,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  as  the  result  of  having  to  repair  the  retaining  wall
presently situated on Lot 1 at the common boundary with Lot 2, shall be reimbursed one-half
the costs of repairs; and by this provision the parties intend a covenant running with the land.

The investor conveyed Lot 1 in fee simple to a housewife by
warranty  deed  in  usual  and  regular  form.  The  deed  omitted
any  reference  to  the  retaining  wall  or  any  covenant.  Fifty
years  after  the  grantor’s  conveyance  to  the  investor,  the
housewife  conveyed  Lot  1  in  fee  simple  to  a  student  by
warranty deed in usual form; this deed omitted any reference
to the retaining wall or the covenant.
There is no statute that applies to any aspect of the problems
presented  except  a  recording  act  and  a  statute  providing  for
acquisition of title after ten years of adverse possession.

All conveyances by deeds were for a consideration equal to
fair market value.

The deed from the grantor to the investor was never recorded.
All other deeds were promptly and properly recorded.

Lot  2  is  now  owned  by  the  grantor’s  son,  who  took  by
intestate succession from the grantor, now dead.
The  student  expended  $3,500  on  the  retaining  wall.  Then  he
obtained all of the original deeds in the chain from the grantor
to him. Shortly thereafter, the student discovered the covenant
in  the  grantor’s  deed  to  the  investor.  He  demanded  that  the
grantor’s  son  pay  $1,750,  and  when  the  son  refused,  the
student  instituted  an  appropriate  action  to  recover  that  sum
from  the  son.  In  such  action,  the  son  asserted  all  defenses
available to him.

596

If judgment is for the grantor’s son, it will be because

(A)  the student is barred by adverse possession.
(B)  the investor’s deed from the grantor was never recorded.
(C)  the student did not know about the covenant until after he
had  incurred  the  expenses  and,  hence,  could  not  have
relied on it.

(D)    the  student’s  expenditures  were  not  proved  to  be

reasonable and customary.

rendering 

fulfillment  of 

Answer  34:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  When  the  grantor
conveyed  Lot  1  to  the  investor,  the  grantor  burdened  Lot  2
with the covenant to reimburse the owner of Lot 1 for wall-
repair expenses. This covenant was enforceable, and ran with
the  land  on  both  the  burden  and  benefit  side.  Even  though
more than 50 years have passed, no event has occurred (e.g.,
change  of  circumstances 
the
covenant’s  purposes  impossible)  that  would  cause  the
covenant  to  be  extinguished,  and  the  mere  passage  of  time
does not suffice to end the covenant. The fact that the covenant
ran with the land on the benefit side means that the student as
present  owner  of  the  benefited  lot  gets  to  enforce  the
covenant; this running of the benefit side occurs even though
the deed to convey the benefited parcel to the student did not
mention  the  covenant  or  the  wall  (since  mention  of  the
covenant  in  the  deed  to  the  benefited  lot  is  simply  not  a
requirement). The running of the covenant on the burden side
means that the obligation of payment attached to the grantor’s
son’s interest in Lot 2. Therefore, the only way the student can
lose is if his expenditures were not reasonable and customary
(in which case they would not be covered by the terms of the
covenant, even though the covenant is still enforceable).
(A) is wrong because nothing occurred to cause the doctrine
of  adverse  possession  to  affect  title  to  the  benefited  lot  (Lot
1)  while  that  lot  was  held  by  either  the  investor,  the
housewife,  or  the  student.  For  instance,  no  action  by  any
owner  of  Lot  2  could  even  arguably  have  constituted  the
requisite  hostile,  notorious,  open,  and  continuous  possession
of the wall so as to wipe out the covenant governing repairs.
(B) is wrong because the fact that the investor’s deed from the

597

grantor  for  Lot  1  was  not  recorded  had  no  effect  on  anyone
who ever had an interest in Lot 2. It’s true that the grantor, by
conveying  Lot  1  to  the  investor,  simultaneously  created  a
covenant burdening Lot 2, which was an interest in Lot 2. But
a  grantee’s  failure  to  record  under  a  recording  act  has  no
effect  on  the  rights  as  between  the  original  grantor  and
grantee;  therefore,  in  a  contest  between  the  grantor  and  the
investor, the investor’s failure to record his covenant against
Lot  2  would  not  prevent  the  investor  from  recovering
reimbursement from the grantor while the grantor still owned
Lot  2.  The  interesting  question  is  whether  the  investor’s
failure  to  record  can  be  taken  advantage  of  by  the  grantor’s
son as the grantor’s successor. In other words, is the grantor’s
son  a  “subsequent  purchaser  without  notice”  who  can  take
advantage of the fact that the deed creating the covenant never
appeared  in  his  chain  of  title?  The  answer  is  that  because
recording acts invariably protect only “purchasers for value,”
and because the son took by intestate succession (and thus did
not give value for his interest), the son is not a purchaser for
value and thus cannot take advantage of the recording act. (If
the  son  had  purchased  for  value  and  without  notice  of  the
covenant, he would have been free of the covenant on account
of the investor’s failure to record.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  owner  of  a  parcel  benefited  by  an
affirmative covenant does not lose the benefit merely because
he did not act in reliance on the covenant’s existence.

598

CHAPTER 7
LAND SALE CONTRACTS, MORTGAGES,
AND DEEDS

I.    LAND SALE CONTRACTS

A.  Statute of Frauds

Question  35:  Ozzie  owned  and  occupied  Blackacre,  which
was  a  tract  of  land  improved  with  a  one-family  house.  His
friend, Victor, orally offered Ozzie $50,000 for Blackacre, the
fair  market  value,  and  Ozzie  accepted.  Because  they  were
friends,  they  saw  no  need  for  attorneys  or  written  contracts
and shook hands on the deal. Victor paid Ozzie $5,000 down
in cash and agreed to pay the balance of $45,000 at an agreed
closing time and place.

Before  the  closing,  Victor  inherited  another  home  and  asked
Ozzie to return his $5,000. Ozzie refused, and, at the time set
for  the  closing,  Ozzie  tendered  a  good  deed  to  Victor  and
declared his intention to vacate Blackacre the next day. Ozzie
demanded  that  Victor  complete  the  purchase.  Victor  refused.
The fair market value of Blackacre has remained $50,000.

In  an  appropriate  action  brought  by  Ozzie  against  Victor  for
specific  performance,  if  Ozzie  loses,  the  most  likely  reason
will be that

(A)  the agreement was oral.
(B)  keeping the $5,000 is Ozzie’s exclusive remedy.
(C)  Victor had a valid reason for not closing.
(D)    Ozzie  remained  in  possession  on  the  day  set  for  the

closing.

Answer  35:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  Statute  of  Frauds
applies to all contracts for the sale of land, or for the sale of
an  interest  in  land.  Therefore,  such  a  contract  will  not  be
enforced unless it is in writing. There are a few exceptions to
this  rule  (e.g.,  where  there  has  been  part  performance  in
reliance on an oral agreement), but none of those exceptions
applies here.

599

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  is  not  the  case  that  the  seller’s
exclusive  remedy  for  breach  is  to  keep  the  deposit;  often,  a
court will order the buyer to specifically perform even where
the seller has a deposit. (Furthermore, unless the parties have
agreed  that  the  deposit  will  be  the  exclusive  measure,  the
seller will be entitled to recover his actual damages from the
buyer’s breach if these are greater than the deposit.)

(C) is wrong because the fact that Victor inherited a different
home  is  not  a  valid  reason  for  not  closing;  the  doctrine  of
frustration  of  purpose  occasionally  applies  to  land-sale
contracts,  but  would  virtually  never  apply  where  the  only
event alleged to have frustrated the buyer’s purpose is that he
found or acquired other property he liked better.

(D)  is  wrong  because  Ozzie’s  anticipated  one-day  delay  in
vacating  would  not  have  been  a  material  breach,  unless  the
agreement or the circumstances indicated that time was of the
essence.  There’s  no  indication  that  that  happened  here.
Therefore, the one-day delay would not have deprived Ozzie
of his otherwise-existing right to obtain specific performance.

B.  Marketable title

1.   Time for measuring marketability

a.  Outstanding mortgage

Question 36:  A  landowner  mortgaged  the  land  to  a  bank  to
secure  his  preexisting  obligation  to  the  bank.  The  mortgage
was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.  The  landowner  and  a
buyer  then  entered  into  a  valid  written  contract  for  the
purchase and sale of the land, which provided for the transfer
of  “a  marketable  title,  free  of  encumbrances.”  The  contract
did not expressly refer to the mortgage.
Shortly  after  entering  into  the  contract,  the  buyer  found
another  property  that  much  better  suited  her  needs  and
decided to try to avoid her contract with the landowner. When
the  buyer  discovered  the  existence  of  the  mortgage,  she
asserted that the title was encumbered and that she would not
close.  The  landowner  responded  by  offering  to  provide  for
payment and discharge of the mortgage at the closing from the
proceeds of the closing. The buyer refused to go forward, and
the  landowner  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  her  for

600

specific performance.

If the court holds for the landowner in this action, it will most
likely be because

(A)    the  mortgage  is  not  entitled  to  priority  because  it  was

granted for preexisting obligations.

(B)  the doctrine of equitable conversion supports the result.
(C)    the  landowner’s  arrangements  for  the  payment  of  the
mortgage  fully  satisfied  the  landowner’s  obligation  to
deliver marketable title.

(D)    the  existence  of  the  mortgage  was  not  the  buyer’s  real

reason for refusing to close.

Answer 36:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Unless  the  sale  contract
specifies  otherwise,  the  seller’s  title  is  not  required  to  be
marketable until the date set for the closing. The fact that there
is an outstanding mortgage on the property, therefore, does not
entitle  the  buyer  to  cancel  the  contract,  as  long  as  the  seller
has  the  right  and  probable  ability  to  pay  off  the  mortgage  at
the closing.

(A) is wrong because the fact that the mortgage was granted
for  pre-existing  obligations  (as  opposed,  say,  to  being  a
purchase  money  mortgage)  is  irrelevant  to  the  issue  of
whether  the  seller’s  title  is  marketable.  For  instance,  if  the
seller  were  not  paying  off  the  mortgage  at  the  closing,  the
mortgage  would  indeed  be  an  encumbrance  rendering  title
unmarketable,  even  though  it  was  granted  to  secure  the
seller’s pre-existing obligation to the mortgagee.

(B) is wrong because the doctrine of equitable conversion is
used  to  pass  the  risk  of  loss  to  the  buyer  under  a  purchase
contract, and has nothing to do with whether the seller’s title
is marketable.
(D)  is  wrong  because  a  purchaser’s  “real  reason”  (i.e.,
motive)  for  refusing  to  close  is  irrelevant  to  whether  the
purchaser  has  the  right  to  so  refuse.  For  example,  if  the
seller’s  title  had  been  unmarketable,  the  buyer  would  have
been entitled to refuse to close even though her real reason for
refusing was something entirely unrelated to the quality of the
seller’s title.

601

Question 37: Venner, the owner of Greenacre, a tract of land,
entered  into  an  enforceable  written  agreement  with  Brier
providing  that  Venner  would  sell  Greenacre  to  Brier  for  an
agreed price. At the place and time designated for the closing.
Venner  tendered  an  appropriate  deed,  but  Brier  responded
that  he  had  discovered  a  mortgage  on  Greenacre  and  would
not  complete  the  transaction,  because  Venner’s  title  was  not
free  of  encumbrances,  as  the  contract  required.  Venner  said
that it was his intent to pay the mortgage from the proceeds of
the sale, and he offered to put the proceeds in escrow for that
purpose  with  any  agreeable,  responsible  escrowee.  The
balance  due  on  the  mortgage  was  substantially  less  than  the
contract  purchase  price.  Brier  refused  Venner’s  proposal.
Venner  began  an  appropriate  legal  action  against  Brier  for
specific  performance.  There  is  no  applicable  statute  in  the
jurisdiction where Greenacre is located.

Venner’s best legal argument in support of his claim for relief
is that

(A)  as the seller of real estate, he had an implied right to use

the contract proceeds to clear the title being conveyed.

(B)    the  lien  of  the  mortgage  shifts  from  Greenacre  to  the

contract proceeds.

(C)    under  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion,  title  has
already  passed  to  Brier  and  the  only  issue  is  how  the
purchase price is to be allocated.

to  deliver 

(D)  no provision of the contract has been breached by Venner.
Answer  37:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  choice  correctly
identifies that Venner can use the sale proceeds to pay off the
mortgage, and thus force Brier to honor the contract. Where,
as  is  usually  the  case,  the  seller  in  a  land-sale  contract
the  property  free  and  clear  of
covenants 
encumbrances,  the  presence  of  a  mortgage  would  be  an
encumbrance rendering the title unmarketable. But you’re told
here  that  the  proceeds  will  cover  the  mortgage.  When  that’s
the case, the seller has an implied right to use the proceeds of
the sale to pay off the mortgage. When you think about it, this
rule comports with what you’d expect to happen, since many
homeowners,  in  real  life,  couldn’t  sell  their  home  if  this
weren’t the case.

602

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law.  Although  it’s
possible  that  the  law  of  the  jurisdiction  may  make  the
mortgage  payable  from  the  proceeds,  and  the  mortgage
agreement  itself  may  insist  on  payoff  if  the  property  is
conveyed, the “rule” stated in this choice wouldn’t cause the
mortgage  to  be  removed  from  Greenacre — and  that’s  the
central problem here. Instead, the key is that the seller gets to
use the sale proceeds to pay off the mortgage simultaneously
with the closing of title.

(C)  is  wrong  because  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion
would  not  apply  to  these  facts.  The  doctrine  of  equitable
conversion  addresses  the  period  between  the  signing  of  the
land  sale  contract  and  the  closing.  Under  the  doctrine,  the
vendor  has  a  personal  property  interest  in  the  property,
between the signing of the contract and the closing, in the form
of the balance of the purchase price owed to him; the vendee
is  considered  the  beneficial  owner  of  the  property.  The
doctrine  wouldn’t  help  with  the  problem  here,  which  is  that
Venner can’t deliver marketable title unless he can remove the
mortgage.

(D) is wrong because it states an insufficient ground on which
Venner could prevail. Of course, his underlying argument must
be that he hasn’t breached the contract, because if he had, he
wouldn’t  be  entitled  to  specific  performance.  However,
Choice (D), in and of itself, doesn’t provide a rule allowing
Venner  to  use  the  proceeds  to  pay  off  the  mortgage,  and
enforce the contract. Only Choice (A) does this.

C.  Remedies for failure to perform

1.  Damages

a.  Where no earnest money deposit

i.  Consideration argument

Question  38:  Able  was  the  owner  of  Blackacre,  an
undeveloped  city  lot.  Able  and  Baker  executed  a  written
document  in  which  Able  agreed  to  sell  Blackacre  to  Baker
and Baker agreed to buy Blackacre from Able for $200,000;
the  document  did  not  provide  for  an  earnest  money  down
payment.  Able  recorded  the  document,  as  authorized  by

603

statute.

Able  orally  gave  Baker  permission  to  park  his  car  on
Blackacre  without  charge  prior  to  the  closing.  Thereafter,
Baker frequently parked his car on Blackacre.

Another property came on the market that Baker wanted more
than Blackacre. Baker decided to try to escape any obligation
to Able.

Baker had been told that contracts for the purchase and sale of
real  property  require  consideration  and  concluded  that
because  he  had  made  no  earnest  money  down  payment,  he
could refuse to close and not be liable. Baker notified Able of
his  intention  not  to  close  and,  in  fact,  did  refuse  to  close  on
the  date  set  for  the  closing.  Able  brought  an  appropriate
action to compel specific performance by Baker.

If Able wins, it will be because
(A)    Baker’s  use  of  Blackacre  for  parking  constitutes  part

performance.

(B)    general  contract  rules  regarding  consideration  apply  to

real estate contracts.

(C)  the doctrine of equitable conversion applies.
(D)  the document was recorded.
Answer  38:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  It  is  likely,  though  not
absolutely  certain,  that  Abel  will  be  able  to  obtain  specific
performance  (the  court  will  have  to  be  satisfied  that  money
damages  would  not  give  him  an  adequate  remedy).  But  one
thing  that  is  certain  is  that  Baker  will  fail  with  his  lack-of-
the  general  contract
consideration  argument,  because 
principle 
the
consideration  requirement  applies  to  real  estate  contracts.
Able has made a promise (to convey in return for the purchase
price),  and  Baker  has  made  a  return  promise  (to  pay  the
purchase  price  in  return  for  title),  so  standard  consideration
requirements  are  easily  satisfied.  The  fact  that  there  was  no
earnest  money  deposit  is  completely  irrelevant  to  the
consideration  issue — an  earnest  money  deposit  is  not
required,  and  where  present  is  merely  a  form  of  liquidated-
damages clause.

that  an  exchange  of  promises  meets 

604

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  contract,  since  it  is  in  writing  and
meets  the  consideration  requirement,  would  be  binding  even
if  Baker  had  not  parked  on  the  property  and  therefore
arguably  partly  performed.  (If  the  contract  had  been  oral,
Baker’s  parking  might  supply  him  with  an  argument  for
application of the part-performance exception to the Statute of
Frauds,  but  even  here,  he  would  probably  lose  because  the
parking was not really part “performance.”)

is  wrong  because  equitable  conversion,  where
(C) 
applicable, vests “equitable title” in the vendee under a land
sale contract (thus passing the risk of loss to the vendee), and
neither  equitable  title  nor  risk  of  loss  is  at  issue  on  these
facts.

(D) is wrong because a vendor under a land sale contract can
recover for breach (including specific performance if money
damages  would  not  be  an  adequate  remedy)  whether  the
contract was recorded or not — recording is merely relevant
to the vendee’s rights vis-à-vis later grantees from the vendor
(by  giving  the  world  constructive  notice  of  the  pending
transfer), not to the vendee’s rights vis-à-vis the vendor.

2.  Specific performance

a.  Breaching buyer

Question 39:  Adam  entered  into  a  valid  written  contract  to
sell  Blackacre,  a  large  tract  of  land,  to  Betsy.  At  that  time,
Blackacre was owned by Adam’s father, Fred; Adam had no
title to Blackacre and was not the agent of Fred.

After  the  contract  was  executed  and  before  the  scheduled
closing  date.  Fred  died  intestate,  leaving  Adam  as  his  sole
heir. Shortly thereafter, Adam received an offer for Blackacre
that  was  substantially  higher  than  the  purchase  price  in  the
contract  with  Betsy.  Adam  refused  to  close  with  Betsy
although she was ready, willing, and able to close pursuant to
the contract.

Betsy brought an appropriate action for specific performance
against Adam.
In that action, Betsy should be awarded
(A)  nothing, because Adam had no authority to enter into the

605

contract with Betsy.

(B)  nothing, because the doctrine of after-acquired title does

not apply to executory contracts.

(C)    judgment  for  specific  performance,  because  Adam

acquired title prior to the scheduled closing.

(D)    judgment  for  specific  performance,  to  prevent  unjust

enrichment of Adam.

Answer  39:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  purchaser  under  a
land-sale  contract  will  normally  be  entitled  to  a  decree  of
specific  performance  if  the  seller  is  able  but  unwilling  to
perform. Here, the fact that Adam did not have title at the time
he signed the contract is irrelevant; the contract called for him
to make a conveyance at the scheduled closing date, and he is
able  to  do  that.  The  case  therefore  falls  within  the  familiar
principle  that  the  time  for  measuring  whether  a  seller  has
marketable title is the time for closing, not some earlier date.

(A)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  Adam  did  not  have
authority  to  sell  the  land  at  the  moment  of  signing  is
irrelevant; he has title by now (prior to the scheduled closing
date),  and  that’s  all  that  matters  for  purposes  of  specific
performance.

(B) is wrong because the doctrine of after-acquired title is not
necessary for a decree of specific performance here; all that
matters  is  that  Adam  has  title  by  the  time  scheduled  for
performance.

(D) is wrong because specific performance is used for breach
of contract where (as here) damages would be an inadequate
remedy, and the concept of unjust enrichment is not needed or
relevant to whether specific performance should be decreed.

3.  Deposit

a.  Reasonable estimate

Question 40: Three months ago, Bert agreed in writing to buy
Sam’s  single-family  residence,  Liveacre,  for  $110,000.  Bert
paid  Sam  a  $5,000  deposit  to  be  applied  to  the  purchase
price. The contract stated that Sam had the right at his option
to  retain  the  deposit  as  liquidated  damages  in  the  event  of
Ben’s default. The closing was to have taken place last week.

606

Six weeks ago, Bert was notified by his employer that he was
to  be  transferred  to  another  job  1,000  miles  away.  Bert
immediately  notified  Sam  that  he  could  not  close,  and
therefore he demanded the return of his $5,000. Sam refused,
waited  until  after  the  contract  closing  date,  listed  with  a
broker, and then conveyed Liveacre for $108,000 to Conner, a
purchaser found by the real estate broker. Conner paid the full
purchase  price  and  immediately  recorded  his  deed.  Conner
knew of the prior contract with Bert. In an appropriate action,
Bert seeks to recover the $5,000 deposit from Sam.

The most probable result will be that Sam

(A)    must  return  the  $5,000  to  Bert,  because  Sam  can  no

longer carry out his contract with Bert.

(B)  must return the $5,000 to Bert, because Bert was legally

justified in not completing the contract.

(C)  must return $3,000 to Bert, because Sam’s damages were

only $2,000.

(D)  may keep the $5,000 deposit, because Bert breached the

contract.

Answer  40:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  The  contract  provision
concerning  the  deposit  was  a  liquidated  damages  clause.  In
most courts, a liquidated damages clause is enforceable if it
was a reasonable estimate (viewed either  as  of  the  time  the
contract was made or at the time of suit) of the damages that
the seller would likely incur if the buyer breached. Here, an
estimate, as of the time the contract was signed, that the seller
would sustain $5,000 in damages if there was a breach on a
$110,000 contract, seems reasonable. The fact that the seller
ended  up  with  a  slightly  smaller-than-predicted  loss  of
$2,000  (not  counting  any  incidental  expenses  to  the  seller
from  having  to  re-list  the  property  or  wait  for  a  later  sale)
does  not  change  the  reasonableness  of  the  time-of-contract
estimate;  in  fact,  the  $5,000  estimate  is  probably  also
reasonable viewed as of the time of suit.
(A) is wrong because Sam’s present inability to carry out his
contract with Bert was caused by Bert’s breach, and therefore
does  not  nullify  Sam’s  ability  to  rely  on  the  liquidated
damages clause.

607

(B) is wrong because Bert’s need to transfer is not the sort of
extraordinary event that would excuse Bert’s nonperformance.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  as  explained  in  (D),  the  liquidated
damages clause will be enforced here, even though it differs
from the seller’s actual damages.

D.  Equitable conversion

1.  Effect of pending contract

Question 41: On September 1, a seller and a buyer executed
an agreement for the sale of real property, closing scheduled
for  November  1.  The  jurisdiction  in  which  the  property  is
located recognizes the principle of equitable conversion and
has no statute pertinent to this problem.

The seller died before closing, and his will left his personal
property  to  his  son  and  his  real  property  to  his  daughter.
Assuming  that  there  has  been  no  breach  of  the  agreement  by
either party (or that party’s successor in interest), which of the
following is correct?

(A)    Death,  an  eventuality  for  which  the  parties  could  have
provided,  terminates  the  agreement  if  they  did  not  so
provide.

(B)  The daughter is entitled to the proceeds of the sale when
it  closes,  because  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion
does not apply to these circumstances.

(C)    The  son  is  entitled  to  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  when  it

closes.

(D)  Title was rendered unmarketable by the seller’s death.
Answer 41: The correct choice is (C). Under the doctrine of
equitable conversion, during the period between the land sale
contract and the conveyance, the purchaser is considered the
equitable  owner  of  the  property,  and  the  seller  is  deemed  to
have  a  personal  property  interest  in  the  purchase  price.
Therefore,  if  the  seller  dies  before  the  conveyance  takes
place,  the  one  entitled  to  his  personal  property  is  entitled  to
the purchase price. (The one entitled to his real property only
gets a bare legal title, which she must convey to the purchaser
when the purchaser performs his duty under the contract, i.e.,
turns  over  the  cash.)  Under  these  facts,  the  son  is  entitled  to

608

the  seller’s  personalty,  so  he  gets  all  the  cash  from  the  sale,
and the daughter is out of luck.

(A)  is  wrong,  because  death  does  not  terminate  a  land  sale
contract.  As  long  as  the  land  sale  contract  is  specifically
enforceable,  if  the  vendor  dies  before  the  conveyance  takes
place,  the  one  to  whom  he  willed  his  personal  property  is
entitled  to  the  purchase  price  when  the  conveyance  takes
place. This is part of the doctrine of equitable conversion. If
you chose this response, it could be because you thought the
situation was covered by the rule that terminates an offer on
the death or insanity of either the offeror or the offeree. That
rule  is  not  involved  here,  since  there’s  an  enforceable
contract already in place.

(B) is wrong because it arrives at the wrong conclusion and
states, wrongly, that the doctrine of equitable conversion does
not  apply  to  these  circumstances.  In  fact,  the  doctrine  of
equitable conversion does  apply  to  these  circumstances,  and
its  operation  means  that  the  person  entitled  to  the  seller’s
personal  property — his  son — is  entitled  to  the  purchase
price. Under the doctrine of equitable conversion, during the
period between the land sale contract and the conveyance, the
purchaser is considered the beneficial owner of the property,
and the seller has a personal property interest in the purchase
price. If the seller dies before the conveyance takes place, the
one  entitled  to  his  personal  property  is  entitled  to  the
purchase  price.  (The  one  entitled  to  his  real  property  only
gets a bare legal title, which he must convey to the purchaser
when the purchaser performs his duty under the contract, i.e.,
turns over the cash.)

(D) is wrong, because it misstates the rule of law, and, in any
case,  the  concept  of  marketable  title  is  irrelevant  to  these
facts.
Title  is  not  rendered  unmarketable  by  the  seller’s  death.  A
marketable title is one that, viewed objectively, is free from
reasonable doubt in both law and fact, and that the reasonable
buyer would accept without fear of litigation. The conveyance
of  marketable  title  is  an  implied  covenant  in  land  sale
contracts. (However, the terms of the deed will control once
the deed is conveyed and accepted; thus, if a quitclaim deed

609

is conveyed, there will be no remaining obligation to provide
marketable  title.)  Here,  the  mere  fact  that  the  seller  died
would not render the title unmarketable. Since the doctrine of
equitable  conversion  is  followed  in  the  jurisdiction,  there’s
no  question  that  the  one  entitled  to  the  seller’s  personal
property — his son — will be entitled to the purchase price.
Thus,  there  is  no  reasonable  doubt  as  to  law  and  fact,  and
there should be no reasonable fear of litigation. Therefore, the
title is not unmarketable.

2.  Risk of loss

Question 42: Landover, the owner in fee simple of Highacre,
an  apartment  house  property,  entered  into  an  enforceable
written agreement with VanMeer to sell Highacre to VanMeer.
The agreement provided that a good and marketable title was
to be conveyed free and clear of all encumbrances. However,
the  agreement  was  silent  as  to  the  risk  of  fire  prior  to  the
closing,  and  there  is  no  applicable  statute  in  the  state  where
the land is located. The premises were not insured. The day
before  the  scheduled  closing  date,  Highacre  was  wholly
destroyed by fire. When VanMeer refused to close, Landover
brought  an  action  in  specific  performance.  If  Landover
prevails, the most likely reason will be that

(A)    the  failure  of  VanMeer  to  insure  his  interest  as  the
purchaser of Highacre precludes any relief for him.
(B)  the remedy at law is inadequate in actions concerning real
estate  contracts  and  either  party  is  entitled  to  specific
performance.

(C)    equity  does  not  permit  consideration  of  surrounding
circumstances in actions concerning real estate contracts.

(D)  the doctrine of equitable conversion applies.
Answer  42:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Under  the  doctrine  of
equitable conversion, the vendee is considered the beneficial
owner  of  the  property  after  the  sales  contract  takes  effect,
leaving  the  vendor  with  a  personal  property  interest  in  the
property, in the form of the balance of the purchase price the
vendee owes him. This common law doctrine is followed by
most  states.  In  a  state  following  equitable  conversion,  the
vendee is required to close, even though the structures on the

610

property have been destroyed. (But the vendee gets the benefit
of  any  insurance  policy  the  vendor  may  have  had  on  the
structure.)

(A) is wrong because it relies on a fact which is irrelevant:
VanMeer’s failure to insure the property is not dispositive of
Landover’s  ability  to  recover  the  purchase  price.  Whether
VanMeer did or did not buy insurance (which he could have 
— he  had  an  insurable  interest  as  soon  as  he  signed  the
contract), Landover would still be able to force a closing, if
and only if the jurisdiction applies equitable conversion (see
Choice (D) above).

(B) is wrong because although it is a correct statement of the
law, it would be insufficient, under these facts, to result in a
decision  for  Landover.  (B)  is  correct  in  that,  in  general,
remedies  at  law  (e.g.,  damages)  are  inadequate  in  actions
where real estate is involved, since real estate is “unique.” In
such  situations,  specific  performance  is  an  appropriate
remedy.  However,  specific  performance  is  an  equitable
remedy,  meaning  that  equitable  considerations  will  be  taken
into  account  to  determine  if  it’s  appropriate.  Choice  (D)  is
just  such  a  consideration — the  doctrine  of  equitable
conversion.  Conversely,  if  the  jurisdiction  does  not  apply
equitable  conversion,  Landover  won’t  be  able  to  force  a
closing even though his remedy at law is inadequate.

it  misstates 

is  wrong  because 

(C) 
law.  Specific
performance  is  an  equitable  remedy.  Equitable  remedies  are
granted by determining whether the remedy will be just in the
circumstances. As a result, the circumstances surrounding the
contract are considered.

the 

Question 43: A seller owned a single-family house. A buyer
gave  the  seller  a  signed  handwritten  offer  to  purchase  the
house.  The  offer  was  unconditional  and  sufficient  to  satisfy
the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and  when  the  seller  signed  an
acceptance an enforceable contract resulted.
The house on the land had been the seller’s home, but he had
moved to an apartment, so the house was vacant at all times
relevant  to  the  proposed  transaction.  Two  weeks  after  the
parties  had  entered  into  their  contract,  one  week  after  the

611

buyer  had  obtained  a  written  mortgage  lending  commitment
from a lender, and one week before the agreed-upon closing
date,  the  house  was  struck  by  lightning  and  burned  to  the
ground. The loss was not insured because, three years earlier,
the  seller  had  let  his  homeowner’s  insurance  policy  lapse
after  he  had  paid  his  mortgage  debt  in  full.  The  handwritten
contract was wholly silent as to matters of financing, risk of
loss,  and  insurance.  The  buyer  declared  the  contract  voided
by  the  fire,  but  the  seller  asserted  a  right  to  enforce  the
contract  despite  the  loss.  There  is  no  applicable  statute.  If  a
court finds for the seller, what is the likely reason?

(A)    The  contract  was  construed  against  the  buyer,  who

drafted it.

(B)  The lender’s written commitment to make a mortgage loan
to the buyer made the contract of sale fully binding on the
buyer.

(C)    The  risk  of  loss  falls  on  the  party  in  possession,  and
constructive  possession  passed  to  the  buyer  on  the
contract date.

(D)  The risk of loss passed to the buyer on the contract date

under the doctrine of equitable conversion.

Answer  43:  Choice  (D)  is  correct.  Under  the  equitable
conversion doctrine, courts treat the signing of the contract as
vesting  equitable  ownership  of  the  land  in  the  purchaser.
(Conversely,  the  seller  is  treated  as  becoming  the  equitable
owner  of  the  purchase  price.)  Not  all  courts  apply  the
doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  (though  most  do).  When  a
court does apply the doctrine, the main result is that the risk of
loss is deemed to belong to the equitable owner of the land,
i.e., the buyer. So where, as here, the contract is unconditional
and  silent  as  to  the  risk  of  loss,  if  equitable  conversion
applies, the buyer will be deemed to bear the risk of loss and
cannot cancel the contract.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  relies  on  an  irrelevant  fact.  It  does
not matter who drafted the contract if it is silent as to risk of
loss  and  there  is  no  applicable  statute.  By  contrast  (and  as
further described in the analysis of Choice (D) above), it does
matter  whether  the  court  applies  the  doctrine  of  equitable
conversion. If the doctrine applies (as it does in the majority

612

of courts), the risk of loss is deemed to pass to the buyer as
soon  as  the  contract  is  signed,  assuming  that  the  contract  is
silent  on  the  risk-of-loss  issue.  If  equitable  conversion  does
not apply, the court will apply the minority common law rule,
under which the risk of loss remains with the seller until the
closing.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  relies  on  an  irrelevant  fact.  The
contract became binding when the seller accepted the buyer’s
offer.  The  facts  state  that  the  offer  to  purchase  was
unconditional,  so  the  buyer  was  obligated  to  purchase  the
house  whether  or  not  he  got  a  loan  commitment.  In  a
jurisdiction applying equitable conversion, the buyer was thus
the equitable owner as of the time seller signed an acceptance
and, as of that moment, the buyer bore the risk of loss.

(C)  is  wrong  because  possession  does  not  pass  to  the  buyer
until  closing,  absent  a  contrary  provision  in  the  contract  of
sale.  On  the  other  hand,  equitable  ownership  passes  on  the
signing of the contract, and that is enough to transfer the risk
of loss to the buyer if the jurisdiction applies the doctrine of
equitable  conversion  (as  described  above  in  the  analysis  of
Choice (D)).

II.   MORTGAGES AND INSTALLMENT

CONTRACTS

A.  Nature of mortgage

1.  Sale of mortgaged property

a.  Assumption

Question 44: Several years ago, a man purchased a building,
financing a large part of the purchase price by a loan from a
bank  that  was  secured  by  a  mortgage.  The  man  made  the
installment payments on the mortgage regularly until last year.
Then  the  man  persuaded  an  investor  to  buy  the  building,
subject  to  the  mortgage  to  the  bank.  They  expressly  agreed
that the investor would not assume and agree to pay the man’s
debt to the bank. The man’s mortgage to the bank contained a
due-on-sale clause stating, ‘‘If the mortgagor transfers his/her
interest  without  the  written  consent  of  the  mortgagee  first

613

obtained,  then  at  the  mortgagee’s  option  the  entire  principal
balance  of  the  debt  secured  by  this  mortgage  shall  become
immediately due and payable.’’ However, without seeking the
bank’s consent, the man conveyed the building to the investor,
the deed stating in pertinent part, ‘‘subject to a mortgage to’’
the bank and giving details and recording data.

The  investor  took  possession  of  the  building  and  made
several  mortgage  payments,  which  the  bank  accepted.  Now,
however,  neither  the  investor  nor  the  man  has  made  the  last
three  mortgage  payments.  The  bank  has  brought  an
appropriate  action  against  the  investor  for  the  amount  of  the
delinquent payments. In this action, judgment should be for

(A)  the investor, because she did not assume and agree to pay

the man’s mortgage debt.

(B)    the  investor,  because  she  is  not  in  privity  of  estate  with

the bank.

(C)  the bank, because the man’s deed to the investor violated

the due-on-sale clause.

(D)  the bank, because the investor is in privity of estate with

the bank.

Answer  44:  Choice  (A)  is  correct,  because  the  investor
would have to assume the man’s mortgage to be liable under
it.  When  a  person  buys  a  mortgaged  property  without
assuming  the  mortgage,  the  buyer  has  no  liability  on  the
mortgage. That’s true even if the mortgage contains a due-on-
sale clause. The clause will be enforced (and will entitle the
mortgagee  to  accelerate  the  mortgage),  but  the  clause  won’t
cause the buyer to be deemed to have assumed the mortgage,
and  therefore  won’t  require  the  buyer  to  pay  for  any  missed
payments.

(B)  is  wrong,  because  privity  of  estate  is  not  an  issue  in
mortgage cases. Privity of estate makes a difference in cases
involving covenants at law. Absence of privity of estate may
mean that a successor to the covenantor won’t be bound. But a
mortgage is not a covenant running with the land, so privity of
estate doesn’t matter.
(C) is wrong, because the violation of the due-on-sale clause
didn’t make the investor personally liable on the mortgage. A

614

due-on-sale clause allows a lender to demand full payment of
the  remainder  of  an  existing  loan  if  the  mortgagor  transfers
any  interest  in  the  property  securing  the  loan  without  the
lender’s  consent.  The  violation  of  the  due-on-sale  clause
would give the bank grounds for a case against the man, and
grounds to accelerate the mortgage, but not grounds to obtain
a personal judgment against the investor. The investor did not
assume  the  man’s  debt  to  the  bank,  and  the  violation  of  the
due-on-sale clause does not change this fact.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  a  mortgage  is  not  a  covenant  running
with  the  land,  making  privity  of  estate  irrelevant.  Privity  of
estate  makes  a  difference  in  cases  involving  covenants
running with land. A covenant running with the land is simply
a  contract  between  two  parties,  which,  because  it  meets
certain technical requirements, has the additional quality that
it is binding against one who later buys the promisor’s land.
In determining whether a covenant runs with the land, one of
the requirements is that there be privity of estate between the
parties.

However, a mortgage is not a covenant running with the land.
Therefore, the existence or non-existence of privity of estate
as between the bank and the investor is irrelevant — the bank
would  only  prevail  against  the  investor  if  the  investor
expressly assumed the mortgage that existed between the man
and the bank, which she didn’t.

i.  Receipt of deed with assumption clause

Question  45:  A  man  borrowed  money  from  a  bank  and
executed  a  promissory  note  for  the  amount  secured  by  a
mortgage on his residence. Several years later, the man sold
his residence. As provided by the contract of sale, the deed to
the  buyer  provided  that  the  buyer  agreed  “to  assume  the
existing mortgage debt” on the residence.
Subsequently, the buyer defaulted on the mortgage loan to the
bank, and appropriate foreclosure proceedings were initiated.
The foreclosure sale resulted in a deficiency.
There is no applicable statute.
Is the buyer liable for the deficiency?

615

(A)  No, because even if the buyer assumed the mortgage, the

seller is solely responsible for any deficiency.

(B)  No, because the buyer did not sign a promissory note to

the bank and therefore has no personal liability.

(C)    Yes,  because  the  buyer  assumed  the  mortgage  and
therefore became personally liable for the mortgage loan
and any deficiency.

(D)    Yes,  because  the  transfer  of  the  mortgage  debt  to  the
buyer resulted in a novation of the original mortgage and
loan  and  rendered  the  buyer  solely  responsible  for  any
deficiency.

Answer 45: Choice (C) is correct. When a buyer assumes the
seller’s mortgage, the buyer becomes primarily liable for the
mortgage  debt.  (The  seller  is  secondarily  liable,  assuming
there  is  no  release.)  The  lender  may  therefore  sue  the  buyer
for the deficiency when a foreclosure sale is not sufficient to
discharge  the  debt.  (Contrast  this  to  the  situation  where  the
buyer  takes  “subject  to  the  mortgage.”  In  that  situation,  the
buyer would not be personally liable for the mortgage debt or
for a deficiency judgment after foreclosure.)

When a buyer knowingly receives a deed that recites that the
buyer  is  assuming  the  mortgage  and  intends  to  be  bound,
assumption  occurs  even  though  the  buyer  has  not  signed  the
deed. (Here, where the buyer previously signed the contract,
which  called  for  assumption,  it’s  even  more  clear  that  the
buyer will be deemed to have assumed even though he never
signed the deed.)

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  law.  When  a  buyer
agrees  to  “assume”  a  mortgage,  this  language  is  always
interpreted  to  mean  that  if  the  lender  forecloses  and  is  left
with  a  deficiency  judgment,  the  lender  can  recover  that
deficiency  from  the  assuming  buyer  without  first  trying  to
recover  it  from  the  original  borrower.  In  other  words,  the
assuming buyer becomes “primarily liable” for the mortgage
debt and for any deficiency after foreclosure sale.
(B)  is  wrong  because  it  was  not  necessary  for  the  buyer  to
sign a promissory note to be liable. Once the buyer assumed
the mortgage, he became primarily liable on the mortgage and

616

thus  is  liable  for  the  deficiency.  (And  the  fact  that  the  buyer
didn’t sign the deed doesn’t prevent him from being deemed
to  have  assumed,  as  long  as  the  buyer  knew  the  deed
contained an assumption provision; see Choice (C) for more
about this.)

(D) gives the right result but the wrong rationale. The buyer’s
assumption  of  the  mortgage  is  not  the  same  as  a  novation.
With  a  novation,  the  bank  agrees  to  substitute  the  personal
liability  of  the  buyer  for  that  of  the  original  debtor  and
releases the original debtor. Nothing in the facts suggests the
bank’s  involvement  in  the  transaction  at  all,  let  alone  its
willingness to release the original borrower.

Question  46:  Ashton  owned  Woodsedge,  a  tract  used  for
commercial purposes, in fee simple and thereafter mortgaged
it  to  First  Bank.  She  signed  a  promissory  note  secured  by  a
duly executed and recorded mortgage. There was no “due on
sale”  clause,  that  is,  no  provision  that,  upon  sale,  the  whole
balance  then  owing  would  become  due  and  owing.  Ashton
conveyed Woodsedge to Beam “subject to a mortgage to First
Bank,  which  the  grantee  assumes  and  agrees  to  pay.”  Beam
conveyed  Woodsedge  to  Carter  “subject  to  an  existing
mortgage to First Bank.” A copy of the note and the mortgage
that secured it had been exhibited to each grantee.
After Carter made three timely payments, no further payments
were  made  by  any  party.  In  fact,  the  real  estate  had
depreciated to a point where it was worth less than the debt.

There is no applicable statute or regulation.

In  an  appropriate  foreclosure  action,  First  Bank  joined
Ashton,  Beam,  and  Carter  as  defendants.  At  the  foreclosure
sale,  although  the  fair  market  value  for  Woodsedge  in  its
depreciated state was obtained, a deficiency resulted.
First Bank is entitled to collect a deficiency judgment against
(A)  Ashton only.
(B)  Ashton and Beam only.
(C)  Beam and Carter only.
(D)  Ashton, Beam, and Carter.
Answer  46:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Ashton  is  personally

617

liable because she signed the original promissory note. Beam
is  personally  liable  because  he  assumed  the  mortgage  by
means of the document that conveyed to him (and the fact that
Beam may not have signed the deed won’t matter, as long as
he  was  aware  of  the  assumption  language  in  the  deed  and
intended  to  be  bound  by  it.)  First  Bank  can  recover  even
though  it  was  not  a  party  to  the  Beam-to-Ashton  promise,
because  First  Bank  would  be  found  to  be  an  intended
beneficiary  (and  thus  a  third  party  beneficiary  who  may
recover)  of  that  promise.  Carter  is  not  personally  liable,
because a person who receives a conveyance stating that the
transfer  is  “subject  to”  an  outstanding  mortgage  does  not,
without more, assume (i.e., become personally liable for) the
mortgage. Carter’s lack of liability did not change by virtue of
the fact that he made several timely payments; only an express
promise  of  assumption  by  Carter  (made  either  to  Ashton,
Beam  or  First  Bank)  could  have  rendered  him  personally
liable.

(A),  (C),  and  (D)  are  wrong  to  the  extent  that  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

2.  Redemption of mortgage

a.  Who has right

i.  No redemption until entire mortgage paid off

Question 47:  A  brother  and  sister  owned  a  property  in  fee
simple as tenants in common, each owning an undivided one-
half interest. The two joined in mortgaging the property to an
investor  by  a  properly  recorded  mortgage  that  contained  a
general  warranty  clause.  The  brother  became  disenchanted
with  land-owning  and  notified  his  sister  that  he  would  no
longer  contribute  to  the  payment  of  installments  due  to  the
investor.  After  the  mortgage  was  in  default  and  the  investor
made  demand  for  payment  of  the  entire  amount  of  principal
and  interest  due,  the  sister  tendered  to  the  investor,  and  the
investor deposited, a check for one-half of the amount due the
investor. The sister then demanded a release of her undivided
one-half interest. The investor refused to release any interest
in the property. The sister promptly brought an action against
the investor to quiet title to an undivided one-half interest in

618

the property.

In such action, the sister should

(A)  lose, because the investor’s title had been warranted by

an express provision of the mortgage.

(B)  lose, because there was no redemption from the mortgage.
(C)  win, because the sister is entitled to marshalling.
(D)    win,  because  the  cotenancy  of  the  mortgagors  was  in

common and not joint.

Answer 47: Choice (B) is correct. The mortgage attached to
the  entire  property,  and  payment  of  1/2  the  total  amount
therefore  did  not  “free  up”  a  1/2  undivided  interest.  The
investor as mortgagee has a lien on the entire property. That
is,  the  investor  received  a  security  interest  on  the  full
property — and the concomitant right upon default to conduct
a judicial sale of the full property to get her debt repaid — 
regardless  of  whether  one  party  paid  that  party’s  full  share.
A.L.P. § 16.172. In other words, the investor is entitled to say,
“Who  paid  what  is  between  the  two  of  you — I’ve  got  the
right to have the whole property sold at foreclosure if any part
of my loan is in default and the default is not wholly cured.”
That’s what happened here. (The sister’s remedy is a suit in
contribution against the brother for 1/2 the amount she paid to
the investor.)

(A)  is  wrong,  because  the  investor  did  not  have  title  to  the
property.  A  mortgage  is  a  security  interest  in  a  property
securing  a  loan.  The  fact  that  the  mortgage  instrument
contained a clause in which the brother and sister warranted
that they owned the property free of encumbrances (which is
what  the  general  warranty  clause  did)  is  irrelevant  to  the
issue of whether the sister is entitled to quiet title.
(C)  is  wrong,  because  the  equitable  doctrine  of  marshaling
does  not  apply  to  these  facts.  Marshalling  is  the  ranking  of
assets  in  a  certain  order  toward  the  payment  of  debts.  The
concept arises in equity, and means that where there are two
creditors, with the senior one having two funds to satisfy his
debt, that senior creditor must resort first to the fund which is
not  subject  to  demand  of  the  junior  creditor.  The  concept  is
misapplied to this fact pattern, because the doctrine would be

619

one  a  second  mortgagee  invoked  to  protect  his  interest  from
the  first  mortgagee’s  foreclosure.  Under  these  facts  there  is
only one mortgage on the property, and as a party who joined
with  the  brother  in  making  the  mortgage  on  the  property,  the
sister would not be able to have her interest released.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  the  sister  would  lose  even  if  the
cotenancy  was  joint.  Joint  tenancy  differs  from  tenancy  in
common only with respect to the right of survivorship, which
exists as to the former but not the latter. There is no difference
in  the  legal  analysis  here  between  the  joint-tenancy  and
tenancy-in-common scenarios.

3.  Priorities (allocation of foreclosure proceeds)

a.  Judgment lien creditor’s status

i.  Two-property scenario

Question  48:  A  businessman  owned  a  hotel,  subject  to  a
mortgage securing a debt he owed to a bank. The businessman
later acquired a nearby parking garage, financing a part of the
purchase  price  by  a  loan  from  a  financing  company,  secured
by a mortgage on the parking garage. Two years thereafter, the
businessman  defaulted  on  the  loan  owed  to  the  bank,  which
caused the full amount of that loan to become immediately due
and payable. The bank decided not to foreclose the mortgage
on the hotel at that time, but instead properly sued for the full
amount of the defaulted loan. The bank obtained and properly
filed a judgment for that amount. A statute of the jurisdiction
provides:  “Any  judgment  properly  filed  shall,  for  ten  years
from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real  property  then  owned  or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the
judgment  is  rendered.”  There  is  no  other  applicable  statute,
except  the  statute  providing  for  judicial  foreclosure  of
mortgages,  which  places  no  restriction  on  deficiency
judgments. Shortly thereafter, the bank brought an appropriate
action  for  judicial  foreclosure  of  its  first  mortgage  on  the
hotel  and  of  its  judgment  lien  on  the  parking  garage.  The
financing  company  was  joined  as  a  party  defendant,  and
appropriately counterclaimed for foreclosure of its mortgage
on  the  parking  garage,  which  was  also  in  default.  All
procedures  were  properly  followed  and  the  confirmed

620

foreclosure sales resulted in the following: The net proceeds
of  the  sale  of  the  hotel  to  a  third  party  were  $200,000  less
than the bank’s mortgage balance. The net proceeds of the sale
of  the  parking  garage  to  a  fourth  party  were  $200,000  more
than the financing company’s mortgage balance.

How should the $200,000 surplus arising from the bid on the
parking garage be distributed?

(A)  It should be paid to the bank.
(B)  It should be paid to the businessman.
(C)  It should be paid to the financing company.
(D)    It  should  be  split  equally  between  the  bank  and  the

financing company.

Answer  48:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  The  foreclosure  sale  of
the  bank’s  mortgage  on  the  hotel  was  insufficient  to  pay  the
businessman’s  debt  to  the  bank.  The  bank  had  received  a
judgment against the businessman for the entire amount of the
defaulted loan. This lien was properly recorded and applied
to  all  property  owned  by  the  businessman  during  the
following ten-year time period, including the parking garage.
After  the  financing  company  was  paid  in  full  from  the  funds
generated  by  the  foreclosure  sale  of  its  mortgage  on  the
parking  garage,  the  additional  funds  generated  by  that  sale
would  be  paid  to  the  bank  not  as  a  deficiency  judgment,  but
because  of  the  unsatisfied  amount  of  the  prior  money
judgment.

(B) is incorrect. The judgment lien was properly filed against
the  businessman.  Therefore,  the  garage  was  subject  not  only
to the loan of the financing company, but also to the judgment
lien as a second priority. The businessman would be entitled
to surplus proceeds only if both liens had been fully paid.
(C)  is  incorrect.  The  foreclosure  sale  of  the  financing
company’s  mortgage  on  the  parking  garage  was  sufficient  to
pay  the  businessman’s  debt  to  the  financing  company  in  full.
The  fact  that  the  garage  was  sold  for  more  money  than  was
owed  under  the  garage  mortgage  is  irrelevant  to  the  amount
owed  to  the  financing  company — a  mortgagee  doesn’t
receive any part of the “surplus” after its mortgage has been
paid in full.

621

(D) is incorrect for the same reason that (C) is incorrect.

III.  DEEDS

A.  Formalities

1.  Identification of parties

Question 49: A landowner owned a valuable parcel of land
located in York County. The landowner executed a document
in  the  form  of  a  warranty  deed  of  the  parcel,  which  was
regular  in  all  respects  except  that  the  only  language
designating the grantees in each of the granting and habendum
clauses  was:  “The  leaders  of  all  the  Protestant  Churches  in
York County.” The instrument was acknowledged as required
by  statute  and  promptly  and  properly  recorded.  The
landowner told his lawyer, but no one else, that he had made
the conveyance as he did because he abhorred sectarianism in
the  Protestant  movement  and  because  he  thought  that  the
leaders would devote the asset to lessening sectarianism.
The landowner died suddenly and unexpectedly a week later,
leaving a will that bequeathed and devised his entire estate to
his  cousin.  After  probate  of  the  will  became  final  and  the
administration  on  the  landowner’s  estate  was  closed,  the
cousin  instituted  an  appropriate  action  to  quiet  title  to  the
parcel  and  properly  served  as  defendant  each  Protestant
church situated in the county.

The  only  evidence  introduced  consisted  of  the  chain  of  title
under  which  the  landowner  held,  the  probated  will,  the
recorded  deed,  the  fact  that  no  person  knew  about  the  deed
except the landowner and his lawyer, and the conversation the
landowner had with his lawyer described above.
In such action, judgment should be for
(A)    the  cousin,  because  there  is  inadequate  identification  of

grantees in the deed.

(B)    the  cousin,  because  the  state  of  the  evidence  would  not

support a finding of delivery of the deed.

(C)  the defendants, because a deed is prima facie valid until

rebutted.

622

(D)    the  defendants,  because  recording  established  delivery

prima facie until rebutted.

Answer  49:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  In  order  to  be  valid,  a
deed  must  identify  the  grantee(s)  with  reasonable  precision.
Here,  the  grantees  are  “the  leaders  of  all  the  Protestant
churches in York County.” It may be possible to identify with
acceptable  confidence  all  Protestant  churches  in  the  county,
but  it  is  unlikely  that  the  “leader”  of  each  church  can  be
identified,  given  the  imprecision  of  the  term  “leader”  in  the
context of a church (is it the minister, or is it the president of
the  congregation,  or  is  it  the  entire  board  of  directors  of  the
organization?).  Where  a  deed  does  not  identify  the  grantee
with acceptable precision, the deed will be treated as if it had
never  been  made.  That  would  mean  that  the  landowner  died
still holding title, which passed to the cousin.

(B)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  deed  was  recorded
furnishes  a  strong  presumption  that  delivery  occurred  (i.e.,
that the grantor intended the deed to take effect immediately,
which is all that “delivery” means).
(C)  is  wrong  because,  while  it  may  be  true  that  a  deed  is
presumed valid, the lack of an acceptably-precise designation
of grantees here would be sufficient to rebut the presumption
of validity.

(D)  is  wrong  because,  while  recording  will  indeed  create  a
prima facie  (but  rebuttable)  case  that  delivery  occurred,  the
the
problem  here 
designation of the grantees.

is  not  delivery  but 

imprecision 

in 

Question 50: A vendee entered into a valid written contract
to  purchase  a  large  tract  of  land  from  a  vendor  for  its  fair
market value of $50,000. The contract was assignable by the
vendee.  The  vendee  duly  notified  the  vendor  to  convey  title
jointly  to  the  vendee  and  “Charles,”  Charles  being  the
vendee’s  friend  whom  the  vendee  had  not  seen  for  many
years.
When  the  vendee  learned  that  Charles  would  have  to  sign
certain  documents  in  connection  with  the  closing,  she
prevailed upon her brother to attend the closing and pretend to
be Charles. The vendee and her brother attended the closing,

623

and the vendor executed an instrument in the proper form of a
deed, purporting to convey the property to “[the vendee] and
Charles, as tenants in common.” The brother pretended that he
was Charles, and he signed Charles’s name to all the required
documents.  The  vendee  provided 
the  entire  $50,000
consideration for the transaction. The deed was promptly and
properly recorded.

Unknown  to  the  vendee  or  her  brother,  Charles  had  died
several months before the closing. Charles’s will, which was
duly probated, devised “all my real estate to my nephew” and
the residue of his estate to the vendee.

The vendee and the nephew have been unable to agree as to
the status or disposition of the property. The nephew brought
an  appropriate  action  against  the  vendor  and  the  vendee  to
quiet  legal  title  to  an  undivided  one-half  interest  in  the
property.

The court should hold that legal title to the property is vested
(A)  all in the vendor.
(B)  all in the vendee.
(C)  one-half in the vendee and one-half in the vendor.
(D)  one-half in the vendee and one-half in the nephew.
Answer  50:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  Because  Charles  was
dead  at  the  time  of  the  purported  conveyance  to  the  vendee
and Charles as tenants in common, the deed’s attempt to pass
an interest to him was not effective (i.e., the deed was “void”
as to him). Therefore, no interest passed through to his estate
or via his estate to his nephew. The “Charles” portion of the
tenancy  in  common  therefore  remained  in  the  vendor.  The
deed was effective as to the vendee’s interest, however, since
she was correctly named and the deed was delivered to and
accepted  by  her;  therefore,  she  has  the  tenancy  in  common
interest that the vendor intended to convey to her.
Choices  (A),  (B),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are
inconsistent with the above analysis.

B.  Delivery of deed

1.  Delivery to agent of grantee

Question  51:  When  a  homeowner  became  ill,  he  properly

624

executed a deed sufficient to convey his home to his nephew,
who  was  then  serving  overseas  in  the  military.  Two  persons
signed as witnesses to qualify the deed for recordation under
an applicable statute. The homeowner handed the deed to his
nephew’s  friend  and  said,  “I  want  [the  nephew]  to  have  my
home.  Please  take  this  deed  for  him.”  Shortly  thereafter,  the
nephew’s  friend  learned  that  the  homeowner’s  death  was
imminent.  One  day  before  the  homeowner’s  death,  the
nephew’s  friend  recorded  the  deed.  The  nephew  returned
home  shortly  after  the  homeowner’s  death.  The  nephew’s
friend  brought  him  up  to  date,  and  he  took  possession  of  the
home.  The  homeowner  died  intestate,  leaving  a  daughter  as
his  sole  heir.  She  asserted  ownership  of  his  home.  The
nephew  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  her 
to
determine  title  to  the  home.  The  law  of  the  jurisdiction
requires  only  two  witnesses  for  a  will  to  be  properly
executed.

If  the  court  rules  for  the  nephew  and  against  the  daughter,
what is the most likely explanation?

(A)  The deed was delivered when the homeowner handed it

to the nephew’s friend.

(B)    The  delivery  of  the  deed  was  accomplished  by  the

recording of the deed.

(C)  The homeowner’s death consummated a valid gift causa

mortis to the nephew.

(D)  The homeowner’s properly executed deed was effective

as a testamentary document.

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Answer 51: Choice (A)  is  correct.  An  inter  vivos  gift  (i.e.,
one  made  during  the  giver’s  lifetime)  may  be  made  of  real
estate.  The  gift  is  deemed  made  when  “delivery”  occurs,
accompanied  by  the  requisite  donative  intent.  Here,  the
homeowner had the requisite donative intent as shown by his
words.  Delivery  occurred  when  the  homeowner  physically
handed  the  deed  to  the  nephew’s  friend  as  the  agent  of  the
nephew;  this  was  delivery  because  it  is  clear  from  the
homeowner’s  words  that  he  intended  the  gift  to  take  place
immediately  rather  than  at  some  future  time.  Acceptance  is
presumed if the gift is beneficial. Once delivery occurred, the
homeowner could not recall the gift.

625

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(B) is incorrect, because although the recording of a deed may
create  a  presumption  of  delivery,  here  the  delivery  occurred
prior  to  the  recordation  of  the  deed  (at  the  moment  the
homeowner physically handed the deed to the nephew’s friend
as the agent of the nephew, with the intent to pass the title).

(C)  is  incorrect,  because  a  gift  causa  mortis  may  only  be
made of personal property. In addition, the gift was not made
in  view  of  pending  death  from  a  stated  peril  (the  facts  only
note that the homeowner was ill).

(D) is incorrect, because a testamentary document takes effect
at the death of the testator and must have been executed with
the requisite testamentary intent. Here, the homeowner wanted
the  nephew  to  have  title  immediately  and  thus  delivered  the
deed to the nephew’s friend; the homeowner did not want to
postpone delivery until his death.

2.  Not revocable

Question 52:  Ogle  owned  Greenacre,  a  tract  of  land,  in  fee
simple. Five years ago, he executed and delivered to Lilly an
instrument  in  the  proper  form  of  a  warranty  deed  that
conveyed  Greenacre  to  Lilly  “for  and  during  the  term  of  her
natural  life.”  No  other  estate  or  interest  or  person  taking  an
interest  was  mentioned.  Lilly  took  possession  of  Greenacre
and has remained in possession.

Fifteen  months  ago,  Ogle  died,  leaving  a  will  that  has  been
duly  admitted  to  probate.  The  will,  inter  alia,  had  the
following provision:

“I devise Greenacre to Mina for her natural life and from and
after Mina’s death to Rex, his heirs and assigns, forever.”
Administration  of  Ogle’s  estate  has  been  completed.  Mina
claims  the  immediate  right  to  possession  of  Greenacre.  Rex
also asserts a right to immediate possession.
In  an  appropriate  lawsuit  to  which  Lilly,  Mina,  and  Rex  are
parties,  who  should  be  adjudged  to  have  the  right  to
immediate possession?
(A)  Lilly, because no subsequent act of Ogle would affect her

life estate.

(B)    Mina,  because  Ogle’s  will  was  the  final  and  definitive

626

expression of his intent.

(C)  Mina, because Lilly’s estate terminated with the death of

Ogle.

(D)  Rex, because Lilly’s estate terminated with Ogle’s death
and  all  that  Ogle  had  was  the  right  to  transfer  his
reversion in fee simple.

Answer 52: Choice (A) is correct. When Ogle delivered the
deed to Lilly, she received a life estate, and nothing Ogle did
thereafter could undo or modify that life estate. Therefore, the
clause  in  Ogle’s  will  leaving  a  life  estate  to  Mina  did  not
affect Lilly’s life estate. (Instead, Mina got an executory life
estate that would not start until Lilly’s death.)

(B)  is  wrong  because  of  the  principle  stated  in  Choice  (A)
above. (C) and (D) are wrong because of this same principle;
notice that a grantor (here, Ogle) can create a life estate in the
grantee, and the grantor’s death does not act to terminate that
life estate, as Choices (C) and (D) suggest that it would.

C.  Covenants for title in warranty deed

1.  Present vs. future covenants

a.  Future covenants

Question  53:  Seller  owned  Blackacre,  improved  with  an
aging  four-story  warehouse.  The  warehouse  was  built  to  the
lot lines on all four sides. On the street side, recessed loading
docks  permitted  semi-trailers  to  be  backed  in.  After  the
tractors  were  unhooked,  the  trailers  extended  into  the  street
and occupied most of one lane of the street. Over the years, as
trailers became larger, the blocking of the street became more
severe.  The  municipality  advised  Seller  that  the  loading
docks  could  not  continue  to  be  used  because  the  trailers
blocked the street; it gave Seller 90 days to cease and desist.
During  the  90  days,  Seller  sold  and  conveyed  Blackacre  by
warranty  deed  for  a  substantial  consideration  to  Buyer.  The
problem  of  the  loading  docks  was  not  discussed  in  the
negotiations.
Upon  expiration  of  the  90  days,  the  municipality  required
Buyer 
loading  docks.  This  action
substantially reduced the value of Blackacre.

to  stop  using 

the 

627

Buyer  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  Seller  seeking
cancellation of the deed and return of all monies paid.

Such action should be based upon a claim of

(A)  misrepresentation.
(B)  breach of the covenant of warranty.
(C)  failure of consideration.
(D) mutual mistake.

Answer 53: The correct choice is (A). By concealing the fact
that  the  present  use  was  the  subject  of  current  enforcement
proceedings,  Seller  would  likely  be  found  liable  on  a
fraudulent misrepresentation theory. It is not certain that such
a claim will succeed — the case may be found to fall within
the  general  rule  that  nondisclosure  is  actionable  only  if  the
party who failed to disclose had an affirmative duty to do so,
and  that  there  was  no  such  duty  here.  But  the  more  likely
result  is  that  Seller  will  be  found  liable  for  his  intentional
nondisclosure. One ground for such a result is that a party to a
business transaction is under a duty to disclose “facts basic to
the transaction, if the [defendant] knows that the other is about
to enter into it under a mistake as to [those facts], and that the
other,  because  of  the  relationship  between  them,  customs  of
the trade or other objective circumstances, would reasonably
expect a disclosure of those facts.” Rest. 2d (Torts) § 551(2)
(e). Here, Buyer has a good chance of establishing that under
the  customs  of  the  real  estate  trade,  where  a  seller  offers  a
properly for a particular use (warehousing with large trucks),
which  he  knows  the  buyer  intends  to  continue,  the  buyer
would reasonably expect a disclosure that the legality of that
present use is being contested by a governmental authority.
(B)  is  wrong,  because  the  covenant  of  warranty  protects  the
grantee  only  against  an  eviction  or  disturbance,  due  to
absence of title or to an encumbrance. So the facts here fail to
support  a  claim  for  breach  of  the  warranty  covenant  in  two
respects:  (1)  the  problem  with  using  the  loading  docks  was
not a problem with title or an encumbrance (merely a problem
that  the  existing  use  violated  city  rules),  and  (2)  more
fundamentally, Buyer has not been evicted or even threatened
with eviction (he can stay on the property forever as long as

628

he doesn’t unload trailers in a way that blocks the street).

(C)  is  wrong,  because  each  party  gave  a  promise  in
consideration for the other’s promise in the original contract
of sale. In any event, any problem with consideration would
have been eliminated, because any contract rights would have
been deemed merged into the deed.

(D)  is  wrong,  because  any  “mistake”  was  certainly  not
“mutual” — Seller knew all along that the present use was the
subject of current enforcement proceedings.

D.  Undisclosed condition in house

Question 54:  Able,  who  owned  Blackacre,  a  residential  lot
improved  with  a  dwelling,  conveyed  it  for  a  valuable
consideration to Baker. The dwelling had been constructed by
a  prior  owner.  Baker  had  inspected  Blackacre  prior  to  the
purchase  and  discovered  no  defects.  After  moving  in,  Baker
became aware that sewage seeped into the basement when the
toilets  were  flushed.  Able  said  that  this  defect  had  been
present  for  years  and  that  he  had  taken  no  steps  to  hide  the
facts  from  Baker.  Baker  paid  for  the  necessary  repairs  and
brought an appropriate action against Able to recover his cost
of repair.

If Baker wins, it will be because
(A)  Able failed to disclose a latent defect.
(B)  Baker made a proper inspection.
(C)  the situation constitutes a health hazard.
(D)    Able  breached  the  implied  warranty  of  habitability  and

fitness for purpose.

Answer 54: Choice (A) is correct. An increasing number of
courts now impose liability on a home seller who is aware of
a  material  defect  and  who  fails  to  disclose  it  to  a  buyer,
where the defect is a latent one that cannot easily be found by
an inspection. It is by no means certain that a court would find
for  Baker  on  this  ground,  but  of  the  four  possibilities  this  is
the  only  one  that  offers  Baker  even  a  plausible  chance  of
success.
(B)  is  wrong  because  Baker’s  having  made  a  proper
inspection,  by  itself,  would  not  be  enough  to  ensure  him  a

629

victory.  For  instance,  if  the  defect  had  been  a  “patent”  one
(one  that  ought  to  have  been  discovered  by  a  reasonable
inspection), virtually no courts would impose liability.

(C)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  fact  that  the  condition
constitutes a health hazard is a factor making liability slightly
more likely, the key factor leading to liability is that the defect
was latent (not readily discoverable), a factor that this choice
does not refer to at all.

(D)  is  wrong  because  courts  virtually  never  hold  that  the
seller  of  a  “used”  house  built  by  someone  else  makes  an
implied  warranty  of  habitability  or  fitness  for  particular
purpose;  since  the  facts  tell  us  that  a  prior  owner  built  the
house, this rule precludes liability on warranty-of-habitability
grounds.

630

CHAPTER 8
RECORDING ACTS

I.    WHAT INSTRUMENTS MUST BE RECORDED

A.  What instruments must be recorded

1.  Contract of sale

Question 55: Able was the owner of Greenacre, a large tract
of  land.  Able  entered  into  a  binding  written  contract  with
Baker  for  the  sale  and  purchase  of  Greenacre  for  $125,000.
The contract required Able to convey marketable record title.

Baker  decided  to  protect  his  interest  and  promptly  and
properly recorded the contract.

Thereafter,  but  before  the  date  scheduled  for  the  closing,
Charlie  obtained  and  properly  filed  a  final  judgment  against
Able in the amount of $1 million in a personal injury suit. A
statute  in  the  jurisdiction  provides:  “Any  judgment  properly
filed  shall,  for  ten  years  from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person
against whom the judgment is rendered.”

The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  authorizes  recording  of
contracts and also provides: “No conveyance or mortgage of
real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for
value  and  without  notice  unless  the  same  be  recorded
according to law.”

There are no other relevant statutory provisions.

At the closing, Baker declined to accept the title of Able on
the  ground  that  Charlie’s  judgment  lien  encumbered  the  title
he would receive and rendered it unmarketable. Able brought
an appropriate action against Baker for specific performance
of the contract and joined Charlie as a party.
In this action, the judgment should be for

(A)    Able,  because  in  equity  a  purchaser  takes  free  of

judgment liens.

(B)  Able, because the contract had been recorded.
(C)  Baker, because Able cannot benefit from Baker’s action

631

in recording the contract.

(D)    Baker,  because  the  statute  creating  judgment  liens  takes

precedence over the recording act.

Answer 55: Choice (B) is correct. In most states, a land-sale
contract is recordable, and the facts here tell us that this is so
for  the  state  in  question  (by  telling  us  that  Baker  “properly
recorded  the  contract”).  Once  the  contract  was  recorded,  it
created an interest in land on the part of the vendee (namely,
the right to buy on the stated terms) that was superior to any
later-created interest in the property. Therefore, Baker’s right
to  purchase  was  superior  to  the  later-filed  judgment  lien
obtained by Charlie. Consequently, Able would be deemed to
have  marketable  title,  because  notwithstanding  the  judgment
lien he was capable of conveying the property free and clear
to Baker.

(A)  is  wrong  because  it  states  the  right  result,  but  for  the
wrong  reason.  A  purchaser  would  not  always  take  free  of  a
judgment lien; for instance, a purchaser would not take free of
a judgment lien that was filed before the purchase contract. It
is only the fact that the sale contract was recorded before the
judgment lien was filed that lets the purchaser here take free
of the lien.

(C)  is  wrong  because  Able  can  indeed  benefit  from  Baker’s
action  in  recording.  The  issue  is  whether  Able  can  convey
marketable  title  to  Baker,  and  the  fact  that  Baker  recorded
means that  Able  can  do  this;  there  is  no  rule  that  one  party
cannot benefit from the other’s action in recording.

(D) is wrong because it is a misstatement of law. The statute
creating judgment liens merely describes that a judgment lien
is  an  interest  in  property;  the  statute  does  not  say  anything
about  priorities,  a  subject  that  is  left  to  the  recording  act.
Under the recording act, an early-filed interest in land (here,
the vendee’s rights under the sale contract) takes priority over
a later-filed interest (here, the judgment lien).

II.   WHO IS PROTECTED BY THE RECORDING

ACT

632

A.  Who is a bona fide purchaser (BFP)

Question 56:  Devlin  was  the  owner  of  a  large  subdivision.
Parnell  became  interested  in  purchasing  a  lot  but  could  not
decide between Lot 40 and Lot 41. The price and fair market
value  of  each  of  those  two  lots  was  $50,000.  Parnell  paid
Devlin  $50,000,  which  Devlin  accepted,  and  Devlin
delivered  to  Parnell  a  deed  which  was  properly  executed,
complete, and ready for recording in every detail except that
the space in the deed for the lot number was left blank. Devlin
told Parnell to fill in either Lot 40 or Lot 41 according to his
decision  and  then  record  the  deed.  Parnell  visited  the
development  the  next  day  and  completely  changed  his  mind,
selecting  Lot  25.  He  filled  in  Lot  25  and  duly  recorded  the
deed.  The  price  of  Lot  25  and  its  fair  market  value  was
$75,000.

Before Devlin had time to learn of Parnell’s actions, Parnell
sold  Lot  25  to  Caruso  for  $60,000  by  a  duly  and  properly
executed,  delivered,  and  recorded  warranty  deed.  Caruso
knew that Devlin had put a price of $75,000 on Lot 25, but he
knew no other facts regarding the Devlin-Parnell transaction.
Caruso’s attorney accurately reported Parnell’s record title to
be  good,  marketable,  and  free  of  encumbrances.  Neither
Caruso nor his attorney made any further investigation outside
the  record.  Devlin  brought  an  appropriate  action  against
Caruso  to  recover  title  to  Lot  25.  If  Devlin  loses,  the  most
likely basis for the judgment is that

(A)    the  Statute  of  Frauds  prevents  the  introduction  of  any

evidence of Devlin’s and Parnell’s agreement.

(B)    recording  of  the  deed  from  Devlin  to  Parnell  precludes

any question of its genuineness.

(C)  as between Devlin and a bona fide purchaser, Devlin is

estopped.

(D)  the clean hands doctrine bars Devlin from relief.
Answer  56:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  The  goal  of  recording
statutes  is  to  protect  subsequent  bona  fide  purchasers  and
incumbrancers — those  who  pay  value  and  take  without
notice of prior conveyances, in good faith. Here, Caruso is a
bona fide purchaser, because he has no notice of any defects

633

in  the  chain  of  title.  The  price  he  paid,  $60,000,  was  a
bargain  compared  to  what  Devlin  asked  previously,  but  this
would  not  in  and  of  itself  negate  his  bona  fide  purchaser
status,  since  it  would  still  constitute  “value”  and  would  not,
barring  other  facts, 
indicate  something  untoward  was
involved.  Since  the  chain  of  title  indicates  that  Parnell  was
conveying marketable title, Caruso was not obligated to look
further.  Choice  (C)  goes  on  to  suggest  that  Devlin  is
“estopped” from denying the validity of the deed. An estoppel
occurs, in facts like these, when one has done or omitted to do
something,  and  is  as  a  result  forbidden  from  pleading  or
fact.  Here,  Devlin’s
proving  an  otherwise-important 
carelessness in allowing Parnell to fill in the deed will lead
to  his  being  bound  by  the  resultant  deed — he’ll  be
“estopped” from denying its validity.

(A) is wrong because the Statute of Frauds would not prevent
proof  of  Devlin’s  and  Parnell’s  oral  agreement.  Devlin  is
trying  to  show  that  the  deed  he  signed  has  the  wrong  lot
number  on  it,  due  to  Parnell’s  wrongdoing.  That’s  not  a
contracts  problem,  and  the  Statute  of  Frauds  applies  only  to
contracts. Except for the estoppel problem (discussed in (C)),
Devlin would be able to show that the deed as filed was not
genuine  (i.e.,  was  a  forgery  as  to  the  lot  number).  And  that
would  be  true  even  though  Devlin’s  proof  would  consist  of
proof of an oral agreement. So the Statute of Frauds wouldn’t
be relevant.

(B)  is  wrong  because  it  states  an  incorrect  rule  of  law:
Recording  a  deed  does  not  preclude  any  question  as  to  its
genuineness.  The  mere  act  of  recording  would  not,  for
instance,  make  a  fraudulent  deed  genuine.  The  upshot,
nonetheless,  might  be  that,  despite  the  fact  that  a  deed  is
incorrect,  the  bona  fide  purchaser  may  still  prevail,  on
grounds  of  estoppel.  But  (B)  states  as  a  concrete  rule  that
recording a deed means its genuineness cannot be questioned,
and this is incorrect.
(D)  is  wrong  because  it  misstates  the  facts:  Devlin’s  hands
are  not  “unclean.”  Under  the  equitable  doctrine  of  “unclean
hands,” one who has acted “unconscionably,” or in a morally
reprehensible  manner,  cannot  recover.  Here,  at  most  Devlin

634

has behaved negligently; there is no basis on which to attach
any  bad  faith  to  his  behavior.  If  anything,  he  was  gullible  in
trusting  Parnell  to  fill  in  the  blank  in  the  deed  as  instructed;
but the creation of the agency did not involve wrongdoing. If
anyone, it’s Parnell who’s the wrongdoer.

B.  The “gave value” requirement

1.  Judgment creditors

Question 57: A seller owned a piece of land in fee simple, as
the land records showed, when he contracted to sell the land
to a buyer. Two weeks later, the buyer paid the agreed price
and  received  a  warranty  deed.  A  week  thereafter,  when
neither the contract nor the deed had been recorded and while
the seller remained in possession of the property, a creditor of
the seller properly filed a money judgment against the seller.
The creditor knew nothing of the buyer’s interest.
A statute in the jurisdiction provides: “Any judgment properly
filed  shall,  for  ten  years  from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real
property then owned or subsequently acquired by any person
against whom the judgment is rendered.”

The  recording  act  of 
jurisdiction  provides:  “No
conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good
against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  and  without  notice
unless the same be recorded according to law.”

the 

The creditor brought an appropriate action to enforce her lien
against the property in the buyer’s hands.

If  the  court  decides  for  the  buyer,  it  will  most  probably  be
because

(A)  the doctrine of equitable conversion applies.
(B)  the jurisdiction’s recording act does not protect creditors.
(C)    the  seller’s  possession  gave  the  creditor  constructive

notice of the buyer’s interest.

(D)  the buyer was a purchaser without notice.
Answer 57: Choice (B) is correct. Where the language of the
recording act is ambiguous about whether judgment creditors
are covered (e.g., where, as here, “purchasers for value” are
what are covered), most courts have interpreted the statute so
as  not  to  cover  the  judgment  creditor.  There  is  no  guarantee

635

that  a  court  would  interpret  the  statute  in  this  anti-creditor
way,  but  that’s  at  least  a  possibility,  and  of  the  four  choices
this is the most likely explanation for an anti-creditor result.
(Remember, you’re not asked to say how the case will come
out — you’re  merely  asked  to  say  what  the  most  likely
rationale will be if the case is decided for the buyer.)

Choice  (A)  is  wrong  because  the  doctrine  of  equitable
conversion has nothing to do with any issue presented by this
question.  Equitable  conversion,  where  the  court  chooses  to
apply  it,  makes  a  vendor  under  a  land-sale  agreement  the
“equitable seller,” and the vendee the “equitable buyer.” The
main consequence of the doctrine’s application is that risk of
loss passes to the buyer upon the signing of the contract, even
though the seller still holds the legal title.

Choice (C) is wrong, because the seller’s possession would
not suggest the seller had sold the property to the buyer. Under
a  recording  statute  like  the  one  here,  a  subsequent  bona  fide
purchaser  (i.e.,  a  person  who  gives  valuable  consideration
and  has  no  actual  or  constructive  notice  of  the  prior
instrument)  prevails  over  a  prior  grantee  who  failed  to
record.  If  the  creditor  was  trying  to  become  covered  by  the
recording  act,  and  the  buyer  had  been  in  possession  at  the
time the creditor filed her lien, the fact that the buyer (not the
seller,  who  was  the  record  owner)  was  in  possession  at  the
date of lien filing might have been enough to cause the buyer
to  lose,  since  this  possession  might  have  put  her  on  inquiry
notice that the seller was perhaps no longer the owner. But the
fact that the seller was still in possession didn’t put the buyer
on notice of anything, so it’s irrelevant on these facts.

Choice  (D)  is  wrong,  because  recording  acts  protect  the
second, not the first, purchaser in certain circumstances. Here,
it would be the creditor (who can argue that she “purchased”
by  filing  her  lien),  not  the  buyer,  who  is  trying  to  get  the
protection  of  the  recording  act.  It  is  the  person  seeking  the
protection of the recording act (the second purchaser), not the
person  resisting  application  of  the  act  (the  first  purchaser)
who needs to be “without notice.” So here, the notice status of
the creditor might well matter (if the recording act otherwise
applied to judgment lien creditors). But the notice status of the

636

buyer, the first “purchaser,” does not matter at all.

Question  58:  Able  conveyed  Blackacre  to  Baker  by  a
warranty deed. Baker recorded the deed four days later. After
the  conveyance  but  prior  to  Baker’s  recording  of  the  deed,
Smollett properly filed a judgment against Able.

The  two  pertinent  statutes  in  the  jurisdiction  provide  the
following: 1) any judgment properly filed shall, for ten years
from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real  property  then  owned  or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the
judgment  is  rendered,  and  2)  no  conveyance  or  mortgage  of
real property shall be good against subsequent purchasers for
value  and  without  notice  unless  the  same  be  recorded
according to law.

The recording act has no provision for a grace period.

Smollett joined both Able and Baker in an appropriate action
to foreclose the judgment lien against Blackacre.

If Smollett is unsuccessful, it will be because
(A)    Able’s  warranty  of  title  to  Baker  defeats  Smollett’s

claim.

(B)  Smollett is not a purchaser for value.
(C)  any deed is superior to a judgment lien.
(D)    four  days  is  not  an  unreasonable  delay  in  recording  a

deed.

Answer 58: Choice (B) is correct. Smollett could win only if
he  were  protected  by  the  recording  act.  This  is  so  because
without the recording act’s protection, Smollet would have to
lose  since  Baker  received  his  conveyance  before  Smollett
filed his lien (meaning that Able no longer had any interest in
the property at the moment Smollett’s judgment became a lien
on Able’s “property” by means of Smollett’s filing). In most
jurisdictions,  if  the  recording  act  protects  only  “purchasers
for  value,”  a  judgment  creditor  will  not  be  deemed  to  be  a
“purchaser.” So if Smollett were found not to be a purchaser,
and therefore not to receive any protection from the recording
act, he would lose. It is not certain that the recording act here
would be interpreted so as to not protect lien creditors, but of
the four choices, this is the only one that could plausibly yield

637

a defeat for Smollett.

(A) is wrong because Able’s warranty of title to Baker might
help Baker in a suit against Able, but would not help Baker in
a  suit  against  Smollett.  Where  a  party  (here,  Baker)  doesn’t
record immediately (or within the applicable grace period if
any), nothing in that party’s deed can save her from losing to a
subsequent  purchaser  for  value  who  is  protected  by  the
recording  act.  (That’s  the  purpose  of  recording  acts — to
protect subsequent purchasers for value, and to allow them to
rely on the record as of the time of the subsequent purchase.)

(C)  is  wrong  because  it  is  a  gross  misstatement  of  law,
especially  the  law  of  the  jurisdiction  in  question  here.  The
first statute cited in the question gives a filed judgment a lien
against all real property then owned by the judgment debtor;
so  if  the  judgment  had  been  filed  before  the  conveyance  to
Baker, the judgment lien would indeed be superior to Baker’s
deed (which this choice says could never happen).

(D) is wrong because, when a recording act does not have a
grace  period,  the  purchaser  takes  the  risk  of  a  subsequent
purchaser’s  gaining  rights  in  the  gap  between  the  first
conveyance  and  a  recording  of  that  conveyance,  no  matter
how  small  this  gap  is.  (If  there  had  been  a  grace  period  of
more  than  four  days,  this  choice  would  have  been  a  good
explanation of why Smollett would lose.)

C.  Recording first in a race or race-notice state

landowner  mortgaged 

Question  59:  A  landowner  owned  a  piece  of  land  in  fee
simple of record on January 10. On that day, a bank loaned the
the
the 
landowner  $50,000  and 
property  to  the  bank  as  security  for  the  loan.  The  mortgage
was recorded on January 18.
The  landowner  conveyed  the  property  to  an  investor  for  a
valuable consideration on January 11. The bank did not know
of this, nor did the investor know of the mortgage to the bank,
until  both  discovered  the  facts  on  January  23,  the  day  on
which the investor recorded his deed from the landowner.
jurisdiction  provides:  “No
the 
The  recording  act  of 
unrecorded conveyance or mortgage of real property shall be
good against subsequent purchasers for value without notice,

638

who shall first record.” There is no provision for a period of
grace and there is no other relevant statutory provision.

The bank sued the investor to establish that its mortgage was
good against the property.

The court should decide for

(A)    the  investor,  because  he  paid  valuable  consideration
without notice before the bank recorded its mortgage.
(B)  the investor, because the bank’s delay in recording means
that it is estopped from asserting its priority in time.
(C)    the  bank,  because  the  investor  did  not  record  his  deed

(D) 

before the mortgage was recorded.
  the  bank,  because  after  the  mortgage  to  it,  the
landowner’s  deed  to  the  investor  was  necessarily
subject to the mortgage.

Answer  59:  Choice  (C)  is  correct.  This  is  a  race  notice
statute,  since  it  says  that  it  protects  only  “subsequent
purchasers for value without notice, who shall first record.”
Therefore, the investor could only obtain the protection of the
recording statute if he recorded before the prior interest (the
bank’s  mortgage)  was  recorded.  Since  the  bank  recorded  on
Jan. 18 and the investor on Jan. 23, the investor did not satisfy
the record-first requirement. Therefore, the recording act does
not apply, and the bank wins under the common-law principle
that  the  first-in-time  conveyance  takes  priority  over  the
second conveyance.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  the  investor’s  paying  valuable
consideration  and  taking  without  notice  prior  to  the  bank’s
recording were necessary elements for him to be covered by
the recording act, they were not sufficient elements — he was
also required to record first.
(B)  is  wrong  because  there  is  no  principle  of  estoppel  by
which a party who delays in recording loses the right to rely
on the recording act; the only risk taken by the delaying party
is that during the delay, a subsequent purchaser may meet the
requirements for protection under the recording act.
(D) is wrong because it gives an incorrect explanation for the
correct result: After the bank received its mortgage, it would

639

still  lose  to  a  subsequent  purchaser  for  value  without  notice
who beat it to the recording office.

III.  PURCHASER MUST TAKE “WITHOUT

NOTICE”

A.  Notice to subsequent claimants

1.  Record notice

a.  Imputed knowledge

i.  Mortgage and note

Question  60:  A  landowner  executed  and  delivered  a
promissory  note  and  a  mortgage  securing  the  note  to  a
mortgage company, which was named as payee in the note and
as  mortgagee  in  the  mortgage.  The  note  included  a  statement
that  the  indebtedness  evidenced  by  the  note  was  “subject  to
the terms of a contract between the maker and the payee of the
note executed on the same day” and that the note was “secured
by a mortgage of even date.” The mortgage was promptly and
properly recorded. Subsequently, the mortgage company sold
the landowner’s note and mortgage to a bank and delivered to
the  bank  a  written  assignment  of  the  note  and  mortgage.  The
assignment  was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.  The
mortgage  company  retained  possession  of  both  the  note  and
the mortgage in order to act as collecting agent. Later, being
short  of  funds,  the  mortgage  company  sold  the  note  and
mortgage  to  an  investor  at  a  substantial  discount.  The
mortgage company executed a written assignment of the note
and mortgage to the investor and delivered to him the note, the
mortgage, and the assignment. The investor paid value for the
assignment without actual knowledge of the prior assignment
to  the  bank  and  promptly  and  properly  recorded  his
assignment.  The  principal  of  the  note  was  not  then  due,  and
there  had  been  no  default  in  payment  of  either  interest  or
principal.
If  the  issue  of  ownership  of  the  landowner’s  note  and
mortgage  is  subsequently  raised  in  an  appropriate  action  by
the bank to foreclose, the court should hold that

640

(A)  the investor owns both the note and the mortgage.
(B)  the bank owns both the note and the mortgage.
(C)    the  investor  owns  the  note  and  the  bank  owns  the

mortgage.

(D)    the  bank  owns  the  note  and  the  investor  owns  the

mortgage.

title.  When 

the  bank  promptly  recorded 

Answer  60:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  bank  was  the  first
grantee of both the note and the mortgage, so the bank is the
owner  unless  the  recording  act  somehow  gave  the  investor
superior 
the
assignment to it of the note and mortgage, the bank complied
with all requirements of the recording act. Therefore, no later
assignment  by  the  mortgage  company  to  the  investor  (or
anyone else) could take priority, under the recording act, over
the  assignment  to  the  bank.  The  fact  that  the  investor  paid
value  for  his  assignment,  and  without  actual  notice  of  the
prior assignment to the bank, doesn’t change any of this — the
investor  is  deemed  to  be  on  notice  of  what  a  proper  record
search  would  have  indicated,  and  here  a  search  of  the
mortgage  company  in  the  records  would  have  disclosed  the
prior  assignment  to  the  bank.  Similarly,  the  fact  that  the
mortgage  company  kept  possession  of  the  note  and  mortgage
after  assigning  these  to  the  bank  makes  no  difference;  the
investor  as  second  grantee  cannot  take  priority  over  a  prior
conveyance that was properly recorded.

(A),  (C),  and  (D)  are  wrong  because  they  are  inconsistent
with the above analysis.

B.  Purchaser from one without notice

1.  Donee from person protected by act

Question 61: A grantor who owned a parcel conveyed it by
quitclaim deed as a gift to a woman, who did not then record
her deed. Later, the grantor conveyed the parcel by warranty
deed  to  a  man,  who  paid  valuable  consideration,  knew
nothing  of  the  woman’s  claim,  and  promptly  and  properly
recorded. Next, the woman recorded her deed. Then the man
conveyed the parcel by quitclaim deed to his nephew as a gift.
When the possible conflict with the woman was discovered,
the nephew recorded his deed.

641

The  parcel  at  all  relevant  times  has  been  vacant  unoccupied
land.

The recording act of the jurisdiction provides:

“No  unrecorded  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property
shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value without
notice, who shall first record.” No other statute is applicable.

The  nephew  has  sued  the  woman  to  establish  who  owns  the
parcel.

The court will hold for

(A)  the nephew, because the woman was a donee.
(B)    the  nephew,  because  the  man’s  purchase  cut  off  the

woman’s rights.

(C)  the woman, because she recorded before the nephew.
(D)  the woman, because the nephew was a subsequent donee.
Answer  61:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  The  man  met  all  the
requirements  of  the  recording  statute:  He  took  for  value,  he
took without notice of the prior conveyance, and he recorded
before the prior conveyance was recorded. Once the man met
those  requirements,  his  interest  cut  off  all  rights  of  the  prior
grantee  (the  woman)  who  didn’t  record  first.  The  man
therefore  had  the  ability  to  pass  a  valid  title  to  his  nephew,
even  though  the  nephew  did  not  take  for  value,  and  even
though the nephew was on record notice of the woman’s claim
at the time he took (since by then the woman had recorded).

(A) is wrong because it is not the woman’s status as a donee
that  causes  her  to  lose,  it  is  the  fact  that  she  did  not  record
before a subsequent BFP (the man) recorded. Remember that
under recording acts, it is never significant whether the first
grantee took for value; it only matters whether the subsequent
grantee, who is trying to take advantage of the recording act,
took for value.
(C) is wrong because the fact that the woman recorded before
the  nephew  cannot  save  her;  once  a  subsequent  grantee  (the
man)  took  for  value  and  without  notice  and  then  recorded
first,  a  person  downstream  from  that  subsequent  grantee  (the
late-filing  grantee
nephew)  wins  against 
regardless of whether the downstreamer took for value, took

the  original 

642

without notice, or recorded first.

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  the  nephew  did  not  give
value doesn’t matter; as with Choice (C), once the subsequent
grantee  (the  man)  got  the  protection  of  the  recording  act,  it
doesn’t  matter  whether  a  person  downstream  from  him  gave
value, recorded first, or took without notice.

2.  Lender to person protected by act

Question  62:  Five  years  ago,  an  investor  who  owned  a
vacant  lot  in  a  residential  area  borrowed  $25,000  from  a
friend  and  gave  the  friend  a  note  for  $25,000  due  in  five
years, secured by a mortgage on the lot. The friend neglected
to record the mortgage. The fair market value of the lot was
then $25,000.

Three  years  ago,  the  investor  discovered  that  the  friend  had
not  recorded  his  mortgage  and  in  consideration  of  $50,000
conveyed  the  lot  to  a  buyer.  The  fair  market  value  of  the  lot
was  then  $50,000.  The  buyer  knew  nothing  of  the  friend’s
mortgage. One month thereafter, the friend discovered the sale
to the buyer, recorded his $25,000 mortgage, and notified the
buyer that he held a $25,000 mortgage on the lot.

Two years ago, the buyer needed funds. Although she told her
bank  of  the  mortgage  claimed  by  the  investor’s  friend,  the
bank  loaned  her  $15,000,  and  she  gave  the  bank  a  note  for
$15,000  due  in  two  years  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  the  lot.
The  bank  promptly  and  properly  recorded  the  mortgage.  At
that time, the fair market value of the lot was $75,000.

the 

The  recording  act  of 
jurisdiction  provides:  “No
conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good
against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  and  without  notice
unless the same be recorded according to law.”
Both  notes  are  now  due  and  both  the  investor  and  the  buyer
have refused to pay. The lot is now worth only $50,000.
What are the rights of the investor’s friend and the bank in the
lot?
(A)  Both mortgages are enforceable liens and the friend’s has

priority because it was first recorded.

(B)  Both mortgages are enforceable liens, but the bank’s has

643

priority because the buyer was an innocent purchaser for
value.

(C)  Only the friend’s mortgage is an enforceable lien, because
the  bank  had  actual  and  constructive  notice  of  the
investor’s fraud.

(D)  Only the bank’s mortgage is an enforceable lien, because

the buyer was an innocent purchaser for value.

Answer 62: Choice (D) is correct. This is a complicated fact
pattern,  but  the  essential  information  is  that  the  buyer
purchased the lot from the investor before the friend recorded
his mortgage. Thus, (1) the buyer was a bona fide purchaser
(BFP) for value and is protected by the recording statute; and
(2) the bank who lent to the buyer is also protected despite the
fact that the buyer knew of the prior mortgage when it lent.

The jurisdiction’s recording act is a “notice” statute because
it  provides,  “No  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property
shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers  for  value  and
without notice unless same be recorded according to law.” A
notice  statute  protects  only  a  subsequent  taker  who  takes  for
value and without notice of the prior conveyance or mortgage.
(Because this is a pure notice rather than race-notice statute,
the subsequent taker doesn’t have to have recorded before the
prior  grantee  or  mortgagee  records.)  Notice  can  be  actual,
record, or inquiry. The facts do not indicate that the buyer had
actual notice of the friend’s mortgage. Since the friend had not
recorded the mortgage at the time the buyer purchased the lot,
the buyer did not have record notice. Finally, the property is a
vacant lot; so even if the buyer had inspected the property, she
would  not  have  been  put  on  inquiry  notice  of  the  friend’s
mortgage. Thus, the buyer is a BFP (i.e., she took without any
kind  of  notice)  and  receives  the  protection  of  the  recording
act.  Therefore,  the  friend’s  lien  is  unenforceable  against  the
buyer (or against anyone who deals with her, as we’ll see in a
minute).
The bank’s mortgage, on the other hand, is an enforceable lien
against  the  property,  because  the  buyer  is  a  party  to  the
mortgage  and  the  bank  promptly  and  properly  recorded  the
mortgage. (Even if you did not know this, you would be able
to  pick  the  correct  answer  by  eliminating  the  other  three

644

choices, which all rely on the friend’s having an enforceable
lien.)

And the fact that the bank made its loan while having notice
(both  actual  and  record)  of  the  prior  mortgage  to  the  friend
does not prevent the bank’s mortgage from being a valid first
lien — that’s  because  the  buyer  took  free  of  the  friend’s
mortgage for the reasons described above, and once the buyer
had  this  free-and-clear  title  she  was  entitled  to  place  a  first
mortgage  on  it  (or  re-sell  it)  regardless  of  the  state  of
knowledge possessed by the new mortgagee (or new buyer).
If the rule were otherwise, an innocent buyer would never be
able to take out a first mortgage or re-sell, if the holder of a
prior 
interest  who  didn’t  record  promptly  eventually
recorded, as happened here.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  for  the  reasons  explained  in  the
analysis of Choice (D), the friend did not have an enforceable
lien  against  the  property.  Thus,  the  fact  that  the  friend
recorded before the bank is irrelevant.

(B)  is  wrong  because,  for  the  reasons  explained  in  the
analysis of Choice (D), the friend did not have an enforceable
lien  against  the  property.  This  answer  choice  misstates  the
significance  of  the  buyer’s  being  an  innocent  purchaser  for
value.  The  buyer’s  BFP  status  protects  her  from  the
enforcement  of  the  friend’s  lien;  it  does  not  affect  the
“priority” of the liens (since there is only one valid lien, the
bank’s).

(C)  is  wrong  because,  for  the  reasons  explained  in  the
analysis of Choice (D), the friend did not have an enforceable
lien  against  the  property.  The  friend  recorded  too  late  to
prevent the buyer from being a BFP; so, the fact that the buyer
later  learned  of  the  friend’s  mortgage  is  of  no  consequence 
— the  buyer  took  free  of  the  friend’s  mortgage.  Once  the
buyer had this free-and-clear title, she was entitled to place a
first  mortgage  on  it  (or  sell  it)  regardless  of  the  state  of
knowledge possessed by the new mortgagee (or new buyer).
Such  a  rule  is  necessary  to  protect  the  innocent  buyer’s
financing  and  resale  market.  See  the  analysis  of  Choice  (D)
for more about this.

645

CHAPTER 9
RIGHTS INCIDENT TO LAND

I.    NUISANCE

A.  Private nuisance

1.  Failure to abate

Question 63:  A  homeowner  and  his  neighbor  own  adjacent
lots  in  fee  simple.  The  homeowner  has  kept  the  lawns  and
trees  on  his  property  trimmed  and  neat.  His  neighbor  ‘‘lets
nature  take  its  course’’  on  her  property.  As  a  result,  the
neighbor’s  lawn  is  a  tangle  of  underbrush,  fallen  trees,  and
standing trees that are in danger of losing limbs. Many of the
trees  on  the  neighbor’s  land  are  near  the  homeowner’s
property. In the past, debris and large limbs have been blown
from the neighbor’s property onto the homeowner’s. By local
standards  the  neighbor’s  lot  is  an  eyesore  that  depresses
market values of real property in the vicinity, but its condition
violates no applicable laws or ordinances.

The  homeowner  demanded  that  his  neighbor  keep  the  trees
near  his  property  trimmed.  The  neighbor  refused.  The
homeowner  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  his
neighbor  to  require  her  to  abate  what  he  alleges  to  be  a
nuisance.  In  the  lawsuit,  the  only  issue  is  whether  the
condition  of  the  neighbor’s  property  constitutes  a  nuisance.
The  strongest  argument  that  the  homeowner  can  present,  if
factually correct, is that the condition of his neighbor’s lot

(A)  has an adverse impact on real estate values.
(B)  poses a danger to the occupants of the homeowner’s lot.
(C)  violates community aesthetic standards.
(D)    cannot  otherwise  be  challenged  under  any  law  or

ordinance.

Answer  63:  Choice  (B)  is  correct.  Normally,  an  owner’s
refusal  to  abate  a  naturally-occurring  condition  on  his  land
will  not  be  deemed  to  be  a  nuisance.  But  nearly  all  courts
have long recognized an exception for trees that pose the risk
of  falling  on  the  public  highway,  and  some  courts  have

646

extended  this  exception  to  trees  that  pose  a  risk  of  physical
danger  to  those  on  adjacent  non-highway  property.  A  court
would  not  necessarily  find  that  the  risk  of  danger  from  the
fallen  trees  makes  the  condition  a  nuisance,  but  of  the  four
choices  this  is  the  only  one  that  could  plausibly  lead  to  a
finding of nuisance.

(A)  is  wrong  because,  while  impact  on  real  estate  values
might  a  reason  for  holding  that  a  man-made  feature  poses  a
nuisance, it would not be grounds for overruling the usual rule
that  failure  to  abate  a  naturally-occurring  condition  is  a
nuisance.

(C) is wrong for the same reason as (A): While a violation of
community aesthetic standards might be a reason for holding
that  a  man-made  feature  poses  a  nuisance,  it  would  not  be
grounds  for  overruling  the  usual  rule  that  failure  to  abate  a
naturally-occurring condition is not a nuisance.

it 

(D)  is  wrong  because  the  fact  that  a  condition  cannot  be
challenged by any other law or ordinance does not mean that
the  court  will  find 
to  constitute  a  nuisance — the
homeowner will have to show that the conditions here cause
him  a  substantial  interference  with  his  use  and  enjoyment  of
his property, and the fact that the condition doesn’t violate a
law  or  ordinance  doesn’t  say  anything  about  whether  the
homeowner can meet this standard.

II.   WATER RIGHTS

A.  Drainage of surface waters

1.  When party wants to get rid of the water

Question 64: A rancher and a farmer own adjacent tracts of
rural land. For the past nine years, the rancher has impounded
on  her  land  the  water  that  resulted  from  rain  and  melting
snow,  much  of  which  flowed  from  the  farmer’s  land.  The
rancher  uses  the  water  in  her  livestock  operation.  Recently,
the  farmer  increased  the  size  of  his  farming  operation  and
built  a  dam  on  his  land  near  the  boundary  between  the  two
tracts. Because of the dam, these waters no longer drain from
the  farmer’s  land  onto  the  rancher’s  land.  There  is  no

647

applicable statute. The rancher sued the farmer to restrain him
from  interfering  with  the  natural  flow  of  the  water  onto  her
land.

Who is likely to prevail?

(A)    The  farmer,  because  he  has  the  right  to  use  all  of  the

water impounded on his land.

(B)    The  farmer,  because  the  rancher’s  past  impoundment  of
water  estops  her  from  asserting  the  illegality  of  the
farmer’s dam.

(C)  The rancher, because she has acquired riparian rights to

use the water.

(D)  The rancher, because the farmer is estopped to claim all

of the surface water on his land.

Answer  64:  Choice  (A)  is  correct.  This  water  is  diffuse
surface  water.  Although  there  are  three  different  views
regarding  the  way  an  owner  may  expel  such  water  if  he
doesn’t  want  it,  there  is  only  one  view  about  whether  the
owner may impound it if he does want it: The rule is that an
owner such as the farmer may impound all such water, at least
in the absence of any malice (and there is none here).

(B) is wrong because although this option correctly concludes
that the farmer will prevail, it misstates the reason why this is
so.  At  least  in  the  absence  of  malice,  either  landowner  may
impound diffuse surface waters, and that would be true even
if  the  other  party  hadn’t  also  previously  impounded  (so  that
the doctrine of estoppel doesn’t apply).

(C)  is  wrong  because  water  from  melting  snows  and  rain  is
diffuse  surface  water.  Riparian  waters  are  waters  with
defined  beds  and  banks,  such  as  streams,  rivers,  and  lakes,
and a riparian owner is one whose land borders such waters.
Here, the only water at issue is diffuse surface water, and the
rule  for  such  waters  is  as  stated  in  the  discussion  of  Choice
(A).
(D)  is  wrong  because  as  described  above,  either  party  may
impound  surface  waters  that  are  on  his  own  land,  and  the
doctrine  of  estoppel  would  not  apply  to  change  this  general
rule.

648

III.  AIR RIGHTS

A.  Other air-rights issues

1.  Right to sunlight

Question  65:  Pauline  and  Doris  own  adjacent  parcels  of
land. On each of their parcels was a low-rise office building.
The two office buildings were of the same height.

Last  year  Doris  decided  to  demolish  the  low-rise  office
building  on  her  parcel  and  to  erect  a  new  high-rise  office
building  of  substantially  greater  height  on  the  parcel  as
permitted by the zoning and building ordinances. She secured
all  the  governmental  approvals  necessary  to  pursue  her
project.

As  Doris’s  new  building  was  in  the  course  of  construction,
Pauline realized that the shadows it would create would place
her  (Pauline’s)  building  in  such  deep  shade  that  the  rent  she
could charge for space in her building would be substantially
reduced.

Pauline brought an appropriate action against Doris to enjoin
the construction in order to eliminate the shadow problem and
for damages. Pauline presented uncontroverted evidence that
her evaluation as to the impact of the shadow on the fair rental
value  of  her  building  was  correct.  There  is  no  statute  or
ordinance (other than the building and zoning ordinances) that
is applicable to the issues before the court.

The court should

(A)  grant to Pauline the requested injunction.
(B)    award  Pauline  damages  measured  by  the  loss  of  rental

value, but not an injunction.

(C)  grant judgment for Doris, because she had secured all the
necessary governmental approvals for the new building.
(D)    grant  judgment  for  Doris,  because  Pauline  has  no  legal
right to have sunshine continue to reach the windows of
her building.

Answer 65: Choice (D) is correct. A landowner has no legal
right  to  have  sunlight  continue  to  reach  her  building.  For
example, it is not a nuisance for one owner to block another

649

owner’s  access  to  sunlight,  even  if  the  consequence  of  the
blockage  is  to  reduce  the  latter  building’s  rental  or  market
value.

Since  Doris  has  done  nothing  wrong,  both  (A)  and  (B)  are
incorrect.

Although (C) states the right result, the fact that Doris secured
all  necessary  government  approvals  is  not  dispositive;  for
instance, if the government-approved building built by Doris
had  released  noxious  odors  that  substantially  impaired  the
value  of  Pauline’s  building,  the  fact  that  Doris  had  obtained
all  necessary  permits  would  not  be  a  defense  to  Pauline’s
nuisance suit.

Question 66:  The  plaintiff  and  the  defendant  own  adjoining
lots in the central portion of a city. Each of their lots had an
office  building.  The  defendant  decided  to  raze  the  existing
building  on  her  lot  and  to  erect  a  building  of  greater  height.
The defendant received all governmental approvals required
to  pursue  her  project.  There  is  no  applicable  statute  or
ordinance  (other  than  those  dealing  with  various  approvals
for zoning, building, etc.).
The defendant constructed her new building without incident.
However,  when  it  was  completed,  the  plaintiff  discovered
that the shadow created by the new higher building placed the
plaintiff’s building in such deep shade that her ability to lease
space was diminished and that the rent she could charge and
the  occupancy  rate  were  substantially  lower.  Assume  that
these  facts  are  proved  in  an  appropriate  action  the  plaintiff
instituted  against  the  defendant  for  all  and  any  relief
available.
Which  of  the  following  is  the  most  appropriate  comment
concerning this lawsuit?
(A)    The  plaintiff  is  entitled  to  a  mandatory  injunction
requiring  the  defendant  to  restore  conditions  to  those
existing with the prior building insofar as the shadow is
concerned.

(B)  The court should award permanent damages, in lieu of an
injunction, equal to the present value of all rents lost and
loss on rents for the reasonable life of the building.

650

(C)    The  court  should  award  damages  for  losses  suffered  to
the  date  of  trial  and  leave  open  recovery  of  future
damages.

(D)    Judgment  should  be  for  the  defendant,  because  the

plaintiff has no cause of action.

Answer 66: Choice (D) is correct. A landowner has no legal
right  to  have  sunlight  continue  to  reach  her  building.
Therefore,  it  is  not  a  nuisance  or  other  violation  for  one
owner to block another owner’s access to sunlight, even if the
consequence of the blockage is to reduce the latter building’s
rental or market value.

Since the defendant has done nothing wrong, (A), (B), and (C)
are all incorrect.
