QUESTIONS

CRIMINAL LAW AND PROCEDURE

 NOTE:  For  ease  of  study,  we've  put  all  questions  involving  Criminal
Procedure at the end of the section, beginning with Question 47.

 Question 1

An executive of an accounting firm was fired and told to immediately leave
the building where she worked. The executive went home, but she returned
that night to retrieve personal items from her office. When she discovered
that  her  key  no  longer  opened  a  door  to  the  building,  she  forced  the  door
open and went to her former office. To avoid attracting attention, she did not
turn on any lights. In the dark, she knew that she was taking some items that
were not hers; she planned to sort these out later and return them.

Upon  arriving  home,  she  found  that  she  had  taken  a  record  book  and
some  financial  papers  that  belonged  to  the  firm.  After  thinking  it  over  and
becoming  angrier  over  being  fired,  she  burned  the  book  and  papers  in  her
fireplace.

The  jurisdiction  has  expanded  the  crime  of  burglary  to  include  all

buildings.

What crime(s) has the executive committed?

 (A) Burglary and larceny.
(B) Burglary, but not larceny.
(C) Larceny, but not burglary.
(D) Neither larceny nor burglary.

 Question 2

A  woman  and  her  sister  took  a  trip  to  the  Caribbean.  When  they  passed
through  U.S.  Customs  inspection  upon  their  return,  the  customs  officials
found  liquid  cocaine  in  several  bottles  each  of  them  was  carrying.  They
were  arrested.  Upon  separate  questioning  by  customs  officers,  the  woman
broke down and cried, “I told my sister there were too many officers at this
airport.” The sister did not give a statement.

607

 
The  woman  and  her  sister  were  indicted  for  conspiracy  to  import
cocaine.  They  were  tried  separately.  At  the  woman's  trial,  after  the
government introduced the above evidence and rested its case, her lawyer
moved for a judgment of acquittal on grounds of insufficient evidence.

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister

agreed to import cocaine.

(B) No, because the evidence shows that both the woman and her sister

possessed cocaine.

(C) Yes, because the evidence shows only that the woman and her sister

committed separate crimes of cocaine possession.

(D) Yes, because the evidence shows that the woman effectively withdrew

from the conspiracy when she cooperated by giving a statement.

 Question 3

A man and his friend were watching a televised football game at the man's
home. Upset by a penalty called by the referee, the friend threw a bottle of
beer  at  the  man's  television,  breaking  the  screen.  Enraged,  the  man  picked
up a nearby hammer and hit the friend on the head with it. The friend died
from the blow.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.
In a jurisdiction that follows common law principles, what is the most

serious crime of which the man could properly be convicted?

 (A) Murder.
(B) Voluntary manslaughter.
(C) Involuntary manslaughter.
(D) Assault.

 Question 4

A man had spent the evening drinking at a local bar and was weaving down
the street on his way home, singing. Suddenly, a person wearing a cartoon
character  mask  jumped  out  from  an  alley,  pointed  his  gun  at  the  man,  and
snarled, “This is loaded, buddy, and I don't mind using it. Hand over your
cash pronto.” The man was so drunk that he failed to understand what was
going on and started to howl with laughter at the sight of the cartoon mask.
Surprised  and  rattled  by  the  man's  reaction,  the  masked  gunman  fled.  The
man soon recovered his composure and staggered home safely.

608

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.
What  is  the  most  serious  crime  of  which  the  masked  gunman  may

properly be charged and convicted?

 (A) Attempted robbery.
(B) Attempted battery.
(C) Attempted larceny.
(D) No crime.

 Question 5

A defendant was charged with battery, defined as at common law. At trial,
an expert witness testified for the defense that the defendant, an athlete, was
under  the  influence  of  a  performance-enhancing  drug  at  the  time  he
committed the battery and that he would not have done so had he not been so
influenced.  The  defendant  asked  for  an  instruction  to  the  effect  that  if  the
jury believed that he was influenced by the drug at the time of the crime and
would not have committed it otherwise, it had to acquit him.

Which  of  the  following  circumstances  would  most  aid  the  defendant's

argument in favor of such an instruction?

 (A) Evidence that the defendant is addicted to this drug and has an

overwhelming urge to consume it.

(B) Evidence that the defendant's coach, who gave him the drug, told him it

was only an aspirin.

(C) Evidence that the victim of the assault taunted the defendant about his

use of the drug immediately before the assault.

(D) Expert testimony that a reasonable person, on consuming this drug, may

experience uncontrollable rages.

 Question 6

A common law jurisdiction defines first-degree murder as any murder that is
(1) committed by means of poison or (2) premeditated. All other murder is
second-degree murder, and manslaughter is defined as at common law.

An employee was angry with her boss for denying her a raise. Intending
to cause her boss discomfort, the employee secretly dropped into his coffee
three  over-the-counter  laxative  pills.  The  boss  drank  the  coffee  containing
the pills. Although the pills would not have been dangerous to an ordinary
person, because the boss was already taking other medication, he suffered a

609

seizure and died.

If the employee is charged with murder in the first degree, should she be

convicted?

 (A) Yes, only because she used poison.
(B) Yes, only because she acted with premeditation.
(C) Yes, both because she used poison and because she acted with

premeditation.

(D) No.

 Question 7

A man asked his girlfriend to lend him something he could use to break into
his neighbor's padlocked storage shed in order to steal a lawn mower. She
handed him a crowbar. He took the crowbar but then found a bolt cutter that
the  neighbor  had  left  outside  the  shed.  Using  the  bolt  cutter,  he  cut  the
padlock  on  the  shed  and  took  the  mower,  which  he  then  used  to  mow  his
girlfriend's lawn. She was surprised and pleased by this gesture.

Burglary  in  the  jurisdiction  applies  to  any  structure  or  building,  and

there is no nighttime element.

The  girlfriend  has  been  charged  as  an  accomplice  to  burglary  and

larceny.

Of which crimes, if any, is she guilty?

 (A) Burglary and larceny.
(B) Burglary, but not larceny, because she intended to assist only in the

breaking.

(C) Larceny, but not burglary, because she provided no actual assistance to

the breaking but received a benefit from the larceny.

(D) Neither burglary nor larceny, because she provided no actual

assistance.

 Question 8

A defendant was tried for armed robbery. The state introduced evidence that
a man, identified by witnesses as the defendant, entered a convenience store
at 11 p.m. on March 5, threatened the clerk with a gun, and took $75 from
the cash register.

The  defendant  did  not  testify,  but  his  sister  did.  She  testified  that  on
March 5, at the time of the robbery, the defendant was with her in a city 300

610

miles  away.  On  cross-examination,  the  sister  admitted  having  given  a
statement to the police in which she had said that the defendant was not with
her on March 5, but she claimed that the earlier statement was mistaken.

The court instructed the jury that in order to convict the defendant, they

had to find all of the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt.

As  to  the  defendant's  claim  of  alibi,  which  of  the  following  additional

instructions would be proper?

 (A) Alibi is a matter of defense and so must be established by the defendant;

however, the burden of persuasion is by a preponderance of the
evidence, not beyond a reasonable doubt.

(B) Before you may consider the defendant's claim of alibi, you must decide

whether he has produced sufficient evidence to raise the issue.

(C) If you have a reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant was present
at the convenience store at about 11 p.m. on March 5, you must find him
not guilty.

(D) If the defendant's evidence has caused you to have a reasonable doubt

as to whether he was the robber, you must find him not guilty.

 Question 9

A  state  statute  provides:  “Aggravated  robbery  of  the  elderly  consists  of
robbery  committed  against  a  victim  who  is  65  years  of  age  or  older.”
Another  state  statute  provides  that  when  a  criminal  statute  does  not
designate a necessary mental state, the mental state required is recklessness.
A  third  state  statute  provides  that  a  person  acts  recklessly  if  the  person
“consciously  disregards  a  substantial  and  unjustified  risk  that  the  material
element exists or will result from the person's conduct.”

The evidence at a criminal trial showed that the defendant robbed a 66-
year-old  man  outside  a  senior  citizens'  center.  The  defendant  testified
truthfully that the robbery had occurred on a dark night, that she had had no
idea how old the victim was and had not cared how old the victim was, and
that she had intended to rob whomever she encountered.

Could the defendant properly be convicted of aggravated robbery of the

elderly?

 (A) No, because the only evidence on the issue showed that the defendant
did not know, nor could she reasonably have known, the victim's age.
(B) No, because there was no evidence of a substantial risk that the victim

was age 65 or older.

611

(C) Yes, because the evidence was clear that the victim was 66 years old,

and the statute is designed to protect the elderly.

(D) Yes, because the jury could find that there was no justification for the
defendant's conduct and that she was willing to take the risk that the
victim was age 65 or older.

 Question 10

While  on  their  way  home  from  a  ball  game,  a  driver  and  his  passenger
stopped at an all-night gas station. The passenger offered to pay for the gas.
While the passenger pumped gas, he was surprised to see the driver enter
the station, take money from the unattended cash drawer, and get back in the
car. The passenger paid the attendant for the gas, and the driver drove off.
The driver offered to reimburse the passenger for the gas, but the passenger
declined. After discovering the missing cash, the gas station attendant called
the  police,  and  the  driver  was  later  stopped.  The  driver  escaped  with  the
stolen money, however, and was never prosecuted.

If the passenger is prosecuted for theft as an accomplice, should he be

convicted?

 (A) No, because he had no intent to promote the commission of the offense.
(B) No, because the driver, the principal, was never prosecuted.
(C) Yes, because he facilitated commission of the offense by failing to make

any effort to stop it.

(D) Yes, because he paid the attendant while he knew the driver was

holding the stolen money.

 Question 11

A defendant watched a liquor store furtively for some time, planning to hold
it up. He bought a realistic-looking toy gun for the job. One night, just before
the  store's  closing  time,  he  drove  to  the  store,  opened  the  front  door  and
entered. He reached in his pocket for the toy gun, but he became frightened
and  began  to  move  back  toward  the  front  door.  However,  the  shopkeeper
had  seen  the  butt  of  the  gun.  Fearing  a  holdup,  the  shopkeeper  produced  a
gun from under the counter, pointed it at the defendant, and yelled, ‘‘Stop!''
The  defendant  ran  to  the  door  and  the  toy  gun  fell  from  his  pocket.  The
shopkeeper  fired.  The  shot  missed  the  defendant,  but  struck  and  killed  a
passerby outside the store.

A statute in the jurisdiction defines burglary as ‘‘breaking and entering

612

any  building  or  structure  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  or  to  steal
therein.'' On a charge of burglary, the defendant's best defense would be that

 (A) the intent required was not present.
(B) the liquor store was open to the public.
(C) he had a change of heart and withdrew before committing any crime

inside the store.

(D) he was unsuccessful, and so at most could only be guilty of attempted

burglary.

 Question 12

Two  criminals  planned  to  break  into  a  federal  government  office  to  steal
food  stamps.  One  of  them  telephoned  the  defendant  one  night  and  asked
whether  the  defendant  wanted  to  buy  some  ‘‘hot''  food  stamps.  The
defendant, who understood that ‘‘hot'' meant stolen, said, ‘‘Sure, bring them
right over.'' The two criminals then successfully executed their scheme. That
same night they delivered the food stamps to the defendant, who bought them
for  $500.  The  defendant  did  not  ask  when  or  by  whom  the  stamps  were
stolen.  All  three  were  arrested.  The  two  criminals  entered  guilty  pleas  in
federal  court  to  a  charge  of  larceny  in  connection  with  the  theft.  The
defendant was brought to trial in the state court on a charge of conspiracy to
steal food stamps.

On the evidence stated, the defendant should be found

 (A) guilty, because when a new confederate enters a conspiracy already in

progress, he becomes a party to it.

(B) guilty, because he knowingly and willingly aided and abetted the

conspiracy and is chargeable as a principal.

(C) not guilty, because although the defendant knew the stamps were stolen,

he neither helped to plan nor participated or assisted in the theft.
(D) not guilty, because the two criminals had not been convicted of or
charged with conspiracy, and the defendant cannot be guilty of
conspiracy by himself.

 Question 13

An undercover police detective told a local drug dealer that she wanted to
buy cocaine, but that she needed time to raise the necessary funds. The drug
dealer said that he needed time to get the cocaine. They agreed to meet again
in ten days. An hour later, without a warrant, other officers forcibly entered

613

the drug dealer's apartment and arrested him for attempted possession of a
controlled substance.

If  the  drug  dealer  is  prosecuted  in  a  common-law  jurisdiction  for

attempted possession of cocaine, should he be convicted?

 (A) No, because he had not taken sufficient acts toward commission of the

crime.

(B) No, because he was illegally arrested.
(C) Yes, because by objective standards an agreement between them had

occurred.

(D) Yes, because his intention to obtain the cocaine was unequivocally

expressed.

 Question 14

A thief and his friend planned to hold up a bank. They drove to the bank in
the thief's car. The thief entered while the friend remained as lookout in the
car. After a few moments, the friend panicked and drove off.

The  thief  looked  over  the  various  tellers,  approached  one  and
whispered  nervously,  ‘‘Just  hand  over  the  cash.  Don't  look  around,  don't
make  a  false  move—or  it's  your  life.''  The  teller  looked  at  the  fidgeting
thief,  laughed,  flipped  him  a  dollar  bill  and  said,  ‘‘Go  on,  beat  it.''
Flustered, the thief grabbed the dollar and left. Soon after leaving the scene,
the  friend  was  stopped  by  the  police  for  speeding.  Noting  his  nervous
condition, the police asked the friend if they might search the car. The friend
agreed.  The  search  turned  up  heroin  concealed  in  the  lid  of  the  trunk.  The
friend's best defense to a charge of robbery would be that

 (A) the thief alone entered the bank.
(B) the friend withdrew before commission of the crime when he fled the

scene.

(C) the friend had no knowledge of what the thief whispered to the teller.
(D) the teller was not placed in fear by the thief.

 Question 15

A  defendant  was  driving  his  automobile  at  a  legal  speed  in  a  residential
zone. A child darted out in front of him and was run over and killed before
the defendant could prevent it. The defendant's driver's license had expired
three months previously; the defendant had neglected to check when it was

614

due  to  expire.  Driving  without  a  valid  license  is  a  misdemeanor  in  the
jurisdiction. On a charge of manslaughter, the defendant should be found

 (A) guilty under the misdemeanor-manslaughter rule.
(B) guilty because the licensing requirements are to protect life, and failure

to obey is negligence.

(C) not guilty because the offense was not the proximate cause of the death.
(D) not guilty because there was no criminal intent.

 Question 16

A defendant was tried for robbery. The victim and an eyewitness were the
only  witnesses  called  to  testify.  The  victim  testified  that  the  defendant
threatened  her  with  a  knife,  grabbed  her  purse,  and  ran  off  with  it.  The
eyewitness  testified  that  he  saw  the  defendant  grab  the  victim's  purse  and
run away with it but that he neither saw a knife nor heard any threats. On this
evidence, the jury could properly return a verdict of guilty of

 (A) robbery only.
(B) larceny only.
(C) either robbery or larceny.
(D) both robbery and larceny.

 Question 17

After being fired from his job, the defendant drank almost a quart of vodka
and decided to ride the bus home. While on the bus, he saw a briefcase he
mistakenly  thought  was  his  own,  and  began  struggling  with  the  passenger
carrying  the  briefcase.  The  defendant  knocked  the  passenger  to  the  floor,
took the briefcase, and fled. The defendant was arrested and charged with
robbery.

The defendant should be

 (A) acquitted, because he used no threats and was intoxicated.
(B) acquitted, because his mistake negated the required specific intent.
(C) convicted, because his intoxication was voluntary.
(D) convicted, because mistake is no defense to robbery.

 Question 18

While browsing in a clothing store, a thief decided to take a purse without

615

paying for it. She placed the purse under her coat and took a couple of steps
toward the exit. She then realized that a sensor tag on the purse would set
off  an  alarm.  She  placed  the  purse  near  the  counter  from  which  she  had
removed it.

The thief has committed

 (A) no crime, because the purse was never removed from the store.
(B) no crime, because she withdrew from her criminal enterprise.
(C) only attempted larceny, because she intended to take the purse out of the

store.

(D) larceny, because she took the purse from its original location and

concealed it with the intent to steal.

 Question 19

An employee decided to kill his boss, after she told him that he would be
fired  if  his  work  did  not  improve.  The  employee  knew  his  boss  was
scheduled to go on a business trip on Monday morning. On Sunday morning,
the  employee  went  to  the  company  parking  garage  and  put  a  bomb  in  the
company  car  that  his  boss  usually  drove.  The  bomb  was  wired  to  go  off
when the car engine started. The employee then left town. At 5 a.m. Monday,
the employee, after driving all night, was overcome with remorse and had a
change of heart. He called the security officer on duty at the company and
told him about the bomb. The security officer said he would take care of the
matter. An hour later, the officer put a note on the boss' desk telling her of
the  message.  He  then  looked  at  the  car  but  could  not  see  any  signs  of  a
bomb. He printed a sign saying ‘‘DO NOT USE THIS CAR,'' put it on the
windshield,  and  went  to  call  the  police.  Before  the  police  arrived,  a
company  vice-president  (not  the  boss)  got  into  the  car  and  started  the
engine. The bomb went off, killing her.

The  jurisdiction  defines  murder  in  the  first  degree  as  any  homicide
committed  with  premeditation  and  deliberation  or  any  murder  in  the
commission of a common-law felony. Second-degree murder is defined as
all  other  murder  at  common  law.  Manslaughter  is  defined  by  the  common
law. The employee is guilty of

 (A) murder in the first degree, because, with premeditation and

deliberation, he killed whoever would start the car.

(B) murder in the second degree, because he had no intention of killing the

company vice-president.

616

(C) manslaughter, because at the time of the explosion, he had no intent to

kill, and the death of the company vice-president was in part the fault of
the security officer.

(D) only attempted murder of the boss, because the death of the company
vice-president was the result of the security officer's negligence.

 Question 20

In  which  of  the  following  situations  would  the  defendant's  mistake  most
likely constitute a defense to the crime charged?

 (A) A local ordinance forbids the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons
under 18 years of age. Relying on false identification, the defendant
sells champagne to a 16-year-old high school student. The defendant is
charged with illegal sale of alcoholic beverages.

(B) Mistaking the defendant for a narcotics suspect, an undercover police
officer attempts to arrest him. The defendant, unaware that the person
who has grabbed him is an officer, hits him and knocks him
unconscious. The defendant is charged with assault.

(C) The defendant, aged 23, has sexual intercourse with a 15-year-old

prostitute who tells the defendant that she is 18. The defendant is
charged with the felony of statutory rape under a statute that makes
sexual relations with a child under 16 a felony.

(D) Relying on erroneous advice from his attorney that, if his wife has

abandoned him for more than a year, he is free to marry. The defendant
remarries and is subsequently charged with bigamy.

 Question 21

A student and his friend were watching a football game at the student's home
when they began to argue. The friend became abusive, and the student asked
him to leave. The friend refused, walked into the kitchen, picked up a knife,
and said he would cut the student's heart out. The student pulled a gun from
under the sofa, walked to his front door, opened it, and again told the friend
to  leave.  The  friend  again  refused.  Instead,  he  walked  slowly  toward  the
student,  brandishing  the  knife  in  a  threatening  manner.  The  student,  rather
than  running  out  the  door  himself,  shot  in  the  friend's  direction,  intending
only  to  scare  him.  However,  the  bullet  struck  the  friend,  killing  him
instantly.

Charged with murder, the student should be

617

 (A) convicted, because the use of deadly force was unreasonable under the

circumstances.

(B) convicted, because he had a clear opportunity and duty to retreat.
(C) acquitted, because he did not intend to kill the friend.
(D) acquitted, because he was acting in self-defense and had no duty to

retreat.

 Question 22

In a criminal trial, the evidence showed that the defendant's neighbor tried
to kill the defendant by stabbing him. The defendant ran to his room, picked
up  a  gun,  and  told  his  neighbor  to  back  off.  The  neighbor  did  not,  but
continued her attack and stabbed him in the arm. The defendant then shot the
neighbor twice. The neighbor fell to the floor and lay quietly moaning. After
a  few  seconds,  the  defendant  fired  a  third  shot  into  the  neighbor.  The  jury
found  that  the  neighbor  died  instantly  from  the  third  shot  and  that  the
defendant was no longer in fear of being attacked by her.

The  defendant  could  properly  be  convicted  of  which  of  the  following

degrees of criminal homicide, if any?

 (A) Attempted murder only.
(B) Manslaughter only.
(C) Murder or manslaughter.
(D) No degree of criminal homicide.

 Question 23

A runaway was fifteen years old, but she appeared and acted older. When
asked,  she  always  said  she  was  twenty-two,  and  she  carried  false
identification  saying  she  was  that  old.  She  frequented  taverns  and  drank
heavily. One evening in a bar she became acquainted with the defendant. He
believed  her  when  she  told  him  her  claimed  age.  They  had  several  drinks
and became inebriated. Later, they drove in the defendant's car to a secluded
spot.  After  they  had  necked  for  a  while,  the  defendant  propositioned  the
runaway and she consented. Before the defendant achieved penetration, the
runaway changed her mind, saying, ‘‘Stop! Don't touch me! I don't want to
do  it.''  When  the  defendant  did  not  desist,  the  runaway  started  to  cry  and
said,  ‘‘I  am  only  fifteen.''  The  defendant  immediately  jumped  from  the  car
and ran away. The defendant was indicted for attempted rape, assault with
intent  to  rape,  contributing  to  the  delinquency  of  a  minor,  and  attempted

618

statutory  rape.  The  age  of  consent  in  the  jurisdiction  is  sixteen.  The
attempted rape charge can only be sustained if

 (A) the jury acquits the defendant on all other charges.
(B) the State can show that the defendant thought the runaway was over the

age of consent.

(C) the jury finds that the runaway was resisting force used by the defendant

to accomplish an act of intercourse.

(D) evidence of the defendant's flight is not admitted by the trial judge.

 Question 24

A computer analyst admired his co-worker's wristwatch and frequently said
how much he wished he had one like it. The co-worker decided to give the
computer analyst the watch for his birthday the following week.

On  the  weekend  before  the  computer  analyst's  birthday,  the  computer
analyst and the co-worker attended a company picnic. The co-worker took
his  watch  off  and  left  it  on  a  blanket  when  he  went  off  to  join  in  a  touch
football  game.  The  computer  analyst  strolled  by,  saw  the  watch  on  the
blanket,  and  decided  to  steal  it.  He  bent  over  and  picked  up  the  watch.
Before he could pocket it, however, the co-worker returned. When he saw
the computer analyst holding the watch, he said, ‘‘I know how much you like
that watch. I was planning to give it to you for your birthday. Go ahead and
take it now.'' The computer analyst kept the watch. The computer analyst has
committed

 (A) larceny.
(B) attempted larceny.
(C) embezzlement.
(D) no crime.

 Question 25

A  babysitter,  while  babysitting  one  night,  noticed  that  the  neighbor,  who
lived next door, had left his house but that the door did not close completely
behind him. The babysitter said to the 11-year-old boy she was babysitting,
‘‘Let's play a game. You go next door and see if you can find my portable
television  set,  which  I  lent  to  the  neighbor,  and  bring  it  over  here.''  The
babysitter  knew  that  the  neighbor  had  a  portable  television  set,  and  the
babysitter  planned  to  keep  the  set  for  herself.  The  boy  thought  the  set
belonged  to  his  babysitter,  went  next  door,  found  the  television  set,  and

619

carried it out the front door. At that moment, the neighbor returned home and
discovered  the  boy  in  his  front  yard  with  the  television  set.  The  boy
explained the ‘‘game'' he and the babysitter were playing.The neighbor took
back his television set and called the police.

The babysitter is

 (A) not guilty of larceny or attempted larceny, because the boy did not

commit any crime.

(B) not guilty of larceny but guilty of attempted larceny, because she never

acquired possession of the television set.
(C) guilty of larceny as an accessory to the boy.
(D) guilty of larceny by the use of an innocent agent.

 Question 26

In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be guilty
of the crime charged?

 (A) Without the permission of the owner, the defendant takes a car with the
intention of driving it three miles to a grocery store and back. The
defendant is charged with larceny.

(B) The defendant gets permission to borrow a car for the evening by

falsely promising to return it, although he does not intend to do so. Two
days later, he changes his mind and returns the car to its owner. The
defendant is charged with larceny by trick.

(C) The defendant gets permission to borrow a car for the evening by

misrepresenting his identity and falsely claiming he has a valid driver's
license. He returns the car the next day to the car's owner. The defendant
is charged with obtaining property by false pretenses.

(D) With permission, the defendant, promising to return it by 9:00 p.m.,

borrows a car. Later in the evening, the defendant decides to keep the
car until the next morning and does so. The defendant is charged with
embezzlement.

 Question 27

While testifying as a witness in a civil trial, a witness was asked on cross-
examination  if  he  had  been  convicted  in  the  circuit  court  of  stealing  $200
from his employer on August 16, 1997. The witness said, ‘‘No, I have never
been convicted of any crime.'' In fact, the witness had pleaded guilty to such
a charge and had been placed on probation.

620

The  witness  was  then  charged  with  perjury  on  the  ground  that  his
statement  denying  the  conviction  was  false.  A  statute  in  the  jurisdiction
defines perjury as knowingly making a false statement while under oath. At
trial, the state proved the witness's statement and the prior conviction. The
witness testified that the attorney who represented him in the theft case had
told  him  that,  because  he  had  been  placed  on  probation,  he  had  not  been
convicted  of  a  crime.  The  witness  had  served  his  probationary  period
satisfactorily and been discharged from probation. The alleged advice of the
attorney was incorrect. If the jury believes the witness, it should find him

 (A) guilty, because his mistake was one of law.
(B) guilty, because reliance on the advice of an attorney is not a defense.
(C) not guilty if the jury also finds that his reliance on the attorney's advice

was reasonable.

(D) not guilty, because he lacked the necessary mental state.

 Question 28

In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be guilty
of common-law murder?

 (A) During an argument in a bar, a drunk punches the defendant. The

defendant, mistakenly believing that the drunk is about to stab him,
shoots and kills the drunk.

(B) While committing a robbery of a liquor store, the defendant accidentally

drops his revolver, which goes off. The bullet strikes and kills a
customer in the store.

(C) While hunting deer, the defendant notices something moving in the

bushes. Believing it to be a deer, the defendant fires into the bushes. The
bullet strikes and kills another hunter.

(D) In celebration of the Fourth of July, the defendant discharges a pistol
within the city limits in violation of a city ordinance. The bullet
ricochets off the street and strikes and kills a pedestrian.

 Question 29

At 11:00 p.m., a husband and his wife were accosted in the entrance to their
apartment  building  by  the  defendant,  who  was  armed  as  well  as  masked.
The defendant ordered the couple to take him into their apartment. After they
entered  the  apartment,  the  defendant  forced  the  wife  to  bind  and  gag  her
husband and then to open a safe which contained a diamond necklace. The

621

defendant then tied her up and fled with the necklace. He was apprehended
by apartment building security guards. Before the guards could return to the
apartment,  but  after  the  defendant  was  arrested,  the  husband,  straining  to
free himself, suffered a massive heart attack and died.

The defendant is guilty of

 (A) burglary, robbery, and murder.
(B) robbery and murder only.
(C) burglary and robbery only.
(D) robbery only.

 Question 30

A  high  school  student's  teacher  told  her  that  she  was  going  to  receive  a
failing grade in history, which would prevent her from graduating. Furious,
she reported to the principal that the teacher had fondled her, and the teacher
was fired. A year later, still unable to get work because of the scandal, the
teacher  committed  suicide.  The  student,  remorseful,  confessed  that  her
accusation had been false.

If  the  student  is  charged  with  manslaughter,  her  best  defense  would  be

that she

 (A) committed no act that proximately caused the teacher's death.
(B) did not intend to cause the teacher's death.
(C) did not act with malice.
(D) acted under extreme emotional distress.

 Question 31

A jail inmate wanted to make some money, so she decided to sell cocaine.
She  asked  her  friend,  who  was  reputed  to  have  access  to  illegal  drugs,  to
supply her with cocaine so she could resell it. The friend agreed and sold
the  inmate  a  bag  of  white  powder.  The  inmate  then  repackaged  the  white
powder  into  smaller  containers  and  sold  one  to  an  undercover  police
officer,  who  promptly  arrested  the  inmate.  The  inmate  immediately
confessed and said that her friend was her supplier.

If  the  friend  knew  the  white  powder  was  not  cocaine  but  the  inmate

believed it was, which of the following is correct?

 (A) Both the friend and the inmate are guilty of attempting to sell cocaine.

622

(B) Neither the friend nor the inmate is guilty of attempting to sell cocaine.
(C) The friend is guilty of attempting to sell cocaine, but the inmate is not.
(D) The friend is not guilty of attempting to sell cocaine, but the inmate is.

 Question 32

In  a  jurisdiction  that  has  abolished  the  felony-murder  rule,  but  otherwise
follows the common law of murder, a woman and a man, both armed with
automatic  weapons,  went  into  a  bank  to  rob  it.  The  man  ordered  all  the
persons in the bank to lie on the floor. When some were slow to obey, the
woman, not intending to hit anyone, fired about 15 rounds into the air. One
of these ricocheted off a stone column and struck and killed a customer in
the bank.

The  woman  and  the  man  were  charged  with  murder  of  the  customer.

Which of the following is correct?

 (A) The woman can be convicted of murder, because she did the act of

killing, but the man cannot be convicted of either murder or
manslaughter.

(B) Neither can be guilty of murder, but both can be convicted of

manslaughter based upon an unintentional homicide.

(C) The woman can be convicted only of manslaughter, but the man cannot

be convicted of murder or manslaughter.

(D) Both can be convicted of murder.

 Question 33

A businessman lived on the second floor of a small convenience store/gas
station that he owned. One night he refused to sell a customer a six-pack of
beer  after  hours,  saying  he  could  not  violate  the  state  laws.  The  customer
became  enraged  and  deliberately  drove  his  car  into  one  of  the  gasoline
pumps, severing it from its base. There was an ensuing explosion causing a
ball of fire to go from the underground gasoline tank into the building. As a
result, the building burned to the ground and the businessman was killed.

In  a  common-law  jurisdiction,  if  the  customer  is  charged  with  murder

and arson, he should be

 (A) convicted of both offenses.
(B) convicted of involuntary manslaughter and acquitted of arson.
(C) convicted of arson and involuntary manslaughter.

623

(D) acquitted of both offenses.

 Question 34

A defendant is charged with murder. The evidence shows that she pointed a
gun  at  the  victim  and  pulled  the  trigger.  The  gun  discharged,  killing  the
victim. The gun belonged to the victim.

The defendant testifies that the victim told her, and she believed, that the
‘‘gun'' was a stage prop that could fire only blanks, and that she fired the gun
as part of rehearsing a play with the victim at his house. If the jury believes
the defendant's testimony and finds that her mistaken belief that the gun was
a prop was reasonable, they should find her

 (A) guilty of murder.
(B) guilty of manslaughter.
(C) guilty of either murder or manslaughter.
(D) not guilty of murder or manslaughter.

 Question 35

Which  of  the  following  is  most  likely  to  be  found  to  be  a  strict  liability
offense?

 (A) A city ordinance providing for a fine of not more than $200 for

shoplifting.

(B) A federal statute making it a felony to possess heroin.
(C) A state statute making it a felony to fail to register a firearm.
(D) A state statute making the sale of adulterated milk a misdemeanor.

 Question 36

A  law  student  broke  into  his  professor's  office  in  order  to  look  at
examination questions. The questions were locked in a drawer, and the law
student  could  not  find  them.  The  law  student  believed  that  looking  at
examination questions was a crime, but in this belief he was mistaken.

Charged with burglary, the law student should be

 (A) acquitted, because he did not complete the crime and he has not been

charged with attempt.

(B) acquitted, because what he intended to do when he broke in was not a

crime.

624

(C) convicted, because he had the necessary mental state and committed the

act of breaking and entering.

(D) convicted, because factual impossibility is not a defense.

 Question 37

A defendant, while eating in a restaurant, noticed that a departing customer
at  the  next  table  had  left  a  five-dollar  bill  as  a  tip  for  the  waitress.  The
defendant  reached  over,  picked  up  the  five-dollar  bill,  and  put  it  in  his
pocket. As he stood up to leave, another customer who had seen him take the
money ran over to him and hit him in the face with her umbrella. Enraged,
the defendant choked the customer to death.

The defendant is charged with murder. He requests the court to charge
the  jury  that  they  can  find  him  guilty  of  voluntary  manslaughter  rather  than
murder. The defendant's request should be

 (A) granted, because the jury could find that the defendant acted recklessly

and not with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm.

(B) granted, because the jury could find that being hit in the face with an

umbrella constitutes adequate provocation.

(C) denied, because the evidence shows that the defendant intended to kill

or to cause serious bodily harm.

(D) denied, because the evidence shows that the defendant provoked the

assault on himself by his criminal misconduct.

 Question 38

A  customer  asked  to  see  an  expensive  watch  in  a  jewelry  store.  In
conversation with the clerk, the customer falsely claimed to be the son of the
mayor. When handed the watch, he asked if he could put it on, walk around a
bit so he could see how it felt on his wrist, and then briefly step outside to
observe  it  in  natural  light.  The  clerk  agreed,  saying,  ‘‘I  know  I  can  trust
someone  like  you  with  the  merchandise.''  The  customer  walked  out  of  the
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
store wearing the watch and never returned. A week later, the clerk was at a
gathering  when  she  spotted  the  customer  wearing  the  watch.  She  told  him
that he must either pay for the watch or give it back. He hissed, ‘‘I'll knock
your block off if you mess with me.'' Intimidated, the clerk backed off. The
following list of crimes is in descending order of seriousness.

What is the most serious crime the customer committed?

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

625

 (A) Robbery.
(B) Larceny.
(C) False pretenses.
(D) Embezzlement.

 Question 39

A  defendant  was  an  alcoholic  who  frequently  experienced  auditory
hallucinations  that  commanded  him  to  engage  in  bizarre  and  sometimes
violent behavior. He generally obeyed their commands. The hallucinations
appeared  more  frequently  when  he  was  intoxicated,  but  he  sometimes
experienced  them  when  he  had  not  been  drinking.  After  the  defendant  had
been drinking continuously for a three-day period, an elderly woman began
to reproach him about his drunken condition, slapping him on the face and
shoulders  as  she  did  so.  The  defendant  believed  that  he  was  being
unmercifully  attacked  and  heard  the  hallucinatory  voice  telling  him  to
strangle his assailant. He did so, and she died.

If  the  defendant  is  charged  with  second  degree  murder,  the  defendant's

best chance of acquittal would be to rely on a defense of

 (A) intoxication.
(B) lack of malice aforethought.
(C) self-defense.
(D) insanity.

 Question 40

A husband and wife were walking to their car one evening after having seen
a  movie.  As  they  were  passing  a  dark  alleyway,  a  defendant  leaped  out
brandishing a gun. He pushed the wife against the wall of a nearby building,
held the gun to her head, and demanded money from the man. The husband
handed over his cash. The defendant grabbed the cash and ran away.

Which of the following, listed in descending order of seriousness, is the

most serious crime for which the defendant may be convicted?

 (A) Robbery from the husband.
(B) Larceny from the husband.
(C) Assault on the husband and his wife.
(D) Assault on the wife.

626

 Question 41

A  college  student  approached  an  undercover  police  officer  and  inquired
about hiring someone to kill his girlfriend's parents. Unknown to the college
student, the police officer pretended to agree to handle the job and secretly
taped  subsequent  conversations  with  the  college  student  concerning  plans
and  payment.  A  few  days  before  the  payment  was  due,  the  college  student
changed his mind and called the plan off. Nevertheless, the college student
was charged with solicitation to commit murder.

The college student should be

 (A) acquitted, because he withdrew before payment.
(B) acquitted, because no substantial acts were performed.
(C) convicted, because the offense was completed before his attempt to

withdraw.

(D) convicted, because the police officer agreed to commit the offense.

 Question 42

A homeless young woman broke into the basement of a hotel and fell asleep.
She  was  awakened  by  a  security  guard,  who  demanded  that  she  leave.  As
the young woman was leaving, she cursed the security guard. Angered, the
guard began to beat the young woman on her head with his flashlight. After
the second blow, the young woman grabbed a fire extinguisher and sprayed
the guard in his face, causing him to lose his sight in one eye.

The  jurisdiction  defines  aggravated  assault  as  assault  with  intent  to
cause  serious  bodily  injury.  The  most  serious  crime  for  which  the  young
woman could properly be convicted is

 (A) aggravated assault.
(B) burglary.
(C) assault.
(D) trespass.

 Question 43

A defendant was short of money. He decided to go into a house to take the
homeowner's  silverware  and  then  to  sell  it.  That  night,  while  the
homeowner was away, the defendant entered by picking the lock on the front
door. He picked up a chest of silverware from the dining room and went out
the  front  door  of  the  house  to  his  car.  As  he  was  putting  the  chest  of

627

silverware into the trunk, he had second thoughts and decided that he did not
wish  to  become  a  thief.  He  reentered  the  house  and  replaced  the  chest  of
silverware where he had found it. As he came out of the house the second
time, he was arrested by the police, who had been called by a neighbor.

The defendant is

 (A) guilty of burglary and larceny.
(B) guilty of burglary and attempted larceny.
(C) guilty of burglary but not guilty of any larceny offense.
(D) not guilty of burglary or any larceny offense.

 Question 44

Which  of  the  following  is  LEAST  likely  to  be  the  underlying  felony  in  a
prosecution for felony murder?

 (A) Arson.
(B) Manslaughter.
(C) Attempted rape.
(D) Burglary.

 Question 45

A  gangster  and  two  of  his  friends  were  members  of  a  teenage  street  gang.
While they were returning from a dance late one evening, their car collided
with  a  car  driven  by  an  elderly  woman.  After  an  argument,  the  gangster
attacked  the  elderly  woman  with  his  fists  and  beat  her  to  death.  The  two
friends watched, and when they saw the woman fall to the ground they urged
the gangster to flee. The gangster was eventually apprehended and tried for
manslaughter, but the jury could not decide on a verdict.

If  the  gangster's  companions  are  subsequently  tried  as  accomplices  to

manslaughter, they should be

 (A) acquitted, because the gangster was not convicted of the offense.
(B) acquitted, because they did not assist or encourage the gangster to

commit the crime.

(C) convicted, because they urged him to flee.
(D) convicted, because they made no effort to intervene.

 Question 46

628

Four men are charged with conspiracy to commit a series of bank robberies.
Nine successful bank robberies took place during the period of the charged
conspiracy. Because the robbers wore masks and gloves and stole the bank
surveillance tapes, no direct identification of the robbers by the witnesses
has  been  made.  Some  circumstantial  evidence  ties  each  of  the  men  to  the
overall  conspiracy.  During  cross-examination,  a  prosecution  witness
testified  that  one  defendant  was  in  jail  on  other  charges  during  six  of  the
robberies. That defendant's lawyer has moved for a judgment of acquittal at
the close of the government's case.

Should the motion be granted?

 (A) No, because a conspirator is not required to agree to all of the objects

of the conspiracy.

(B) No, because a conspirator need not be present at the commission of

each crime conspired upon.

(C) Yes, provided the defendant has complied with the rule requiring

pretrial notice of alibi.

(D) Yes, regardless of compliance with the alibi rule, because the

government is bound by exculpatory evidence elicited during its case in
chief.

 Question 47

A store owner whose jewelry store had recently been robbed was shown by
a  police  detective  a  photograph  of  the  defendant,  who  previously  had
committed other similar crimes. The store owner examined the photograph
and  then  asked  the  detective  whether  the  police  believed  that  the  man
pictured  was  the  robber.  After  the  detective  said,  “We're  pretty  sure,”  the
store  owner  stated  that  the  man  in  the  photograph  was  the  one  who  had
robbed her.

The  defendant  was  indicted  for  the  robbery.  His  counsel  moved  to
suppress any trial testimony by the store owner identifying the defendant as
the robber.

Should  the  court  grant  the  motion  and  suppress  the  store  owner's  trial

testimony identifying the defendant as the robber?

 (A) No, because suppression of in-court testimony is not a proper remedy,

even though the out-of-court identification was improper.
(B) No, because the out-of-court identification was not improper.
(C) Yes, because the improper out-of-court identification has necessarily

629

tainted any in-court identification.

(D) Yes, unless the prosecution demonstrates that the in-court identification

is reliable.

 Question 48

A defendant was charged with attempted murder. At the preliminary hearing,
the  presiding  judge  heard  the  testimony  of  four  prosecution  witnesses  and
found  that  the  prosecution  had  failed  to  establish  probable  cause  that  the
defendant had committed any offense. Accordingly, he dismissed the charge.

The prosecutor then called the same four witnesses before a grand jury.

The grand jury indicted the same defendant for attempted murder.

The  defendant  has  moved  to  quash  the  indictment  on  the  ground  of

double jeopardy.

How should the court proceed?

 (A) Grant the motion, because the dismissal of the first charge on the merits,

whether correct or incorrect, bars any further prosecution.

(B) Grant the motion, unless the prosecution has evidence that was not

presented in the first case.

(C) Deny the motion, because the defendant has not yet been in jeopardy of

conviction on the attempted murder charge.

(D) Deny the motion, because the protection of the double jeopardy clause

does not come into play until there has been a conviction or an acquittal.

 Question 49

Police,  who  had  probable  cause  to  arrest  a  man  for  a  series  of  armed
robberies,  obtained  a  warrant  to  arrest  him.  At  6  a.m.  they  surreptitiously
entered the man's house and, with guns drawn, went to the man's bedroom,
where they awakened him. Startled, the man asked, “What's going on?” and
an officer replied, “We've got you now.” Another officer immediately asked
the man if he had committed a particular robbery, and the man said that he
had. The police then informed him that he was under arrest and ordered him
to get dressed.

Charged  with  robbery,  the  man  has  moved  to  suppress  the  use  of  his

statement as evidence.

What is the man's best argument for granting his motion?

 (A) The police did not give him the required Miranda warnings.

630

(B) The statement was not voluntary.
(C) He was not informed that he was under arrest until after he made the

statement.

(D) The police did not have a search warrant authorizing entry into the

house.

 Question 50

Federal agents had a hunch that a local man was engaged in illegal gambling
activities.  An  agent  decided  to  enter  the  man's  house  while  he  was  not  at
home  and  see  what  he  could  find.  The  agent  discovered  an  envelope
containing  $5,000  in  cash  and  an  executive's  business  card.  Returning  the
envelope to its place, the agent located and interviewed the executive, who
admitted  that  he  had  paid  the  man  $5,000  to  settle  a  gambling  debt;  the
executive  also  disclosed  that  the  man  regularly  took  illegal  bets  from  the
executive and several of his acquaintances. The agent then interviewed the
acquaintances,  who  confirmed  what  the  executive  had  told  him.  The  agent
then arranged to be introduced to the man at a local bar. After a few drinks,
the  man,  unaware  of  the  agent's  identity,  boasted  that  he  was  one  of  the
biggest bookmakers in the state.

The  agent  testified  to  all  of  his  investigation's  discoveries  before  a
grand  jury,  which  returned  an  indictment  against  the  man  for  illegal
gambling  activities,  based  solely  on  the  agent's  testimony.  The  man's
attorney then filed a motion to dismiss the indictment, claiming that it rested
on violations of the man's constitutional rights.

Should the court grant the motion?

 (A) No, because dismissal of the indictment is not the appropriate remedy.
(B) Yes, because much of the agent's testimony before the grand jury was

inadmissible hearsay.

(C) Yes, because of the agent's unlawful search of the man's home.
(D) Yes, because of the agent's violation of the man's right to counsel.

 Question 51

A defendant was charged with the capital offense of first-degree murder, for
which  the  only  available  penalties  were  death  or  life  in  prison  without
parole. During jury selection, the trial court, over the defendant's objection,
granted the prosecution's for-cause challenge of five prospective jurors who
indicated  upon  questioning  by  both  parties  that  they  personally  were
opposed  to  the  death  penalty  and  were  unsure  if  they  could  ever  vote  to

631

impose  it.  The  jury  convicted  the  defendant  and,  following  a  separate
sentencing hearing, sentenced him to death.

On  appeal,  the  defendant's  only  argument  was  that  excusing  the
prospective jurors violated his federal constitutional right to be tried by a
jury chosen from a fair cross section of the community.

How  should  the  court  of  appeals  rule  on  the  conviction  and  the  death

sentence?

 (A) Affirm both.
(B) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for a

new sentencing hearing before a different jury.

(C) Affirm the conviction, but reverse the death sentence and remand for

resentencing to life in prison.

(D) Reverse both.

 Question 52

Police responded to a call that shots had been heard coming from a certain
house. Upon arriving at the house, the police looked through a window and
saw a man lying on the living room floor. The police opened the front door,
which was not locked, and found that the man had recently been shot in the
back and was unconscious. An ambulance was called. While waiting for the
ambulance, one officer walked through the house to see if anyone else was
present. No one else was found, but the officer did see on the kitchen table
clear bags of what he believed to be cocaine. The officer seized the bags,
and laboratory tests later confirmed that the contents were cocaine.

After the ambulance arrived a few minutes later and took the man to the
hospital,  the  police  went  through  the  house  and  opened  drawers  trying  to
find  the  gun  used  in  the  shooting.  No  gun  was  found,  but  upon  opening  a
drawer in an upstairs bedroom, the police found marijuana and seized it.

Later  investigation  led  to  charging  a  young  woman,  who  lived  in  the
house,  with  unlawful  possession  of  the  cocaine  and  the  marijuana.  The
young woman has filed a motion to suppress the use of both as evidence on
the ground that the entry into the house and the searches were made without
a warrant.

How should the court decide the young woman's motion?

 (A) Grant it as to the cocaine, but deny it as to the marijuana.
(B) Deny it as to the cocaine, but grant it as to the marijuana.
(C) Grant it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

632

(D) Deny it as to both the cocaine and the marijuana.

 Question 53

An ex-convict and his cellmate planned to hold up a bank. They drove to the
bank  in  the  ex-convict's  car.  The  ex-convict  entered  while  the  cellmate
remained as lookout in the car. After a few moments, the cellmate panicked
and drove off. Soon afterward, the cellmate was stopped by a police officer
for  speeding.  The  officer  began  to  write  a  ticket  and  explained  to  the
cellmate  that  he  was  going  to  issue  this  ticket  instead  of  arresting  the
cellmate as the officer was authorized to do under local police department
procedures.  While  writing  at  the  ticket,  the  officer  noted  the  cellmate's
extreme  nervousness,  and  therefore  asked  the  cellmate  if  the  officer  could
search the car. The cellmate agreed. The search turned up heroin concealed
in the lid of the trunk, and the ex-convict was prosecuted for possessing the
drug  with  intent  to  resell.  In  that  trial,  the  prosecution's  best  argument  to
sustain the validity of the search of the ex-convict's car would be that

 (A) the search was reasonable under the circumstances, including the

cellmate's nervous condition.

(B) the search was incident to a valid arrest.
(C) The cellmate had, under the circumstances, sufficient standing and

authority to consent to the search.

(D) exigent circumstances, including the inherent mobility of a car, justified

the search.

 Question 54

A detective received information from an informant, who had given reliable
information  many  times  in  the  past,  that  a  suspect  was  a  narcotics  dealer.
Specifically, the informant said that, two months before, he had visited the
suspect's  apartment  with  one  of  the  suspect's  friends  and  that  on  that
occasion  he  saw  the  suspect  sell  that  friend  some  heroin.  The  detective
knew that the informant, the suspect, and the friend of the suspect were all
friends.  Thereafter,  the  detective  put  all  this  information  into  an  affidavit
form,  appeared  before  a  magistrate,  and  secured  a  search  warrant  for  the
suspect's apartment. The search turned up a supply of heroin. The suspect's
motion  to  suppress  introduction  of  the  heroin  into  evidence  will  most
probably be

 (A) granted, because a search warrant cannot validly be issued solely on the

633

basis of an informant's information.

(B) granted, because the information supplied to the detective concerned an
occurrence too remote in time to justify a finding of probable cause at
the time of the search.

(C) granted, because a search for ‘‘mere evidence'' alone is improper and

illegal.

(D) denied, because the informant had proven himself reliable in the past

and the information he gave turned out to be correct.

 Question 55

A defendant sold heroin to an addict. The addict was later stopped by two
police  officers  for  speeding  30  miles  per  hour  over  the  speed  limit.  The
officers required the addict to get out of the car. One of the officers told the
addict  he  was  arresting  him  pursuant  to  department  policy  of  arresting  all
persons  stopped  for  going  more  than  20  mph  over  the  speed  limit;  that
officer put the addict in handcuffs, escorted him to the patrol car, and kept
watch over him there. The other officer searched the passenger compartment
of the addict's car and found the heroin concealed under the rear seat. The
defendant  has  now  been  charged  with  illegally  selling  the  heroin  found  in
the addict's car.

The  defendant's  motion  to  prevent  introduction  of  the  heroin  into

evidence will most probably be

 (A) granted, because the heroin was not in plain view.
(B) granted, because the scope of the search was excessive.
(C) denied, because the defendant has no standing to object to the search.
(D) denied, because the search was proper as incident to a valid full

custodial arrest.

 Question 56

A thief held up a drugstore at 10:30 at night, and drove away. His car broke
down  in  an  isolated  area  just  outside  the  small  city  in  which  the  crime
occurred. The thief walked to the nearest house and asked the homeowner if
he could stay until the next morning, explaining that he had been searching
for his sister's home and had run out of gas. The homeowner agreed to let
him  sleep  on  a  couch  in  the  basement.  During  the  course  of  the  night,  the
homeowner  began  to  doubt  the  story  the  thief  had  told  him.  Early  the  next
morning, the homeowner called the police and said he was suspicious and
frightened of a stranger whom he had allowed to stay the night. The police

634

went immediately to the house to assist the homeowner and walked through
the open front door. They found the thief and the homeowner drinking coffee
in  the  kitchen.  When  they  saw  the  thief,  they  realized  he  matched  the
description of the drugstore robber. They arrested the thief and in his jacket
they found drugs taken during the robbery.

The thief moves to suppress the evidence of the drugs. If the court finds
that the police did not have probable cause to believe the man was the thief
until  they  saw  him  inside  the  homeowner's  house  and  realized  he  matched
the description, the court should

 (A) grant the motion, because, as a guest, the thief has sufficient standing to

contest the entry of the house without a warrant.

(B) grant the motion, because, as a guest, the thief has sufficient standing to

contest the lack of probable cause at the time of the entry.

(C) deny the motion, because the thief had no ownership or other possessory

interest in the premises.

(D) deny the motion, because the police had the permission of the owner to

enter the house.

 Question 57

The  police  had,  over  time,  accumulated  reliable  information  that  a  drug
dealer  operated  a  large  cocaine-distribution  network,  that  he  and  his
accomplices often resorted to violence, and that they kept a small arsenal of
weapons in his home.

One  day,  the  police  received  reliable  information  that  a  large  brown
suitcase  with  leather  straps  containing  a  supply  of  cocaine  had  been
delivered  to  the  drug  dealer's  home  and  that  it  would  be  moved  to  a
distribution  point  the  next  morning.  The  police  obtained  a  valid  search
warrant to search for and seize the brown suitcase and the cocaine and went
to the drug dealer's house. The police knocked on the drug dealer's door and
called  out,  ‘‘Police.  Open  up.  We  have  a  search  warrant.''  After  a  few
seconds  with  no  response,  the  police  forced  the  door  open  and  entered.
Hearing  noises  in  the  basement,  the  police  ran  down  there  and  found  the
drug dealer with a large brown suitcase with leather straps. They seized the
suitcase  and  put  handcuffs  on  the  drug  dealer.  A  search  of  his  person
revealed  a  switchblade  knife  and  a  .45-caliber  pistol.  The  drug  dealer
cursed the police and said, ‘‘You never would have caught me with the stuff
if it hadn't been for that lousy snitch!'' In addition to charges relating to the
cocaine in the suitcase, the drug dealer is charged with unlawful possession

635

of weapons. The drug dealer moves pretrial to suppress the use as evidence
of the weapons seized by the police and of the statement he made. As to the
drug dealer's statement, his motion to suppress should be

 (A) granted, because the entry by forcing open the door was not reasonable.
(B) granted, because the police failed to read the drug dealer his Miranda

rights.

(C) denied, because the statement was volunteered.
(D) denied, because the statement was the product of a lawful public safety

search.

 Question 58

State  troopers  lawfully  stopped  a  driver  on  the  turnpike  for  exceeding  the
speed limit by four miles per hour. One trooper approached the car to warn
the driver to drive within the speed limit. The other trooper remained in the
patrol  car  and  ran  a  computer  check  of  the  license  number  of  the  driver's
car. The computer check indicated that there was an outstanding warrant for
the  driver's  arrest  for  unpaid  traffic  tickets.  The  troopers  then  arrested  the
driver.  After  handcuffing  her,  the  troopers  searched  her  and  the  car,  and
discovered ten glassine bags of heroin in a paper bag on the back seat of the
car.  Later  it  was  learned  that  the  driver  had  paid  the  outstanding  traffic
tickets ten days earlier and the warrant had been quashed, but the clerk of
the  court  had  failed  to  update  the  computer,  which  continued  to  list  the
warrant as outstanding. The driver was charged with unlawful possession of
heroin.  Her  attorney  filed  a  motion  to  suppress  the  use  as  evidence  of  the
heroin found in the car.

Should the motion be granted?

 (A) No, because the troopers could reasonably rely on the computer report

and the search was incident to arrest.

(B) No, because troopers may lawfully search the passenger compartment of

a car incident to a valid traffic stop.

(C) Yes, because there was no arrest for the traffic violation and no lawful

arrest could be made on the basis of the warrant.

(D) Yes, because there was no probable cause or reasonable suspicion to

believe drugs were in the car.

 Question 59

A bank robber handed a teller a handwritten note demanding money. Shortly

636

thereafter, the defendant was arrested for the robbery. At the police station,
the defendant was required, over his protest, to write out the words of the
note and have his fingerprints taken. He was then, for the first time, allowed
to telephone a lawyer, who thereafter represented him.

The  prosecution,  after  introducing  the  robbers'  note  to  the  teller,  also
offers  in  evidence  the  defendant's  writing  of  the  words  on  the  note  at  the
request of the police. On appropriate action, the court should rule this

 (A) admissible.
(B) inadmissible, because he was not advised that his handwriting sample

could be admitted into evidence against him.

(C) inadmissible, because he was not advised of his right to refuse to give a

handwriting sample.

(D) inadmissible, because he had not been informed he had a right to have

counsel present.

 Question 60

A grand jury was investigating a bank robbery. The only information known
to the prosecutor was a rumor that the defendant might have been involved.
The  grand  jury  subpoenaed  the  defendant.  He  refused  to  answer  questions
about  the  robbery  and  was  granted  use  immunity.  He  then  testified  that  he
and  his  accomplice  had  robbed  the  bank.  The  grand  jury  indicted  both  the
defendant and the accomplice for the bank robbery. The prosecutor had no
evidence  as  to  the  identity  of  the  robbers  except  the  testimony  of  the
defendant and the accomplice.

At  the  defendant's  trial,  his  objections  to  the  accomplice's  being

permitted to testify should be

 (A) sustained, because the prosecutor may not bargain away the rights of

one codefendant in a deal with another.

(B) sustained, because the accomplice's testimony was acquired as a result

of the defendant's grand jury testimony.

(C) overruled, because the police suspected the defendant even before he

testified in the grand jury hearing.

(D) overruled, because a witness cannot be precluded from testifying if his

testimony is given voluntarily.

 Question 61

637

A motorist was driving through an apartment building area plagued with an
unusually  high  incidence  of  burglaries  and  assaults.  Acting  pursuant  to  a
police  department  plan  to  combat  crime  by  the  random  stopping  of
automobiles  in  the  area  between  midnight  and  6:00  a.m.,  a  police  officer
stopped  the  motorist  and  asked  him  for  identification.  As  the  motorist
handed  the  officer  his  license,  the  officer  directed  a  flashlight  into  the
automobile and saw what appeared to be the barrel of a shotgun protruding
from  under  the  front  seat  on  the  passenger  side  of  the  car.  The  officer
ordered the motorist from the car, searched him, and discovered marijuana
cigarettes and a shotgun.

At the motorist's trial for unlawful possession of narcotics, his motion to

suppress the use of the marijuana as evidence should be

 (A) sustained, because the marijuana was discovered as a result of the

unlawful stopping of the motorist's automobile.

(B) sustained, because the use of the flashlight constituted a search of the

interior of the motorist's automobile without probable cause.
(C) denied, because the officer's conduct was consistent with the

established police plan.

(D) denied, because the discovery of the gun in plain view created the

reasonable suspicion necessary to justify the arrest and search of the
motorist.

 Question 62

Police telephoned a friend of the suspect in a homicide committed during a
robbery of a liquor store and asked if he would help locate the suspect. The
friend agreed and met the police officers at headquarters later that night.

After  a  discussion  during  which  police  asked  questions  about  the
suspect  and  the  homicide,  the  friend  said  that  he  wanted  to  get  something
‘‘off  his  chest''  and  advised  the  officers  that  he  was  in  on  the  robbery  but
that  the  suspect  had  shot  the  owner  of  the  store  without  his  permission  or
prior  knowledge.  The  officers  then  for  the  first  time  gave  the  friend  his
Miranda warnings. The friend was indicted for felony murder. He moved to
prevent  the  introduction  of  his  statement  into  evidence.  His  motion  should
be

 (A) granted, because the friend was effectively in custody and entitled to

receive Miranda warnings at the beginning of the discussion.

(B) granted, because the friend's rights to counsel and to due process were

638

violated by the interrogation at police headquarters.

(C) denied, because his statement was freely and voluntarily given and he

was not entitled to Miranda warnings.

(D) denied, because by visiting headquarters voluntarily, the friend waived
his right to have Miranda warnings at the beginning of the discussion.

 Question 63

A state enacted a statute ‘‘to regulate administratively the conduct of motor
vehicle  junkyard  businesses  in  order  to  deter  motor  vehicle  theft  and
trafficking in stolen motor vehicles or parts thereof.'' The statute requires a
junkyard owner or operator ‘‘to permit representatives of the Department of
Motor  Vehicles  or  of  any  law  enforcement  agency  upon  request  during
normal business hours to take physical inventory of motor vehicles and parts
thereof on the premises.'' The statute also states that a failure to comply with
any of its requirements constitutes a felony.

Police  officers  assigned  to  their  city's  Automobile  Crimes  Unit
periodically  visited  all  motor  vehicle  junkyards  in  town  to  make  the
inspections  permitted  by  the  statute.  A  junkyard  owner  conducted  such  a
business in the city at issue. One summer day, the officers asked to inspect
the vehicles on her lot. The junkyard owner said, ‘‘Do I have a choice?'' The
officers  told  her  she  did  not.  The  officers  conducted  their  inspection  and
discovered  three  stolen  automobiles.  The  junkyard  owner  is  charged  with
receiving  stolen  property.  The  junkyard  owner  moves  pretrial  to  suppress
the  evidence  relating  to  the  three  automobiles  on  the  ground  that  the
inspection was unconstitutional. Her motion should be

 (A) sustained, because the statute grants unbridled discretion to law

enforcement officers to make warrantless searches.

(B) sustained, because the stated regulatory purpose of the statute is a

pretext to circumvent the warrant requirement in conducting criminal
investigations.

(C) denied, because the statute deals reasonably with a highly regulated

industry.

(D) denied, because administrative searches of commercial establishments

do not require warrants.

 Question 64

A criminal was indicted in a state court in January 2015 for a robbery and
murder that occurred in December 2012. He retained counsel, who filed a

639

motion to dismiss on the ground that the criminal had been prejudiced by a
25-month  delay  in  obtaining  the  indictment.  Thereafter,  the  criminal,  with
his counsel, appeared in court for arraignment and stated that he wished to
plead guilty. The presiding judge asked the criminal whether he understood
the  nature  of  the  charges,  possible  defenses,  and  maximum  allowable
sentences.  The  criminal  replied  that  he  did,  and  the  judge  reviewed  all  of
those  matters  with  him.  He  then  asked  the  criminal  whether  he  understood
that  he  did  not  have  to  plead  guilty.  When  the  criminal  responded  that  he
knew  that,  the  judge  accepted  the  plea  and  sentenced  the  criminal  to  25
years.

Six months later, the criminal filed a motion to set aside his guilty plea
on  each  of  the  following  grounds.  Which  of  these  grounds  provides  a
constitutional basis for relief?

 (A) The judge did not rule on his motion to dismiss before accepting the

guilty plea.

(B) The judge did not determine that the criminal had robbed and killed the

victim.

(C) The judge did not determine whether the criminal understood that he had

a right to jury trial.

(D) The judge did not determine whether the prosecutor's file contained any

undisclosed exculpatory material.

 Question 65

A  marijuana  farmer  had  been  missing  for  several  months.  The  sheriff's
department  received  an  anonymous  tip  that  a  rival  marijuana  farmer  had
buried  the  missing  farmer  in  a  hillside  about  200  yards  from  the  rival
farmer's farmhouse. Sheriff's deputies went to the rival farmer's farm. They
cut the barbed wire that surrounded the hillside and entered, looking for the
grave. They also searched the adjacent fields on the rival farmer's farm that
were within the area enclosed by the barbed wire and discovered clothing
that  belonged  to  the  missing  farmer  hanging  on  a  scarecrow.  The  rival
farmer observed their discovery and began shooting. The deputies returned
the  fire.  The  rival  farmer  dashed  to  his  pickup  truck  to  escape.  Unable  to
start the truck, he fled across a field toward the barn. A deputy tackled him
just as he entered the barn.

As  the  rival  farmer  attempted  to  get  up,  the  deputy  pinned  his  arms
behind his back. Another deputy threatened, ‘‘Tell us what you did with the
missing farmer or we'll lock you up and you'll see your family on welfare.''

640

The rival farmer responded that he had killed the missing farmer in a fight
but did not report the incident because he did not want authorities to enter
his land and discover his marijuana crop. Instead, he buried him behind the
barn.  The  rival  farmer  was  thereafter  charged  with  murder.  If  the  rival
farmer moves to suppress his admission about killing his neighbor, the court
should

 (A) grant the motion, because the rival farmer did not voluntarily waive his

right to silence.

(B) grant the motion, because the statement was the product of the
warrantless entry and search of the rival farmer's farm.

(C) deny the motion, because the deputy was in hot pursuit when he

questioned the rival farmer.

(D) deny the motion, because the rival farmer was questioned during a

police emergency search.

 Question 66

A woman who is a computer whiz decided to dedicate herself to exposing
persons who traffic in child pornography. She posted a number of sexually
oriented  photographs  on  her  web  site.  The  file  for  each  photograph
contained  an  embedded  Trojan  horse  program.  The  defendant  downloaded
one of those photographs onto his personal computer. Using the embedded
program,  the  woman  entered  the  defendant's  computer  and  found  a  file
containing  a  pornographic  photograph  of  a  child.  She  copied  the  file  and
turned it over to a federal law enforcement agency. A federal agent told her
that a successful prosecution would require more than one photograph and
offered her a monetary reward for additional photos leading to a conviction
of  the  defendant.  The  woman  entered  the  defendant's  computer  again,  and
this time she found hundreds of child pornography photos, which she turned
over to the federal agency.

The  defendant  is  charged  with  multiple  counts  of  violating  federal
statutes regarding child pornography. He moves to suppress the photographs
that the woman discovered on his computer. The motion is based on both the
Fourth  Amendment  and  a  federal  statute  forbidding  interception  of
electronic  communication  without  permission.  The  parties  have  stipulated
that  the  woman's  conduct  in  downloading  photos  from  the  defendant's
computer violated the interception statute. How should the court rule on the
defendant's motion to suppress?

641

 (A) Deny it as to all photographs.
(B) Grant it as to all photographs, because the woman acted without

probable cause.

(C) Grant it as to all photographs, because the woman violated the federal

interception statute.

(D) Grant it only as to the second set of photographs.

642

ANSWERS

CRIMINAL LAW AND PROCEDURE

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

643

 
ANSWERS

CRIMINAL LAW AND PROCEDURE

 Answer 1

 (C) is the best response,

because the theory of continuing trespass made the executive guilty of
larceny when she burned the materials.

First,  let's  consider  whether  the  executive  is  guilty  of  burglary.
Burglary is: (1) the breaking, (2) and entering, (3) of the dwelling, (4)
of  another,  (5)  at  night  time,  (6)  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony
within. (Here, the statute has eliminated requirement (3).) No burglary
occurred, because element (6) was missing. The time for measuring the
existence of an “intent to commit a felony within” is the moment of the
breaking and entering. Here, at the time of the breaking and entering, the
executive intended to retrieve only her own personal property. So she
did not have a felonious intent at the requisite moment. The fact that she
later  formed  such  an  intent  (when  she  was  home,  and  decided  to
destroy  what  she  knew  was  the  property  of  another)  doesn't  count  —
the  only  thing  that  counts  is  the  intent  at  the  moment  of  breaking  and
entering.

Now,  let's  consider  whether  the  executive  committed  larceny.
Larceny  is:  (1)  the  taking  and  (2)  carrying  away  of  (3)  the  tangible
property (4) of another, (5) by trespass or without consent, (6) with the
intent  to  permanently  deprive  the  other  of  his  interest  in  the  property.
During  the  entire  session  at  the  office  building,  the  executive  never
satisfied  element  (6):  Since  she  intended  to  return  any  property  not
belonging to her that she might grab in the dark, she did not act “with
the  intent  to  permanently  deprive  the  other  of  his  interest  in  the
property.”

But  the  doctrine  of  “continuing  trespass”  applies,  to  make  the
executive guilty of trespass as soon as she burned the book and papers.
Under  the  continuing  trespass  doctrine,  applied  by  most  courts,  one
who  takes  another's  property,  knowing  that  it  is  not  his  own  but
intending  to  return  it,  commits  a  “trespassory  taking”  at  that  moment;
that original trespassory taking, although not coinciding with an intent to

644

 
steal, is deemed to continue until the taker does form such an intent, at
which  point  the  larceny  is  complete.  LaFave,  §  8.5,  p.  817.  Here,  the
executive knew while in the office that she was taking property that was
not her own and that she was unauthorized to take; at that moment, she
had a trespassory intent, even though she had no present intent to steal
and was thus not yet guilty of larceny. Then, at the moment she burned
these  materials  at  home,  she  had  the  intent  to  deprive  the  owner
permanently  of  his  interest  in  the  property;  that  intent  now  coincided
with the continuing trespass, making her guilty of larceny at the moment
of burning.

 Neither (A), (B), nor (D) is the best response,

because  each  of  them  is  directly  inconsistent  with  the  above  analysis,
either  by  stating  that  burglary  was  present  (choices  A  and  B)  or  by
stating that larceny was not present (choice D).

 Answer 2

 (A) is the best response,

because  there  was  enough  circumstantial  evidence  of  an  agreement  to
commit a crime to justify sending the case to the jury.

Conspiracy  is  an  agreement  between  two  or  more  persons  to
accomplish  a  crime.  (Some  jurisdictions  also  require  an  overt  act  in
furtherance  of  the  conspiracy,  but  any  overt-act  requirement  is  not  at
issue  here.)  The  prosecution  bears  the  burden  of  proving  that  an
agreement  to  commit  a  crime  was  made  by  the  two  defendants.
However,  the  existence  of  an  agreement  need  not  be  proven  by  direct
evidence; circumstantial evidence can suffice.

Now  that  the  defendant  has  asked  for  a  directed  verdict,  the  court
should deny the verdict as long as the prosecution has proved facts that,
taken  in  a  light  most  favorable  to  the  prosecution,  are  sufficient  to
allow  a  rational  jury  to  conclude  beyond  reasonable  doubt  that  there
was an agreement to smuggle cocaine. The woman's admission that she
told her sister that there were “too many officers at this airport,” when
taken together with the fact that both defendants were carrying bottles of
liquid  cocaine,  was  enough  circumstantial  evidence  to  allow  a
reasonable  jury  to  conclude  that,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  the
women  agreed  to  import  cocaine.  (There  is  no  other  plausible
explanation of what the “too many officers” remark could have meant in

645

these circumstances; and all that's required is that a rational jury could
[not  must]  conclude  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt  that  there  was  an
agreement.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  mere  fact  of  possession  does  not  prove  a  conspiratorial
agreement.

Conspiracy requires an agreement between two or more persons to
accomplish  a  crime.  The  mere  fact  that  each  of  the  two  women  was
found in possession of smuggled cocaine does not prove that they made
an agreement to do so together — each might have formed the intent to
smuggle independently from the other.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  overlooks  the  circumstantial  evidence  of  an  agreement  to
smuggle.

Conspiracy requires an agreement between two or more persons to
accomplish a crime. However, the existence of an agreement need not
be  proven  by  direct  evidence;  circumstantial  evidence  can  suffice.
Here,  the  woman's  admission  that  she  told  her  sister  that  there  were
“too  many  officers  at  this  airport,”  when  taken  together  with  the  fact
that  both  defendants  were  carrying  bottles  of  liquid  cocaine,  was
enough circumstantial evidence to allow a reasonable jury to conclude
that, beyond a reasonable doubt, the women agreed to import cocaine.
So this choice is not accurate in saying that the evidence shows “only”
separate crimes of cocaine possession.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the woman's cooperation was not a withdrawal.

This  choice  is  wrong  for  several  reasons.  First,  the  crime  was
complete as soon as the women agreed to commit the smuggling, so any
later  withdrawal  would  not  be  a  defense  to  this  already-completed
crime.  (Even  if  the  jurisdiction  required  an  overt  act,  the  actual
smuggling  of  the  cocaine  by  the  woman  would  meet  the  overt-act
requirement, and that smuggling occurred before the withdrawal.) Apart
from  this  timing  problem,  courts  unanimously  hold  that  a  withdrawal
requires an affirmative act bringing home the fact of withdrawal to the
withdrawer's  confederates  (Lafave,  §  6.5,  p.  603),  and  here,  the
woman's confession was not even known to her sister at the time it was

646

made,  so  it  could  not  have  brought  the  withdrawal  home  to  the  sister.
Lastly,  the  withdrawal  must  consist  of  a  voluntary  and  complete
renunciation  of  the  criminal  purpose;  a  confession  after  one  has  been
caught would certainly not meet the requirement of voluntariness.

 Answer 3

 (A) is the best response,

because one of the mental states that suffices for murder is an intent to
do serious bodily harm.

the 

light  of 

the  defendant's  conduct 

At common law, a number of mental states can suffice for murder.
One of these mental states is an intent to do serious bodily injury. The
intent to do serious bodily injury, like the intent to kill, can be inferred
from 
the  surrounding
in 
circumstances. The defendant's choice of weapon, and the nature of the
physical  attack  on  the  victim,  are  circumstances  that  can  lead  a
reasonable  jury  to  infer  an  intent  to  seriously  injure  the  victim.  Here,
the  man's  choice  of  a  hammer,  and  his  swinging  the  hammer  at  his
friend's head rather than at some other point on the body, would justify
a reasonable jury in concluding beyond a reasonable doubt that the man
intended to cause at least serious bodily injury to his friend. Since the
friend's  death  directly  resulted  from  the  man's  conduct,  all  the
requirements  for  murder  of  the  intent-to-do-serious-bodily-injury
variety  are  present.  (It's  possible  —  though  not  likely  —  that  the  jury
might  accept  the  partial  defense  of  reasonable  provocation,  which
would  downgrade  the  crime  to  voluntary  manslaughter.  But  a
reasonable  jury  could  certainly  reject  the  provocation  defense,  in
which  case  a  murder  conviction  would  be  appropriate,  and  you're
asked to specify the most serious crime of which the defendant “could
properly be convicted.”)

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best responses,

because  each  of  them  is  less  serious  than  murder,  and  a  murder
conviction would be proper.

As  to  choice  B  (voluntary  manslaughter  or  V.M.),  the  man  could
certainly  raise  the  defense  that  he  committed  the  crime  under  extreme
provocation,  entitling  him  to  a  reduction  to  V.M.  It's  unlikely  that  the
jury  would  accept  this  defense,  because  hitting  someone  in  the  head
with  a  hammer  is  probably  not  a  “reasonable”  response  to  the

647

provocation  caused  by  an  intentional  breaking  of  a  television.  But
whether  or  not  the  jury  would  accept  the  defense,  a  reasonable  jury
could  reject  the  defense,  so  a  murder  conviction  on  an  intent-to-do-
serious-bodily-injury theory would be appropriate, making V.M. not the
most serious crime for which a conviction would be “proper.”

As  to  choice  C  (involuntary  manslaughter,  or  I.M.),  the  fact  that  a
murder conviction would be permissible means I.M. cannot be the most
serious  crime  of  which  the  man  could  properly  be  convicted.
Furthermore,  I.M.  is  generally  premised  upon  criminal  negligence  or
recklessness, not an intent to do bodily harm, so the facts here are not
appropriate ones for I.M.

As  to  choice  D  (assault),  a  conviction  for  assault  would  certainly
be  proper.  But  as  discussed  above,  the  murder  conviction  would  also
be proper, and obviously murder is a more serious crime than assault.

 Answer 4

 (A) is the best response,

because the fact that the drunk man never felt fear or believed that force
was  being  used  is  irrelevant  to  the  defendant's  liability  for  attempted
robbery.

A  robbery  is  a  larceny  from  a  person,  or  in  a  person's  immediate
presence, brought about by either force or fear. The gunman would like
to assert the defense of factual impossibility. The argument would be
that the drunk man was incapable of feeling fear or even of perceiving
that  force  was  being  threatened,  so  that  it  was  impossible  for  the
defendant to have succeeded with the robbery, thereby preventing him
from being guilty even of an attempt to rob. But, sadly for the defendant,
is  universally  rejected:
impossibility 
the  defense  of 
Impossibility is no defense to attempt charges where, had the facts been
as the defendant believed them to be, the defendant would have had the
mental  state  required  for  the  completed  crime.  Here,  if  the  facts  had
been  as  the  gunman  believed  them  to  be  (i.e.,  that  the  victim  was
capable of feeling fear or at least recognizing that the gunman's threat to
use the gun might well be real), the gunman would have had the mental
state  for  robbery.  So  the  fact  that  circumstances  made  it  factually
impossible for the completed crime to occur is irrelevant.

factual 

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best response,

648

because each lists a less serious crime than attempted robbery (or lists
no  crime  at  all),  and  the  defendant  may  properly  be  convicted  of
attempted robbery.

As  to  choice  C,  the  defendant  could  indeed  be  convicted  of
attempted larceny, since he attempted to permanently deprive the drunk
man of his property; it's only the fact that attempted robbery is a more
serious  crime  than  attempted  larceny  that  prevents  C  from  being  the
right answer. As to attempted battery (choice B), it's not clear whether
that crime has been committed at all — probably not, since there's no
indication that the gunman had the specific intent to make a harmful or
offensive bodily conduct. But whether attempted battery was or wasn't
committed,  it  is  certainly  not  the  most  serious  crime  for  which  the
gunman may be convicted.

 Answer 5

 (B) is the best response,

because it would support the defense of involuntary intoxication.

First, although the defendant ingested a “drug” rather than alcohol,
the  defense  he  is  raising  is  commonly  called  the  defense  of
“intoxication.”  There  are  two  varieties  of  intoxication  defense,
“voluntary  intoxication”  and  “involuntary  intoxication.”  The  main
circumstance covered by the involuntary intoxication defense is where
the  intoxication  has  “resulted  from  an  innocent  mistake  by  the
defendant as to the character of the substance taken, as when another
person  has  tricked  him  into  taking  the  liquor  or  drugs.”  Lafave,  §
4.10(g),  p.  419.  That's  the  case  postulated  by  this  choice,  since  the
defendant's  honest  belief  that  what  he  was  taking  was  aspirin  would
support the conclusion that he did not knowingly take a substance that
would intoxicate him.

Once  the  defendant  has  established  that  his  intoxication  was
involuntary,  he  would  be  entitled  to  an  acquittal  if  the  intoxication
either prevented him from having the required mental state, or deprived
him  of  the  ability  to  conform  his  conduct  to  the  requirements  of  the
law. See, e.g., Model Penal Code § 2.08(4): “Intoxication that (a) is not
self-induced [i.e., that is involuntary] . . . is an affirmative defense if by
reason  of  such  intoxication  the  actor  at  the  time  of  his  conduct  lacks
substantial capacity either to appreciate its criminality [wrongfulness]
or to conform his conduct to the requirements of law.” Here, the other

649

evidence  suggests  that  even  if  the  drug  did  not  negate  the  defendant's
intent  to  strike  another,  it  may  have  caused  him  to  lose  the  ability  to
conform  his  conduct  to  the  law  (i.e.,  his  ability  to  resist  the  urge  to
strike).  So  if  the  defendant  can  show  that  his  intoxication  was
involuntary, he will be entitled to the requested instruction.

 (A) is not the best response,

because voluntary intoxication would not be a defense to battery.

A defendant who argues that his addiction to a drug has compelled
him  to  consume  that  drug  is  nonetheless  raising  a  version  of  the
“voluntary  intoxication”  defense.  If  voluntary  intoxication  directly
negates  the  required  mental  state,  then  in  most  states  the  defense  will
work.  But  battery  is  a  crime  that  can  be  committed  not  only  with  the
mental state of “intent to strike another,” but also with the mental state
of recklessness as to the risk of striking another. Lafave, § 4.10(a), p.
414.  Nearly  all  courts  hold  that  recklessness  cannot  be  negated  by
voluntary  intoxication.  Id.  Therefore,  courts  generally  hold  that
voluntary intoxication is no defense to battery.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  taunting  occurred,  this  would  not  make  a  legal
difference.

If  there  were  no  intoxication  issue  in  the  case,  the  fact  that  the
victim taunted the defendant would not constitute a defense to a battery
charge — a person is expected to have enough self-control not to strike
another  in  response  to  taunts  or  insults.  Nor  would  the  voluntary
intoxication  defense  change  this  result  —  as  explained  in  choice  A,
voluntary intoxication is no defense to battery, and that's true whether or
not taunting by the victim is also present. Since under this choice there
is nothing to make the intoxication involuntary rather than voluntary, the
intoxication defense would not work.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  uncontrollable  rages  would  not  constitute  a  defense  if  the
intoxication was voluntary.

Voluntary  intoxication  is  no  defense  to  battery,  and  that's  true  no
matter what the effects of the intoxicant are. Why? Because battery can
be  committed  without  the  intent  to  strike  another,  if  the  defendant
recklessly  disregarded  the  risk  of  striking  another.  The  defendant's

650

voluntary  taking  of  an  intoxicant  that  produces  rages  would  not  be
deemed  to  negate  recklessness  (and,  indeed,  the  taking  would  itself
probably constitute recklessness). Therefore, the voluntary intoxication
would not negate all possible mental states for battery. Since under this
choice there is nothing to make the intoxication involuntary rather than
voluntary, the intoxication defense would not work.

 Answer 6

 (D) is the best response,

because the employee lacks the required mental state for murder.

Murder  is  an  unlawful  killing  that  is  accompanied  by  implied  or
express “malice aforethought.” Putting aside the special case of felony
murder, malice is deemed to exist if (and only if) the defendant had any
of  the  following  three  mental  states  at  the  time  he  committed  the
relevant  act:  (1)  an  intent  to  kill;  (2)  an  intent  to  do  serious  bodily
injury;  or  (3)  a  reckless  indifference  to  the  value  of  human  life
(“depraved heart”).

The employee here, at the time she took the relevant act (dropping
the  laxatives  into  the  coffee)  intended  only  to  “cause  her  boss
discomfort.” This is certainly not an intent to kill. Nor is it an intent to
do serious bodily injury, since “discomfort” implies transient and non-
serious harm. As to “reckless indifference to the value of human life,”
courts  find  that  mental  state  to  be  present  only  if  (at  a  minimum)  the
conduct involved what a reasonable person in the defendant's situation
would regard as a very high risk  of  death  or  serious  bodily  injury  to
another.  Lafave,  §  7.4,  p.  666.  (Most  courts  would  probably  also
require that the defendant be subjectively aware of the high degree of
risk.) Since we're told that the pills “would not have been dangerous to
an  ordinary  person,”  it  cannot  be  said  that  a  reasonable  person  in  the
employee's situation would have recognized a very high risk of death or
serious injury from the pills. Since the employee did not have any of the
mental  states  required  for  murder,  she  certainly  cannot  be  guilty  of
“first-degree  murder,”  which  is  defined  so  as  to  have  “murder”  as  a
pre-requisite.  (Therefore,  it  doesn't  matter  whether  the  pills  in  this
situation would be considered “poison.”)

 (A) is not the best response,

because this was not murder at all, let alone first-degree murder.

651

As is discussed in the treatment of choice D, the employee did not
have  any  of  the  mental  states  that  will  suffice  for  murder.  Therefore,
even if the pills are considered to be “poison,” she cannot be convicted
of  first-degree  murder  (which  exists  only  where  the  crime  is,  at  a
minimum, some sort of murder).

 (B) is not the best response,

because this was not murder at all, let alone first-degree murder.

Again,  as  is  discussed  in  the  treatment  of  choice  D,  the  employee
did  not  have  any  of  the  mental  states  that  will  suffice  for  murder.
Therefore, even if her crime is deemed to have been “premeditated,” it
is not a premeditated “murder,” and only “murders” can be first-degree
murders.

 (C) is not the best response,

because this was not a murder at all.

As is discussed in the answers to choices A, B, and D, the fact that
the employee lacked any of the required mental states for murder means
that neither her arguable use of poison nor her arguable premeditation
could possibly convert her crime into “first-degree murder.”

 Answer 7

 (A) is the best response,

because the girlfriend encouraged both the burglary and larceny.

If  A,  while  having  the  mental  state  for  crime  X,  aids,  abets,
encourages  or  assists  B  to  commit  crime  X,  and  B  in  fact  commits
crime X, A is guilty of crime X as an accomplice. When the girlfriend
lent the man her crowbar, knowing that it was to be used to break into
the shed to steal the mower, she was at the very least “encouraging” the
man  to  do  the  break-in.  Under  the  plan  that  the  girlfriend  was
encouraging,  she  intended  that  there  be  both  a  burglary  (breaking  and
entering of a structure with intent to commit a felony [theft] therein) and
a  larceny  (the  theft  of  the  mower).  Therefore,  the  girlfriend  had  the
mental  state  for  both  burglary  and  larceny,  and  committed  an  act  (the
giving of encouragement) in furtherance of each of these crimes. Then,
when  the  man  carried  out  both  crimes  in  essentially  the  manner
contemplated  by  both  parties,  the  woman  became  substantively  liable
for both crimes just as the man did.

652

Because  the  woman  gave  active  encouragement,  the  fact  that  any
“aid” she gave turned out not to be necessary is irrelevant. See Lafave,
§  6.7(a),  p.  624:  “At  least  where  the  attempted  aid  is  known  to  the
[principal], it may make no difference that the aid was unsuccessful or
was not utilized, as it may qualify as an encouragement. On this basis, it
is correct to conclude that an accessory who provides instrumentalities
to a burglar for use in a particular burglary should not escape liability
as  an  accomplice  merely  because  the  burglar  found  and  used  other
instrumentalities at the crime scene.”

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  girlfriend  intended  to  assist  in  the  larceny  as  well  as  the
breaking.

For the girlfriend to be guilty of larceny on an accomplice theory,
she must have had the intent required for larceny. Contrary to what this
choice asserts, she had the required intent: A reasonable jury can infer
that, beyond a reasonable doubt, the girlfriend intended to help the man
carry  out  his  complete  plan,  which  as  she  knew  included  not  just  the
breaking into the shed but also the stealing of the mower.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  girlfriend  encouraged  the  burglary,  even  though  her
assistance was not used in it.

If A is accused of being an accomplice to crime X, the actus reus
requirement  is  satisfied  as  long  as  A  “aided,  abetted,  encouraged  or
assisted” B  to  commit  crime  X.  Since  the  girlfriend  “encouraged”  the
man  to  carry  out  the  breaking  and  entering  with  intent  to  commit  a
felony therein, she meets the actus reus requirement for burglary even if
the court decides that the man's failure to use the crowbar prevents the
girlfriend  from  having  “aided”  or  “assisted”  the  burglary.  So  this
choice  incorrectly  asserts  that  the  woman  is  not  guilty  of  burglary
because of her lack of assistance with that crime.

This  choice  is  also  wrong  for  a  second  reason:  The  fact  that  the
girlfriend  received  an  unanticipated  benefit  (the  mowing)  from  the
completed  crime  does  not  make  any  difference  to  her  liability  for
larceny. That's so because her status as an accomplice is judged as of
the moment she rendered the aid or encouragement, which in this case
occurred  before  the  underlying  crime.  (She's  guilty  of  larceny  for  the
same  reason  she's  guilty  of  burglary  —  she  encouraged  both  crimes

653

before they were committed.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because the girlfriend encouraged both crimes.

As  is  discussed  in  choice  A,  the  fact  that  the  girlfriend  arguably
provided  “no  actual  assistance”  to  either  crime  doesn't  matter  —
whether  she  did  or  didn't  supply  “assistance”  (and  this  point  is
debatable), she certainly provided “encouragement,” and that's enough
for her to have accomplice liability for the actions that she encouraged
the principal to take.

 Answer 8

 (C) is the best response,

because the defendant's presence at that time and place was an element
of  the  crime  charged,  as  to  which  the  prosecution  bore  the  burden  of
proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

The  Supreme  Court  has  long  held  that  the  Due  Process  Clause
protects  the  accused  against  conviction  except  upon  “proof  beyond  a
reasonable doubt of every fact necessary to constitute the crime with
which he is charged.” In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358 (1970). Given the
prosecution's  theory  of  the  case  here,  the  defendant's  presence  at  the
convenience  store  at  11  PM  on  March  5  was  a  “fact  necessary  to
constitute  the  crime  .  .  .  charged.”  Therefore,  the  prosecution  was
required  to  prove  that  fact  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt.  Since  this
instruction carefully declines to place any burden at all on the defendant
with regard to the alibi defense, and all of the other instruction choices
impose some burden of proof on the defendant regarding that defense,
this choice is the only correct one.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly places the burden of producing some evidence on
the defendant.

The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  a  defendant  may  constitutionally
be  required  to  produce  some  evidence  in  support  of  an  “affirmative
defense,”  such  as  the  defense  of  self-defense.  See,  e.g.,  Patterson  v.
New York, 432 U.S. 197 (1977). (D may constitutionally be required to
bear  the  burden  of  persuasion  on  the  affirmative  defense  of  extreme
emotional  disturbance.)  But  “affirmative  defenses”  are  defenses  that

654

add  some  new,  mitigating  element,  not  defenses  that  merely  tend  to
show  that  some  element  of  the  underlying  crime  was  not  present.
Therefore, when the defendant raises a “defense” that merely attempts
to rebut an element of the prosecution's case, the burden of proof on this
defense  may  not  be  placed  on  the  defendant.  An  “alibi  defense”  falls
into this category. “Thus the burden of proof as to the ‘defense' of alibi
may  not  be  placed  upon  the  defendant,  for  alibi  of  necessity  negates
defendant's participation in the conduct defined as criminal.” Lafave, §
1.8, p. 57.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly places the burden of production on the defendant.
This choice is wrong for the same reason that choice A is wrong:
An alibi defense negates an element of the crime, rather than supplying
the
some  new  fact  of 
prosecution's  burden  of  proving  each  element  of  the  crime  beyond  a
reasonable doubt prevents placing on the defendant even the burden of
producing some evidence in support of his alibi.

justification  or  mitigation.  Therefore, 

 (D) is not the correct response,

because  it  incorrectly  imposes  the  burden  of  creating  a  reasonable
doubt on the defendant.

This choice is wrong for the same reason that choices A and B are
wrong:  An  alibi  defense  negates  an  element  of  the  crime,  rather  than
supplying  some  new  fact  of  justification  or  mitigation;  therefore,  the
defendant can never be required to bear the burden of proving an alibi
defense.  This  choice  suggests  that  it  is  only  where  “the  defendant's
evidence has caused you to have a reasonable doubt . . . ” that a not-
guilty  verdict  is  required.  In  reality,  the  prosecution's  own  failure  to
show,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  that  the  defendant  was  the  robber,
would also require an acquittal. So by implying that the defendant had
the burden to come up with evidence creating a reasonable doubt, this
instruction  unconstitutionally  diminishes  the  prosecution's  burden  of
proof.

 Answer 9

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  jury  could  properly  find  that  the  defendant  recklessly

655

disregarded the risk that the victim was over 65.

The issue is whether the defendant was “reckless” with respect to
the  risk  that  the  victim  was  over  65.  The  statute  says  that  she  was
reckless if and only if she “consciously disregard[ed] a substantial and
unjustified  risk”  that  the  victim  was  over  65.  By  this  formulation,  the
terms  “substantial”  and  “unjustified”  are  to  be  measured  objectively:
Would a reasonable observer believe that the risk of the victim's being
over  65  was  substantial  and  unjustified?  A  reasonable  jury  could
answer  yes  on  both  of  these  points:  (1)  a  significant  portion  of  the
population is over 65, so the risk that any given person would be over
65 could certainly be found to be “substantial” (and a “substantial” risk
is not one that is necessarily greater than 50-50, just one that is of non-
trivial probability); (2) in view of the utter lack of social utility in the
defendant's  behavior,  the  jury  could  properly  conclude  that  it  was
“unjustified” for the defendant to run the risk that the victim would be
over 65.

But  the  analysis  isn't  finished  yet:  It  must  also  be  the  case  that  a
reasonable  jury  could  conclude  that  the  defendant  “consciously
disregarded”  the  risk  that  the  victim  was  over  65.  Here,  we  know
various  things  about  the  defendant's  mental  state  with  regard  to  the
victim's age, from her testimony and other circumstances: (1) the crime
took  place  outside  a  senior  citizen  center;  (2)  the  defendant  couldn't
really  see  the  victim  (and  knew  she  couldn't  see  him)  because  of  the
darkness; (3) the defendant didn't have any opinion or knowledge about
the victim's age; and (4) even if the defendant had known that the victim
was elderly, she still would have robbed him, since she intended to rob
this  package  of
“whomever  she  encountered.”  Taken 
circumstances  and  knowledge  would  justify  a  reasonable  jury  in
concluding that, beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant “consciously
disregarded”  (rather  than  merely  “was  unaware  of”)  the  risk  that  the
victim was over 65.

together, 

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  incorporates  the  element  of  knowledge  into  the
standard.

What matters is whether the defendant was “reckless” as to the risk
of  the  victim's  being  over  65.  This  choice  asserts  that  the  requisite
mental  state  was  not  present  because  the  defendant  neither  knew  nor
“reasonably  could  have  known”  the  victim's  age.  But  recklessness  is
defined  in  the  statute  as  “conscious  disregard  [of]  a  substantial  and

656

unjustified risk” of the element in question. So a person can be reckless
as to an element even if the person neither knows nor could reasonably
have known that the element was present. Since this choice incorrectly
requires  at  least  a  possibility  that  the  defendant  “knew”  the  victim's
age, it cannot be the best choice.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is false as a factual matter.

In  finding  the  elements  of  a  crime,  the  jury  is  entitled  to  make
reasonable  inferences.  Therefore,  in  deciding  whether  there  was  a
“substantial risk” that the victim was over 65, the jury was entitled to
make  reasonable  inferences  from  the  totality  of  the  circumstances  as
known to the defendant. And that's true even if (as here), there was no
direct evidence in the case about just how great the possibility was that
this  particular  victim  was  over  65.  Where  a  robbery  takes  place
immediately  outside  of  a  senior  citizens'  center,  and  in  the  dark,  it  is
reasonable for the jury to infer that there is a “substantial risk” that the
victim may be over 65. (A risk can be “substantial” even though it has
less  than  a  50/50  chance  of  eventuating;  all  that's  required  is  that  the
risk be more than remote.)

 (C) is not the best result,

because,  although  it  reaches  the  right  result,  it  does  so  without
incorporating the elements that go into a finding of recklessness.

The  defendant  can  be  convicted  only  if  the  jury  finds,  beyond  a
reasonable doubt, that the defendant behaved “recklessly” with regard
to the risk that the victim was over 65. Such a finding of recklessness in
turn  requires  that  the  jury  find  that  the  defendant  “consciously
disregarded a substantial and unjustified risk” that the victim was over
65. This choice relies on two facts, which even when taken together do
not establish the required recklessness as to age. First, the fact that the
victim was in fact over 65 only very weakly supports the inference that
the  defendant  “consciously  disregarded”  the  risk  that  the  victim  was
over  65.  For  instance,  given  the  fact  that  the  episode  occurred  in  the
dark,  it  may  never  have  occurred  to  the  defendant  that  the  victim  was
over  65.  Second,  the  fact  that  the  statute's  purpose  was  to  protect  the
elderly  doesn't  have  any  bearing  on  whether  the  defendant  had  the
required  conscious  disregard  of  the  victim's  age.  (It's  only  the
defendant's  testimony  that  she  knew  that  she  didn't  know  the  victim's

657

age, didn't care about that age, and would have robbed him regardless
of  his  age,  that  justifies  the  conclusion  that  she  “consciously
disregarded” the age issue; and none of these aspects of the testimony is
referred to in this choice.)

 Answer 10

 (A) is the best response,

because 
accomplice liability.

it  correctly  applies 

the  mental-state  requirements  for

A  conviction  based  on  accomplice  liability  requires  not  only  a
showing  that  the  accomplice  aided,  encouraged,  or  assisted  the
principal  to  commit  the  underlying  crime,  but  also  a  showing  that  the
accomplice  had  a  culpable  mental  state  sufficient  for  that  underlying
crime.  The  crime  of  larceny  (theft)  requires  an  intent  to  permanently
deprive  another  of  the  latter's  property.  So  unless  the  passenger  is
shown  to  have  intended  to  aid,  encourage  or  assist  the  driver  in  the
taking  of  the  station  owner's  property,  the  passenger  cannot  be
convicted as an accomplice. And that intent must have existed before or
simultaneously with the actual taking. Since the passenger had no prior
knowledge  that  the  driver  intended  to  take  the  cash,  and  no  intent  to
assist  in  or  encourage  the  taking,  the  passenger  did  not  have  the
required mental state for larceny.

 (B) is not the best response,

because prosecution of the principal is not a prerequisite for conviction
of the accomplice.

To gain a conviction of an accomplice, the prosecution must prove
that  the  principal  committed  the  underlying  crime.  But  under  virtually
all  modern  approaches,  the  fact  that  the  principal  has  not  been
prosecuted  does  not  bar  a  successful  prosecution  of  the  accomplice,
assuming,  of  course,  that  in  the  accomplice's  trial  the  prosecution
proves  that  the  principal  committed  the  crime.  (Even  under  the
traditional common-law approach, proof that the passenger was present
at  the  scene  of  the  crime,  coupled  with  proof  that  he  aided  or
encouraged  the  crime,  would  likely  have  sufficed  for  accomplice
liability despite the lack of prosecution of the principal.)

 (C) is not the best response,

658

because a person's failure to try to stop a crime at which he is present
is not enough for accomplice liability.

A conviction based on accomplice liability requires the prosecution
to prove that the accomplice had a culpable mental state sufficient for
the  underlying  crime.  Since  larceny  requires  an  intent  to  permanently
take  another's  property,  the  passenger  could  be  convicted  of  being  an
accomplice to larceny only if the prosecution proved that he intended to
help  bring  about  such  a  larcenous  taking.  Even  if  the  passenger  could
readily  have  stopped  the  larceny  from  being  completed  (not  at  all
clear), his failure to make any attempt to stop it does not establish that
he intended to bring about the larceny.

 (D) is not the best result,

because it cites a fact that does not establish the required intent.

This choice is incorrect for essentially the same reason that choice
C is incorrect: A conviction based on accomplice liability requires the
prosecution  to  prove  that  the  accomplice  had  a  culpable  mental  state
sufficient for the underlying crime, in this case, an intent to help bring
about  a  larcenous  taking.  The  passenger's  payment  of  the  cost  of  the
fuel,  even  while  the  passenger  knew  that  the  driver  had  taken  the
money,  does  not  establish  that  the  passenger  intended  to  assist  the
driver in taking and keeping the money.

 Answer 11

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  is  plausible  under  these  facts,  and  negates  one  of  the
elements of burglary.

Under  the  statute,  burglary  requires  breaking  and  entering  any
building  or  structure  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  or  to  steal
therein.  However,  a  structure  that  is  open  to  the  public  cannot  be
‘‘broken and entered,'' at least as to areas where, and times when, the
public is welcome. Since the liquor store was open to the public, and
the defendant entered it during its business hours, he could not satisfy
the  ‘‘breaking  and  entering''  element  of  burglary.  Since  B  cites  a  fact
that  will  exonerate  the  defendant,  and  it  fits  these  facts,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

659

because it misstates the facts.

The  facts  state  that  the  defendant  intended  to  hold  up  the  liquor
store. The statute requires that the actor intend to commit a felony or to
steal something from within a building or structure. Thus, the defendant
had the requisite intent, and, since A states otherwise, it's not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the fact it cites occurred too late to exonerate the defendant.

The act of burglary is complete when the breaking and entry takes
place  —  the  wrongdoer  need  not  actually  commit  the  felony  therein,
under  the  statute  given.  Even  if  abandonment  were  a  possible  defense
once a defendant entered the building, it would not exonerate him here,
because  the  facts  suggest  that  he  does  not  satisfy  the  elements  of  the
abandonment defense. In order to successfully claim abandonment, the
abandonment  must  be  completely  voluntary,  and  not  made  due  to
problems  in  completing  the  crime  or  the  risk  of  getting  caught;  and  it
must  represent  a  full  renunciation  of  the  criminal  purpose.  Here,  the
facts tell you only that a defendant became ‘‘frightened.'' This does not
suggest necessarily that his abandonment was completely voluntary. (A
voluntary  abandonment  could  be,  for  instance,  a  defendant's  suddenly
feeling  sorry  for  the  shopkeeper,  and  deciding  against  stealing  from
him.) Since C identifies a fact that will not exonerate the defendant, it's
not his best argument, and as a result C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the defendant's lack of success would not exonerate him.

The  statute  requires  only  that  the  perpetrator  break  and  enter  a
building  or  structure  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  or  to  steal
therein. Once inside, the crime is complete, regardless of whether the
person successfully carries out his intent. Since D cites a fact that will
not exonerate the defendant, it's not his best argument, making D not the
best response.

 Answer 12

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  arrives  at  the  correct  response,  and  correctly  analyzes  the
central reason why the defendant will be acquitted.

660

A  conspiracy  requires  an  agreement  between  at  least  two  people,
the intent to enter into such an agreement, and the intent to achieve the
agreement's  unlawful  objective.  Here,  the  defendant  didn't  have  the
intent  to  enter  into  an  agreement  to  steal  food  stamps,  or  the  intent  to
steal food stamps; he only had the intent to buy stolen food stamps. As a
result, he was not part of a conspiracy to actually steal the food stamps.
Had he actually helped to plan or participated in or assisted the theft,
these  acts  would  be  evidence  of  his  agreement  to  take  part  in  the
conspiracy; but he didn't. Since C correctly identifies that the defendant
won't be guilty, and the central reason why he'll be exonerated, it's the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  a  correct  rule  of  law,  it  does  not  apply  to
these facts, and arrives at an incorrect result.

Choice  A  states  as  a  given  that  the  defendant  has  entered  the
conspiracy. This overlooks the central issue under these facts: whether
or  not  the  defendant  actually  entered  the  conspiracy.  A  conspiracy
requires an agreement, an intent to enter into such an agreement, and the
intent to achieve the agreement's objectives. Here, the defendant did not
conspire  to  actually  steal  the  food  stamps,  because  he  didn't  intend  to
steal the food stamps and didn't agree to enter into a plan to effect the
stealing  of  the  food  stamps.  As  a  result,  he  can't  be  liable  for
conspiracy  to  steal  the  food  stamps,  and  thus  A  cannot  be  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it mischaracterizes the facts, and arrives at an incorrect result.
The  defendant  did  not  knowingly  and  willingly  aid  and  abet  the
theft;  he  had  no  agreement  regarding  the  theft,  no  intent  to  enter  into
such  an  agreement,  and  no  intent  to  steal  the  food  stamps.  He  merely
agreed to buy stolen goods. As a result, his involvement is too late for
him  to  be  considered  a  conspirator  with  respect  to  stealing  the  food
stamps,  since  he  only  agreed  to  buy  them  once  they  actually  were
stolen.

Since B misstates the facts, and cites an argument which would not,
in  fact,  result  in  the  defendant  being  convicted,  it  cannot  be  the  best
response.

661

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

A  conspiracy  requires  that  there  be  an  agreement  between  at  least
two  people,  but  it  doesn't  require  that  they  all  be  charged  with
conspiracy. Beyond the agreement requirement, conspiracy requires that
the  defendant  had  intended  to  enter  such  an  agreement,  and  had  the
intent to achieve the agreement's unlawful objective (at common law, a
conspiracy could alternatively involve a lawful ultimate act, to be done
unlawfully).  If  you  chose  this  response,  you  may  have  mistaken  these
facts  for  a  situation  where  there  are  two  parties  to  a  conspiracy  who
are both charged with conspiracy, and one is acquitted.

The  rule  under  those  circumstances  is  that  the  other  could  not  be
convicted,  because  it  takes  at  least  two  guilty  parties  to  have  a
conspiracy (likewise, with a conspiracy of three persons, all of whom
are charged with conspiracy, if two are acquitted, the third would have
to be also). However, the facts here state that only the defendant has
been charged.  Thus,  this  rule  would  not  apply.  Since  D  misstates  the
law, it's not the best response.

 Answer 13

 (A) is the best response,

because the defendant must go beyond mere preparation in order to be
convicted for attempted possession.

The  common  law  of  attempt  required  that  the  defendant  commit
some  act  (beyond  mere  ‘‘preparation'')  toward  bringing  about  the
intended crime. Lafave, § 10.4, pp. 442-49. Here, the drug dealer took
no  act,  much  less  any  act  that  would  qualify  at  common  law,  toward
obtaining the cocaine. Indeed, the drug dealer likely would not be guilty
of  attempt  even  under  the  Model  Penal  Code's  broadened  standards
because  there  was  no  ‘‘substantial  step''  toward  commission  of  the
crime. See MPC § 5.01(1)(c). Thus, under these facts, solely stating that
you need more time and agreeing to meet again will not qualify as acts
bringing about the intended crime.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the legality or illegality of a defendant's arrest has nothing to
do with whether the defendant was guilty of an attempt.

662

Thus,  this  answer  reaches  the  right  result  for  the  wrong  reason.
Instead, the defendant will not be convicted because he must go beyond
mere  preparation  in  order  to  be  convicted  for  attempted  possession.
The  common  law  of  attempt  required  that  the  defendant  commit  some
act  (beyond  mere  ‘‘preparation'')  toward  bringing  about  the  intended
crime.  Lafave,  §  10.4,  pp.  442-49.  Here,  the  drug  dealer  took  no  act,
much less any act that would qualify at common law, toward obtaining
the  cocaine.  Indeed,  the  drug  dealer  likely  would  not  be  guilty  of
attempt  even  under  the  Model  Penal  Code's  broadened  standards
because  there  was  no  ‘‘substantial  step''  toward  commission  of  the
crime.  See  MPC  §  5.01(1)(c).  Thus,  under  these  facts,  solely  stating
that you need more time and agreeing to meet again will not qualify as
acts bringing about the intended crime.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  an  agreement  to  commit  a  crime  is  neither  necessary  nor
sufficient to constitute attempt.

that 

The  call  of  this  question  does  not  concern  conspiracy,  so  the
existence of an agreement is not relevant. Instead, the defendant will not
be convicted because he must go beyond mere preparation in order to
be  convicted  for  attempted  possession.  The  common  law  of  attempt
required 
(beyond  mere
the  defendant  commit  some  act 
‘‘preparation'')  toward  bringing  about  the  intended  crime.  LaFave,  §
10.4, pp. 442-49. Here, the drug dealer took no act, much less any act
that  would  qualify  at  common  law,  toward  obtaining  the  cocaine.
Indeed, the drug dealer likely would not be guilty of attempt even under
the  Model  Penal  Code's  broadened  standards  because  there  was  no
‘‘substantial step'' toward commission of the crime. See MPC § 5.01(1)
(c). Thus, under these facts, solely stating that you need more time and
agreeing  to  meet  again  will  not  qualify  as  acts  bringing  about  the
intended crime.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  even  if  this  statement  is  true,  attempt  under  common  law
required more than an unequivocal expression of criminal intent.

In  addition,  the  defendant  must  also  have  committed  some  act
toward bringing about the intended crime. Wayne R. LaFave, Principles
of Criminal Law § 10.4, at 442-49 (2d ed. 2003). Here, the drug dealer
took  no  act,  much  less  any  act  that  would  qualify  at  common  law,

663

toward obtaining the cocaine. Indeed, the drug dealer likely would not
be  guilty  of  attempt  even  under  the  Model  Penal  Code's  broadened
standards because there was no ‘‘substantial step'' toward commission
of  the  crime.  See  MPC  §  5.01(1)(c).  Thus,  under  these  facts,  solely
stating  that  you  need  more  time  and  agreeing  to  meet  again  will  not
qualify as acts bringing about the intended crime.

 Answer 14

 (D) is the best response,

because it addresses the fact that is most likely to exonerate the friend
from culpability for robbery: No robbery took place.

A robbery is a larceny from either a person or a person's presence,
by either force or fear. Under the facts here, the thief did not use force,
and the teller was clearly not put in fear. As a result, although there may
be  another  crime,  there's  no  robbery.  If  there's  no  robbery,  nobody,
including  the  friend,  could  be  liable  for  robbery.  This  is  a  clever
question  in  that  it  leads  you  down  the  garden  path,  focusing  on  the
friend's actions, not the thief's. Thus, whenever accomplice liability is
involved,  check  first  to  see  if  the  actual  crime  took  place.  If  it  didn't,
the  accomplice  can't  possibly  be  liable.  (Note  that  if  the  robbery  had
taken  place,  the  friend  would  be  liable  as  an  accomplice,  since  he
procured, counseled, or commanded the commission of a felony.) Since
choice  D  states  the  fact  that  will  exonerate  the  friend,  it's  the  best
response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  it  states  would  not  exonerate  the  friend,  and  thus  it
would not make a good defense.

The  friend  could,  in  theory,  be  convicted  as  an  accomplice  to
robbery even though the thief was the only one who entered the bank.
Robbery  is  a  crime  requiring  larceny  from  a  person  or  a  person's
presence, by either force or fear.

An  accomplice  is  one  who  procures,  counsels  or  commands  the
commission of a felony. (Modern courts do not recognize a difference
between  accessories  before  the  fact  and  principals  in  the  second
degree,  but  instead  call  them  both  accomplices.  At  common  law,  the
difference  between  the  two  is  that  a  principal  is  actually  or
constructively  present  at  the  commission  of  the  criminal  act,  and  the

664

accessory  is  not.  Here,  it's  likely  the  friend  would  be  considered  a
principal  in  the  second  degree,  since  he  was  at  the  bank,  albeit  not
inside  it.)  Thus,  it  isn't  necessary  that  the  accomplice  actually
participate  in  the  criminal  act  itself.  Since  choice  A  would  condition
the friend's culpability on whether or not he entered the bank, it can't be
the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  fact  it  states  would  not  exonerate  the  friend,  and  thus  it
would not make a good defense.

Choice B implies that the friend would have a valid defense due to
withdrawal.  In  fact,  the  friend  withdrew  too  late  for  withdrawal  to
serve as a defense, and, in any case, on these facts it is not clear that the
friend's  withdrawal  reflects  a  renunciation  of  the  criminal  purpose,
which a valid withdrawal requires — these facts only indicate that the
friend ‘‘panicked.'' This suggests that he became nervous about the odds
of success, which is not a valid withdrawal. As to timing, an accessory
cannot  withdraw  once  the  chain  of  events  has  become  ‘‘unstoppable.''
Here, the friend planned the crime with the thief and drove the thief to
the bank. If the crime had taken place, the friend would be liable, since
he did everything before its commission that he intended to do. Since B
addresses an argument that will not exonerate the friend, it's not his best
defense, and thus not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the fact it states would not exonerate the friend, and thus would
not make a good defense.

As an accomplice to a robbery, one must intend that the robbery be
committed, and aid in its commission, but he needn't know the details of
how  the  robbery  is  actually  carried  out.  Here,  the  friend  planned  the
robbery with the thief, and actually drove him to the bank. He intended
that the robbery take place, and only chickened out while he was at the
scene. Since the friend had the requisite intent, and helped in executing
the ostensible robbery, it doesn't matter that he didn't know exactly what
the thief said to the teller. As a result, C is not the best response.

 Answer 15

 (C) is the best response,

665

because it correctly identifies that the defendant will not be guilty, and
it cites the central reason why.

The  key  here  is  that  there's  no  relation  between  the  licensing
violation  and  the  death.  Apart  from  that,  these  facts  indicate  that  the
defendant  did  nothing  wrong  —  these  facts  indicate  that  it  was  the
child's fault that he got run over, since the facts state that the child was
killed before the defendant could prevent it. Since the defendant was
not even negligent, he couldn't be liable.

Misdemeanor manslaughter is a killing that occurs as a result of or
during a malum in se misdemeanor, or a felony that is not sufficient for
felony murder. Here, the defendant's misdemeanor — failing to renew
his  driver's  license  —  neither  resulted  in  the  child's  death,  nor  is  the
type  of  inherently  bad  misdemeanor  appropriate  for  misdemeanor
manslaughter.  The  other  type  of  manslaughter  —  criminal  negligence
manslaughter  —  would  require  that  the  defendant  engaged  in  a
criminally  negligent  course  of  behavior,  which  resulted  in  the  child's
death. Here again, the causal connection is lacking. The simple fact is
that the defendant's failure to renew his license had no bearing on the
death  of  the  child;  in  fact,  under  these  facts,  it's  fairly  clear  that  the
child's own negligence resulted in his death. The defendant did not in
fact behave negligently under these facts.

Since  C  correctly  identifies  that  there's  no  causal  connection
between the defendant's negligence in failing to renew his license and
the child's death, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because there's no causation between the defendant's misdemeanor and
the  death,  and,  beyond  that,  the  misdemeanor  involved  is  not  the  type
that can be the subject of misdemeanor-manslaughter.

Misdemeanor manslaughter is a killing that occurs as a result of or
during a malum in se misdemeanor, or a felony that is not sufficient for
felony murder. Here, the defendant's misdemeanor — failing to renew
his  driver's  license  —  neither  resulted  in  the  child's  death,  nor  is  the
type  of  inherently  bad  misdemeanor  appropriate  for  misdemeanor
manslaughter. As a result, A is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it ignores causation, and as a result arrives at the wrong result.
It  may  be  true  that  the  purpose  of  the  licensing  requirement  is  to

666

protect  life,  and  that  driving  without  a  license  is  negligent  —  but  this
does not change the fact that there would have to be a causal connection
between the defendant's negligence and the child's death in order to find
him guilty of manslaughter.

Under these facts, it's fairly clear that the child's death was the fault
of  the  child,  not  the  defendant  (as  indicated  by  the  language:  “killed
before  the  defendant  could  prevent  it”).  Thus,  it's  irrelevant  that  the
defendant  may  have  been  negligent  in  failing  to  get  his  license
reviewed.  Look  at  it  this  way:  Even  if  the  defendant's  license  was
valid, it would not have had a bearing on his liability for manslaughter
in  running  over  the  child.  Since  B  ignores  causation,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law:  the  defendant  could  be  guilty  without
criminal intent.

Under these facts, it so happens he's not guilty, but it's not because
he  lacked  criminal  intent:  It's  because  the  element  of  causation  is
missing. The defendant could be liable for manslaughter without intent,
since,  under  criminal  negligence  type  manslaughter,  he's  liable  for
manslaughter  if  a  killing  occurs  through  his  gross  or  criminal
negligence,  either  by  act  or  omission.  Thus,  his  act  must  create  an
unreasonable  risk  of  harm.  This  does  not  require  intent,  and  since
choice D states as a general principle that a manslaughter conviction is
not possible without intent, it's not the best response.

 Answer 16

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  jury  could  find  the  defendant
guilty of either robbery or larceny, but not both.

There are two keys here: One is realizing that larceny is a lesser-
included offense to robbery; the second is that the jury could properly
decide  either  way  on  the  use  of  force  and  fear  (the  knife  and  the
threats).

The  jury,  as  finder  of  fact,  could  believe  or  disbelieve  any
testimony.  The  key  fact  here  involves  the  use  of  the  knife  and  the
threats: If the jury believes the victim, it would find the defendant guilty
of  robbery;  if  it  doesn't,  which  would  be  reasonable  since  the

667

eyewitness wasn't aware of the knife or threats, then it would find the
defendant guilty of larceny. Robbery requires a larceny from a person
or  a  person's  presence,  by  either  force  or  fear.  The  use  of  the  knife
and/or the threats in the act described in these facts would thus satisfy
robbery.  Larceny  is  the  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
another's  personal  property  with  intent  to  steal.  The  act  described  in
these  facts  is  sufficient  for  larceny,  if  the  knife  and  threats  were  not
used. Note, however, that the jury couldn't properly find the defendant
guilty of both  robbery  and  larceny,  since  larceny  is  a  lesser-included
offense of robbery (requiring proof of some, but not all, of the elements
of robbery, and no other elements).

Since  C  correctly  identifies  that  the  jury  could  find  the  defendant

guilty of either robbery or larceny but not both, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it is too narrow: The jury could also properly return a verdict
of guilty of larceny.

The  key  here  is  whether  the  jury  believes  the  defendant  used  the
knife  and/or  made  the  threats,  because  this  will  determine  whether  or
not  it  finds  him  guilty  of  robbery  or  larceny.  Larceny  requires  a
trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of  another's  personal  property
with  intent  to  steal.  Robbery  additionally  requires  that  the  larceny  be
from  a  person  or  in  the  presence  of  a  person,  by  either  force  or  fear.
The jury, as the finder of fact, would be entitled — under these facts —
to believe the victim, and find that force and fear were used, making the
defendant  liable  for  robbery,  or  not  to  believe  the  victim  (due  to  the
eyewitness' testimony) and find that only a larceny took place. Since A
incorrectly limits the jury to robbery only, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is too narrow: The jury could also properly return a verdict
of guilty of robbery.

The  key  here  is  whether  the  jury  believes  the  defendant  used  the
knife  and/or  made  the  threats,  because  this  will  determine  whether  or
not  it  finds  him  guilty  of  robbery  or  larceny.  Larceny  requires  a
trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of  another's  personal  property
with  intent  to  steal.  Robbery  additionally  requires  that  the  larceny  be
from  a  person  or  in  the  presence  of  a  person,  by  either  force  or  fear.
The jury, as the finder of fact, would be entitled — under these facts —

668

to believe the victim, and find that force and fear were used, making the
defendant  liable  for  robbery,  or  not  to  believe  the  victim  (due  to  the
eyewitness's  testimony)  and  find  only  a  larceny  took  place.  Since  B
limits the jury to finding larceny only, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  jury  could not  properly  find  the  defendant  guilty  of  both
robbery  and  larceny,  since  larceny  is  a  lesser-included  offense  of
robbery.

A lesser included offense is one which requires proof of some but
not  all  of  the  elements  of  another  offense,  and  no  other  elements.
Larceny  requires  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of  another's
personal property with intent to steal. Robbery requires larceny from a
person or the presence of a person, by either force or fear. As a result,
the  defendant  could  not  properly  be  convicted  of  both  charges.
Furthermore, the jury could properly find that the defendant did not use
a knife or threats. Since robbery requires the use of either force or fear,
if the jury didn't believe the victim's testimony about those two factors,
it couldn't find the defendant guilty of robbery.

Since  D  incorrectly  states  that  the  jury  could  properly  find  the

defendant guilty of both robbery and larceny, it's not the best response.

 Answer 17

 (B) is the best response,

because the defendant's mistaken belief that the briefcase was his own
prevented him from having the required mental state for robbery.

Robbery is the: (1) taking, (2) of personal property of another, (3)
from  the  other's  person  or  presence,  (4)  by  force  or  intimidation,  (5)
with the intent to permanently deprive him of it.

The intent required for robbery is the intent to use force to take ‘‘the
property  of  another.''  Therefore,  if  the  defendant  mistakenly  (even
unreasonably)  believes  that  the  property  in  question  is  his  own,  the
required ‘‘intent to take the property of another'' is lacking. The fact that
that mistake was brought about by voluntary intoxication — and the fact
that the mistake may have been ‘‘unreasonable'' — makes no difference.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  (1)  the  absence  of  threats  would  not  prevent  this  from  being

669

robbery;  and  (2)  the  intoxication  would  not  necessarily  prevent  this
from being robbery.

Robbery  is  the  taking  of  personal  property  of  another  from  the
latter's  person  or  presence,  ‘‘by  force  or  intimidation.''  A  taking  can
involve  force  without  involving  threats.  Here,  the  defendant  struggled
with the owner, and knocked him to the floor, so the requisite force was
present even though the defendant made no threats.

Also,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  was  drunk  would  not  necessarily
prevent him from being guilty — it was only the defendant's mistaken
belief that the briefcase was his that caused him to avoid guilt. (It's true
that the intoxication may have been what caused the defendant to have
the mistaken belief — but no matter why the mistaken belief occurred,
the defendant would have avoided guilt.) To the extent that this choice
relies on an absence of threats, and the existence of the intoxication, to
explain  the  result,  it's  twice-wrong  even  though  it  states  the  correct
outcome.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  voluntary  intoxication  can  still  prevent  the  required  specific
intent from existing.

Robbery  requires  an  intent  to  take  ‘‘the  property  of  another.''  If  a
defendant  fails  to  have  the  requisite  intent,  whatever  the  reason,  the
crime has not been committed. Here, the defendant thought the briefcase
was his, so he lacked the requisite intent to take ‘‘property of another.''
The  fact  that  the  intoxication  was  ‘‘voluntary''  would  not  make  a
difference,  if  for  any  reason  (including  intoxication)  he  lacked  the
requisite intent.

 (D) is not the best response,

because mistake can be a defense to specific intent crimes.

If a mistake of fact prevents the defendant from having the requisite
intent  for  a  ‘‘specific  intent''  crime,  that  mistake  is  indeed  a  defense.
Here, robbery requires an intent to take ‘‘the property of another.'' If a
mistake causes a defendant to believe (whether reasonably or not) that
the  property  is  his  own  rather  than  another's,  that  mistake  causes  the
defendant not to meet the intent element for the crime.

 Answer 18

670

 (D) is the best response,

because the thief's actions satisfied all the elements of larceny.

Larceny is the: (1) taking and (2) carrying away of (3) the tangible
property (4) of another, (5) by trespass or without consent, (6) with the
intent to permanently deprive the person of his interest in property.

The thief committed larceny: (1) She picked up the purse, a taking.
(2) She moved it from its original position when she placed it under her
coat  and  took  a  few  steps  toward  the  exit,  a  carrying  away.  (3)  The
purse  is  a  tangible  item  (4)  owned  by  another,  the  clothing  store.  (5)
The  thief  took  it  without  the  clothing  store's  consent.  (6)  When  she
picked up the purse (exerted control over it) the facts state that she did
so  with  the  intent  to  take  it  without  paying  for  it.  The  thief's  actions
therefore satisfy all the requirements of larceny.

The fact that the thief did not exit from the store with the property is
irrelevant  —  the  crime  was  complete  once  she  exerted  dominion  and
carried the item a small distance, while intending to keep it. Nor does
the fact that the thief took only a couple of steps with the purse prevent
the ‘‘carrying away'' element from being satisfied — even the smallest
movement of the item will suffice.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the thief completed the crime once she exerted dominion over
the purse and carried it a small distance, while intending to keep it. See
the analysis of choice D, above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  thief  completed  the  crime  when  her  actions  matched  her
intent.

The  crime  was  complete  once  the  thief  exerted  dominion  over  the
purse  and  carried  it  a  small  distance,  while  intending  to  keep  it.
Nothing  she  did  thereafter  —  including  ‘‘withdrawing''  from  the
‘‘criminal enterprise'' — could undo the completed crime.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  crime  of  larceny  was  complete  once  the  thief  moved  the
item with intent to take it.

By  the  analysis  in  choice  D,  above,  the  crime  was  complete  once
the  thief  exerted  dominion  over  the  purse  and  carried  it  a  small

671

distance,  while  intending  to  keep  it.  Since  choice  C  says  that  only
attempted, not completed, larceny has occurred, it's wrong.

 Answer 19

 (A) is the best response,

because the employee acted with the intent to kill whoever started the
car, and then killed that person.

This  is  basically  a  problem  involving  ‘‘concurrence''  —  the
examiners  are  thinking  (maybe  hoping)  you'll  reason,  ‘‘The  requisite
intent  no  longer  existed  at  the  time  of  the  explosion,  therefore  the
requirement of concurrence between act and mental state has not been
satisfied.''

It's true that ‘‘concurrence'' is required. But in the case of a crime
defined  in  terms  of  a  particular  result  (like  murder),  the  requisite
concurrence is between mental state and act, not between mental state
and result. In other words, at the moment a defendant takes the act that
brings  about  the  result,  the  defendant  must  be  actuated  by  the
appropriate intent; it doesn't matter whether the defendant still has that
intent when the result finally occurs.

Here,  the  ‘‘act''  was  the  setting  of  the  bomb.  When  the  employee
planted the bomb, he was actuated by an intent to kill his boss. The fact
that  before  the  bomb  went  off  (producing  death  as  a  result)  he  had
changed his mind is irrelevant.

There's a further element to worry about: the fact that an unintended
victim (the company vice president), not the intended victim (the boss)
was  killed.  But  this  makes  no  difference  either,  under  the  familiar
doctrine of transferred intent, by which, if the type of harm intended is
the type that results, the fact that a different victim ended up suffering
that harm is irrelevant.

Lastly, the fact that the security guard had the opportunity to avoid
the harm but failed to do so is irrelevant — the employee intended to
bring about a death by bomb, and his act was the but-for cause of that
death by bomb, so the fact that some other actor failed in a chance to
avoid the harm makes no difference. And that's true even if the failure
by the other person amounted to negligence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  employee  killed  with  premeditation  and  deliberation,

672

making him guilty of first degree murder.

Under  the  analysis  in  choice  A,  two  things  prevent  this  choice  B
from  being  correct:  (1)  the  employee's  intent  is  measured  as  of  the
moment he planted the bomb (and the fact that by the time of death he no
longer  intended  to  kill  anyone  is  irrelevant);  and  (2)  the  employee's
intent  to  kill  his  boss  is  deemed  ‘‘transferred''  to  the  company  vice-
president.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, under the analysis in choice A, two things prevent this choice
C  from  being  correct:  (1)  the  employee's  intent  is  measured  as  of  the
moment he planted the bomb (and the fact that by the time of death he no
longer  intended  to  kill  anyone  is  irrelevant);  and  (2)  the  fact  that  the
security  officer  had  a  good  opportunity  to  avoid  the  harm  does  not
prevent the employee's act from being the legal cause of the harm.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the employee is guilty of murder, not just attempted murder.

Under the analysis in choice A, the fact that the security officer had
a good opportunity to avoid the harm does not prevent the employee's
act  from  being  the  legal  cause  of  the  harm.  And  that's  true  even  if  the
security guard's failure amounted to negligence. The employee's act of
planting the bomb was clearly a ‘‘but-for'' cause of the death, and was
so  closely  connected  with  the  death  that  it  was  certainly  a  ‘‘legal''  or
‘‘proximate''  cause  of  that  death.  (The  fact  that  the  guard's  negligence
may have also been a proximate cause [and a but-for cause] won't save
the employee from guilt for the death.) Since the employee caused the
death  by  an  act  that  was  intended  to  cause  the  death,  he's  guilty  of
murder, not just attempted murder.

 Answer 20

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  right  to  use  self-defense  is  not  lost  where  the  defendant
makes  a  reasonable  mistake  about  the  need  for  self-defense  on  the
present occasion.

The defense of self-defense states that an individual who is not the
aggressor  may  use  such  force  as  reasonably  appears  necessary  to
protect himself from the imminent use of unlawful force upon himself.

673

The  defendant  does  not  lose  the  defense  merely  because  he  is
reasonably  mistaken  about  some  aspect  of  the  situation,  such  as  the
legality  of  the  force  being  used  against  him.  So  here,  the  fact  that  the
defendant mistakenly (but not unreasonably, so far as we're aware from
the  facts)  believes  that  the  person  who  has  grabbed  him  is  not
privileged to do so, does not cause the defendant to lose the right to use
a reasonable level of force to resist the attack.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  offense  here  is  a  “public  welfare”  offense,  and  is  thus
probably a strict liability crime.

‘‘Public  welfare''  offenses  are  generally  interpreted  to  be  strict
liability  offenses,  because  they  generally  involve  a  relatively  low
penalty and are not regarded by the community as involving significant
moral impropriety. Ordinances forbidding the sale of alcohol to minors
generally  fall  into  this  public  welfare-offense  category.  Consequently,
such ordinances typically do not recognize the defense of mistake (even
reasonable mistake).

 (C) is not the best response,

because statutory rape is a strict liability crime.

Most  statutory  rape  statutes  impose  strict  liability.  In  particular,
they reject the defense of ‘‘I didn't know she was underage,'' precisely
because that defense is so often asserted and so hard for the prosecution
to rebut.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  reliance  on  mistaken  advice  about  how  a  crime  is  defined  is
not a defense to most crimes, and certainly not to the crime of bigamy.

There are crimes that are defined to require a ‘‘knowing'' violation.
(Income-tax  evasion  falls  into  this  category,  for  instance.)  For  such  a
crime,  the  fact  that  D  reasonably  relied  on  counsel's  advice  that  the
proposed conduct was legal would be a defense.

But most crimes are not defined to make knowledge of illegality an
element  of  the  crime.  Bigamy  is  like  most  crimes  in  this  respect  —  a
mistaken  (even  reasonably  mistaken)  belief  that  the  law  treats
abandonment  as  being  the  automatic  equivalent  of  a  divorce  does  not
furnish a defense. The colloquial expression ‘‘ignorance of the law is
no  excuse''  is  in  fact  a  generally  correct  statement,  and  it's  correct  on

674

the facts here.

 Answer 21

 (D) is the best response,

because the student reasonably believed he faced death and was under
no duty to retreat in his home.

A  person  may  use  deadly  force  in  self-defense  if  he:  (1)  is
confronted  with  unlawful  force;  (2)  reasonably  believes  he  is
threatened  with  imminent  death  or  great  bodily  harm;  and  (3)  uses  no
greater  force  that  he  reasonably  believes  is  required  to  avoid  the
danger.

Here,  the  student  was  certainly  faced  with  ‘‘unlawful  force''  (the
threatened  knife  attack),  and  reasonably  believed  that  this  attack
threatened him with death or great bodily harm. In addition, the level of
force  used  was  no  greater  than  the  student  reasonably  believed  was
necessary, given that the student was not trying to actually hit his friend.
(If he had shot to kill, rather than just to frighten or wound, this might
have been greater force than was reasonably believed necessary, which
would have been a violation of requirement (3) above.)

Notice  that  it's  important  that  the  student  did  not  instigate  the
confrontation  —  if  the  student  had  been  the  initial  aggressor,  in  an
unlawful  and  physical  way,  he  would  have  forfeited  his  right  to  use
self-defense on that occasion.

The  most  interesting  question  in  this  fact  pattern  is  whether,  since
the  student  could  have  run  out  the  door,  he  was  required  to  retreat  in
this  way  rather  than  use  deadly  force.  Some  courts  impose  a  general
duty to retreat if the actor can safely do so, but even these courts do not
require a person to retreat in or from his home. Therefore, in all courts
the  student  (since  he  was  in  his  home)  was  permitted  to  use  a
reasonable though deadly level of force rather than retreating. Thus, the
student met all the requirements for self-defense, which is a complete
defense to a criminal charge.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the use of deadly force here was not unreasonable.

Even  when  a  defendant  is  threatened  with  unlawful  force  that
threatens imminent death or great bodily harm, the defendant may only
use the lowest level of force that's reasonable in the circumstances. But

675

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

here,  nothing  in  the  fact  pattern  indicates  that  the  student  used  greater
(or more deadly) force than seemed to him reasonably required. First,
the student tried to impose a solution (that the friend would leave) that
would not have involved actual use of deadly force.

Then, the student tried to use the deadly object in a nondeadly way
(aiming to frighten, not wound or kill). Given that the knife threat from
the friend posed the imminent risk of death to the student, and given the
absence of other solutions (apart from retreating, which the student was
not required to do in his home), the student's intent here was to use no
more  force  than  reasonably  appeared  necessary.  The  fact  that  the
student  unintentionally  hit  and  killed  the  friend  does  not  retroactively
transform the student's conduct into the unreasonable use of force — a
defendant's act is to be evaluated by the reasonableness of his conduct
and beliefs, not by reference to an unexpectedly harmful outcome.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the student had no duty to retreat in his home.

As  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  D,  above,  even  courts
imposing a general duty to retreat before the use of deadly force do not
impose that duty when the defendant is in his own home. Therefore, the
student  had  no  duty  to  retreat  even  though  he  may  have  had  the  clear
opportunity to do so.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  in  the  absence  of  a  defense  of  self-defense  the  student's
conduct might well be extreme-indifference murder despite his lack of
intent to kill.

As  the  analysis  in  choice  D  above  shows,  the  defense  of  self-
defense will result in the student's acquittal. Therefore, any choice that
doesn't refer to this defense cannot be the best response.

In  any  event,  if  self-defense  were  not  available,  choice  C  would
still not be the best response. That's because, on these facts, the fact that
the student didn't have an intent to kill the friend would not necessarily
entitle him to an acquittal.

There are multiple states of mind that may suffice for murder, and
intent-to-kill is only one. Another is ‘‘extreme indifference to the value
of  human  life''  (sometimes  called  a  ‘‘depraved  heart.'')  Where  a
defendant fires a loaded gun in the direction of a victim, intending only
to  frighten  him,  the  defendant  might  well  be  found  to  have  exhibited

676

extreme indifference to the value of human life, in which case he would
be guilty of murder if the shot proved fatal, despite the lack of an intent
to kill. So choice C, in stating that the absence of an intent to kill means
that the student must be acquitted, is incorrect.

 Answer 22

 (C) is the best response,

because  whether  the  defendant  is  guilty  of  murder,  or  guilty  only  of
manslaughter, depends upon whether he fired the third shot in the heat
of passion provoked by the neighbor's attack.

Defendant  would  be  convicted  of  manslaughter  in  this  scenario  if
(i)  he  acted  in  response  to  a  provocation  that  would  be  sufficient  to
cause a reasonable person to lose self-control, (ii) he in fact acted in a
‘‘heat of passion,'' (iii) the lapse of time between the provocation and
the  killing  was  not  great  enough  that  a  reasonable  person  would  have
‘‘cooled  off,''  and  (iv)  he  had  not  in  fact  ‘‘cooled  off''  by  the  time  he
killed.  Here,  there  is  a  factual  question  as  to  the  defendant's  state  of
mind  in  the  ‘‘few  seconds''  between  the  second  and  third  shots;  the
answer  to  that  factual  question  will  determine  whether  he  is  guilty  of
murder or manslaughter.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  killed  the  neighbor,  so  he  is  guilty  of  either
murder or manslaughter of the neighbor.

Whether  the  defendant  is  guilty  of  murder,  or  guilty  only  of
manslaughter, depends upon whether he fired the third shot in the heat
of passion provoked by the neighbor's attack.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  while  it  is  true  that  the  defendant  can  be  convicted  of
manslaughter, he also may be convicted for murder under these facts.

The  conviction  depends  on  whether  he  fired  the  third  shot  in  the
heat of passion provoked by the neighbor's attack. Defendant would be
convicted of manslaughter in this scenario if (i) he acted in response to
a provocation that would be sufficient to cause a reasonable person to
lose  self-control,  (ii)  he  in  fact  acted  in  a  ‘‘heat  of  passion,''  (iii)  the
lapse  of  time  between  the  provocation  and  the  killing  was  not  great
enough that a reasonable person would have ‘‘cooled off,'' and (iv) he

677

had  not  in  fact  ‘‘cooled  off''  by  the  time  he  killed.  Here,  there  is  a
factual question as to the defendant's state of mind in the ‘‘few seconds''
between the second and third shots; the answer to that factual question
will determine whether he is guilty of murder or manslaughter.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  was  not  in  imminent  fear  of  the  neighbor,  and
therefore was not acting in self-defense, when he fired the third shot.

In  order  to  claim  self-defense,  the  defendant  must  have  been
resisting  the  present  or  imminent  use  of  unlawful  force.  Here,  after
being  shot  twice,  the  ‘‘neighbor  fell  to  the  floor  and  lay  quietly
moaning.''  Lacking  imminent  fear,  the  defendant  will  not  succeed  in  a
self-defense  claim.  The  defendant  will  be  guilty  of  murder  or
manslaughter, depending upon whether he fired the third shot in the heat
of passion provoked by the neighbor's attack.

 Answer 23

 (C) is the best response,

because it negates an element of attempted rape.

Note  the  way  this  question  is  worded:  The  attempted  rape  charge
can only be sustained if . . . . That means that, if the facts the correct
choice gives are removed, then the defendant could not  be  convicted.
Thus,  the  way  to  analyze  questions  like  this  is  actually  to  analyze  the
facts  in  light  of  removing  what  the  choice  states,  and  seeing  if  the
defendant  could  still  be  convicted.  If  the  defendant  could,  then  that
choice is not the best response.

Attempted rape requires proof that the defendant attempted unlawful
intercourse, with one other than his wife, without the victim's consent.
Here, if the runaway did not resist, coupled with the facts given in the
problem,  consent  would  be  a  valid  defense.  The  thing  that  makes  this
problem tricky is that the runaway is 15; however, this question focuses
on the attempted rape charge, not the attempted statutory rape charge.
For statutory rape, consent is no defense. The question here involves a
charge  for  which  consent  could  be  a  valid  defense.  Since  the  facts
choice C presents would exonerate the defendant, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant could be convicted of both attempted rape and at

678

least one of the other charges.

If choice A presented a lesser included offense of the other charges,
or  vice  versa,  that  would  preclude  conviction  of  both  or  all  of  the
charges involved. A lesser included offense is one that requires proof
of  some,  but  not  all,  of  the  elements  of  another  offense,  based  on  the
same conduct. At least one of the other offenses — contributing to the
delinquency  of  a  minor  —  could  involve  different  elements  than
attempted  rape,  even  if  it  involved  the  same  conduct.  Since  A  states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not state the only way the defendant could be convicted
of attempted rape.

In order to be convicted of attempted rape, all the state must show
is  that  the  defendant  attempted  to  have  unlawful  intercourse,  with  one
other  than  his  wife,  without  the  victim's  consent.  It's  possible  to  be
convicted  of  attempted  rape  of  someone  under  the  age  of  consent.
(However, when the female is under the age of consent, the defendant
can  also  be  charged  with  statutory  rape.  When  one  is  charged  with
statutory  rape,  his  knowledge  of  the  female's  being  under  age  is
irrelevant.) Since B does not state a condition necessary to convicting
the defendant of attempted rape, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  could  be  convicted  of  attempted  rape  even  if
evidence of his flight is admitted.

Attempted  rape  requires  proof  of  attempted  unlawful  intercourse,
with  one  other  than  the  defendant's  wife,  without  the  victim's  consent.
An  attempt  to  commit  a  crime  requires  that  one  have  the  intent  to
commit  a  crime,  along  with  an  overt  act  done  in  furtherance  of  the
intent, beyond mere preparation. Abandonment is only a valid defense
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
to  attempt  when  it  is  completely  voluntary,  and  not  made  due  to
problems  in  completing  the  crime  or  the  risk  of  getting  caught,  and
represents  a  full  renunciation  of  the  criminal  purpose.  Under  these
facts, it's clear that the defendant would be liable for attempt, and that
his  flight  would  not  exonerate  him  —  since  he'd  already  done
everything  necessary  for  attempted  rape,  and  his  flight  took  place  too
late. Since choice D states an element that would not stop the defendant
from being convicted of attempted rape, it's not the best response.

679

 Answer 24

 (A) is the best response,

because the crime of larceny was complete when the computer analyst
picked up the watch with an intent to steal it.

Larceny is: (1) the taking and (2) carrying away of (3) the tangible
property (4) of another, (5) by trespass or without consent, (6) with the
intent  to  permanently  deprive  the  person  of  his  interest  in  property.
Under these facts the computer analyst met all the requirements of the
crime of larceny as soon as he picked up the watch. The only one of the
above requirements that could possibly be in doubt as of that moment
was  whether  the  computer  analyst  satisfied  the  ‘‘carrying  away''
requirement. However, courts hold that even a small movement of the
entire object will suffice. So the fact that the computer analyst ‘‘picked
up'' the watch was enough.

Once he picked up the watch with intent to permanently deprive his
co-worker  of  it,  the  crime  was  complete.  Nothing  that  the  co-worker
did after that — including giving title to the computer analyst — could
undo the fact of the completed crime.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the computer analyst completed the crime of larceny when he
picked up the watch.

Criminal  attempt  is  an  act  that  although  done  with  the  intent  of
committing  a  crime  falls  short  of  completing  the  crime.  Since,
according to the analysis in choice A above, the crime was complete as
soon as the computer analyst picked up the watch, there has been actual
larceny, not just attempted larceny.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  computer  analyst  was  never  in  lawful  possession  of  the
watch.

Embezzlement is the: (1) fraudulent, (2) conversion, (3) of property,
(4) of another, (5) by a person in lawful possession of that property. So
at  the  moment  of  the  fraudulent  conversion,  the  defendant  must  have
been already in lawful possession of the property.

That  wasn't  the  case  here  —  at  the  moment  the  computer  analyst
picked up the watch (the moment when he arguably ‘‘converted'' it), he

680

was not already in lawful possession. That's because as of that moment,
the  co-worker  hadn't  yet  relinquished  possession  to  the  computer
analyst  —  he  had  merely  left  the  watch  on  the  blanket,  intending  to
reserve possession to himself.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  computer  analyst  committed  larceny,  as  described  in  the
analysis of choice A above.

 Answer 25

 (D) is the best response,

because the babysitter knowingly directed the boy to steal the television
set.

Larceny is: (1) the taking and (2) carrying away of (3) the tangible
property (4) of another, (5) by trespass or without consent, (6) with the
intent to permanently deprive the person of his interest in property.

Anyone  who  intentionally  acts  through  an  innocent  agent  is

classified as a principal.

The babysitter is guilty of larceny, even though she herself did not
take  the  television  set.  She  knowingly  created  a  mistake  of  fact  in  the
mind of the boy, and intentionally induced him to commit acts satisfying
the  first  five  elements  of  the  crime  of  larceny.  Since  the  boy  was  an
innocent agent who acted at the behest of the babysitter, the boy's acts
will be ascribed to the babysitter as if she had done them herself. The
babysitter herself satisfies the sixth requirement (intent to permanently
deprive the owner). Therefore, the babysitter is guilty of larceny.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  as  an  innocent  agent  of  the  babysitter,  the  boy's  actions  are
imputed to the babysitter.

It's true that the boy did not commit any crime. But as an innocent
agent,  his  acts  are  ascribed  to  the  principal.  Therefore,  his  own
innocence  is  irrelevant  to  whether  the  babysitter  is  guilty.  See  the
analysis in choice D above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because her innocent agent acquired possession.

681

When a person intentionally causes an innocent agent to perform an
act, the agent's act is attributed to the principal. So once the boy took
and  carried  away  possession  of  the  set,  this  act  is  ascribed  to  the
babysitter  as  if  she  had  done  it  herself.  Therefore,  it's  not  accurate  to
say,  as  this  choice  does,  that  the  babysitter  ‘‘never  acquired
possession.''

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  boy  was  not  guilty  of  larceny,  and  the  babysitter  is  a
principal, not an accessory.

A  principal  is  one  who,  with  the  requisite  mental  state,  actually
engages  in  the  act  or  omission  that  causes  the  criminal  result.  An
accessory is one who aids or counsels a principal in the completion of
a  crime.  If  the  boy  had  been  a  principal,  then  the  babysitter  would
probably have been an accessory.

In  this  case,  however,  the  babysitter  is  not  guilty  as  an  accessory,
because  she  was  the  principal.  The  boy  acted  without  criminal  intent
after being misled by the babysitter. Therefore (as explained more fully
in the analysis of choice D above), the boy was an innocent agent and
the babysitter a principal in this crime.

 Answer 26

 (B) is the best response,

because the defendant satisfies all the elements of larceny by trick.

The question asks the choice where the defendant is most likely to
be convicted. This means in one choice the defendant will be guilty, and
in  the  other  three  he  won't.  So  you  have  to  determine  the  elements  in
each  choice,  and  apply  them  mechanically,  to  arrive  at  the  best
response.

Larceny  by  trick  is  different  from  larceny  in  the  way  that  the
property  is  acquired;  larceny  by  trick  involves  a  fraudulent  taking,
which negates the owner's apparent consent. Every other element is the
same: The carrying away of another's personal property, with intent to
steal  it.  Under  the  facts  here,  these  elements  are  satisfied:  The
defendant obtains possession by misrepresenting his intent to return the
car. The wrinkle here is that, after taking the car, the defendant decides
to  return  it  after  all.  However,  the  defendant's  subsequent  actions  are
not relevant to his guilt — once he has fulfilled all the requirements of

682

larceny by trick, his subsequent repentance cannot exonerate him. Thus,
the defendant is likely to be guilty, making B the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because one of the elements of larceny — the intent to steal — is not
satisfied, so the defendant cannot be convicted.

Larceny  requires  the  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
personal  property  of  another  with  the  intent  to  steal  it.  Here,  the
defendant  does  not  intend  to  steal  the  car  —  instead,  he  intends  to
borrow it and return it after driving it only six miles in total. Although
every  other  element  of  larceny  is  satisfied,  with  the  intent  to  steal
element  missing,  the  defendant  will  be  acquitted.  Since  the  question
asks  which  choice  states  facts  under  which  the  defendant  will  most
likely be convicted, A cannot be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant is not likely to be convicted of false pretenses.

False  pretenses  requires  a  misrepresentation  of  a  material  fact,
which prompts the victim to pass title to his property to the defendant,
who  knows  the  misrepresentation  is  false  and  intends  to  defraud  the
victim. There is one element missing here: The victim did not pass title
to  the  car,  only  possession  for  the  evening.  Say  that  the  facts  were
different, and the defendant got the car's owner to give him the car by
falsely convincing the car's owner that transferring title will result in a
tax benefit to the car's owner. That would be false pretenses, because
there title was involved, not just possession.

Under  the  facts  in  choice  C,  however,  the  defendant's  lie  about
having  a  driver's  license  prompts  the  car's  owner  to  surrender
possession  of  the  car  for  an  evening,  not  the  title.  As  a  result,  the
defendant  can't  be  convicted  of  false  pretenses,  meaning  C  is  not  the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  act  of  interference  with  the  rights  of  the  owner  was  not
serious enough to be considered a conversion.

Embezzlement  occurs  when  someone  misappropriates  property  of
which he has lawful possession. It requires conversion of the property.
Conversion is a serious act of interference with the rights of the owner.
Say  the  facts  in  the  problem  were  different,  so  that  the  defendant

683

used the car as collateral for a bank loan and returned it. This would be
an  interference  significant  enough  to  be  grounds  for  embezzlement.
However,  under  the  facts  here,  the  defendant  only  kept  the  car  a  few
hours longer than the car's owner intended him to have it.

This  is  not  serious  enough  to  constitute  conversion,  and  thus  the
defendant  cannot  be  guilty  of  embezzlement.  Since  the  question  here
asks  for  the  choice  under  which  the  defendant  is  most  likely  to  be
convicted, D cannot be the best response.

 Answer 27

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  cites  the  central  reason  the  witness  will  be  acquitted,  and
arrives at the correct result: not guilty.

This requires a mechanical application of the statute in the question.
The  statute  requires  that  one  knowingly  make  a  false  statement  while
under oath. Mistake is a valid defense where it negates an element of
the crime.

That's the case here. The lawyer's erroneous advice itself is not a
defense, but rather it contributed to the witness's lack of knowledge that
he  was  lying  on  the  witness  stand,  which  is  a  defense.  Since  D
correctly identifies that the witness will not be guilty because he lacked
the requisite mental state, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because ‘‘mistake of law'' is not applicable to these facts, and, in any
case, the witness is not guilty.

The defendant makes a mistake of law when he either believes his
acts are not proscribed, or he is simply unaware of the law proscribing
his behavior. A mistake of law does not exonerate a defendant. Mistake
of law arises only when the defendant's behavior fits the crime. Here,
the witness will be exonerated because his act simply does not meet the
statutory  definition  of  perjury  —  he  didn't  knowingly  make  a  false
statement under oath, because he didn't know he'd been convicted of a
crime. Since A mistakenly applies ‘‘mistake of law'' to these facts, and
erroneously finds the witness guilty, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  a  correct  rule  of  law,  it  does  not  apply  to

684

these facts and it arrives at the wrong conclusion.

It  is  true  that  reliance  on  erroneous  advice  from  a  lawyer  is  no
defense.  However,  that's  not  applicable  to  these  facts,  because  what
exonerates  the  witness  is  the  fact  that  he  does  not  satisfy  all  the
elements  of  the  crime  of  perjury:  He  didn't  knowingly  make  a  false
statement under oath. The issue of whether he has a valid defense due to
mistake  would  only  come  into  play  if  he  satisfied  all  the  elements  of
perjury,  and  needed  a  way  out.  The  key  is  that  the  erroneous  legal
advice here is what created the witness's mistaken belief — but it's not
the legal advice that's central to the witness's innocence but rather the
fact that he lacks the mental element the crime requires. Since B states a
rule  that  does  not  apply  to  these  facts  and  arrives  at  the  wrong
conclusion, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best defense,

because reasonable reliance on the erroneous advice will not exonerate
the witness.

The actual rule is that reliance on erroneous advice of a lawyer is
no  defense,  no  matter  how  reasonable  the  reliance  is.  The  key  to  the
witness's  innocence  is  that  he  lacked  the  requisite  mental  state  —
knowledge.  Thus,  the  jury  will  find  him  not  guilty  if  he  lacked  the
requisite mental state, regardless of how that mental state came about.
For instance, his reliance could have been unreasonable, and the fact
would  still  remain  that  he  did  not  knowingly  make  a  false  statement
under  oath.  Since  C  focuses  on  an  element  that  will  not  exonerate  the
witness and mistakenly says that it will, it's not the best response.

 Answer 28

 (B) is the best response,

because it represents the facts under which the defendant is most likely
to be guilty of murder.

The key here is realizing that common-law murder does not require
intent. Murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought. Malice
is satisfied by either intent to kill or do serious bodily injury, depraved
heart,  or  felony  murder.  The  most  applicable  category  here  is  felony
murder.  Felony  murder  is  a  killing  committed  during  the  course  of  a
‘‘dangerous''  felony  (or  an  attempt),  even  though  there  is  no  intent  to
kill or cause serious bodily harm. That's exactly the case here. Armed

685

robbery is a classic dangerous felony. The facts explicitly state that the
defendant killed a customer ‘‘while committing a robbery.'' Even though
the killing was accidental, felony murder does not require intent, so this
fact will not exonerate the defendant. Since the defendant satisfies the
elements of felony murder, B is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the defendant would most likely be liable for manslaughter, not
murder.

While the defendant is unlikely to be exonerated from any liability,
he'd  likely  be  liable  only  for  manslaughter,  not  murder,  under  the
imperfect self-defense doctrine. Under that doctrine, the defendant will
be liable for manslaughter instead of murder, when he intentionally kills
another,  if  either:  (1)  the  defendant  was  the  aggressor  in  a  fight  (and
therefore  not  entitled  to  a  self  defense  claim),  or  (2)  the  defendant
honestly but unreasonably believed deadly force was necessary. While
the facts in choice A don't stipulate who started the fight or if the belief
was  reasonable,  the  facts  do  indicate  that  at  most  the  defendant  will
likely be liable only for manslaughter. Since the question is looking for
the  choice  most  likely  representing  common-law  murder,  choice  A  is
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant would be unlikely to be liable for common-law
murder.

Common-law  murder 

is  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice
aforethought.  While  ‘‘malice''  can  be  satisfied  by  depraved  heart
murder,  ‘‘depraved  heart''  occurs  when  the  defendant  engages  in
extremely  negligent  conduct,  which  a  reasonable  man  would  realize
creates  a  very  high  degree  of  risk  to  human  life,  and  which  results  in
death.  While  the  defendant's  action  in  choice  C  was  negligent,  it  is
unlikely  to  be  considered  serious  enough  to  satisfy  depraved  heart
murder. After all, he was in the woods, hunting deer. Were there other
facts  —  for  instance,  the  woods  were  crawling  with  hunters  —  the
result  might  be  different.  As  the  facts  are,  the  defendant's  negligence
simply would not rise to the level of depraved heart murder, but would
likely be criminal negligence manslaughter. Also, the defendant did not
intend to kill the other hunter and was not committing a felony, so his
conduct does not satisfy other types of malice, and he cannot be guilty

686

of common law murder. As a result, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the defendant's act is not serious enough to be characterized as
common law murder.

Murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought. Malice can
be intent to kill or do serious bodily injury, depraved heart, or felony
murder.  There  are  two  facts  of  particular  note  here:  first,  the  city
ordinance; and second, the culpability of the defendant regardless of the
ordinance.  The  ordinance  gives  rise  to  the  issue  of  felony  murder.
However, violation of a city ordinance is typically a misdemeanor, not
a  felony,  so  felony  murder  could  not  apply.  Analyzing  the  defendant's
act without the ordinance requires focusing on depraved heart murder,
since  there's  clearly  no  intent  here.  ‘‘Depraved  heart''  exists  when  the
defendant engages in extremely negligent conduct, which a reasonable
man would realize creates a very high degree of risk to human life and
results  in  death.  Here,  the  defendant  was  aiming  at  the  street,  and  the
bullet bounced up and killed a pedestrian. While this was undoubtedly
negligent,  without  more  facts  it  would  be  difficult  to  say  that  it  was
extremely  negligent.  For  instance,  if  the  pedestrian  were  part  of  a
crowd, it would be; if he were alone, and the angle of the ricochet were
unusual, it would be closer to a ‘‘freak'' accident. As it stands, there are
insufficient facts to conclude that the defendant would likely be guilty
of  murder.  Rather,  his  conduct  would  most  likely  satisfy  requirements
for  criminal-negligence  manslaughter  or  misdemeanor  manslaughter.
Since he won't likely be guilty of murder, D isn't the best response.

 Answer 29

 (A) is the best response,

because the defendant can be found guilty of all three crimes. Let's take
the crimes one at a time.

First,  let's  look  at  burglary.  Burglary  is:  (1)  the  breaking,  (2)  and
entering, (3) of the dwelling, (4) of another, (5) at night time, (6) with
the intent to commit a felony within.

The  defendant's  actions  satisfy  all  the  requirements  for  burglary.
Requirements  (1)  and  (6)  are  the  only  ones  that  are  even  worth
discussing  here.  As  to  (1)  (breaking),  courts  recognize  ‘‘constructive
breaking'' — if a defendant uses fraud or threat of force to induce the

687

occupants to let him in, that counts as breaking. That's what happened
here.

As  to  (6)  (intent  to  commit  a  felony  within),  where  a  defendant
commits a felony once inside the premises, courts will, in the absence
of other evidence, presume that the defendant had the intent to commit
that felony at the time of entry. So here, the defendant would readily be
found to have intended, at the time he entered, to commit the felony of
robbery  once  he  was  inside.  Thus  the  requisite  intent-to-commit-a-
felony-within is satisfied.

Next,  let's  examine  robbery.  Robbery  is:  (1)  a  taking,  (2)  of  the
personal  property  of  another,  (3)  from  the  other's  person  or  presence,
(4) by force or intimidation, (5) with the intent to permanently deprive.
Here, the only interesting question is whether taking the property from
the  safe  (rather  than  directly  from  the  person)  of  the  victim  meets
requirement (3). But the taking will suffice if it's from the ‘‘person or
presence''  of  the  owner,  and  the  safe  would  be  found  to  have  been
within  the  husband  and  wife's  presence  at  the  time  the  defendant  took
the necklace.

Finally, let's look at murder. There are of course multiple types of
(ways  of  committing)  murder.  Here,  the  relevant  type  of  murder  is
felony  murder.  Felony  murder  is  a  killing,  even  an  accidental  one,
committed during the commission of a dangerous felony.

The  defendant's  actions  satisfy  the  requirements  of  felony  murder.
The  defendant  was  committing  robbery,  and  robbery  is  one  of  the
‘‘dangerous'' felonies recognized at common law as a predicate crime
for felony murder. The interesting question is whether the fact that the
defendant was arrested before the husband had his heart attack prevents
the husband's death from being ‘‘during the commission of'' the robbery.
Notice that the husband's death was very closely, causally related to the
robbery  —  the  husband  had  his  heart  attack  because  he  was  trying  to
free  himself  from  his  bonds  and  gag,  and  he  was  bound  and  gagged
because,  and  solely  because,  the  defendant  wanted  to  commit,  and
escape  from,  the  robbery.  Where  there  is  a  close  causal  relationship
between the underlying felony (or the attempt to escape from it) and the
death, the requirement of a death ‘‘during the commission of'' the felony
is generally deemed satisfied, even if the death doesn't come until after
the felony-and-escape period is in some sense over.

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best responses,

because each fails to cover at least one of the three crimes that in fact

688

was committed, as described in choice A.

 Answer 30

 (A) is the best response,

because the facts of the case make proximate cause the best defense.

Manslaughter  is  death  caused  by  criminal  negligence.  Proximate
cause is that which in a natural and continuous sequence, unbroken by
any  intervening  cause,  produces  injury  and  without  which  the  injury
would not have occurred. The student can plausibly try to show at trial
that the teacher was depressed about other things as well, not just the
lack  of  work,  so  that  the  firing  was  not  sufficiently  closely  causally
related to the death to meet the requirement of proximate cause. And the
student can argue that a death by suicide is not a ‘‘natural and probable
consequence''  of  being  fired  or  falsely  accused,  which  is  the  standard
for proximate cause in many jurisdictions.

Finally, the relatively long time period — about a year — between
false  accusation  and  death  tends  to  weaken  the  causal  connection.
Indeed, notice that the facts say that the suicide occurred ‘‘a year later.''
If  there  was  slightly  more  than  a  year  between  false  accusation  and
death, then the common-law ‘‘year and a day'' rule — by which a death
happening  more  than  a  year  and  a  day  after  the  actus  reus  would  be
conclusively deemed not to be the proximate result of the act — might
apply.  (Some  jurisdictions  apply  this  rule  to  manslaughter  cases,  not
just murders.)

There is no guarantee that this proximate-cause defense will work
— indeed, perhaps it's not even ‘‘more likely than not'' to work. But of
the four choices, it's the only one that has a plausible chance. (For why
each  of  the  others  won't  work,  read  the  discussions  of  those  choices
below.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  student's  actual  intent  would  not  be  an  issue  in  an
involuntary manslaughter case.

The  prosecution  here  would  have 

involuntary
manslaughter,  not  voluntary  manslaughter.  Involuntary  manslaughter  is
generally  defined  as  death  caused  by  gross  criminal  negligence  (or,
sometimes, ‘‘recklessness'').

to  be 

for 

The fact that the student did not intend to cause the teacher's death

689

could not possibly be a defense here, because the student's subjective
intent would not be the issue where the question is whether she acted
with gross negligence or recklessness about the risk of death. Instead,
the issue is whether a reasonable person in the student's position would
have known that a false accusation like the one she made posed a great
risk of the teacher's eventual suicide. (Indeed, intent-to-cause-death is
almost  never  present  in  successful  prosecutions  for  involuntary
manslaughter,  because  if  it  were  present,  the  case  would  be  a  murder
prosecution instead.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because malice is relevant to the wrong state of mind.

As  described  in  choice  B  above,  the  relevant  mental  state  in  this
involuntary  manslaughter  prosecution 
is  gross  negligence  or
recklessness. The fact that the student lacked ‘‘malice'' is not relevant at
all. (It's relevant to some types of murder, as in the phrase ‘‘with malice
aforethought,''  used  to  describe  the  mental  state  for  garden-variety
intent-to-kill murder.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because her emotional distress would be relevant to sentencing, but not
to whether she is guilty of the substantive crime.

‘‘Extreme emotional distress'' is not generally a substantive defense
to  crime.  Instead,  it  can  be  a  mitigating  factor  at  sentencing.  Even  if
extreme  distress  were  in  theory  a  defense,  it  would  not  apply  here,
where making a false sexual-misconduct accusation would hardly be an
excusable response to being upset about a failing grade.

 Answer 31

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  friend  did  not  have  the  intent  to  sell  cocaine,  while  the
inmate did.

The prosecution of the inmate poses the classic question of whether
‘‘factual impossibility'' can be a defense. Factual impossibility is not a
defense. That is, impossibility is no defense to an attempt prosecution
in those cases where, had the facts been as the defendant believed them
to  be,  the  defendant  would  have  had  the  mental  state  required  for  the
substantive crime. Here, had the facts been as the inmate believed (that

690

the  vials  contained  cocaine),  the  inmate  would  have  had  the  mental
state required for sale of cocaine.

Therefore,  she  had  the  mental  state  for  attempt.  And,  since  she
carried out the physical act of selling the substance, she meets the actus
reus requirement for attempted drug sale as well.

On the other hand, the friend does not have the mental state required
for attempted sale of cocaine. The mens rea  for  an  attempt  to  commit
substantive  crime  X  is  the  desire  to  commit  acts  which,  if  they  were
committed, would constitute the commission of crime X. Therefore, the
mens rea for an attempt to sell drugs is the intent to sell drugs. Since the
friend didn't intend to sell drugs, he can't be liable for attempted sale of
drugs.

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best responses,

because each is inconsistent with the analysis in D above.

 Answer 32

 (D) is the best response,

because the woman acted with a reckless indifference and because the
man was her accomplice.

Let's first discuss the woman's guilt. The mental state for murder, in
a  jurisdiction  that  has  abolished  the  felony  murder  rule,  is  any  of  the
following: (1) intent to kill; (2) intent to inflict great bodily harm; or a
(3) reckless indifference to an unjustifiably high risk to human life.

Here,  a  court  would  probably  (though  not  certainly)  hold  that  a
person who (1) brings automatic weapons with her to a bank robbery;
and  then  (2)  fires  those  weapons  into  the  ceiling,  with  lots  of  people
around, meets the standard for ‘‘reckless indifference to an unjustifiably
high  risk  to  life.''  Bear  in  mind  that  (1)  the  woman's  conduct  is  of  as
little redeeming social utility as it can be (so that a lower degree of risk
to  others  should  suffice  for  ‘‘reckless  indifference''  than  if  the  woman
were  pursuing  some  socially-worthwhile  goal,  e.g.,  speeding  to  the
hospital with her deathly ill child); and (2) any reasonable person ought
to know of the large danger of ricocheting bullets, especially where the
bullets are fired in a bank containing stone columns and lots of people.
Since the woman has proximately caused a death, while satisfying one
of the mental-state requirements for common-law murder, she's guilty of
murder.

691

Now,  on  to  the  man:  A  person  who  intentionally  aids,  abets  or
encourages another to commit substantive crime X is himself guilty of
substantive  crime  X  as  an  accomplice.  The  accomplice  needs,
however, to have the (or a) mental state required for crime X. So here,
the  question  is  whether  the  man  can  be  guilty  of  murder  as  an
accomplice to the woman's commission of murder.

If  a  court  is  willing  to  find  that  the  woman  had  the  ‘‘reckless
indifference''  mental  state  that  will  suffice  for  murder,  the  court  will
probably also find that the man had that mental state. (This is not certain
— the man might have strongly believed that neither he nor the woman
would  fire  the  weapons,  in  which  case  it  wouldn't  be  logically
inconsistent  for  the  court  to  conclude  that  the  woman,  by  not  only
carrying but firing her automatic weapon, met the reckless-indifference
standard,  but  that  the  man  didn't.  Probably,  however,  the  court  would
conclude that one who carries automatic weapons into a bank robbery,
and who accompanies a co-felon who he knows is also carrying such
weapons,  has  behaved  with  the  requisite  reckless  indifference  to  the
great  danger  of  death  from  the  joint  conduct.  In  that  event  the  man
would be found to meet the reckless-indifference standard.)

to 

the  woman's  commission  of 

There  is  the  further  question  of  whether  the  man  meets  the  actus
reus requirement for reckless-indifference murder. The man has clearly
given  knowing  assistance 
this
recklessly-dangerous armed bank robbery. Therefore, his assistance to
her, in what we've concluded is murder by her, will also be deemed to
be the actus reus for accomplice liability in that murder by her. Since
he's  satisfied  both 
the  mental-state  requirement  for  reckless-
indifference  murder  and  the  actus-reus  requirement  for  reckless-
indifference  murder  (knowing  assistance  to  a  person  who  herself
commits  reckless-indifference  murder),  the  man  is  guilty  of  being  an
accomplice  to  the  substantive  crime  of  reckless-indifference  murder.
That  makes  him,  too,  guilty  of  the  substantive  crime  of  reckless-
indifference murder. Whew!

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best responses,

because each of them fails to recognize at least one defendant's guilt of
murder.

 Answer 33

692

 
(A) is the best response,

because  the  customer  is  guilty  of  common-law  arson,  and  is  guilty  of
felony-murder because of the arson.

Arson,  as  defined  by  the  common  law,  is  the:  (1)  malicious,  (2)
burning, (3) of the dwelling, (4) of another. Malice for arson does not
require a specific intent, but only that the defendant acted with either:
(1)  the  intent  or  knowledge  that  the  structure  would  burn,  or  (2)  the
reckless disregard of an obvious risk that the structure would burn.

Under  this  definition,  the  customer  is  guilty.  Since,  as  noted,
common-law arson does not require that the defendant had a particular
desire  to  burn  down  the  building,  only  that  he  acted  with  a  reckless
disregard  for  an  obvious  risk  of  burning,  the  customer's  intentional
driving into the pump qualifies — a court or jury would be justified in
concluding that intentionally driving a car into a gas pump manifests a
reckless  disregard  of  the  high  risk  of  fire  and/or  explosion.  Once  the
intent  element  of  malice  is  satisfied,  the  other  elements  of  arson  are
clearly  satisfied  —  there  was  a  burning;  the  building  that  burned
contained  not  only  the  convenience  store  but  the  businessman's
dwelling on the second floor; and the building was not the customer's
but another's (the businessman's).

Now,  on  to  murder:  Felony-murder  occurs  where  a  defendant
commits a killing — even an accidental one — that occurs during the
course  of,  and  as  a  result  of,  the  defendant's  commission  of  any  of  a
series of defined dangerous felonies.

Arson  is  one  of  the  ‘‘dangerous  felonies''  for  common-law  felony
murder. Since as described above the customer is guilty of arson, and
since  the  death  of  the  businessman  occurred  during  and  as  the  direct
result of the arson, the customer is also guilty of felony murder.

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best responses,

because  each  choice  fails  to  make  the  customer  guilty  of  both  murder
and arson.

 Answer 34

 (D) is the best response,

because on these facts the defendant does not have the mental state for
either murder or manslaughter.

Murder is the unlawful killing of another human being with malice

693

aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  is  deemed  to  exist  if  the  defendant
has any of the following states of mind: (1) intent to kill, (2) intent to
inflict great bodily harm, (3) a reckless indifference to an unjustifiably
high risk to human life, or (4) the intent to commit a felony.

Here,  since  by  hypothesis  the  jury  believes  that  the  defendant
thought the gun was empty, none of the required states of mind can exist:
(1) the defendant clearly didn't intend to kill, (2) the defendant clearly
didn't  intend  to  inflict  great  bodily  harm,  (3)  the  defendant  wasn't
recklessly indifferent to an unjustifiably high risk to human life (since
we're  told  the  jury  thinks  the  defendant's  mistaken  belief  that  the  gun
contained blanks was ‘‘reasonable''), and (4) the defendant didn't intend
to commit any felony.

Involuntary  manslaughter  is  death  caused  by  gross  negligence  or
recklessness. Since we're told to assume that the jury believes both that
the  defendant  thought  the  gun  had  blanks  and  that  this  belief  was
reasonable, the defendant has not manifested either gross negligence or
recklessness. Therefore, she can't be guilty of involuntary manslaughter.
Nor  can  the  defendant  be  guilty  of  voluntary  manslaughter,  which
requires  an  intent  to  kill  or  seriously  injure,  under  partly  extenuating
circumstances (e.g., extreme provocation). Since there was no intent to
kill or seriously injure, voluntary manslaughter can't exist.

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best responses,

because  each  of  them  makes  the  defendant  guilty  of  either  murder  or
manslaughter.

 Answer 35

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  most  closely  fits  the  classic  attributes  of  a  strict  liability
offense.

Note  that  the  question  here  asks  which  crime  is  most likely  to  be
found a strict liability offense. Thus, you must consider the elements of
a  strict  liability  crime,  and  see  which  choice  is  the  best  fit.  This
requires comparing choices, since all of them will have some elements
of a strict liability offense.

The  purpose  of  strict  liability  crimes  is  to  help  the  prosecution
where the mental element will be difficult to prove, or the harm caused
is such that it's worth convicting people who lack ‘‘guilty minds.'' Strict

694

liability  crimes  generally  have  the  following  attributes:  (1)  they  are
regulatory in nature; (2) they do not involve serious penalties; (3) they
involve  serious  harm  to  the  public;  and  (4)  it's  easy  to  determine  the
true  facts.  In  fact,  statutes  regulating  food,  drugs  and  misbranded
articles,  as  well  as  hunting  license  requirements  and  the  like,  are  all
common  forms  of  valid  strict  liability  statutes.  Furthermore,  making
such  a  crime  a  strict  liability  crime  would  not  be  consistent  with  the
purposes  of  strict  liability:  that  is,  to  help  the  prosecution  where  the
mental  element  will  be  difficult  to  prove,  or  the  harm  caused  is  such
that it's worth convicting people who lack ‘‘guilty minds.'' D involves
the sale of adulterated milk. The seriousness of the harm to the public,
the fact that it's a misdemeanor instead of a felony, and the difficulty of
proof  of  a  ‘‘guilty  mind''  all  make  it  a  candidate  for  strict  liability.
Since  D  recognizes  this,  and  none  of  the  other  choices  are  as
satisfactory, D is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it's  highly  unlikely  shoplifting  would  be  regarded  a  strict
liability  crime,  even  if  the  statute  did  not  specify  which  mens  rea  it
would require.

Strict  liability  crimes  generally  have  the  following  attributes:  (1)
they are regulatory in nature; (2) they do not involve serious penalties;
(3)  they  involve  serious  harm  to  the  public;  and  (4)  it's  easy  to
determine the true facts. Here, what would make this statute a less-than-
perfect  candidate  for  strict  liability  is  that  shoplifting  is  a  type  of
larceny, and thus a court would likely imply a mens rea requirement —
that is, the intent to steal. Furthermore, shoplifting is not regulatory in
nature (e.g., firearms registration, hunting license requirements, and the
like),  and  so  is  not  a  likely  strict  liability  offense.  Most  importantly,
another  choice  —  D  —  describes  a  crime  that  is  a  classic  strict
liability offense. As a result, A is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it's  unlikely  that  possessing  heroin,  as  a  felony,  would  be  a
strict liability crime, even if the statute did not mention a mens rea.

Strict  liability  crimes  generally  have  the  following  attributes:  (1)
they are regulatory in nature; (2) they do not involve serious penalties;
(3)  they  involve  serious  harm  to  the  public;  and  (4)  it's  easy  to
determine the true facts. Here, the crime is a felony, so it's unlikely it

695

would be a strict liability crime.

Furthermore, making such a crime a strict liability crime would not
be  consistent  with  the  purposes  of  strict  liability:  that  is,  to  help  the
prosecution where the mental element will be difficult to prove, or the
harm caused is such that it's worth convicting people who lack ‘‘guilty
minds.''  A  ‘‘possession''  statute  would  be  aimed  at  people  who
knowingly  possess  heroin.  Thus,  the  statute  in  choice  B  would  be  an
unlikely candidate for strict liability, making B not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

but it's close.

Strict  liability  crimes  generally  have  the  following  attributes:  (1)
they are regulatory in nature; (2) they do not involve serious penalties;
(3)  they  involve  serious  harm  to  the  public;  and  (4)  it's  easy  to
determine the true facts. The thing that makes this choice difficult is that
firearms  registration  statutes  are  classic  strict  liability  offenses.
However,  the  wrinkle  here  is  that  it's  a  felony  —  thus,  with  a  stiff
penalty, a mens rea is likely to be required. Since this makes it a less-
than-perfect choice for a strict liability offense, and, more importantly,
there's  another  choice  that's  more  appropriate,  C  is  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 36

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the key factor that will exonerate the law
student: His mistake negates the necessary mens rea for burglary.

The key here is to remember the elements of burglary, the defenses
that apply, and apply them strictly. Common law burglary requires the
breaking and entering of the dwelling house of another, at night, with the
intent  to  commit  a  felony  therein.  Most  states  broaden  this  to  include
entry  at  all  times  in  all  kinds  of  structures  (thus  eliminating  the
breaking,  dwelling  house,  and  nighttime  requirements).  Here,  the  law
student's  mistake  —  believing  that  looking  at  the  exam  questions  is
criminal  when,  in  fact,  it  isn't  —  negates  his  mens  rea.  There's  no
burglary  when  a  defendant  breaks  and  enters  to  commit  a  non-felony.
The  defense  that  covers  these  facts  is  legal  impossibility  —  that  is,
what he intended to do is not defined as a crime. Since this negates the
required intent for burglary, he'll be acquitted.

696

What  this  problem  points  out  is  how  important  it  is  to  remember
that burglary and larceny are a kind of ‘‘inchoate'' crime. That is, they
are complete once a defendant does something — in burglary, breaking
and entering, in larceny, taking and carrying away personal property —
with the intent to do something else — in burglary, committing a felony,
and  in  larceny,  stealing.  However,  the  crimes  are  complete  once  the
first act is done, if there's the appropriate mental state — intent.

Since  B  correctly  identifies  that  legal  impossibility  means  there's

no intent under these facts, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  correctly  apply  the  burglary  definition  to  these
facts.

At  common  law,  burglary  requires  breaking  and  entering  the
dwelling  house  of  another,  at  night,  with  intent  to  commit  a  felony
therein.  Under  most  modern  statutes,  entry  at  all  times  in  all  kinds  of
structures  is  covered  (thus  eliminating  the  breaking,  dwelling  house,
and  nighttime  requirements).  Thus,  the  crime  is  complete  once  the
breaking  and  entering  with  the  appropriate  intent  has  taken  place.  It's
not necessary that the person actually commit the felony therein — he
need  only  intend  to  do  so.  Thus,  choice  A's  language  about  the  law
student not completing the crime cannot be correct, since if he avoids
liability for burglary, it cannot be on that basis.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it does not apply to these facts, and arrives at the wrong result.
If  the  law  student  had  the  correct  mental  state,  his  breaking  and
entering would make him liable for burglary. At common law, burglary
requires breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, at night,
with the intent to commit a felony therein (most modern statutes broaden
this  to  include  entry  at  all  times  in  all  kinds  of  structures,  thus
eliminating the breaking, dwelling house, and nighttime requirements).

Thus,  the  ‘‘mental  state''  to  which  C  refers  is  intent.  Although  it
seems as though the law student had the right mental state, his mistaken
belief that what he was doing was criminal, when in fact it wasn't, will
exonerate  him  —  since  his  mistake  negates  his  intent  to  commit  a
felony. There's no burglary when a defendant breaks and enters for the
purpose of carrying out an act that is not itself a felony. Since choice C
does not recognize the ‘‘mistake'' defense, it's not the best response.

697

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  facts  —  what's  involved  here  is  legal
impossibility, not factual impossibility.

Factual  impossibility  occurs  when  completion  of  the  crime  is
impossible  due  to  physical  facts  not  known  to  the  defendant,  e.g.,  a
pickpocket picking an empty pocket. As D states, factual impossibility
is  no  defense.  However,  what's  involved  here  is  legal  impossibility,
which arises when what the defendant intends to do is not criminal. It is
a  valid  defense,  and  applies  to  these  facts.  It  will  exonerate  the  law
student because it negates the intent requirement of burglary. Common
law burglary requires the breaking and entering of the dwelling house
of another at night with the intent to commit a felony therein. Most states
broaden  burglary  to  cover  entry  at  all  times  in  all  kinds  of  structures.
Either  way,  without  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  once  inside,  a
defendant  cannot  be  convicted.  Here,  the  legal  impossibility  defense
removes  the  intent.  Since  D  does  not  apply  the  correct  rule  to  these
facts and arrives at an incorrect result, it's not the best response.

 Answer 37

 (B) is the best response,

for  three  principal  reasons:  (1)  it  arrives  at  the  correct  result;  (2)  it
ascribes to the jury its correct role as finder of facts; and (3) it offers
reasoning  that  would,  indeed,  result  in  a  manslaughter  conviction
instead of murder.

This is a somewhat tricky question because it's a hybrid: You need
to know the procedural rule that the jury decides issues of fact, and the
judge decides issues of law.

As a general rule, if the evidence would be sufficient for conviction
of a lesser offense (here, manslaughter), the issue should be submitted
to the jury. By stating that whether the issue of manslaughter should go
to the jury is based on what the jury could find, instead of on what the
judge  believes  the  evidence  shows,  B  correctly  states  this  rule.
Furthermore,  the  reasoning  in  B  correctly  identifies  a  basis  on  which
the jury could find the defendant guilty only of manslaughter. Voluntary
manslaughter  is  a  murder  committed  under  adequate  provocation.
Murder  is  an  unlawful  killing  committed  with  malice  aforethought.
Thus,  if  the  jury  finds  that  an  act  by  the  other  customer  sufficiently
it  will  find  him  guilty  of  voluntary
provoked 

the  defendant, 

698

manslaughter instead of murder. Being hit in the face with an umbrella
is just the sort of thing that could be considered provocation sufficient
to  reduce  the  defendant's  liability  to  manslaughter.  A  wrinkle  in  this
problem  is  that  the  defendant,  in  a  way,  incited  the  provocation  by
stealing  the  tip.  That's  not  relevant  for  the  defendant's  liability  in  this
question  (whereas  it  would  be  relevant  to  the  customer's  liability  in
attacking  the  defendant,  since  she  would  have  a  crime  prevention
argument). Since B correctly identifies the result, the jury's role, and the
basis  on  which  the  defendant  may  be  liable  for  only  manslaughter
instead of murder, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not apply the correct rule to voluntary manslaughter.

In order to be found liable for only manslaughter instead of murder,
the jury would have to find that the defendant acted under provocation;
that is, he committed an unlawful killing with malice aforethought, but
was  provoked.  If  you  chose  A,  you  probably  did  so  because  you
confused the rule for voluntary manslaughter with that of depraved heart
murder,  which  is  what  A  states.  Thus,  if  the  jury  found  that  the
defendant  acted  recklessly  and  not  with  the  intent  to  kill  or  seriously
injure, it would still find him guilty of depraved heart murder.

A  does  however  correctly  identify  two  things:  (1)  that  the  request
should  be  granted;  and  (2)  that  granting  the  request  should  be  on  the
basis of how the jury could find, not on the basis of what the evidence
shows.  Despite  this,  since  A  applies  the  wrong  test  to  these  facts,  it's
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it arrives at an incorrect result and does not allow the jury to
find voluntary manslaughter, which is possible from these facts.

First, choice C states that the request should be denied because of
what the evidence shows. In fact, in its role as the finder of facts, the
jury  should  have  the  choice  to  find  a  result  that  is  possible  on  these
facts — voluntary manslaughter. The reason the jury could find this is
because  they  could  find  adequate  provocation  to  reduce  murder  to
manslaughter. Thus, choice C's statement that the defendant intended to
kill or cause serious harm doesn't go far enough, because even if he did
act  with  intent,  if  he  did  so  under  adequate  provocation  he'll  only  be
liable  for  voluntary  manslaughter.  Since  C  denies  the  jury  the

699

opportunity to make a finding that is possible under these facts, it's not
the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

for  three  principal  reasons:  (1)  it  arrives  at  the  wrong  result;  (2)  it
denies  the  jury  its  role  as  finder  of  fact;  and  (3),  it  does  not  cite  an
appropriate reason as to why the request should be denied.

In its role as finder of fact, if the evidence would be sufficient for
conviction of a lesser offense (here, manslaughter), the issue should be
submitted to the jury. Thus, the test is not what the evidence shows, but
how the jury could find. D is also incorrect in the reasoning it provides,
because  the  defendant's  provoking  the  assault  on  himself  would  not
prevent  him  from  being  found  guilty  of  manslaughter,  but  would,
instead, go against a defense of self-defense under the ‘‘imperfect self-
defense  doctrine,''  a  modern  rule  adopted  by  some  states.  Under  it,
when  the  defendant  intentionally  kills  another,  he'll  be  liable  for
manslaughter if either he was the aggressor in a fight (and therefore not
entitled  to  a  self-defense  claim),  or  he  honestly  but  unreasonably
believed deadly force was necessary. The reason that the judge would
deny  the  defendant's  request  would  be  if  the  jury  could  not  find  him
liable  for  manslaughter  instead  of  murder.  By  offering  reasoning  that
would  make  the  defendant  guilty  of  manslaughter,  D  does  just  the
opposite: Since it arrives at an incorrect result, preempts the jury, and
employs incorrect reasoning, D is not the best response.

 Answer 38

 (B) is the best response,

because the customer obtained possession of, but not title to, the watch
by lying about a present fact.

In  order  to  commit  common  law  larceny,  the  customer  must  meet
each  of  the  following  six  elements:  (1)  the  trespassory  (2)  taking  and
(3) carrying away of (4) personal property (5) of another (6) with intent
to  steal.  Here  all  the  elements  were  met  by  the  customer's  actions,
unlike the other three crimes listed.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the customer did not take the watch by force or threat of force.
Robbery is defined as larceny with two additional elements: (1) the

700

property is taken from the person or presence of the owner; and (2) the
taking  is  accomplished  by  using  force  or  putting  the  owner  in  fear.
Here,  the  taking  itself  was  not  accomplished  by  putting  the  owner  in
fear,  as  the  customer  had  already  accomplished  the  theft  when  he
threatened  the  clerk.  Thus,  this  is  a  larceny,  as  the  customer  obtained
possession of, but not title to, the watch by lying about a present fact.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the customer did not obtain title to the watch.

In order to commit false pretenses, the customer must meet each of
the following six elements: (1) a false representation of a (2) material
present or past fact (3) that causes the person to whom it is made (4) to
pass title to (5) his property to the misrepresenter, who (6) knows that
his  representation  is  false  and  intends  to  defraud.  While  the  customer
knows  that  his  representation  is  false  and  intends  to  defraud,  he  does
not  obtain  title  to  the  watch.  Thus,  this  is  a  larceny,  as  the  customer
obtained  possession  of,  but  not  title  to,  the  watch  by  lying  about  a
present fact.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the customer was never in lawful possession of the watch.

In  order  to  commit  embezzlement,  the  customer  must  meet  each  of
the following five elements: (1) a fraudulent (2) conversion of (3) the
property (4) of another (5) by one who is already in lawful possession
of it. Here, there was a trespassory taking, so the customer was never in
lawful possession of the watch. Thus, this is a larceny, as the customer
obtained  possession  of,  but  not  title  to,  the  watch  by  lying  about  a
present fact.

 Answer 39

 (D) is the best response,

because it most closely applies to these facts, and it provides a valid
defense to murder.

Note  that  the  question  asks  the  defendant's  ‘‘best  chance''  of  being
acquitted. That means three of these choices will result in a conviction,
and one won't.

The  most  common  test  for  insanity  is  the  M'Naghten  Rule,  which
requires that the defendant have a diseased mind which caused a defect

701

of reason, such that when the defendant acted he either didn't know his
act  was  wrong  or  he  didn't  understand  the  nature  and  quality  of  his
actions (e.g., mistaking someone's head for a baseball and hitting it with
a bat). Here, it's not necessary to do a strict analysis under M'Naghten
to  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  defendant  is  off  his  rocker,  and  didn't
know  what  he  was  doing  was  wrong.  Since  the  facts  indicate  the
defendant  has  a  promising  insanity  defense,  and  insanity  is  a  good
defense to murder, D is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  an  intoxication  defense  would  not  exonerate  the  defendant
under a murder charge.

Murder  requires  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice  aforethought.
Malice can take the form of intent to kill or inflict great bodily injury,
felony murder, or ‘‘depraved heart'' — acting in spite of an unjustifiably
high risk to human life. Voluntary intoxication, which is involved here,
is only a defense to prove a lack of capacity for specific intent crimes
— it cannot be used if the mens rea requirement is only recklessness or
negligence.  Since  depraved  heart  does  not  require  intent,  voluntary
intoxication cannot be a valid defense to garden-variety murder. If you
chose  this  response,  it  could  be  because  you  were  thinking  of
involuntary intoxication, which could, theoretically, be a defense to a
the
murder  charge.  Involuntary 
defendant is misled about the nature of what he's taking, or where the
defendant is physically forced to take the intoxicant, like Cary Grant in
the  movie  North  by  Northwest.  Involuntary  intoxication  is  a  valid
defense  if  it  prevents  the  defendant  from  understanding  the  criminal
nature of his conduct. Thus, it resembles an insanity defense.

intoxication  only  applies  when 

Under the facts here, this might be a defense, although there would
be a problem with causation (since the defendant hallucinates without
alcohol, as well). In any case, since the intoxication here is voluntary,
and thus not be a valid defense, A is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts here.

It's  true  that  murder  requires  an  unlawful  killing  with  malice
aforethought. Malice aforethought can take the form of intent to kill or
do  great  bodily  harm,  felony  murder,  or  acting  in  spite  of  an
unjustifiably  high  risk  to  human  life  (‘‘depraved  heart'').  Under  these

702

facts,  the  last  type  of  malice  aforethought  would  likely  be  satisfied,
since it does not have, in most states, a subjective element — it's only
viewed objectively. By strangling the old woman, the defendant clearly
acted in spite of an unjustifiably high risk to human life. As a result, a
‘‘lack  of  malice  aforethought''  defense  would  be  unlikely  to  succeed,
making B not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because self-defense would not be a valid defense to murder on these
facts.

Self-defense  has  both  an  objective  and  a  subjective  element:  The
defendant must in fact  believe  the  danger  exists  (the  subjective  part),
and the defendant must be reasonable in this belief (the objective part).
Here,  the  defendant  misapprehended  the  danger:  The  old  woman  was
only  slapping  him,  and  thus  deadly  force  was  not  required.  Since  the
defendant's perception of danger was not reasonable, self-defense will
not be available as a defense, and C will not be the best response.

 Answer 40

 (A) is the best response,

because it identifies the most serious crime, of these four, for which the
defendant can be convicted.

Robbery is a larceny from a person accomplished with violence or
intimidation.  (Larceny  is  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
personal property of another, with intent to steal it.) The wrinkle here is
that the victim, the husband, is not in fear for himself, and the violence
is not directed at him. However, the rule is that the threat can be made
to relatives or a companion. Since the facts here satisfy robbery — the
question  tells  you  that  robbery  is  the  most  serious  crime  of  the  four
choices — and the question asks for the most serious crime for which
the defendant can be convicted, A is the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because although the defendant could be convicted of larceny, he could
be convicted of a more serious crime — robbery.

Larceny  requires  a  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of
personal property, of another, with intent to steal it. These elements are
satisfied  by  the  facts  here.  Specifically,  it  would  be  called  ‘‘larceny

703

from  the  person.''  However,  these  facts  also  indicate  two  additional
elements, which raise the ‘‘larceny from the person'' to robbery: the use
of force or fear. What may have tricked you into choosing this response
is that the force was directed at the wife, not the victim — the husband.
However,  the  rule  is  that  the  threat  can  be  made  to  relatives  or  a
companion. Since these facts are covered by this, the defendant will be
guilty  of  robbery  from  the  husband.  Since  he'll  be  liable  for  a  more
serious  crime  than  larceny,  and  the  question  asks  for  the  most  serious
crime for which he can be convicted, B is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the defendant will be liable for robbery, a more serious crime
than assault.

Criminal  assault  can  take  one  of  two  forms:  either  an  attempt  to
commit  a  battery,  or  the  intentional  and  physical  creation  of  fear  of
imminent bodily harm in the mind of the victim. Under these facts, the
defendant would be liable for assault on the husband and wife for the
period of time when he leaped out of the dark alleyway brandishing a
gun. However, he will also be liable for at least battery on the wife,
and  robbery  from  the  husband.  If  you  chose  this  response,  you
overlooked the robbery. The defendant will be liable for robbery from
the husband, because his act satisfies all the elements: a larceny from a
person or a person's presence, by either force or fear. Here, the threat
against  the  wife  is  sufficient  for  the  force  or  fear  element  of  robbery,
since  the  force  or  fear  can  be  directed  at  the  victim's  relative  or
companion.  Since  the  defendant  satisfies  the  robbery  elements  —  the
question tells you that robbery is a more serious crime than assault —
and the question asks for the most serious crime for which the defendant
can be convicted, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  defendant  will  be  liable  for  a  more  serious  crime  than
assault.

Criminal  assault  can  take  one  of  two  forms:  either  an  attempt  to
commit  a  battery,  or  the  intentional  and  physical  creation  of  fear  of
imminent bodily harm in the mind of the victim. Under these facts, the
defendant would be liable for assault on the wife for the period of time
when he leaped out of the dark alleyway brandishing a gun. However,
the  defendant  will  also  be  liable  for  more  serious  crimes,  as  well:

704

assault  on  both  the  husband  and  wife,  larceny  from  the  husband,  and
robbery from the husband. The defendant's act satisfies all the elements
of robbery: a larceny from a person or a person's presence, by force or
fear. Here, the threat against the wife is sufficient for the force or fear
element, since the force or fear can be directed at the victim's relative
or companion. Since the defendant satisfies the robbery elements — the
question tells you robbery is a more serious crime than assault — and
the question asks for the most serious crime for which the defendant can
be convicted, D is not the best response.

 Answer 41

 (C) is the best response,

because the crime of solicitation is completed with the concurrence of
act and intent.

Solicitation  consists  of  inciting,  inducing,  or  urging  another  to
commit a felony with the specific intent that the person solicited commit
the crime. The offense is complete at the time the solicitation is made,
whether  the  solicitee  agrees  or  not.  Therefore,  the  college  student's
effort to withdraw a few days before payment was due would not be a
defense  to  the  crime  of  solicitation  —  the  crime  was  already
completed. (Nor does it make any difference that the solicitee was only
pretending to agree to commit the underlying crime.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because the crime was completed as soon as the college student made
his proposal to the police officer.

Nothing  that  happened  after  that  —  including  the  college  student's

withdrawal — could undo the crime.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  crime  was  completed  once  the  college  student  made  his
proposal to the police officer.

The  fact  that  no  ‘‘substantial  act''  was  performed  by  either  the

college student or the police officer was irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  college  student  would  be  convicted  even  if  the  police

705

officer had not agreed.

Solicitation  consists  of  inciting,  inducing,  or  urging  another  to
commit a felony with the specific intent that the person solicited commit
the crime. The offense is complete at the time the inciting, inducing, or
urging of the other occurs. Even if the solicitee does not agree to do the
requested act, the solicitor is guilty. So choice D, insofar as it recites
the  police  officer's  agreement  as  being  the  reason  for  the  college
student's guilt, is the wrong explanation for the correct result.

 Answer 42

 (D) is the best response,

because the young woman did not have the mental state for burglary or
any form of assault.

Let's  look  first  at  assault.  An  assault  is  either  (1)  an  attempt  to
commit  a  battery  or  (2)  an  intentional  placing  of  another  in
apprehension of receiving an immediate battery. (Also, any completed
battery  contains  an  assault.)  Since  the  young  woman  intentionally
sprayed the guard with a harmful or offensive substance, she meets the
prima  facie  requirement  for  type  (1)  assault  (since  she  was  trying  to
commit a battery — i.e., trying to cause a harmful or offensive contact).
The question is whether she has a valid defense.

Here, the young woman has a valid claim of self-defense: She was
acting to prevent the attack against her. It's true that the defense of self-
defense  doesn't  apply  where  the  defendant  was  the  aggressor,  but
neither the fact that the young woman was a trespasser, nor the fact that
she cursed at the guard, made her into an aggressor for the purpose of
losing the right to defend herself.

Since  the  young  woman  acted  under  the  right  of  self-defense,  this
will be a complete defense to aggravated assault as well as to simple
assault.

Nor  is  this  burglary.  Burglary  is  the  breaking  and  entering  of  the
dwelling  of  another  in  the  nighttime  with  intent  to  commit  a  felony
therein. Here, although the hotel probably qualifies as the ‘‘dwelling of
another,''  there  is  no  indication  that  the  young  woman  intended  to
commit  a  felony  once  she  got  inside.  Therefore,  she  can't  be  guilty  of
burglary.

Consequently, the worst crime she can be convicted of is trespass.

706

 
(A), (B), and (C) are not the best responses,

because each of them names a crime that (as shown in the discussion of
choice D above) the young woman did not commit.

 Answer 43

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  defendant  satisfies  all  the
elements of both burglary and larceny.

The  key  here  is  that  both  burglary  and  larceny  are  ‘‘inchoate''
offenses in the sense that once one act is complete with the intent to do
another, the crimes are satisfied.

The  defendant  is  guilty  of  burglary  because  he  satisfied  all  its
elements: breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, at night,
with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  therein.  Thus,  once  the  defendant
entered  the  house  the  first  time  —  even  before  he  actually  took  the
silverware — he had completed the burglary, because burglary requires
only the intent to commit a felony inside. The defendant is also liable
for  larceny:  the  trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of  another's
personal  property,  with  the  intent  to  steal  it.  Under  these  facts,  the
defendant  would  be  liable  for  larceny  once  he  took  the  silverware,
because he did so with the intent to steal it. The wrinkle here is that the
defendant  returned  the  silverware,  thus  renouncing  his  criminal
purpose.  However,  once  a  criminal  act  is  complete,  it's  too  late  to
abandon  it  and  escape  liability.  Thus,  subsequent  renunciation,  or  the
accompanying  forgiveness  or  condonation  by  the  victim,  won't
exonerate  the  defendant.  Furthermore,  note  that  the  larceny  that's
involved  in  these  facts  requires  some  different  elements  than  burglary
does,  so  it's  not  a  ‘‘lesser  included  offense''  of  burglary,  and  the
defendant can be convicted of both crimes. Since A correctly identifies
that the defendant will be liable for both burglary and larceny, it's the
best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because although it correctly identifies that the defendant will be guilty
of burglary, it incorrectly states he'll be guilty of attempted larceny (in
fact, he'll be liable for larceny as well).

The  defendant  satisfied  all  the  elements  of  common-law  burglary,
because  he  broke  into  and  entered  the  dwelling  house  of  another  at

707

night,  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  therein.  Thus,  once  the
defendant entered  the  house  the  first  time  —  even  before  he  actually
took the silverware — he had completed the burglary, because burglary
only  requires  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  inside.  Larceny  is  the
trespassory  taking  and  carrying  away  of  personal  property  of  another,
with intent to steal it. Under these facts, the defendant would be liable
for  larceny  once  he  took  the  silverware,  because  he  did  so  with  the
intent to steal it. If you chose B, it was probably because you focused
on  the  defendant's  returning  the  silverware,  and  thought  it  must  count
somehow. In fact, it doesn't, because the crimes of burglary and larceny
were already complete, and subsequent acts of repentance won't change
that. Although attempt has several different tests, in general, attempted
larceny  would  require  that  the  defendant  only  have  come  sufficiently
close to committing the larceny, with the intent to commit the larceny in
a specific way.

The  defendant  completed  the  crime,  so  he  wouldn't  be  liable  only
for attempt. Since B only identifies one of the two crimes for which the
defendant will be liable, and another choice identifies them both, B is
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although it correctly identifies that the defendant will be guilty
of burglary, it incorrectly acquits the defendant for larceny.

As  C  states,  the  defendant  will  be  liable  for  burglary,  because  he
satisfies  all  its  elements:  breaking  and  entering  the  dwelling  house  of
another, at night, with the intent to commit a felony therein. Thus, once
the defendant entered the house the first time — even before he actually
took the silverware — he had completed the burglary, because burglary
requires  only  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  inside.  However,  the
defendant  is  also  liable  for  larceny.  Larceny  requires  the  trespassory
taking  and  carrying  away  of  personal  property  of  another,  with  the
intent  to  steal  it.  Under  these  facts,  the  defendant  would  be  liable  for
larceny once he took the silverware, because he did so with the intent
to  steal  it.  If  you  chose  choice  C,  it's  probably  because  you  mistook
larceny  for  a  lesser  included  offense  of  burglary,  and  figured  the
defendant couldn't be liable for both. A lesser included offense is one
that requires only proof of some but not all of the elements of another
offense,  and  no  other  elements.  As  examples,  attempted  crimes  are
included in completed crimes, and voluntary manslaughter is included
in  murder  (provocation  is  not  considered  an  additional  element).  You

708

may have confused burglary with robbery, which is a larceny from the
person by force or fear. As a result, larceny is a lesser included offense
of robbery. But the larceny that's involved in these facts requires some
different  elements  than  burglary  does,  since  burglary  can  involve  any
felony.

Since C mistakenly acquits the defendant of larceny, it's not the best

response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the defendant is guilty of both burglary and larceny.

The defendant will be liable for burglary because he satisfies all of
its  elements:  breaking  and  entering  the  dwelling  house  of  another,  at
night,  with  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  therein.  Thus,  once  the
defendant entered  the  house  the  first  time  —  even  before  he  actually
took the silverware — he had completed the burglary, because burglary
requires  only  the  intent  to  commit  a  felony  inside.  The  defendant  is
also  liable  for  larceny.  Larceny  requires  the  trespassory  taking  and
carrying  away  of  another's  personal  property,  with  intent  to  steal  it.
Under  these  facts,  the  defendant  would  be  liable  for  larceny  once  he
took the silverware, because he did so with the intent to steal it. If you
chose  this  response,  it's  probably  because  you  believed  that  returning
the  silverware  would  exonerate  him.  However,  once  a  crime  is
complete,  acts  of  renunciation,  or  condonation  by  the  victim,  will  not
erase the criminal liability! Since D does not recognize this, it's not the
best response.

 Answer 44

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  states  the  felony,  of  these  four,  that's  least  likely  to  form  a
basis for felony murder.

The  key  here  is  to  identify  the  felony  that  is  least  ‘‘independent''
from homicide. Note that the question asks for the ‘‘least likely'' basis
for felony murder. This means three will be suitable, and one won't be.
B is the only one that won't be.

Felony  murder  requires  an  underlying  felony  that  is  inherently
dangerous  to  human  life,  while  remaining  sufficiently  ‘‘independent''
from homicide. Such crimes traditionally include rape, robbery, arson,
burglary,  and  kidnapping.  Here,  manslaughter  is  a  homicide,  so  it

709

cannot be ‘‘independent'' from it. The same would go for a crime like
aggravated  battery.  Since  the  question  here  asks  the  least  likely  basis
for felony murder, and B is the only choice that would not be amenable
to felony murder, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  arson  is  one  of  the  most  likely  felonies  to  form  a  basis  for
felony murder.

Felony  murder  requires  an  underlying  felony  that  is  inherently
dangerous to life, which does not require personal violence. The most
common  such  crimes  are  rape,  robbery,  arson,  burglary,  and
kidnapping.  Arson  is  considered  sufficiently  ‘‘independent''  from
homicide  to  be  covered  by  the  felony  murder  rule.  If  you  chose  this
response,  you  may  have  mistakenly  read  ‘‘least''  likely  for  ‘‘most''
likely, since most MBE questions ask for the choice ‘‘most'' likely to do
something.  However,  since  the  question  here  asks  for  the  least  likely
basis for felony murder, A isn't the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because rape is a valid underlying crime for felony murder.

Felony  murder  requires  an  underlying  felony  that  is  inherently
dangerous  to  human  life,  while  remaining  sufficiently  ‘‘independent''
from homicide (including, traditionally, rape, robbery, arson, burglary,
and  kidnapping).  The  traditional  test  is  to  exclude  those  crimes
requiring  personal  violence,  but  it  would  be  a  misnomer  to  say  rape
doesn't  require  personal  violence.  Nonetheless,  rape  is  one  of  the
traditional  bases  of  felony  murder,  due  to  its  independence  from
homicide. Note that the fact that only an attempt is involved here does
not  change  the  result,  since  the  felony  murder  rule  encompasses
attempts.  Since  the  question  here  asks  for  the  least  likely  basis  for
felony murder, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because burglary is a likely basis for felony murder.

Felony  murder  requires  an  underlying  felony  that  is  inherently
dangerous  to  human  life,  while  remaining  sufficiently  ‘‘independent''
from  homicide,  typically  because  the  crime  is  said  not  to  require
personal  violence.  Such  crimes  include,  traditionally,  rape,  robbery,
arson,  burglary,  and  kidnapping.  Since  the  question  here  asks  for  the

710

least likely basis for felony murder, D isn't the best response.

 Answer 45

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  gangster's  two  friends  did  nothing  to  assist  the  gangster's
attack.

An  accomplice  is  one  who,  with  the  intent  that  the  crime  be
committed, aids, counsels, or encourages the principal before or during
the commission of the crime.

The  gangster's  friends  should  be  acquitted  as  accomplices  to
manslaughter  because  the  facts  make  clear  they  did  not  intend  that  the
gangster  murder  the  woman,  nor  did  they  do  anything  during  the
gangster's  attack  to  aid,  counsel  or  encourage  the  gangster.  Only  after
the crime was complete, when the elderly woman fell to the ground, did
they urge the gangster to flee.

Nor does the fact that the friends did nothing to help the woman —
when  assistance  to  her  during  the  beating  could  conceivably  have
prevented  the  death  —  make  any  difference.  Except  in  special
circumstances (none of which applies here) a witness to a crime has no
affirmative  duty  to  intervene  to  prevent  the  crime  or  aid  the  victim,
even  if  this  could  be  easily  done.  Therefore,  failing  to  render  such
assistance cannot give rise to criminal liability.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  gangster's  friends  could  be  found  guilty  of  being
accomplices even if the gangster was not convicted.

An  accomplice  is  one  who,  with  the  intent  that  the  crime  be
committed, aids, counsels, or encourages the principal before or during
the  commission  of  the  crime.  Under  the  modern  view  of  accomplice
liability,  the  fact  that  the  principal  has  not  yet  been  convicted  of  the
substantive crime does not bar trial and conviction of the accomplices.
If the principal were actually acquitted, this might bar prosecution, but
that's  not  what  happened  here  —  a  mistrial  would  not  in  most
jurisdictions bar the prosecution of the alleged accomplices.

 (C) is not the best response,

because urging the accomplice to flee was not a form of aid or counsel
before or during the crime.

711

An  accomplice  is  one  who,  with  the  intent  that  the  crime  be
committed, aids, counsels, or encourages the principal before or during
the commission of the crime.

The  gangster's  friends  should  be  acquitted  because 

to  be
accomplices  they  would,  before  or  during  the  assault  on  the  victim,
have to have aided, counseled, or encouraged the gangster in the attack,
with  the  intent  that  the  attack  be  committed.  By  definition,  they  could
not be accomplices merely by urging the gangster to flee after the crime
was completed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because they had no duty to intervene.

As  a  general  matter  no  legal  duty  is  imposed  on  any  person  to
affirmatively act for the benefit of others. Absent one of several types
of legal relationships between two parties, no legal duty is imposed on
any person to affirmatively act for the benefit of others. None of those
legal relationships existed here. Therefore, the gangster's friends had no
duty  to  intervene  to  prevent  the  gangster's  attack.  Consequently,  they
cannot be made criminally liable for that failure to intervene.

 Answer 46

 (B) is the best answer,

because a co-conspirator need not be present at the commission of each
crime in order to be guilty of a conspiracy.

Furthermore, 

the  arrest  of  one  co-conspirator  does  not
automatically  terminate  the  conspiracy  when  other  co-conspirators
continue  to  carry  out  the  mission  of  the  conspiracy.  Accordingly,  the
jailed  defendant  may  still  be  guilty  of  conspiracy,  and  a  judgment  of
acquittal  at  the  close  of  the  government's  case  is  improper  on  these
facts.

 (A) is not the best answer,

because conspirators must agree to the joint pursuit of unlawful ends.

More  importantly,  it  is  irrelevant  factually,  as  the  defendant  is
raising a defense based on his failure to be present (i.e., he was in jail),
not on his failure to agree to all of the objects of the conspiracy. As a
co-conspirator need not be present at the commission of each crime in
order to be guilty of a conspiracy, a judgment of acquittal at the close of

712

the government's case is improper on these facts.

 (C) is not the best answer,

because  even  if  the  defendant  had  complied  with  the  rule  requiring
pretrial notice of alibi, a judgment of acquittal will not be entered.

A  co-conspirator  need  not  be  present  at  the  commission  of  each
crime in order to be guilty of a conspiracy. Furthermore, the arrest of
one  co-conspirator  does  not  automatically  terminate  the  conspiracy
when  other  co-conspirators  continue  to  carry  out  the  mission  of  the
conspiracy.  Accordingly,  the  jailed  defendant  may  still  be  guilty  of
conspiracy, and a judgment of acquittal at the close of the government's
case is improper on these facts.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because the government is not “bound by exculpatory evidence elicited
during its case-in-chief.”

The  government  is  free  to  contest  such  evidence  and  is  in  no  way
bound  by  it.  Furthermore,  even  if  the  government  were  so  bound,  a
judgment of acquittal will not be entered. A co-conspirator need not be
present  at  the  commission  of  each  crime  in  order  to  be  guilty  of  a
conspiracy.  Furthermore,  the  arrest  of  one  co-conspirator  does  not
automatically  terminate  the  conspiracy  when  other  co-conspirators
continue  to  carry  out  the  mission  of  the  conspiracy.  Accordingly,  the
jailed  defendant  may  still  be  guilty  of  conspiracy,  and  a  judgment  of
acquittal  at  the  close  of  the  government's  case  is  improper  on  these
facts.

 Answer 47

 (D) is the best response,

because even an unnecessarily suggestive identification procedure will
not violate due process if the identification itself was reliable under all
the circumstances.

In  a  series  of  cases,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  an
identification  procedure  may  be  so  “unnecessarily  suggestive”  that
allowing  the  results  of  that  identification  into  evidence  violates  the
accused's due process rights. See, e.g., Stovall v. Denno, 388 U.S. 293
(1967). In fact, in extreme cases the unnecessarily suggestive procedure
may so irreparably taint the out-of-court identification that the witness

713

is even forbidden to make an in-court identification of the accused at
trial.

there 

Here,  the  out-of-court  identification  was  certainly  needlessly
suggestive, both because it used only a single photograph, and because
the officer told the store owner before the identification that the police
were pretty sure the person in the photo was the culprit. However, even
where  an  unnecessarily  suggestive  identification  procedure  is  used,
neither  the  out-of-court  identification  itself,  nor  the  witness'  later  in-
court  identification,  will  be  excluded  unless  the  trial  court  concludes
that 
irreparable
misidentification.”  Manson  v.  Brathwaite,  432  U.S.  98  (1977).  The
likelihood  of  misidentification  is  to  be  determined  by  considering  the
“totality of the circumstances,” including such factors as how good an
opportunity the witness had to observe the perpetrator. So, here, as long
as  the  court  believes  that  the  in-court  identification  is  reasonably
reliable,  the  fact  that  it  may  have  been  influenced  by  earlier
unnecessarily  suggestive  out-of-court  identification  methods  will  not
cause the in-court testimony to be excluded.

is  “a  very  substantial 

likelihood  of 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it falsely states a categorical rule against exclusion of in-court
testimony.

The  procedure  by  which  a  witness  makes  an  out-of-court
identification may be so unnecessarily suggestive, and may so taint the
identification  process,  that  the  court  will  conclude  that  even  the  later
in-court identification of the accused by the witness is so unreliable that
its  admission  would  violate  the  defendant's  due  process  rights.  So  to
the extent that this choice asserts that suppression of in-court testimony
improper  out-of-court
can  never  be  a  proper  remedy  for  an 
identification, this choice is overly broad and thus incorrect.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the out-of-court identification here was improper.

An  out-of-court  identification  is  improper  if  it  is  “unnecessarily
suggestive.”  The  identification  here  clearly  meets  that  standard,  both
because it used only a single photograph, and because the officer told
the store owner before the identification that the police were pretty sure
that the perpetrator was the person shown in the photo. However, this
choice is incorrect in asserting that where the out-of-court identification

714

is  improper,  a  later  in-court  identification  by  the  same  witness  must
automatically be excluded — only if the trial judge believes that, under
the  totality  of  circumstances,  the  in-court  identification  is  very
unreliable, will that in-court identification be excluded.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  improper  out-of-court  identification  did  not  necessarily
taint the later in-court identification.

later 

the  court 

the  witness' 

to  exclude  even 

There  are  indeed  situations  in  which  the  procedure  by  which  a
witness  makes  an  out-of-court  identification  is  so  unnecessarily
suggestive  that  it  irreparably  taints  the  entire  identification  process,
in-court
leading 
identification  of  the  accused  as  being  so  unreliable  that  its  admission
would violate the defendant's due process rights. But such a taint will
not be found to have occurred merely because the original process was
needlessly suggestive — the court will look at all the circumstances to
determine whether the in-court identification is reasonably reliable, and
the  earlier
identification  will  be  allowed  despite 
if  so, 
suggestiveness.  Since  this  choice  says  that  the  improper  out-of-court
identification  “necessarily  tainted”  any  in-court  identification,  the
choice misstates the decision-making process that the trial court would
use.

that 

 Answer 48

 (C) is the best response,

because double jeopardy does not attach until the trial has begun.

The  protection  against  double  jeopardy  does  not  apply  until
jeopardy  has  “attached.”  Therefore,  if  a  proceeding  is  terminated
before  jeopardy  has  attached,  the  Double  Jeopardy  Clause  does  not
limit the prosecution's right to try the defendant for the same charge in a
new proceeding. In a case to be tried before a jury, jeopardy is deemed
to  attach  when  the  jury  has  been  selected  and  all  its  members  have
taken the oath. Crist v. Bretz, 437 U.S. 28 (1978). In a case that is to be
tried  by  a  judge  sitting  without  a  jury,  jeopardy  is  deemed  to  attach
when the first witness has been sworn in. Here, although we don't know
whether  the  first  proceeding  would  have  been  a  jury  trial  or  a  bench
trial, we know that the dismissal for lack of probable cause happened
before either the jury was impaneled or the first witness was sworn. So

715

jeopardy  could  not  have  attached,  and  the  new  charges  could  not
violate the Double Jeopardy Clause.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the dismissal of the first charges occurred before jeopardy had
attached.

As is discussed in choice C, the Double Jeopardy Clause cannot be
triggered until jeopardy is deemed to have “attached,” which does not
happen  until  the  jury  has  been  selected  and  sworn  in,  or  (in  a  bench
trial) the first witness has been sworn in. This choice, by asserting that
dismissal  during  the  preliminary  hearing  triggered  the  Clause,  is
therefore incorrect as a matter of law.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it ignores the issue of when jeopardy attaches.

The Double Jeopardy Clause cannot be triggered until jeopardy has
“attached,” which happens when the jury is chosen and sworn in, or (in
a  bench  trial)  when  the  first  witness  is  sworn  in.  If  jeopardy  has  not
attached, the Clause will not be triggered even if the prosecution does
not have any evidence that was not presented in the first case. Since this
choice ignores the significance of whether jeopardy has attached, it is
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  states  the  time  at  which  the  Double  Jeopardy
Clause comes into play.

The  Double  Jeopardy  Clause  is  triggered  when  jeopardy  has
“attached,” which happens when the jury is chosen and sworn in, or (in
a  bench  trial)  when  the  first  witness  is  sworn  in.  This  choice,  by
asserting that jeopardy cannot attach until there has been a conviction or
an acquittal, is therefore legally incorrect. For instance, if the jury has
been chosen and sworn in, and the judge declares a mistrial during the
testimony  of  the  first  witness,  the  Double  Jeopardy  Clause  may  well
bar a re-prosecution (though this is not automatically so — if there was
a “manifest necessity” for declaring a mistrial, re-prosecution will be
allowed.)

 Answer 49

716

 (A) is the best response,

because the man was subjected to a custodial interrogation.

If Miranda warnings are required and are not given, any resulting
confession is normally not admissible. Miranda warnings are required
whenever the police engage in a “custodial interrogation.” There was
obviously  an  “interrogation”  here,  since  we're  told  that  an  officer
“asked the man if he had committed a particular robbery.”

It's a closer question whether this interrogation was a “custodial”
one.  An  interrogation  is  “custodial”  if  and  only  if  the  one  being
questioned believes he is not free to leave. The prosecution could argue
that since the man was in his own house, and had not yet been formally
told that he was under arrest, he could reasonably have believed that he
was  free  to  leave.  But  the  prosecution  is  unlikely  to  prevail  with  this
argument: When police break into a person's house at 6 a.m., and with
guns drawn awaken the person in his bed and say “We've got you now,”
a  reasonable  person  in  that  person's  position  would  typically  not
believe that he was free to leave. See, e.g., Orozco v. Texas, 394 U.S.
324 (1969) (where police break into D's bedroom at 4 a.m. to question
him, this was a custodial interrogation).

Since  this  was  almost  certainly  a  custodial  interrogation,  the
police's  failure  to  give  the  Miranda  warnings  before  asking  the
question about the robbery will almost certainly require suppression of
the response. (In any event, you're asked for the man's “best argument,”
and of the four choices this is the only one that is even plausible.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because an argument based on voluntariness will be harder to succeed
with than one based on an absence of Miranda warnings.

If the man could establish that his statement was not voluntary this
fact  would  indeed  result  in  suppression  of  the  statement.  However,
voluntariness depends on the totality of the circumstances, and it's not
clear that the man could establish that his statement was involuntary —
for instance, there is no evidence that he was threatened with harm if he
failed to respond. The test for a Miranda violation, by contrast, is much
more bright-line: As long as the person is being subjected to custodial
interrogation,  failure  to  give  the  warnings  automatically  requires
suppression.  So  while  the  man  might  succeed  with  his  voluntariness
argument,  the  Miranda  argument  is  clearly  the  easier  one  for  him  to
establish on these facts.

717

 (C) is not the best response,

because Miranda can apply even where the suspect has not been told
he is under arrest.

Miranda warnings must be given whenever a person is subjected to
custodial  interrogation.  The  test  for  whether  a  person  is  in  custody  is
whether a reasonable person in his position would believe that he was
not free to leave. For this test to be satisfied, it is not necessary that the
person be formally informed that he is under arrest; even without such a
notification, the circumstances may make it clear to the person that he is
not free to leave. That's what happened here: When the police burst into
his bedroom with guns drawn at 4 a.m. and said “We've got you now,”
the man could reasonably have believed that he was not free to leave
(i.e., that he was in custody), even though he had not yet been formally
told that he was under arrest.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the arrest warrant sufficed for entry.

If the police had had neither an arrest warrant nor a search warrant,
the man would have had a plausible chance of successfully arguing that
the  entry  violated  his  Fourth  Amendment  rights  (since  in  non-exigent
circumstances an arrest warrant is needed for the police to enter private
premises to make an arrest, [U.S. v. Watson, 423 U.S. 411 (1976)], and
the  circumstances  here  might  be  held  non-exigent);  in  that  event,  the
man's incriminating statement would have to be suppressed as the fruit
of that illegal entry. But where the police have a validly-issued arrest
warrant, they may enter a private residence even in non-daylight hours,
and  without  warning,  and  without  exigent  circumstances.  Since  their
entry was legal on account of the arrest warrant, the absence of a search
warrant didn't matter.

 Answer 50

 (A) is the best response,

because even if some or all of the evidence heard by the grand jury was
inadmissible, that is not grounds for dismissing an indictment.

In a series of decisions, the Supreme Court has held that even if a
grand jury relies on inadmissible evidence while issuing an indictment,
dismissal of the indictment is not the proper remedy. See, e.g., U.S. v.

718

Calandra, 414 U.S. 338 (1974): “[A]n indictment valid on its face is
not subject to challenge on the ground that the grand jury acted on the
basis  of  inadequate  or  incompetent  evidence[.]”  So  even  though  the
agent here violated the defendant's Fourth Amendment rights by entering
his house without a warrant and without probable cause, and even if the
man's boasting in the bar was held to be the direct fruit of that Fourth
Amendment violation (not at all clear), the appropriate remedy would
be for the trial judge to exclude the boast from the trial, not to dismiss
the indictment.

 (B) is not the best response,

because even if hearsay was used, dismissal of the indictment is not the
appropriate remedy.

As is discussed further in choice A, even where a grand jury relies
on  inadmissible  evidence  (or  evidence  that  taken  in  its  entirety  is  not
sufficient to justify a conviction), dismissal of the indictment is not the
proper remedy.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  evidence  stemmed  from  an  unlawful  search,
dismissal of the indictment is not the appropriate remedy.

It's  pretty  clear  that  the  agent  here  violated  the  defendant's  Fourth
Amendment rights by entering his house without a warrant and without
probable  cause.  It's  also  possible  (though  not  certain)  that  the  man's
boasting  in  the  bar  would  be  held  to  be  the  direct  fruit  of  that  Fourth
Amendment  violation,  and  thus  inadmissible  at  his  trial.  But  even  if
both  of  those  issues  were  resolved  in  the  defendant's  favor,  the
appropriate  remedy  would  be  for  the  trial  judge  to  exclude  the  boast
from the trial, not to dismiss the indictment.

 (D) is not the best response,

because even if there was a violation of the right to counsel, this would
not justify dismissal of the indictment.

First,  there  was  almost  certainly  no  violation  of  the  man's  right  to
counsel.  The  Sixth  Amendment  right  to  counsel  is  triggered  only
following  the  commencement  of  formal  proceedings  against  the
defendant (e.g., an indictment), so the use of a government agent to have
a conversation with the man without counsel present (if counsel for the
man  even  existed)  could  not  have  been  a  Sixth  Amendment  violation.

719

And  the  right  to  presence  of  counsel  that  is  part  of  the  package  of
Miranda  rights  (i.e.,  that  derives  from  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege
against  self-incrimination)  applies  only  where  the  person  being
interrogated  (1)  is  in  custody  and  (2)  knows  that  he  is  being
interrogated by a government official, neither of which is the case here.
Furthermore,  even  if  the  boasting  was  found  to  be  the  product  of  a
violation  of  the  right  to  counsel  (highly  unlikely),  exclusion  of  the
evidence  at  the  man's  trial,  rather  than  dismissal  of  the  indictment,
would be the appropriate remedy.

 Answer 51

 (A) is the best response,

because the use of a death-qualified jury does not violate a defendant's
constitutional right be tried by a representative jury.

It's true that a criminal defendant has a Sixth Amendment right to be
tried  by  a  jury  selected  from  a  representative  cross-section  of  the
community. But where a prospective juror indicates in voir dire that her
opposition to the death penalty is so strong that it may prevent her from
voting  to  impose  that  penalty,  that  prospective  juror  may  be  removed
for cause without violating the defendant's right to a representative jury.
Lockhart v. McCree, 476 U.S. 162 (1986). And that's true even if the
juror  is  removed  before  the  guilt  phase  in  a  bifurcated  trial  (i.e.,  one
divided  into  a  phase  that  determines  guilt,  followed  by  a  separate
sentencing phase if the defendant is found guilty).

 (B) is not the best response,

because  removal  of  these  jurors  from  both  phases  of  the  trial  was
constitutional.

The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  jurors  whose  opposition  to  the
death penalty may prevent them from imposing it may be removed for
cause  from  both  the  guilt  and  sentencing  phases  of  a  capital  trial,
without violating the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to be tried by a
jury  chosen  from  a  fair  cross-section  of  the  community.  (See  the
discussion  of  choice  A.)  Since  this  choice  asserts  that  the  jurors'
removal  from  the  sentencing  phase  was  improper,  it  is  not  the  best
choice.

 (C) is not the best response,

720

because  removal  of  these  jurors  from  both  phases  of  the  trial  was
constitutional.

The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  jurors  whose  opposition  to  the
death penalty may prevent them from imposing it may be removed for
cause  from  both  the  guilt  and  sentencing  phases  of  a  capital  trial,
without violating the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to be tried by a
jury  chosen  from  a  fair  cross-section  of  the  community.  (See  the
discussion  of  choice  A.)  This  choice,  like  choice  B,  asserts  that  the
jurors'  removal  from  the  sentencing  phase  was  improper;  the  two
choices  differ  only  as  to  the  remedy  for  such  an  improper  removal.
Since the removal was proper, conversion to a life sentence is not an
appropriate remedy, any more than the new sentencing hearing in choice
B would have been appropriate.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  removal  of  these  jurors  from  both  phases  of  the  trial  was
constitutional.

The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  jurors  whose  opposition  to  the
death penalty may prevent them from imposing it may be removed for
cause  from  both  the  guilt  and  sentencing  phases  of  a  capital  trial,
without violating the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to be tried by a
jury  chosen  from  a  fair  cross-section  of  the  community.  (See  the
discussion  of  choice  A.)  Since  this  choice  asserts  that  the  jurors'
removal  violated  the  defendant's  fair-cross-section  rights  in  two
separate respects (as to the guilt phase and as to the sentencing phase),
it is doubly-incorrect.

 Answer 52

 (B) is the best response,

because the officers had the right to be in the kitchen, but not to open the
drawer in the bedroom.

First, let's look at whether the officers had a right to be in the house
at  all.  As  a  general  rule,  the  police  may  not  enter  a  private  dwelling
without  either  an  arrest  warrant  or  a  search  warrant.  But  there  are
various  exceptions  to  the  requirement  of  a  warrant.  One  of  the
exceptions  is  where  the  police  are  responding  to  the  need  to  give
emergency  assistance.  As  the  Supreme  Court  said  in  Brigham  City  v.
Stuart,  547  U.S.  398  (2006),  “law  enforcement  officers  may  enter  a

721

home  without  a  warrant  to  render  emergency  assistance  to  an  injured
occupant  or  to  protect  an  occupant  from  imminent  injury.”  Since  the
police had a right to be standing outside the house looking through the
window  (they  were  properly  responding  to  a  call  that  shots  had  been
fired inside the house), when they saw the man lying on the floor they
had  the  right  to  make  a  warrantless  entry  in  order  to  give  him
emergency assistance.

Then,  while  the  police  were  waiting  for  the  ambulance  to  come,
they had the right to make a “protective sweep” of the house. In a case
in  which  the  police  had  arrested  a  suspect  in  his  home,  the  Supreme
Court  held  that  the  officers  could  then,  incident  to  that  arrest,  and
without  a  search  warrant  or  probable  cause,  check  the  area  for  other
persons, provided the police possessed “articulable facts which, taken
together with the rational inferences from those facts, would warrant a
reasonably  prudent  officer  in  believing  that  the  area  to  be  swept
harbors  an  individual  posing  a  danger  to  those  on  the  arrest  scene.”
Maryland v. Buie, 494 U.S. 325 (1990).

Here, since the police knew that the man on the floor had recently
been shot in the back (which couldn't have been a suicide), the police
knew  that  an  armed  and  dangerous  person  had  recently  been  in  the
house, and if still present posed a danger to them. So the police were
clearly justified in making a protective sweep of all places in the house
where that person might be hiding. That gave them the right to enter the
kitchen. Once the officer was in the kitchen, and saw in plain view the
bags  filled  with  what  looked  like  cocaine,  he  was  justified  in  seizing
those bags for testing. (When the police see in plain view an item that
they  have  probable  cause  to  believe  is  contraband  or  evidence,  case
law generally allows them to seize the item without a warrant, if they
have a right to be in the place where the item is located.)

Now, let's consider what happened in the upstairs bedroom. Under
the  same  “protective  sweep”  rationale  described  above,  the  police
were justified in going throughout the house, and looking in every place
where  a  human  might  be  hiding.  So  the  officer  who  remained  at  the
house  was  entitled  to  check  in  the  bedroom.  But  he  was  not  entitled
under  the  protective-sweep  rationale  to  look  in  places  that  were  too
small to hide a human. The drawer was such a place. Therefore, unless
the officer had probable cause to believe that evidence or contraband
might be found in the drawer (which he did not), by opening the drawer
the  officer  violated  the  young  woman's  Fourth  Amendment  freedom
from  unreasonable  searches  and  seizures.  See,  e.g.,  Arizona  v.  Hicks,

722

480 U.S. 321 (1987) (where officer was validly in D's apartment, and
saw  a  stereo  turntable  in  plain  view,  officer  nonetheless  violated  D's
Fourth  Amendment  rights  when,  without  probable  cause,  he  lifted  the
turntable  to  read  its  serial  number).  So  the  marijuana  must  be
suppressed as the fruit of a search and seizure made without probable
cause,  and  not  falling  within  any  exception  to  the  probable  cause
requirement.  (Indeed,  before  the  police  were  entitled  to  open  the
drawer  they  needed  not  only  probable  cause  but  a  search  warrant  as
well.)

 Choices (A), (C), and (D) are not the best choice,

because each is inconsistent with the above analysis.

 Answer 53

 (C) is the best response,

because  it's  theoretically  correct,  it  applies  to  these  facts,  and  it's  the
easiest to prove of these choices.

This is a somewhat difficult question because three of the responses
are  potential  answers  theoretically,  but  two  of  them  are  difficult  to
prove. The question asks for the best argument, which will be the one
that's theoretically correct, applies to the facts, and will be the easiest
to prove — and that's choice C.

There  are  six  general  exceptions  to  the  requirement  of  a  search
warrant:  the  search  is  incident  to  a  lawful,  custodial  arrest;  the
‘‘automobile''  exception  (which  requires  probable  cause  that  vehicle
contains  evidence  of  crime,  and  exigent  circumstances);  plain  view;
consent;  stop  and  frisk;  and  hot  pursuit/evanescent  evidence.  The
consent  exception  applies  where  one  with  the  authority  to  consent
offers voluntary and intelligent consent to the search. Under the “third-
party  consent”  version  of  the  consent  exception,  one  who  surrenders
possession  of  property  to  another  is  likely  to  be  found  to  have
surrendered his expectation of privacy in the event that the other might
consent  to  a  search  of  that  property.  That's  the  case  here:  The  ex-
convict  authorized  his  cellmate  to  drive  his  car  and,  thus,  impliedly
authorized his cellmate to consent to a search.

 (A) is not the best response,

Because  it  fails  to  assert  a  valid  exception  to  the  requirement  of  a

723

search warrant.

There  are  six  general  exceptions  to  the  requirement  of  a  search
warrant:  the  search  is  incident  to  a  lawful,  custodial  arrest;  the
‘‘automobile''  exception  (which  requires  probable  cause  that  vehicle
contains  evidence  of  crime,  and  exigent  circumstances);  plain  view;
consent;  stop  and  frisk;  and  hot  pursuit/evanescent  evidence.  There  is
no general exception allowing a warrantless search when such a search
is  “reasonable  under  the  circumstances,”  and  this  choice  in  effect
asserts that there is such an exception. Furthermore, although an officer
who  makes  a  proper  automobile  stop  and  then  has  probable  cause  to
believe that a search of the passenger compartment will likely turn up
evidence of the crime for which the stop occurred will qualify for the
“automobile exception” (the second in the above list of six exceptions),
the stop here was for speeding, and nothing suggested to the officer that
he  might  find  “evidence  of  speeding”  (the  crime  for  which  the  stop
occurred)  by  searching  the  trunk.  So  Choice  A  does  not  successfully
assert  the  automobile  exception  or  any  other  exception  to  the  usual
requirement of a search warrant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the facts do not mention a custodial arrest.

A search can be justified as “incident to a valid arrest” only if there
is in fact an arrest. Furthermore, the Supreme Court's cases on officers'
right to make a warrantless search incident to arrest make it clear that
the  search-incident-to-arrest  exception  to  the  warrant  requirement
applies only where the “arrest” is a “custodial” one, i.e., the arrestee
will  be  taken  into  custody  rather  than  merely  given  a  summons.  See,
e.g., U.S. v. Robinson, 414 U.S. 218, 236 (1973), a case upholding the
search incident to arrest at issue there, and mentioning that “it is the fact
of  custodial  arrest  which  gives  rise  to  the  authority  to  search.”  Here,
where  the  facts  say  that  the  cellmate  was  told  he  would  not  be  put
under arrest, but merely issued a summons for the speeding, there was
no custodial arrest, and thus no right to make a search incident to arrest.
As a result, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the facts here do not trigger the “automobile exception,” which
is what this choice refers to.

There  are  six  general  exceptions  to  the  requirement  of  a  search

724

warrant:  the  search  is  incident  to  a  lawful,  custodial  arrest;  the
‘‘automobile'' exception (which requires probable cause to believe that
vehicle  contains  evidence  of  crime,  and  exigent  circumstances);  plain
view; consent; stop and frisk; and hot pursuit/evanescent evidence. The
reference  in  this  choice  to  “exigent  circumstances,  including  the
inherent  mobility  of  a  car,”  suggests  that  the  choice  is  an  attempt  to
qualify for the automobile exception. But the automobile exception, as
noted, requires that the officer have probable cause to believe that the
vehicle contains evidence  of  crime.  Here,  where  the  crime  or  offense
that  led  to  the  stop  was  speeding  (making  it  almost  impossible  that  a
search would produce “evidence” of that crime or offense), and where
no  factors  other  than  the  cellmate's  nervousness  indicated  that  the  car
might  contain  evidence  of  some  other  crime,  it's  very  unlikely  that  a
court would hold that the officer had probable cause to suspect that a
search  of  even  the  passenger  compartment  would  qualify  for  the
automobile  exception.  (Furthermore,  the  actual  area  searched  was  the
trunk,  and  the  automobile  exception  usually  doesn't  apply  to  allow  a
search  of  the  trunk  --  as  opposed  to  the  passenger  compartment  --
unless there is probable cause that evidence of crime might be found in
the trunk itself.) Therefore, Choice D is not the best answer.

 Answer 54

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the ground on which the evidence will be
excluded. This is a tricky question because it turns on a ‘‘hidden'' issue
—  the  freshness  of  the  information  serving  as  a  basis  for  the  search
warrant.

This is how a search warrant is issued: A police officer submits a
written, signed affidavit to a neutral, detached magistrate, who decides
if  there  is  probable  cause  to  issue  the  warrant.  The  affidavit  must  set
forth  the  underlying  circumstances  to  a  degree  sufficient  for  the
magistrate  to  determine  probable  cause.  If  the  information  is  stale,  it
will defeat probable cause by diminishing the possibility that the items
in  question  are  still  at  the  location.  That's  the  problem  here:  The
information  was  two  months  old  and,  as  a  result,  probably  too  old  to
justify a search warrant. This is a tricky question because this is not an
issue that would jump off the page at you. Nonetheless, it's the central
issue here. Since B correctly identifies this as the reason for excluding

725

the evidence, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule of law.

An  informant's  information  can  constitute  probable  cause  for  a
search or arrest if it meets the ‘‘totality of the circumstances'' test from
Illinois  v.  Gates  (1983).  Under  that  test,  elements  determining  the
reliability  of  the  informant  include:  the  informant's  prior  use  and
reliability; the informant's status as a member of a reliable group (e.g.,
a  minister);  clarity  of  detail  in  the  informant's  tip,  showing  the
informant  has  personal  knowledge  of  where  evidence  is  located;  and
the tip includes a declaration against the informant's penal interest (e.g.,
that he bought narcotics from the individual named). Thus, not only is
the statement in choice A incorrect, but it's likely that, under these facts,
the informant's tip would be sufficient grounds for a search warrant if
the information was fresh instead of being two months old. The age of
the  information  is  what  makes  the  search  warrant  defective,  not  the
source  of  the  information,  because  the  two-month  gap  diminishes  the
probability that the items in question are still there. Since A misstates
the  law,  even  though  it  arrives  at  the  correct  result,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

In fact, ‘‘mere evidence'' is what most searches involve. Apart from

the suspect himself, it's not clear what else a search could involve.

In order to obtain a search warrant, there must be probable cause to
believe  that  the  items  in  question  are  at  the  location.  A  search  can  be
conducted without a warrant under certain circumstances (e.g., stop and
frisk, search incident to a lawful custodial arrest, evanescent evidence).
Thus,  the  blanket  statement  in  C  is  incorrect,  making  it  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because although it correctly characterizes the informant, it ignores the
fact that the information was ‘‘stale,'' and thus cannot form the basis of a
valid search warrant.

As  D  implies,  an  informant's  information  can  constitute  probable
cause  for  a  search  or  arrest  if  it  meets  the  ‘‘totality  of  the

726

circumstances''  test  from  Illinois  v.  Gates  (1983).  Under  that  test,
elements  determining  the  reliability  of  the  informant  include:  the
informant's prior use and reliability; the informant's status as a member
of a reliable group (e.g., a minister); clarity of detail in the informant's
tip, showing the informant has personal knowledge of where evidence
is  located;  and  the  tip  includes  a  declaration  against  the  informant's
general  interest  (e.g.,  that  he  bought  narcotics  from  the  individual
named). Thus, the factors D names — the informant's reliability in the
past and the correctness of his information this time — would make his
tip a valid basis for a search warrant but for one crucial fact: The tip
was  based  on  ‘‘stale''  information  —  it  was  two  months  old.  Stale
information  diminishes  the  probability  that  the  items  in  question  are
still  at  the  location.  While  ‘‘staleness''  is  a  fluid  concept,  courts  take
into account whether the crime is ongoing or short-lived. Here, the age
of  the  information  would  defeat  the  validity  of  the  warrant.  If  you
missed  this  one,  take  heart  —  it's  a  very  close  call.  Nonetheless,
although  D  correctly  states  the  law,  ignoring  the  ‘‘staleness''  issue
makes it not the best response.

 Answer 55

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  basis  on  which  the  heroin  will  be
admissible.

This is a tricky question because it involves a not-so-obvious issue:
standing  to  object.  A  person  only  has  standing  to  claim  a  search  or
seizure  violated  the  Fourth  Amendment  when  the  evidence  was
obtained  from  a  search  or  seizure  that  violated  that  person's  own
‘‘legitimate  expectation  of  privacy.''  Rakas  v.  Illinois  (1978).  This
means  that  even  if  the  defendant  owns  the  property  in  question,  or  is
present  when  the  search  takes  place,  he  will  have  no  standing  to
challenge  the  search  unless  the  search  violated  his  legitimate
expectation of privacy as to the place being searched. Under the facts
here, the defendant clearly had no legitimate expectation of privacy in
the back seat of the addict's car. And by long-standing Supreme Court
case  law,  a  criminal  defendant  is  not  permitted  to  assert  “third  party
rights,” i.e., the Fourth Amendment rights of someone else, in this case
the addict. Therefore, the defendant cannot object to the validity of the
search. Since C correctly identifies this standing problem, it's the best

727

response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  ‘‘plain  view''  doctrine  would  not  be  determinative  under
these facts.

The ‘‘plain view'' doctrine provides one means by which the police
can  conduct  a  warrantless  search.  It  states  that  police  can  make  a
warrantless seizure when they are on the premises for lawful purposes,
and  they  inadvertently  discover  evidence  in  ‘‘plain  view.''  Choice  A
correctly states the facts, in the sense that, since the heroin was under
the rear seat, it was not in ‘‘plain view.'' However, the choice ignores
the  central  reason  why  the  motion  to  suppress  will  be  denied:  The
defendant  has  no  standing  to  object  to  the  search,  since  it  was  the
addict's  car  that  was  searched,  and  the  defendant  had  no  privacy
interest in that car. If it were the addict who was being tried, the result
would likely be different, because the issues would be different, since
the  addict  clearly  would  have  standing  to  object.  (And  at  the  moment
the officer found the heroin under the rear seat, the officer was not in a
place he had the right to be, since no exception to the requirement of a
warrant entitled the officer to be inside the car looking under the seat.)

Thus, even though choice A is correct in that the heroin would not
be  covered  by  the  plain  view  doctrine,  it  ignores  the  standing  issue,
which is central to solving this question. As a result, A is not the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it ignores the central issue in the case: The defendant does not
have standing to object to the search.

If you chose this response, it's probably because you overlooked the
fact that the defendant  is  objecting  to  a  search  of  the addict's  car,  in
which the defendant has no privacy interest.

Let's suppose, though, that it was the addict who was on trial, and
was objecting to the introduction of the evidence against him. Then, this
choice  probably  would  be  correct.  That's  because,  according  to
Arizona v. Gant, 556 U.S. 332 (2009), even when a driver is subjected
to  a  full  custody  arrest,  the  officer  may  not  search  the  passenger
compartment  incident  to  that  arrest  unless  either  (1)  the  arrestee  has
access to the passenger compartment at the moment of the search; or (2)
the  officer  reasonably  believes  that  the  passenger  compartment  may

728

contain evidence of the particular offense for which the arrest is being
made.  Here,  by  the  time  one  officer  began  to  search  the  passenger
compartment, the addict was already handcuffed and in the patrol car,
preventing him from having access to the passenger compartment. And
since the arrest was for speeding, the officer who did the search could
not have had a reasonable belief that the passenger compartment would
contain  evidence  of  that  offense  (what  physical  evidence  of  speeding
could  there  have  been  in  the  compartment?).  So  if  the  fruits  of  the
the
introduced  against 
search  were  being 
defendant/seller, Choice B's assertion that the scope of the search was
excessive (in that it included the car, not just the addict's person) would
have been correct.

the  addict,  not 

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  both  ignores  the  standing  issue  and  would  be  legally
incorrect even apart from that issue.
First, as is explained in the discussion of Choice B, the search here was
not properly incident to the arrest, under Arizona v. Gant. Second, the
court  would  never  even  get  to  the  point  of  considering  whether  the
search  was  proper  as  incident  to  arrest,  because  as  is  explained  in
Choice  C,  the  defendant  does  not  have  standing  to  raise  the  issue  of
whether the search was proper under the incident-to-arrest doctrine.

 Answer 56

 (D) is the best response,

because the homeowner consented to the police entering his house.

An  officer  of  the  law  can  make  a  warrantless  arrest  for  a  felony,
such as robbery. The police can then make a warrantless search of an
arrestee's person incident to an arrest. So the motion would have to be
denied unless, prior to the moment when the police recognized that the
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
defendant matched the description of the drugstore robber, the police's
presence violated some constitutional right of the thief.

The  owner  of  a  house  unquestionably  has  the  right  to  invite  the
police in — when they enter in response to such an invitation and move
around the house, they are not violating the rights of a guest, as long as
they  stay  within  the  scope  of  the  owner's  invitation.  That's  what
happened here: The police were invited (by the homeowner) into, or to
a  place  near,  the  kitchen.  (If  the  thief  had,  say,  rented  a  particular

729

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

bedroom  from  the  owner  for  the  night,  then  it's  conceivable  that  the
owner would be found to have surrendered his right to invite the police
into that bedroom during the night – but here, of course, the invitation
to  the  police  was  to  enter  the  kitchen,  not  the  bedroom.)  Since  the
police were authorized to be in or near the kitchen, they were entitled
to  be  in  the  place  from  which  they  recognized  the  thief.  And  that
recognition triggered their right to arrest and then to search incident to
arrest, all without constitutional violation.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  homeowner's  consent  overrides  the  thief's  right  to  contest
entry.

The  owner's  consent  to  a  search  of  (or  other  police  entry  on)  a
premises  is  binding  on  a  non-paying  guest,  even  if  the  guest  refuses
consent.  So  here,  the  homeowner's  right  to  consent  to  the  police's
warrantless  entry  into  the  house  overrode  any  expectation  of  privacy
the  thief  might  have  had  in  in  kitchen,  as  is  more  fully  explained  in
Choice D above.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the answer incorrectly mixes two aspects of the law.

The thief's mere presence at the scene of the search may in a sense
have  given  him  ‘‘standing''  to  protest  the  police's  entry  into  the  house
and  the  kitchen.  But  the  real  question  is  whether  the  thief's
constitutional rights were violated by the police presence in the kitchen.
And, under the analysis in choice D above, the answer to this question
is  no.  So  choice  B  reaches  the  wrong  result,  and  does  so  on  a
completely wrong (or at least irrelevant) theory.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  thief's  lack  of  ownership  or  possessory  interest  in  the
premises isn't what caused him to lose — the homeowner's consent is.

An overnight social guest probably has a legitimate expectation of
privacy in at least the particular parts of the home where he is staying.
(In  other  words,  the  guest's  lack  of  ownership  or  ‘‘other  possessory
interest'' in the premises is not automatically fatal to his right to protest
a  premises  search.)  However,  the  owner's  consent  to  a  search  of  the
premises  will  be  binding  on  a  non-paying  guest,  even  if  the  guest
refuses  consent.  So  when  the  homeowner  consented,  that  consent  took

730

priority  over  whatever  privacy  interest  the  thief  may  have  had  in  the
premises. Thus choice C reaches the right result for the wrong reason.

 Answer 57

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  drug  dealer's  statement  was  not  in  response  to  any
‘‘interrogation,'' and only the results of interrogations can be barred by
a failure to give a Miranda warning.

Miranda  does  not  bar  all  statements  made  prior  to  the  giving  of
Miranda rights. Statements made without any questions being asked are
considered  volunteered,  and  admissible  even  if  the  required  Miranda
warning wasn't given.

The drug dealer's statement that ‘‘You never would have caught me
with the stuff if it hadn't been for that lousy snitch'' was volunteered, not
made  in  response  to  any  police  questions.  Therefore,  the  statement  is
not covered by Miranda.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the police had the right to force the door open.

As a general rule, the officer executing the warrant must announce
that  he  is  a  law  enforcement  officer,  that  he  possesses  a  warrant,  and
that he is there to execute it. If the officer identifies himself and then is
not answered he may use force to break into the premises described.

The  facts  make  clear  that  the  police  followed  correct  procedures
for  executing  the  warrant  and  that  their  forcing  open  the  door  was
reasonable.  The  police  met  the  announcement  requirements.  They
announced that they were law officers when they knocked on the drug
dealer's door and called out, ‘‘Police.'' They announced they possessed
a  warrant.  And  they  made  clear  that  they  were  there  to  execute  the
warrant when they called, ‘‘Open up.'' They then waited a few seconds
and  when  they  received  no  response  they  broke  down  the  door  and
entered. Contrary to choice A, this entry was permissible.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the drug dealer's statement was volunteered before the police
could read him his Miranda rights.

Miranda  does  not  bar  all  statements  made  prior  to  the  giving  of
Miranda  rights.  The  Miranda  decision  itself  says  that  ‘‘volunteered

731

statements of any kind'' are not barred by the Fifth Amendment, and thus
are  not  affected  by  failure  to  give  a  Miranda  warning.  (Miranda
covers only responses that are given in response to ‘‘interrogations'' by
the police.)

It's  clear  from  the  facts  here  that  the  drug  dealer's  remark  ‘‘You
never would have caught me with the stuff if it hadn't been for that lousy
snitch'' was a spontaneous outburst, not a response to interrogation.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  while  the  motion  should  be  denied,  the  reason  given  is  not
correct.

The  police  do  indeed  have  the  right  to  make  a  ‘‘public  safety''
search  while  making  arrests,  and  answers  to  questions  that  the  police
ask  during  such  a  public  safety  search  don't  fall  within  the  Miranda
rule. N.Y.  v.  Quarles  (1984).  But  the  drug  dealer's  statement  was  not
made in response to questions asked during a public-safety search, so
the public-safety exception to Miranda doesn't apply here.

 Answer 58

 (A) is the best response,

because  evidence  generally  will  not  be  suppressed  where  police
reasonably  held  a  good  faith  belief  that  their  action  leading  to  its
discovery  was  authorized  by  a  valid  warrant.  See  Arizona  v.  Evans,
514 U.S. 1 (1995).

In  this  case,  the  computer  check  on  the  license  number  of  the
driver's  car  revealed  that  there  was  an  outstanding  warrant  for  the
driver's  arrest  based  on  unpaid  parking  tickets.  The  police  had  no
reason to believe that the warrant was invalid, so the search of the car
was proper as a valid search incident to arrest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because absent a custodial arrest or probable cause, a traffic stop does
not  authorize  a  full-blown  search  of  the  passenger  compartment.  See
Knowles v. Iowa, 525 U.S. 113 (1998).

In this case, however, the troopers did arrest the driver of the car
pursuant  to  an  arrest  warrant  that  they  believed  in  good  faith  to  be
valid.  Accordingly,  the  search  was  proper  and  the  driver's  motion  to
dismiss  will  be  denied.  See  Arizona  v.  Evans,  514  U.S.  1  (1995)

732

(applying good faith exception under similar circumstances).

 (C) is not the best response,

because  evidence  generally  will  not  be  suppressed  where  police
reasonably  held  a  good  faith  belief  that  their  actions  leading  to  its
discovery were authorized by a valid warrant.

Here, the arrest was made in the good faith belief that there was a
valid  outstanding  warrant,  so  the  court's  clerical  error  would  not
require  suppression.  See  Arizona  v.  Evans,  514  U.S.  1  (1995)
(applying good faith exception under similar circumstances). Thus, this
was a valid search incident to an arrest.

 (D) is not the best response,

because neither probable cause nor reasonable suspicion was required,
as the search was incident to an arrest.

It  is  true  that  the  arrest  warrant  turned  out  to  be  invalid,  but
evidence  generally  will  not  be  suppressed  where,  as  in  this  case,
police reasonably held a good faith belief that their actions leading to
its  discovery  were  authorized  by  a  valid  warrant.  See  Arizona  v.
Evans, 514 U.S. 1 (1995) (applying good faith exception under similar
circumstances).

 Answer 59

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  defendant's  handwriting  sample
will be admissible.

The key here is that a handwriting sample is considered physical,
not communicative, evidence — and the Fifth Amendment only covers
communicative  evidence.  As  a  result,  handwriting  samples  are  not
covered  by  the  Fifth  Amendment,  and  will  be  admissible  even  if  the
suspect wasn't given the opportunity to obtain counsel, or told any other
Miranda warning. Since A recognizes that the handwriting sample will
be admissible, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not correctly characterize the law.

A handwriting sample is considered ‘‘physical'' evidence. The Fifth

733

against 

privilege 

self-incrimination 

to
Amendment 
communicative,  not  physical,  evidence.  Thus,  the  defendant  could  be
required to submit to a handwriting sample without his being given his
Miranda  warning.  Since  B  suggests  the  defendant  was  entitled  to  a
Miranda warning before the handwriting sample was taken, it's not the
best response.

refers 

 (C) is not the best response,

that 

implies 

is  entitled 

the  defendant 

because  it  misstates  the  law:  The  defendant  is  not  entitled  to  refuse  a
handwriting sample.
Choice  C 

to  avoid
incriminating  himself  through  a  handwriting  sample.  In  fact,  a
handwriting sample (like a fingerprint or a blood sample) is not a Fifth
Amendment  violation,  because  the  privilege  against  self-incrimination
refers to communicative, not physical, evidence. Handwriting samples
are  ‘‘physical  evidence''  and  thus  not  subject  to  Fifth  Amendment
constraints. Thus, the defendant would not be entitled to refuse to give a
handwriting sample. Since C gives the defendant a right he doesn't, in
fact, have, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law:  The  defendant  was  not  entitled  to  have
counsel present for the handwriting sample.

The two sources of the right to counsel are the Fifth Amendment and
the  Sixth  Amendment.  Under  the  Fifth  Amendment,  the  suspect  is
entitled  to  counsel  for  the  investigative  stage  of  the  prosecution,  but
only for custodial questioning (under Miranda), when a defendant must
take part in a lineup or show up after ‘‘formal proceedings'' have begun,
or  undercover  agents  elicit  incriminating  statements  from  an  already
indicted suspect. The Sixth Amendment covers ‘‘critical stages'' of the
trial (e.g., arraignment and trial). Choice D implies that a handwriting
sample is the equivalent of questioning. However, the Fifth Amendment
only  covers  communicative,  not  physical,  evidence.  Handwriting
samples, like fingerprints and blood samples, are considered physical
evidence,  and  thus  are  not  covered  by  the  Fifth  Amendment.  Since  D
implies otherwise, it's not the best response.

 Answer 60

734

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  reason  why  the  accomplice's
testimony will not be admissible against the defendant: It was derived
from  the  defendant's  immunized  testimony.  The  defendant  was  granted
immunity  for  his  grand  jury  testimony.  This  means  that  he  was
immunized from the use of his testimony, or evidence derived from that
testimony. (The other type of immunity is transactional immunity, under
which,  in  general,  the  witness  is  immunized  from  prosecution  for  any
crime related to the transaction to which the witness testifies.) When a
defendant  is  given  use  immunity  and  then  prosecuted,  the  prosecution
bears the “affirmative duty to prove that the evidence it proposes to use
is  derived  from  a  legitimate  source  wholly  independent  of  the
compelled testimony.” Murphy v. Waterfront Commission, 378 U.S. 52
(1964). Here, the prosecution cannot bear this burden -- indeed, just the
opposite  is  true,  since  the  facts  tell  us  that  the  only  clue  that  the
prosecutors  had  to  the  accomplice's  identity  was  the  defendant's
compelled  testimony.  Therefore,  the  accomplice's  testimony  was
derived  from  the  defendant's  immunized  testimony,  and  thus  cannot  be
used  against  the  defendant.  Since  B  identifies  this  fact,  it's  the  best
response

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law:  The  prosecutor  can  bargain  away  the
rights of one co-defendant in a deal with another.

In a way, every time a prosecutor makes a deal with one defendant,
he's  impacting  the  rights  of  the  other,  since  a  defendant's  testimony
against  his  co-defendant  will  hurt  the  co-defendant.  Furthermore,  A
ignores the real reason the objection to the accomplice's testimony will
be  sustained:  because  it  was  derived  from  the  defendant's  immunized
testimony,  since  the  defendant's  testimony  is  the  only  way  the
prosecutor  discovered 
the  accomplice's
testimony  against  the  defendant  derived  from  the  defendant's  own
immunized testimony, so it cannot be used against the defendant. Since
A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

the  accomplice.  Thus, 

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  arrives  at  the  wrong  result,  and  does  not  focus  on  relevant
issues.

735

The fact that the police suspected the defendant before he testified
is  not  relevant;  his  immunized  testimony,  in  which  he  identified  the
accomplice,  is  the  focal  point  here.  The  defendant's  immunized
testimony is the only source of evidence as to the accomplice's identity.
Since  the  accomplice  was  discovered  through  the  defendant's
testimony,  the  accomplice's  testimony  would  be  considered  derived
from  the  immunized  testimony,  and  thus  could  not  be  used  against  the
defendant.  Thus,  the  police's  notion  that  the  defendant  was  involved
before he testified won't be relevant.

If you chose this response, it could be because you were thinking of
the other kind of immunity — transactional immunity — under which
the witness is immunized from prosecution for any crime related to the
transaction  to  which  the  witness  testifies.  However,  the  witness  may
nonetheless be prosecuted if the prosecution can show an independent
source  for  the  evidence  —  i.e.,  any  source  other  than  the  immunized
testimony.  Under 
immunity,  not
transactional immunity, that's involved — so the ‘‘independent source''
concept  isn't  relevant.  Since  C  states  otherwise,  it's  not  the  best
response.

these  facts,  however, 

it's  use 

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law, and arrives at the wrong result.

There are many reasons why a witness who is willing to testify may
not  be  able  to:  if  his  testimony  is  cumulative  evidence,  if  he's
incompetent to testify, and many others. Thus, as a blanket statement, D
is  incorrect.  Under  these  facts  specifically,  D  ignores  the  fact  that  the
accomplice's  testimony  was  derived  from  the  defendant's  immunized
testimony, and thus cannot be used against the defendant. Since D fails
to recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 61

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the evidence is inadmissible due to
an illegal stop.

The  stop  was  illegal  because  the  officer  was  stopping  cars  at
random.  This  is  not  permissible  because  such  a  system  relies  on  the
officer's  discretion  in  determining  whom  to  stop,  and  the  intrusion  is
great because the driver is likely to be anxious about being stopped at

736

random.  See  Delaware  v.  Prouse,  440  U.S.  648  (1979)  (where  the
police made random traffic stops to ensure that drivers were licensed,
and police did not have probable cause or even reasonable suspicion to
believe that any particular driver stopped  was  unlicensed,  the  stop  of
D's car violated his Fourth Amendment right, making drugs noticed by
the  police  through  D's  window  and  seized  the  fruits  of  an  unlawful
stop).

There  are  two  ways  such  a  system  of  traffic  stops  can  be  made
legal: one is by setting up a checkpoint where every car is stopped and
checked  for  license  and  registration  (since  that  eliminates  offer
discretion).  The  other  is  to  require  a  reasonable  suspicion  of  illegal
activity  before  any  particular  car  is  stopped.  However,  the  random
system here is illegal under Prouse, supra. Since A correctly identifies
this, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law, and ignores the central issue here.

First, use of a flashlight does not constitute a search, since it only

augments the officer's vision.

However, B does say that probable cause would be required, and
that  implies  the  correct  test:  In  order  to  stop  vehicles,  police  need  a
reasonable suspicion of illegal activity. Here, it's the stop itself  that's
deficient, not  the  fact  that  a  flashlight  was  used  to  conduct  a  search.
Since B ignores the fact that the stop itself was invalid, it's not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because although it correctly states the facts, it ignores the fact that the
plan itself is invalid.

The  key  is  that  the  stops  were  made  at  random.  There  are  two
things that could make the system valid: either the police could require
a reasonable suspicion of illegal activity for a stop, or they could set up
a checkpoint, and stop every car to check for license and registration. A
system  like  that  would  be  valid  because  (1)  it  does  not  rely  on  the
officer's discretion in determining whom to stop, and (2) the intrusion is
considered less because the driver is not likely to be as anxious as he
would be with a random stop. However, on the facts here, the stops are
purely random, and thus this plan is not valid (as is further discussed as
to  Choice  A).  As  a  result,  compliance  with  the  plan  does  not  make  a

737

stop valid. Since C doesn't recognize that the plan itself is deficient, it's
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  the  facts  it  states  are  true,  it  ignores  the  threshold
issue that the stop itself was invalid.

Had the stop been valid, the search would have been justified under
plain  view,  the  frisk  would  have  been  valid  due  to  a  reasonable
suspicion of criminal activity and that the suspect was armed, and the
discovery  of  drugs  and  the  gun  would  have  been  valid.  However,  the
stop  here  was  not  valid,  and  so  everything  flowing  from  it  would  be
invalid as well. The stop was invalid because of the plan for random
stops.  Random  stops  are  impermissible  because  they  rely  on  the
officer's  discretion  in  determining  whom  to  stop,  and  the  intrusion  is
great  because  the  driver  is  anxious  when  he's  randomly  stopped.
Instead, a stop requires either reasonable suspicion of illegal activity,
or a fixed check — e.g., a checkpoint where every car is checked for
license  and  registration.  Since  the  stop  itself  was  invalid  under  these
facts, and D ignores this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 62

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  central  reason  why  the  friend's
confession will be admissible.

Certainly the most obvious issue where a confession is concerned
is  whether  the  Miranda  warning  was  required  and  given.  Here,  the
Miranda  warning  was  not  required  because  there  was  no  custodial
interrogation.  An  interrogation  is  custodial  only  if  the  individual
questioned is not free to leave. Here, the friend voluntarily went to the
police station, and he volunteered his confession.

Under  these  facts,  there  was  no  time  up  to  and  including  his
confession when the friend was not free to leave. Thereafter, when the
police were no longer willing to allow the friend to leave and wanted
to question him further, they properly gave him his Miranda  warning.
Since  C  correctly  identifies  that  the  friend's  statement  will  be
admissible because it was voluntarily given and he was not entitled to a
Miranda warning, it's the best response.

738

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts, and arrives at the wrong result.

A  Miranda  warning  is  only  necessary  when  the  police  intend  to

conduct a custodial interrogation.

When  a  person  voluntarily  comes  to  the  station  house,  he  is  not
considered  ‘‘in  custody,''  and  as  a  result,  is  not  entitled  to  a  Miranda
warning. Oregon v. Mathiason  (1977).  That's  what's  happening  under
these  facts.  The  friend  voluntarily  came  to  the  station,  and  apparently
realized he was free to leave at any time (which is what distinguishes
‘‘custody''  from  not  being  in  custody).  His  confession  was  completely
voluntary. As a result, he would not be entitled to a Miranda warning.
Note that if the police wanted to question him after his confession and
didn't want him to be free to leave — as they undoubtedly would have
done  —  then  they  would  have  had  to  give  him  his  Miranda  warning.
Even  then,  the  volunteered  confession  given  before  the  custodial
interrogation  would  be  admissible.  Since  A  mistakenly  states  that  the
Miranda warning would be required at the beginning of the discussion,
it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it mischaracterizes the facts and arrives at the wrong result.

The  right  to  counsel  and  due  process  were  not  violated  by  the
interrogation  because  it  was  not  a  custodial  interrogation,  and  as  a
result  the  Miranda  warning  was  not  required.  An  interrogation  is
‘‘custodial'' if the one being questioned believes he is not free to leave.
Here,  the  friend  voluntarily  came  to  the  station,  and  from  these  facts
was free to leave. Since the friend was there voluntarily and confessed
voluntarily,  his  right  to  counsel  and  due  process  were  not  violated.
Since B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it  arrives  at  the  correct  result,  it  misidentifies  the
friend's conduct as a waiver of his Miranda rights, which it isn't.

The  issue  of  waiving  one's  Miranda  rights  only  comes  into  being
when the warning is required — i.e., the police are going to conduct a
custodial  interrogation.  At  that  point,  the  suspect  can  only  waive  his
rights if the waiver is done knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily —
and the burden is on the prosecution to prove that the waiver is valid.

739

Here,  there  was  no  custodial  interrogation,  the  Miranda  warning
was not required, and so there's no issue of waiver. An interrogation is
custodial only if the individual questioned is not free to leave. Here, the
friend  voluntarily  went  to  the  police  station,  and  he  volunteered  his
confession.  Under  these  facts,  there  was  no  time  when  the  friend  was
not  free  to  leave.  Thus,  the  Miranda-warning  requirement  was  never
‘‘triggered.'' Since D doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 63

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  inspections  were  allowed  pursuant  to  a  statute  with
reasonable requirements.

Businesses  subject  to  extensive  regulation  may  be  subjected  to
frequent
warrantless,  unannounced 
searches,  at 
unannounced  inspections  are  the  only  effective  way  to  enforce  the
regulatory requirements. See, e.g., U.S. v. Biswell, 406 U.S. 311 (1972)
(warrantless inspections of weapons dealers are constitutional, because
such  dealers  are  subject  to  heavy  regulations,  which  can  only  be
enforced by “unannounced, even frequent, inspections.”)

least  where 

Of  the  various  ways  to  achieve  the  aim  of  the  statute  (that  is,
deterring motor vehicle theft and trafficking in stolen motor vehicles),
the  state  selected  a  relatively  unintrusive  means  of  inspection.  All  an
owner would have to do is permit an inspector who showed up during
normal  business  hours  to  take  a  physical  inventory  of  the  motor
vehicles  on  the  lot.  Since  the  junkyard  industry  is  a  heavily  regulated
one, and the state has chosen a reasonably nonintrusive way of carrying
out its regulation, no warrant was required.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the statute has a reasonable inspection requirement.

No warrant was required, for the reason stated in the discussion of
choice  A.  If  the  police  had  arbitrarily  inspected  the  junkyard  owner's
business  more  often  than  others,  or  for  improper  purposes,  the
warrantless inspection here might nonetheless have been found to be an
‘‘unreasonable''  Fourth  Amendment  search.  But  the  facts  say  that
officers  periodically  visit  all  junkyards  in  town,  and  give  no  hint  that
the junkyard owner is being singled out. Therefore, the inspection was
reasonable even though warrantless.

740

 (B) is not the best response,

because  heavily  regulated  industries  can  be  inspected  without  a
warrant.

The motion should be denied because there is no indication that the
statute was in anyway a pretext. In fact, the Supreme Court has stated
that  businesses  administered  by  heavy  regulations  that  can  only  be
enforced  by  unannounced  or  frequent  inspections  are  subject  to
warrantless searches.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  not  all  commercial  establishments  are  subject  to  warrantless
searches.

‘‘Ordinary''  businesses  —  ones  not  subject  to  unusually  heavy
governmental regulations — are not subject to warrantless inspections,
any more than homes are. So this choice is far too broad.

 Answer 64

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the constitutionally required prerequisite
for  a  plea  hearing,  which  is  lacking  in  this  case:  that  the  defendant
understand his right to a jury trial.

In  order  to  ensure  that  a  defendant's  guilty  plea  is  intelligent  and
voluntary,  a  judge  is  constitutionally  required  to  confirm  that  the
defendant  understands  the  following:  the  nature  of  the  charge,  the
maximum possible penalty and the mandatory minimum penalty for the
offense  and  that  he  is  waiving  his  right  to  a  jury  trial  as  a  result  of
pleading  guilty.  Although  the  judge  did  ask  the  defendant  whether  he
understood that he did not have to plead guilty, he did not specifically
ask the defendant whether he was aware that he was waiving his right
to  a  jury  trial.  Since  C  identifies  that  the  plea  bargain  was
constitutionally deficient for this reason, it is the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

There  is  no  constitutional  requirement  that  a  judge  rule  on
outstanding  motions  before  accepting  a  plea  from  a  defendant.  It  may
appear  odd  that  the  criminal  did  not  wait  for  an  order  on  the  motion

741

before deciding to plead guilty, but there is no constitutional duty on the
judge's  part  requiring  him  to  first  decide  the  motion.  Perhaps  an
argument could be made that the criminal's attorney did not provide him
with  effective  counsel  and  should  have  advised  him  to  wait  for  the
ruling before pleading. However, that argument is irrelevant in light of
the fact that there was a definite constitutional violation in that the judge
did not determine whether the criminal understood that he had a right to
a  jury  trial.  Since  A  does  not  correctly  identify  the  reason  for  setting
aside the defendant's plea, it is not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

In  order  to  ensure  that  a  defendant's  guilty  plea  is  intelligent  and
voluntary,  a  judge  is  constitutionally  required  to  confirm  that  the
defendant  understands  the  following:  the  nature  of  the  charge,  the
maximum possible penalty and the mandatory minimum penalty for the
offense,  and  that  he  is  waiving  his  right  to  a  jury  trial  as  a  result  of
pleading  guilty.  Additionally,  federal  courts  and  some  state  courts
require that the judge inquire as to the factual basis for the plea in order
to determine its accuracy. However, this is not constitutionally required
(except in the case where the defendant testifies that he is innocent, but
then  pleads  guilty  for  some  other  reason  —  e.g.,  to  avoid  a  harsh
sentence  in  case  he  is  convicted).  Since  B  erroneously  states  that  the
judge  is  constitutionally  required  to  determine  that  the  defendant
actually committed the acts, it is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it incorrectly states the law.

The judge is not required to determine whether the prosecutor has
failed  to  disclose  any  exculpatory  material.  The  disclosure  of
exculpatory  evidence  is  a  constitutional  requirement,  the  purpose  of
which is to guarantee a defendant a fair trial and which is relevant at
the  trial  stage.  Since  D  incorrectly  states  that  this  is  a  constitutional
requirement at the plea bargaining stage, it is not the best response.

 Answer 65

 (A) is the best response,

because the rival farmer was not told he had the right to be silent.

742

When  an  individual  is  taken  into  custody  by  the  authorities  and  is
subjected to interrogation, he is entitled to a Miranda warning. When
one  deputy  pinned  the  rival  farmer's  arms  behind  his  back,  the  rival
farmer was clearly in ‘‘custody'' (he was not, and knew he was not, free
to leave). When the other deputy demanded, ‘‘Tell us what you did with
the missing farmer . . . '' this was interrogation, since it was a demand
for information. Therefore, the Miranda warning was required. Since it
wasn't given, the rival farmer's response is inadmissible. (Had he been
given the warning, he might have voluntarily waived his right to remain
silent.  But  where  the  warning  isn't  given,  the  court  will  not  find  a
waiver no matter how likely the court thinks it is that the subject would
have waived his rights had he been told of them.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the entry and search of the farm was not illegal.

Had the entry and search of the farm been illegal, the rival farmer
would indeed have had a good argument that his statement was the fruit
of  that  illegality,  and  thus  inadmissible.  But  the  area  the  deputies
entered was ‘‘open fields'' not within the farmhouse's curtilage, so the
rival farmer had no justifiable expectation of privacy in them (and no
warrant was therefore required). Consequently, the deputies' entry was
not  a  violation  of  the  Fourth  Amendment,  and  the  fruit-of-the-
poisonous-tree doctrine had no application.

In  any  event,  the  rival  farmer's  failure  to  receive  a  Miranda
warning is (as described in the discussion of choice A above) the far
more direct explanation of why the statement must be suppressed.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there is no ‘‘hot pursuit'' exception to the Miranda doctrine.

As the discussion of choice A above shows, the Miranda warning
was  required  here.  Choice  C  might  be  correct  if  there  were  a  ‘‘hot
pursuit'' exception to the requirement of the Miranda warning, but there
isn't. (There's a ‘‘public safety'' exception, but that's not what the choice
says, and the situation here didn't fall within that exception anyway).

It's true that there's a ‘‘hot pursuit'' exception somewhere in criminal
procedure, but it's an exception to the requirement of a search warrant.
(If the police are chasing a suspect whom they have probable cause to
arrest, and the suspect enters a dwelling, even his own, the police may
follow  and  look  for  him  in  the  premises  without  a  warrant.)  The

743

exception has no relevance to the facts here (since you're asked about
questioning, not searching).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  this  was  not  the  sort  of  emergency  that  triggers  the  ‘‘public
safety'' exception to the Miranda rule.

For  the  reasons  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  A  above,  the
Miranda  warning  was  required  here.  It's  true  that  there's  a  ‘‘public
safety'' exception to Miranda, announced in N.Y. v. Quarles (1984). But
the  doctrine  applies  only  where  unwarned  questioning  is  dictated  by
‘‘overriding considerations of public safety'' (e.g., an attempt to find a
weapon that may have been hidden nearby by the suspect). Here, after
arresting the rival farmer, the police had plenty of time to check for the
grave  based  on  the  tip  they'd  received  (and  no  danger  from  delay  in
doing so), so there was no imminent need or public danger of the sort
that triggers the public-safety exception.

 Answer 66

 (D) is the best response,

because  authorities  encouraged  and  offered  to  reward  the  second
computer search.

Therefore, with regard to the second search, the woman was acting
as a government agent and a warrant was required. Lacking a warrant,
the  second  search  violated  the  Fourth  Amendment.  On  the  other  hand,
the  woman's  first  entry  of  the  computer  and  copying  of  the  file
constituted  an  entirely  private  search  and  did  not  trigger  Fourth
Amendment  protections,  as  she  was  not  acting  as  a  government  agent.
Accordingly, only the second set of photographs should be suppressed.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  authorities  encouraged  and  offered  to  reward  the  second
computer search.

Therefore, with regard to the second search, the woman was acting
as a government agent and a warrant was required. Lacking a warrant,
the second search violated the Fourth Amendment.

 (B) is not the best response,

744

because the woman did not need to act with probable cause for the first
search.

The first search was an entirely private search (the authorities did
not encourage it or offer to reward her), and therefore it did not trigger
the  Fourth  Amendment  protections.  Accordingly,  the  first  photograph
should not be suppressed.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  a  private  violation  of  this  statute  does  not  itself  require
suppression  of  the  evidence.  United  States  v.  Steiger,  318  F.3d  1039
(11th Cir. 2003).

However, because authorities encouraged and offered to reward the
second computer search, the woman was acting as a government agent
with  regard  to  that  search,  which  did  in  fact  violate  the  Fourth
Amendment because it was conducted without a warrant. Accordingly,
only the second set of photographs should be suppressed.