QUESTIONS

PRACTICE MBE — A.M. EXAM

Question 51

Husband,  Wife,  and  Child,  all  citizens  of  State  A,  ate  a  can  of  soup  that
turned out to be contaminated. Each suffered food poisoning that resulted in
permanent  neurological  damage.  Defendant,  a  food  company  in  State  B,
processed and distributed the can of soup. Husband, Wife, and Child sued
Defendant  in  a  federal  district  court  in  State  A.  Defendant  has  moved  to
dismiss  the  complaint  for  lack  of  subject-matter  jurisdiction.  He  concedes
that the parties are citizens of diverse states, but argues that the complaint
does not meet the amount-in-controversy test. Assume that all allegations in
the choices below regarding the amount of plaintiffs' damages are made in
good faith, and that it is not “legally certain” that any plaintiff has suffered
smaller damages than he or she alleges. Assume also that as to each choice,
there  are  no  allegations  regarding  the  amount  of  damages  other  than  those

1250

mentioned in the choice.

How should the court resolve the motion?

 (A) The court should grant the motion if the complaint alleges that: (i)
Husband suffered $60,000 in personal damages; (ii) Wife suffered
$50,000 in personal damages; and (iii) Child suffered $40,000 in
personal damages.

(B) The court should deny the motion if the complaint alleges that each
family member suffered $40,000 in personal damages, because
supplementary jurisdiction applies.

(C) The court should grant the motion if the complaint alleges that (i)

Husband suffered $40,000 in personal damages and $40,000 for loss of
consortium; and (ii) Wife and Child each suffered $40,000 in personal
damages.

(D) The court should deny the motion if the complaint alleges that Husband
and Wife each suffered $40,000 in personal damages, because their
claims are based on a common and undivided interest.

 Question 52

On  a  parcel  of  land  immediately  adjacent  to  a  woman's  50-acre  farm,  a
public school district built a large consolidated high school that included a
5,000-seat lighted athletic stadium. The woman had objected to the district's
plans  for  the  stadium  and  was  particularly  upset  about  nighttime  athletic
events that attracted large crowds and that, at times, resulted in significant
noise and light intensity levels. On nights of athletic events, the woman and
her  family  members  wore  earplugs  and  could  not  sleep  or  enjoy  a  quiet
evening until after 10 p.m. In addition, light from the stadium on those nights
was bright enough to allow reading a newspaper in the woman's yard.

Which of the following doctrines would best support the woman's claim

for damages?

 (A) Constructive eviction
(B) Private nuisance
(C) Public nuisance
(D) Waste

 Question 53

On  March  1,  an  excavator  entered  into  a  contract  with  a  contractor  to

1251

perform  excavation  work  on  a  large  project.  The  contract  expressly
required  that  the  excavator  begin  work  on  June  1  to  enable  other
subcontractors to install utilities. On May 15, the excavator requested a 30-
day delay in the start date for the excavation work because he was seriously
behind schedule on another project. When the contractor refused to grant the
delay,  the  excavator  stated  that  he  would  try  to  begin  the  work  for  the
contractor on June 1.

Does the contractor have valid legal grounds to cancel the contract with

the excavator and hire a replacement?

 (A) Yes, because the excavator committed an anticipatory repudiation of the

contract by causing the contractor to feel insecure about the
performance.

(B) Yes, because the excavator breached the implied covenant of good faith

and fair dealing.

(C) No, because the excavator would be entitled to specific performance of

the contract if he could begin by June 1.

(D) No, because the excavator did not state unequivocally that he would

delay the beginning of his work.

 Question 54

Ten years ago, a labor leader divorced his wife. Both he and his first wife
have since married other persons. Recently, a newspaper in another city ran
a feature article on improper influences it asserted had been used by labor
officials  to  secure  favorable  rulings  from  government  officials.  The  story
said  that  in  1980  the  labor  leader's  first  wife,  with  his  knowledge  and
concurrence,  gave  sexual  favors  to  the  mayor  of  the  labor  leader's
hometown  and  then  persuaded  the  mayor  to  grant  concessions  to  the  labor
leader's union.

The  story  named  the  labor  leader  and  identified  his  first  wife  by  her
former and current surnames. The reporter for the newspaper believed the
story  to  be  true,  since  it  had  been  related  to  him  by  two  very  reliable
sources.

The  labor  leader's  first  wife  suffered  emotional  distress  and  became
very  depressed.  If  she  asserts  a  claim  based  on  defamation  against  the
newspaper, she will

 (A) prevail, because the story concerned her personal, private life.
(B) prevail if the story was false.

1252

(C) not prevail, because the newspaper did not print the story with

knowledge of its falsity or with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity.

(D) not prevail if the newspaper exercised ordinary care in determining if

the story was true or false.

 Question 55

The  owner  in  fee  simple  of  a  small  farm  consisting  of  30  acres  of  land
improved  with  a  house  and  several  outbuildings,  leased  the  same  to  a
farmer for a ten-year period. After two years had expired, the government
condemned 20 acres of the property and allocated the compensation award
to the owner and the farmer according to their respective interest so taken. It
so  happened,  however,  that  the  20  acres  taken  embraced  all  of  the  farm's
tillable land, leaving only the house, outbuildings, and a small wooded lot.
There  is  no  applicable  statute  in  the  jurisdiction  where  the  property  is
located nor any provision in the lease relating to condemnation. The farmer
quit possession, and the owner brought suit against him to recover rent. The
owner will

 (A) lose, because there has been a frustration of purpose that excuses the

farmer from further performance of his contract to pay rent.

(B) lose, because there has been a breach of the implied covenant of quiet

enjoyment by the owner's inability to provide the farmer with
possession of the whole of the property for the entire term.

(C) win, because of the implied warranty on the part of the tenant to return

the demised premises in the same condition at the end of the term as they
were at the beginning.

(D) win, because the relationship of landlord and tenant was unaffected by
the condemnation, thus leaving the farmer still obligated to pay rent.

 Question 56

Statutes in the jurisdiction define criminal assault as ‘‘an attempt to commit
a criminal battery'' and criminal battery as ‘‘causing an offensive touching.''

As a defendant was walking down the street, a gust of wind blew off his
hat. The defendant reached out, trying to grab his hat, and narrowly missed
striking the plaintiff in the face with his hand.

If charged with criminal assault, the defendant should be found

 (A) guilty, because he caused the plaintiff to be in apprehension of an

offensive touching.

1253

(B) guilty, because he should have realized he might strike someone by

reaching out.

(C) not guilty, because he did not intend to hit the plaintiff.
(D) not guilty, because he did not hit the plaintiff.

 Question 57

Residents of a city complained that brightly colored signs detracted from the
character  of  the  city's  historic  district  and  distracted  motorists  trying  to
navigate  its  narrow  streets.  In  response,  the  city  council  enacted  an
ordinance requiring any ‘‘sign or visual display'' visible on the streets of the
historic district to be black and white and to be no more than four feet long
or wide.

A  political  party  wanted  to  hang  a  six-foot-long,  red,  white,  and  blue
political banner in front of a building in the historic district. The party filed
suit to challenge the constitutionality of the sign ordinance as applied to the
display of its banner.

Which  of  the  following  would  be  the  most  useful  argument  for  the

political party?

 (A) The ordinance is not the least restrictive means of promoting a

compelling government interest.

(B) The ordinance is not narrowly tailored to an important government

interest, nor does it leave open alternative channels of communication.

(C) The ordinance imposes a prior restraint on political expression.
(D) The ordinance effectively favors some categories of speech over others.

 Question 58

A  car  dealer  owed  a  bank  $10,000,  due  on  June  1.  The  car  dealer
subsequently sold an automobile to a buyer at a price of $10,000, payable at
$1,000 per month beginning on June 1. The car dealer then asked the bank
whether the bank would accept payments of $1,000 per month for ten months
beginning June 1, without interest, in payment of the debt. The bank agreed
to  that  arrangement  and  the  car  dealer  then  directed  the  buyer  to  make  the
payments to the bank. When the buyer tendered the first payment to the bank,
the  bank  refused  the  payment,  asserting  that  it  would  accept  payment  only
from the car dealer. On June 2, the bank demanded that the car dealer pay
the debt in full immediately. The car dealer refused to pay and the bank sued
the car dealer to recover the $10,000.

1254

In  this  suit,  which  of  the  following  arguments  best  supports  the  bank's

claim for immediate payment?

 (A) The agreement to extend the time for payment was not in writing.
(B) The car dealer could not delegate its duty to pay to the buyer.
(C) The car dealer gave no consideration for the agreement to extend the

time of payment.

(D) The car dealer's conduct was an attempted novation that the bank could

reject.

 Question 59

A landowner owned a vacant lot. He entered into a written contract with a
contractor to build a house of stated specifications on the lot and to sell the
house and lot to the contractor. The contract provided for an ‘‘inside date''
of April 1, 2010, and an ‘‘outside date'' of May 1, 2010, for completion of
the house and delivery of a deed. Neither party tendered performance on the
dates  stated.  On  May  3,  2010,  the  contractor  notified  the  landowner  in
writing  of  the  contractor's  election  to  cancel  the  contract  because  of  the
landowner's  failure  to  deliver  title  by  May  1.  On  May  12,  the  landowner
notified the contractor that some unanticipated construction difficulties had
been encountered but that the landowner was entitled to a reasonable time to
complete  in  any  event.  The  notification  also  included  a  promise  that  the
landowner  would  be  ready  to  perform  by  May  29  and  that  he  was  setting
that date as an adjourned closing date. The landowner obtained a certificate
of  occupancy  and  appropriate  documents  of  title,  and  he  tendered
performance on May 29. The contractor refused. The landowner brought an
action to recover damages for breach of contract. The decision in the case
will most likely be determined by whether

 (A) the landowner acted with due diligence in completing the house.
(B) the contractor can prove actual ‘‘undue hardship'' caused by the delay.
(C) the expressions ‘‘inside date'' and ‘‘outside date'' are construed to make

time of the essence.

(D) there is a showing of good faith in the contractor's efforts to terminate

the contract.

 Question 60

A man owned a much-loved cat, worth about $25, that frequently trespassed
on a neighbor's property. The neighbor repeatedly asked the man to keep the

1255

cat on his own property, but the trespasses did not diminish. Aware of the
man's attachment to the cat, the neighbor killed the cat with a shotgun in full
view  of  the  man.  As  a  consequence,  the  man  suffered  great  emotional
distress.

In  an  action  by  the  man  against  the  neighbor,  which  of  the  following

claims would be likely to result in the greatest monetary recovery?

 (A) Battery
(B) Intentional infliction of mental suffering
(C) Trespass to chattel
(D) Conversion

 Question 61

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries allegedly suffered when he slipped
and  fell  on  the  defendant's  business  property.  Without  asking  that  the
defendant's  property  manager  be  declared  a  hostile  witness,  the  plaintiff
called  him  solely  to  establish  that  the  defendant  was  the  owner  of  the
property where the plaintiff fell. On cross-examination of the manager, the
defendant's  attorney  sought  to  establish  that  the  defendant  had  taken
reasonable precautions to make the property safe for business invitees.

Should  the  defendant's  cross-examination  of  the  manager  be  permitted

over the plaintiff's objection?

 (A) No, because cross-examination should be limited to the subject matter
of the direct examination and matters affecting the credibility of the
witness.

(B) No, because the court has not declared the manager hostile.
(C) Yes, because the cross-examiner is entitled to explore matters relevant

to any issue in the case, including credibility.

(D) Yes, because the manager is the agent of a party, as to whom the scope

of cross-examination is unlimited.

 Question 62

In  order  to  combat  terrorism,  Congress  enacted  a  statute  authorizing  the
President to construct surveillance facilities on privately owned property if
the  President  determined  that  the  construction  of  such  facilities  was
‘‘necessary  to  safeguard  the  security  of  the  United  States.''  The  statute
provided no compensation for the owner of the land on which such facilities

1256

were  constructed  and  provided  that  the  surveillance  facilities  were  to  be
owned and operated by the U.S. government.

the
Pursuant  to  this  statute,  the  President  has  determined  that 
construction of a surveillance facility on a very small, unused portion of an
owner's  large  tract  of  land  is  necessary  to  safeguard  the  security  of  the
United States. The construction and operation of the facility will not affect
any of the uses that the owner is currently making of the entire tract of land.

The  owner  has  filed  suit  to  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  the
construction of a surveillance facility on the parcel of land at issue without
compensation.

How should the court rule?

 (A) It would be a taking of the owner's property for which the owner must

be compensated.

(B) It would single out the owner for adverse treatment in violation of the

equal protection component of the Fifth Amendment.

(C) It would not interfere with any use the owner is currently making of the
entire tract of land and, therefore, would not entitle the owner to any
compensation.

(D) It would be valid without any compensation, because it has been

determined to be necessary to protect a compelling government interest
in national security.

 Question 63

A  landowner  executed  an  instrument  in  the  proper  form  of  a  deed,
purporting  to  convey  his  land  to  a  friend.  The  landowner  handed  the
instrument to the friend, saying, ‘‘This is yours, but please do not record it
until after I am dead. Otherwise, it will cause me no end of trouble with my
relatives.'' Two days later, the landowner asked the friend to return the deed
to him because he had decided that he should devise the land to the friend by
will rather than by deed. The friend said that he would destroy the deed and
a  day  or  so  later  falsely  told  the  landowner  that  the  deed  had  been
destroyed. Six months ago, the landowner, who had never executed a will,
died intestate, survived by a daughter as his sole heir at law. The day after
the  landowner's  death,  the  friend  recorded  the  deed  from  him.  As  soon  as
the daughter discovered this recording and the friend's claim to the land, she
brought an appropriate action against the friend to quiet title to the land.

For whom should the court hold?

1257

(A) The daughter, because the death of the landowner deprived the

subsequent recordation of any effect.

(B) The daughter, because the friend was dishonest in reporting that he had

destroyed the deed.

(C) The friend, because the deed was delivered to him.
(D) The friend, because the deed was recorded by him.

 Question 64

Plaintiff owns and resides in a house in State A and has no plans to move.
He  ordered  a  garden  hose  for  $100  by  telephone  from  a  catalogue
distributed  by  Defendant,  a  garden-supply  company  that  is  incorporated  in
State A and has its principal place of business there. The garden hose turned
out to have a defective nozzle, and while Plaintiff was watering his garden a
flood  developed,  ruining  his  garden.  Plaintiff  was  angry,  and  therefore
posted  disparaging  comments  about  Defendant  on  an  online  discussion
board. Plaintiff also sued Defendant in State A state court on a breach-of-
warranty  theory  to  recover  the  purchase  price  plus  consequential  damages
for  his  lost  garden,  for  a  total  of  $5,000.  Defendant  filed  a  counterclaim
alleging  violation  of  a  federal  statute  entitled  the  “Federal  Trade  Libel
Law”  (the  FTLL),  which  provides:  “Any  false  or  disparaging  online
statement made about a business that conducts online sales or sales by mail
shall  be  per  se  actionable  in  state  or  federal  court,  and  the  disparaged
business  shall  be  entitled  to  recover  from  the  maker  of  the  statement,
without proof of pecuniary harm, statutory damages of $10,000 for each day
in  which  said  statement  is  publicly  accessible  online.”  Defendant's
counterclaim  alleged  that  Plaintiff's  disparaging  statement  appeared  online
for  ten  days,  and  the  company  therefore  sought  $100,000  in  damages.
Defendant then removed the action to federal court for the district of State
A. Plaintiff now seeks to have the case remanded to State A state court.

Should the federal district court remand the action or any part of it?

 (A) No, because the federal court has power to hear Defendant's

counterclaim.

(B) No, because the federal court may exercise federal-question jurisdiction
over the counterclaim, and supplemental jurisdiction extends to cover
Plaintiff's claim.

(C) Yes as to the entire action, because the removal was not proper.
(D) Yes as to Plaintiff's state-law claim, but the court may and should retain

jurisdiction over Defendant's federal counterclaim.

1258

Question 65

that 

their  actions  were  permitted  by 

After  a  liquor  store  was  robbed,  the  police  received  an  anonymous
telephone  call  naming  a  store  employee  as  the  perpetrator  of  the  robbery.
Honestly  believing 
the  U.S.
Constitution, the police talked one of the employee's neighbors into going to
the  employee's  home  with  a  hidden  tape  recorder  to  engage  him  in  a
conversation  about  the  crime.  During  the  conversation,  the  employee
admitted committing the robbery. The employee was charged in state court
with  the  robbery.  He  moved  to  suppress  the  recording  on  the  grounds  that
the  method  of  obtaining  it  violated  his  constitutional  rights  under  both  the
state and federal constitutions. Assume that a clear precedent from the state
supreme court holds that the conduct of the police in making the recording
violated  the  employee's  rights  under  the  state  constitution,  and  that  the
exclusionary rule is the proper remedy for this violation.

Should the court grant the employee's motion?

 (A) No, because the employee's federal constitutional rights were not
violated, and this circumstance overrides any state constitutional
provisions.

(B) No, because the police were acting in the good-faith belief that their

actions were permitted by the federal Constitution.

(C) Yes, because the making of the recording violated the state constitution.
(D) Yes, because use of the recording would violate the neighbor's federal

constitutional rights.

 Question 66

A  man  who  had  become  very  drunk  left  a  bar  and  started  to  walk  home.
Another patron of the bar, who had observed the man's condition, followed
him. The patron saw the man stumble and fall to the ground near an alley.
The patron then began to pull out a gun but saw that the man had passed out
asleep in the gutter. The patron reached into the man's pocket, grabbed his
wallet,  and  started  to  walk  away.  When  the  patron  heard  police  officers
approaching, he dropped the wallet and ran off.

The crimes below are listed in descending order of seriousness.
What is the most serious crime for which the patron properly could be

convicted?

 (A) Robbery

1259

(B) Larceny
(C) Attempted robbery
(D) Attempted larceny

 Question 67

A pedestrian, while crossing the street, was seriously injured when she was
hit by a car driven by a messenger. The day after the accident, she started a
lengthy period of medical treatment. Shortly after the accident, she sued the
messenger for negligence in a federal diversity action in State A. As a part
of  automatic  disclosure,  the  pedestrian  provided  the  name  and  contact
information of both the doctor who examined her in the emergency room and
of  the  physician  who  treated  her  during  her  long  period  of  recuperation.
During  discovery,  the  messenger  requested  that  the  pedestrian  produce  all
medical  records  kept  by  any  doctor  or  hospital  relating  to  any  injuries
allegedly suffered by the pedestrian as a consequence of the accident. The
pedestrian's counsel produced certain records, but these did not include any
handwritten  notes  taken  by  the  treating  physician  over  the  18-month
treatment  period.  At  trial,  the  treating  physician  was  called  as  part  of  the
pedestrian's  direct  case;  the  pedestrian's  lawyer  authenticated  70  pages  of
handwritten  notes  he  had  made  during  the  various  treatment  sessions,  and
the lawyer offered these into evidence under an appropriate exception to the
hearsay rule.

The messenger's lawyer then objected to the admission of the notes; the
lawyer pointed out that detailed analysis of the notes would be needed for
the  lawyer  to  adequately  cross-examine  the  physician  and  argued  that  the
court  should  exclude  the  notes  from  evidence  because  they  were  not
produced during discovery. In a sidebar conference, the pedestrian testified
in response that she had not learned of the existence of the treatment notes
until the prior week. The trial judge will most likely

 (A) rule that the notes may not be excluded without the defendant's first

making a motion for sanctions.

(B) rule that the notes should not be excluded unless the messenger shows

that his case will be prejudiced if the pedestrian is permitted to use the
notes as evidence without her having made timely disclosure of them.
(C) rule that the notes should not be excluded if the judge believes that the

pedestrian had learned about the notes only the prior week, since in that
event the failure to produce the notes would be substantially justified.
(D) rule that the notes must be excluded unless the judge believes that the

1260

failure to produce them is now harmless.

 Question 68

The  Federal  Automobile  Safety  Act  establishes  certain  safety  and
performance  standards  for  all  automobiles  manufactured  in  the  United
States.  The  Act  creates  a  five-member  ‘‘Automobile  Commission''  to
investigate  automobile  safety,  to  make  recommendations  to  Congress  for
new  laws,  to  make  further  rules  establishing  safety  and  performance
standards, and to prosecute violations of the Act. The chairman is appointed
by the President, two members are selected by the president pro tempore of
the Senate, and two by the speaker of the House of Representatives.

A  minor  U.S.  car  manufacturer  seeks  to  enjoin  enforcement  of  the

Commission's rules.

The best argument that the manufacturer can make is that

 (A) legislative power may not be delegated by Congress to an agency in the

absence of clear guidelines.

(B) the commerce power does not extend to the manufacture of automobiles

not used in interstate commerce.

(C) the manufacturer is denied due process of law because it is not

represented on the Commission.

(D) the Commission lacks authority to enforce its standards because not all
of its members were appointed by the President of the United States.

 Question 69

An uncle was the record title holder of a vacant tract of land. He often told
friends that he would leave the land to his nephew in his will. The nephew
knew  of  these  conversations.  Prior  to  the  uncle's  death,  the  nephew
conveyed the land by warranty deed to a woman for $10,000. She did not
conduct  a  title  search  of  the  land  before  she  accepted  the  deed  from  the
nephew.  She  promptly  and  properly  recorded  her  deed.  Last  month,  the
uncle died, leaving the land to the nephew in his duly probated will. Both
the nephew and the woman now claim ownership of the land. The nephew
has offered to return the $10,000 to the woman.

Who has title to the land?

 (A) The nephew, because at the time of the deed to the woman, the uncle

was the owner of record.

1261

(B) The nephew, because the woman did not conduct a title search.
(C) The woman, because of the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
(D) The woman, because she recorded her deed prior to the uncle's death.

 Question 70

A  mother,  whose  adult  son  was  a  law  school  graduate,  contracted  with  a
tutor to give the son a bar exam preparation course. ‘‘If my son passes the
bar exam,'' the mother explained to the tutor, ‘‘he has been promised a job
with  a  law  firm  that  will  pay  $55,000  a  year.''  The  tutor  agreed  to  do  the
work  for  $5,000,  although  the  going  rate  is  $6,000.  Before  the  instruction
was  to  begin,  the  tutor  repudiated  the  contract.  Although  the  mother  or  the
son  reasonably  could  have  employed,  for  $6,000,  an  equally  qualified
instructor  to  replace  the  tutor,  neither  did  so.  The  son  failed  the  bar  exam
and  the  law  firm  refused  to  employ  him.  It  can  be  shown  that  had  the  son
received the instruction, he would have passed the bar exam.

If  the  mother  and  the  son  join  as  parties  plaintiff  and  sue  the  tutor  for

breach of contract, how much, if anything, are they entitled to recover?

 (A) $1,000, because all other damages could have been avoided by

employing another equally qualified instructor.

(B) $55,000, because damages of that amount were within the contemplation

of the parties at the time they contracted.

(C) Nominal damages only, because the mother was not injured by the

breach and the tutor made no promise to the son.

(D) Nothing, because neither the mother nor the son took steps to avoid the

consequences of the tutor's breach.

 Question 71

A  defendant  became  intoxicated  at  a  bar.  He  got  into  his  car  and  drove
away. Within a few blocks, craving another drink, he stopped his car in the
middle of the street, picked up a brick, and broke the display window of a
liquor  store.  As  he  was  reaching  for  a  bottle,  the  night  watchman  arrived.
Startled, the defendant turned, and struck the watchman on the head with the
bottle,  killing  him.  Only  vaguely  aware  of  what  was  happening,  the
defendant returned to his car, consumed more liquor, and then drove off at a
high speed.

Relevant  statutes  define  burglary  to  include  ‘‘breaking  and  entering  a
building not used as a dwelling with the intent to commit a crime therein.''

1262

Manslaughter  is  defined  as  the  ‘‘killing  of  a  human  being  in  a  criminally
reckless  manner.''  Criminal  recklessness  is  ‘‘consciously  disregarding  a
substantial and unjustifiable risk resulting from the actor's conduct.'' Murder
is  defined  as  ‘‘the  premeditated  and  intentional  killing  of  another  or  the
killing of another in the commission of committing rape, robbery, burglary,
or  arson.''  Another  statute  provides  that  intoxication  is  not  a  defense  to
crime unless it negates an element of the offense.

The  defendant  was  charged  with  the  murder  of  the  watchman  and
manslaughter  in  the  death  of  the  pedestrian.  Assume  that  he  is  tried
separately on each charge.

At a defendant's trial for the murder of the watchman, the court should in

substance charge the jury on the issue of the defense of intoxication that

 (A) intoxication is a defense to the underlying crime of burglary if the

defendant, due to drunkenness, did not form an intent to commit a crime
within the building, in which case there can be no conviction for murder
unless the defendant intentionally and with premeditation killed the
watchman.

(B) voluntary intoxication is not a defense to the crime of murder.
(C) the defendant is guilty of murder despite his intoxication only if the state

proves beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing of the watchman was
premeditated and intentional.

(D) voluntary intoxication is a defense to the crime of murder if the

defendant would not have killed the watchman but for his intoxication.

 Question 72

A  defendant  was  charged  with  assault  and  battery  in  a  jurisdiction  that
followed  the  ‘‘retreat''  doctrine,  and  he  pleaded  self-defense.  At  his  trial,
the evidence established the following: a man and his wife were enjoying a
drink at a tavern when the defendant entered and stood near the door. The
wife  whispered  to  her  husband  that  the  defendant  was  the  man  who  had
insulted  her  on  the  street  the  day  before.  The  husband  approached  the
defendant and said, ‘‘Get out of here, or I'll break your nose.'' The defendant
said, ‘‘Don't come any closer, or I'll hurt you.'' When the husband raised his
fists menacingly, the defendant pulled a can of pepper spray from his pocket,
aimed  it  at  the  husband's  face,  and  sprayed.  The  husband  fell  to  the  floor,
writhing in pain.

Should the defendant be convicted?

1263

(A) No, because he had no obligation to retreat before resorting to non-

deadly force.

(B) No, because there is no obligation to retreat when one is in an occupied

structure.

(C) Yes, because he failed to retreat even though there was an opportunity

available.

(D) Yes, because the husband did not threaten to use deadly force against

him.

 Question 73

A  defendant  was  charged  with  aggravated  assault.  At  trial,  the  victim
testified  that  the  defendant  beat  her  savagely,  but  she  was  not  asked  about
anything  said  during  the  incident.  The  prosecutor  then  called  a  witness  to
testify  that  when  the  beating  stopped,  the  victim  screamed:  ‘‘I'm  dying  —
don't let [the defendant] get away with it!''

Is  the  testimony  of  the  witness  concerning  the  victim's  statement

admissible?

 (A) No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
(B) No, because the victim was not asked about the statement.
(C) Yes, as a statement under belief of impending death, even though the

victim did not die.

(D) Yes, as an excited utterance.

 Question 74

A  developer  was  the  owner  of  a  large  subdivision.  A  buyer  became
interested in purchasing a lot but could not decide between Lot 40 and Lot
41. The price and fair market value of each of these two lots was $5,000.
The  buyer  paid  the  developer  $5,000,  which  the  developer  accepted,  and
the  developer  delivered  to  the  buyer  a  deed  that  was  properly  executed,
complete, and ready for recording in every detail except that the space in the
deed for the lot number was left blank. The developer told the buyer to fill
in  either  Lot  40  or  Lot  41  according  to  his  decision  and  then  record  the
deed.  The  buyer  visited  the  development  the  next  day  and  completely
changed his mind, selecting Lot 25. He filled in Lot 25 and duly recorded
the deed. The price of Lot 25 and its fair market value was $7,500.

Immediately  upon  learning  what  the  buyer  had  done,  the  developer
brought an appropriate action against the buyer to rescind the transaction. If

1264

the developer loses, the most likely basis for the judgment is that

 (A) the developer's casual business practices created his loss.
(B) the need for certainty in land title records controls.
(C) the agency implied to complete the deed cannot be restricted by the oral

understanding.

(D) the recording of the deed precludes any questioning of its provisions in

its recorded form.

 Question 75

An  accountant  and  a  bookkeeper,  as  part  of  a  contract  dissolving  their
accounting business, agreed that each would contribute $100,000 to fund an
annuity  for  a  clerk  who  was  a  longtime  employee  of  the  business.  The
clerk's position would be terminated due to the dissolution, and he did not
have  a  retirement  plan.  The  accountant  and  the  bookkeeper  informed  the
clerk of their plan to fund an annuity for him. The clerk, confident about his
financial  future  because  of  the  promised  annuity,  purchased  a  retirement
home. The accountant later contributed his $100,000 to fund the annuity, but
the bookkeeper stated that he could afford to contribute only $50,000. The
accountant agreed that the bookkeeper should contribute only $50,000.

Does the clerk have a valid basis for an action against the bookkeeper

for the unpaid $50,000?

 (A) No, because the clerk was bound by the modification of the agreement

made by the accountant and the bookkeeper.

(B) No, because the clerk was only a donee beneficiary of the agreement
between the accountant and the bookkeeper, and had no vested rights.

(C) Yes, because the clerk's reliance on the promised retirement fund

prevented the parties from changing the terms.

(D) Yes, because the promises to establish the fund were made binding by

consideration from the clerk's many years of employment.

 Question 76

A  report  released  by  a  Senate  investigating  committee  named  three  U.S.
citizens as helping to organize support for terrorist activities. All three were
employed by the U.S. government as park rangers.

Congress enacted a statute naming the three individuals identified in the
report  and  providing  that  they  could  not  hold  any  position  of  employment

1265

with the federal government.

Which  of  the  following  constitutional  provisions  provides  the  best

means for challenging the constitutionality of the statute?

 (A) The Bill of Attainder Clause
(B) The Due Process Clause
(C) The Ex Post Facto Clause
(D) The Takings Clause

 Question 77

Under  the  Federal  Tort  Claims  Act,  with  certain  exceptions  not  relevant
here,  the  federal  government  is  liable  only  for  negligence.  A  federally
owned  and  operated  nuclear  reactor  emitted  substantial  quantities  of
radioactive matter that settled on a nearby dairy farm, killing the dairy herd
and  contaminating  the  soil.  At  the  trial  of  an  action  brought  against  the
federal  government  by  the  farm's  owner,  the  trier  of  fact  found  that  the
nuclear  plant  had  a  sound  design,  but  that  a  valve  made  by  the  Acme
Engineering Company had malfunctioned and allowed the radioactive matter
to  escape,  that  Acme  Engineering  Company  is  universally  regarded  as  a
quality manufacturer of components for nuclear plants, and that there was no
way  the  federal  government  could  have  anticipated  or  prevented  the
emission of the radioactive matter.

If  there  is  no  other  applicable  statute,  for  whom  should  the  trial  judge

enter judgment?

 (A) The plaintiff, on the ground that the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur

applies.

(B) The plaintiff, on the ground that one who allows dangerous material to

escape to the property of another is liable for the damage done.

(C) The defendant, on the ground that a case under the Federal Tort Claims

Act has not been proved.

(D) The defendant, on the ground that the Acme Engineering Company is the

proximate cause of the owner's damage.

 Question 78

Driving  down  a  dark  road,  a  defendant  accidentally  ran  over  a  man.  The
defendant  stopped  and  found  that  the  victim  was  dead.  The  defendant,
fearing  that  he  might  be  held  responsible,  took  the  victim's  wallet,  which
contained  a  substantial  amount  of  money.  He  removed  the  identification

1266

papers  and  put  the  wallet  and  money  back  into  the  victim's  pocket.  The
defendant is not guilty of

 (A) larceny, because he took the papers only to prevent identification and

not for his own use.

(B) larceny, because he did not take anything from a living victim.
(C) robbery, because he did not take the papers by means of force or putting

in fear.

(D) robbery, because he did not take anything of monetary value.

 Question 79

In  a  civil  trial  arising  from  a  car  accident  at  an  intersection,  the  plaintiff
testified on direct examination that he came to a full stop at the intersection.
On  cross-examination,  the  defendant's  lawyer  asked  whether  the  plaintiff
claimed that he was exercising due care at the time, and the plaintiff replied
that  he  was  driving  carefully.  At  a  sidebar  conference,  the  defendant's
lawyer  sought  permission  to  ask  the  plaintiff  about  two  prior  intersection
accidents in the last 12 months where he received traffic citations for failing
to stop at stop signs. The plaintiff's lawyer objected.

Should the court allow defense counsel to ask the plaintiff about the two

prior incidents?

 (A) No, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions does not
bear on the plaintiff's veracity and does not contradict his testimony in
this case.

(B) No, because there is no indication that failing to stop on the recent

occasions led to convictions.

(C) Yes, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions bears on
the plaintiff's credibility, since he claims to have stopped in this case.
(D) Yes, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions tends to
contradict the plaintiff's claim that he was driving carefully at the time
he collided with the defendant.

 Question 80

A developer, the owner of a large, undeveloped parcel of land, prepared a
development  plan  creating  200  house  lots  in  the  development  with  the
necessary  streets  and  public  areas.  The  plan  was  fully  approved  by  all
necessary governmental agencies and duly recorded. However, construction
of  the  streets,  utilities,  and  other  aspects  of  the  development  of  the  parcel

1267

has not yet begun, and none of the streets can be opened as public ways until
they  are  completed  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  ordinances  in  the
municipality in which the parcel is located.

One of the streets laid out as part of the development plan is a border
road  that  abuts  an  adjacent  one-acre  parcel  owned  by  a  widower.  The
widower's  land  has  no  access  to  any  public  way  except  an  old,  poorly
developed  road,  which  is  inconvenient  and  cannot  be  used  without  great
expense. The widower sold his plot to a buyer. The description used in the
deed  from  the  widower  to  the  buyer  was  the  same  as  that  used  in  prior
deeds except that the portion of the description that formerly said, ‘‘thence
by  land  of  the  developer,  north-easterly  a  distance  of  200  feet,  more  or
less,''  was  changed  to  ‘‘thence  by  the  border  road  as  laid  out  on  the
development plan North 46 degrees East 201.6 feet,'' with full reference to
the plan and its recording data.

The buyer now seeks a building permit that will show that he intends to
use  the  border  road  for  access  to  his  land.  The  developer  objects  to  the
granting  of  a  building  permit  on  the  grounds  that  he  has  never  granted  any
right  to  the  widower  or  the  buyer  to  use  the  border  road.  There  are  no
governing  statutes  or  ordinances  relating  to  the  problem.  The  developer
brings an appropriate action in which the right of the buyer to use the border
road without an express grant from the developer is at issue.
The best argument for the developer in this action is that

 (A) the buyer's right must await the action of appropriate public authorities
to open the border road as a public street, since no private easements
arose by implication.

(B) the Statute of Frauds prevents the introduction of evidence that might

prove the necessity for the buyer to use the border road.

(C) the buyer's right to use the border road is restricted to the assertion of a
way by necessity and the facts preclude the success of such a claim.
(D) the buyer would be unjustly enriched if he were permitted to use the

border road.

 Question 81

A  landowner  entered  into  a  single  contract  with  a  builder  to  have  three
different  structures  built  on  separate  pieces  of  property  owned  by  the
landowner.  Each  structure  was  distinct  from  the  other  two  and  the  parties
agreed  on  a  specific  price  for  each.  After  completing  the  first  structure  in
accordance with the terms of the contract, the builder demanded payment of

1268

the specified price for that structure. At the same time, the builder told the
landowner  that  the  builder  was  ‘‘tired  of  the  construction  business''  and
would  not  even  begin  the  other  two  structures.  The  landowner  refused  to
pay anything to the builder.

Is the builder likely to prevail in a suit for the agreed price of the first

structure?

 (A) No, because substantial performance is a constructive condition to the

landowner's duty to pay at the contract rate.

(B) No, because the builder's cessation of performance without legal excuse

is a willful breach of the contract.

(C) Yes, because the contract is divisible, and the landowner will be

required to bring a separate claim for the builder's failure to complete
the other two structures.

(D) Yes, because the contract is divisible, but the landowner will be able to
deduct any recoverable damages caused by the builder's failure to
complete the contract.

 Question 82

A city owned and operated a municipal bus system. The city sold space on
its buses for the posting of placards. Decisions on the type of placards that
could  be  posted  on  the  buses  were  left  wholly  to  the  discretion  of  the
administrator of the bus system. Although most of the placards that appeared
on city buses were commercial advertisements, the administrator had often
sold space on the buses for placards promoting various political, charitable,
and religious causes.

A  circus  bought  space  on  the  city  buses  for  placards  advertising  its
forthcoming  performances.  An  animal  rights  organization  asked  the
administrator  to  sell  it  space  for  a  placard  with  photographs  showing  the
mistreatment of animals in circus shows.

The  administrator  denied  the  organization's  request.  She  said  that  the
display of this placard would be offensive to the circus, which had paid a
substantial sum to place its placards on the buses, and that she had been told
by  a  circus  employee  that  none  of  the  photographs  on  the  organization's
placard  depicted  an  animal  belonging  to  this  particular  circus.  Under  the
relevant city ordinance, the administrator's decision was final.

The  organization  sued  the  administrator  in  an  appropriate  court  for  a
declaration that she could not, consistent with the First Amendment as made
applicable  to  the  states  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  refuse  to  sell  the

1269

organization space for its placard for the reasons she gave.

Will the organization prevail?

 (A) No, because the administrator's denial of space to the organization was

a reasonable time, manner, and place restriction of speech.

(B) No, because a public official may not allow the use of public facilities
for the propagation of a message that he or she believes may create a
false or misleading impression.

(C) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to permit the

dissemination of a message in a public forum wholly on the basis of its
content unless that denial is necessary to serve a compelling government
interest.

(D) Yes, because a public official may not refuse to allow the use of any
public facility to publish a message dealing with an issue of public
concern.

 Question 83

A  homeowner  and  a  purchaser  entered  into  a  valid,  enforceable,  written
contract by which the homeowner agreed to sell and the purchaser agreed to
purchase  the  homeowner's  residence.  One  of  the  contract  provisions  was
that after closing, the homeowner had the right to remain in the residence for
up  to  30  days  before  delivering  possession  to  the  purchaser.  The  closing
took place as scheduled. Title passed to the purchaser and the homeowner
remained in possession. Within a few days after the closing, the new house
next  door,  which  was  being  constructed  for  the  homeowner,  burned  to  the
ground,  and  at  the  end  of  the  30-day  period  after  closing  the  homeowner
refused to move out of his old house; instead, the homeowner proposed to
pay the purchaser a monthly rental payment in excess of its fair rental value.
The  purchaser  rejected  the  proposal  and  that  day  brought  an  appropriate
action  to  gain  immediate  possession  of  the  residence.  The  contract  was
silent  as  to  the  consequences  of  the  homeowner's  failure  to  give  up
possession  within  the  30-day  period,  and  the  jurisdiction  in  which  the
property  is  located  has  no  statute  dealing  directly  with  this  situation,
although  the  landlord-tenant  law  of  the  jurisdiction  requires  a  landlord  to
give a tenant 30 days' notice before a tenant may be evicted. The purchaser
did  not  give  the  homeowner  any  such  30-day  statutory  notice.  The
purchaser's  best  legal  argument  in  support  of  his  action  to  gain  immediate
possession is that the homeowner is a

 (A) trespasser ab initio.

1270

(B) licensee.
(C) tenant at sufferance.
(D) tenant from month to month.

 Question 84

A  producer  engaged  an  inexperienced  actress  to  do  a  small  role  in  a  new
Broadway play for a period of six months at a salary of $200 a week. The
actress turned down another role in order to accept this engagement. On the
third  day  of  the  run,  the  actress  was  hospitalized  with  influenza  and  a
replacement was hired to do the part. A week later, the actress recovered,
but  the  producer  refused  to  accept  her  services  for  the  remainder  of  the
contract period. The actress then brought an action against the producer for
breach of contract.

Which of the following is the actress's best legal theory?

 (A) Her acting contract with the producer was legally severable into weekly

units.

(B) Her performance of the literal terms of the contract was physically

impossible.

(C) Her reliance on the engagement with the producer by declining another

acting role created an estoppel against the producer.

(D) Her failure to perform for one week was not a material failure so as to

discharge the producer's duty to perform.

 Question 85

A defendant was arrested moments after a forcible rape and was prosecuted
for  it.  The  victim  testified  she  tore  the  assailant's  shirt.  The  defendant  did
not  testify.  In  jury  argument,  the  defendant's  counsel  urged  that  the  state's
failure  to  offer  in  evidence  the  shirt  the  defendant  was  wearing  when
arrested  indicated  that  the  evidence  would  be  unfavorable  to  the  state's
case.  In  his  closing  argument,  the  prosecutor  said,  ‘‘If  the  defense  had
thought the clothing would show anything, they could have brought it in as
evidence themselves.'' The prosecutor's argument is

 (A) proper as rebuttal to the inference that the evidence would be

unfavorable to the prosecution.

(B) proper as a comment on the defendant's failure to testify.
(C) improper as an argument going beyond the evidence in the case.
(D) improper as a comment on the defendant's failure to testify.

1271

Question 86

A  professor,  in  a  lecture  in  her  psychology  course  at  a  private  university,
described  an  experiment  in  which  a  group  of  college  students  in  a
neighboring city rushed out and washed cars stopped at traffic lights during
the rush hour. She described how people reacted differently — with shock,
joy,  and  surprise.  At  the  conclusion  of  her  report,  she  said,  ‘‘You
understand,  of  course,  that  you  are  not  to  undertake  this  or  any  other
experiment  unless  you  first  clear  it  with  me.''  Four  of  the  professor's
students  decided  to  try  the  same  experiment  but  did  not  clear  it  with  the
professor.

One  motorist  who  was  a  subject  of  their  experiment  said,  ‘‘I  was
shocked. There were two people on each side of the car. At first I thought
negatively.  I  thought  they  were  going  to  attack  me  and  thought  of  driving
away. Then I quieted down and decided there were too many dirty cars in
the city anyway.''

Charitable  immunity  has  been  abolished  in  the  jurisdiction.  If  the
motorist has a valid claim against the students, will he also prevail against
the university?

 (A) Yes, if the students would not have performed the experiment but for the

professor's lecture.

(B) Yes, if the motorist's claim against the students is based on negligence.
(C) No, because the students were not the professor's employees.
(D) No, because the professor did not authorize the car washing experiment

as a class project.

 Question 87

Nine  gang  members  were  indicted  for  the  murder  of  a  tenth  gang  member
who had become an informant. The gang leader pleaded guilty. At the trial
of  the  other  eight,  the  state's  evidence  showed  the  following:  The  gang
leader announced a party to celebrate the recent release of a gang member
from jail. But the party was not what it seemed. The gang leader had learned
that the recently released gang member had earned his freedom by informing
the authorities about the gang's criminal activities. The gang leader decided
to use the party to let the other gang members see what happened to a snitch.
He told no one about his plan. At the party, after all present had consumed
large  amounts  of  liquor,  the  gang  leader  announced  that  the  released  gang
member  was  an  informant  and  stabbed  him  with  a  knife  in  front  of  the

1272

others.  The  eight  other  gang  members  watched  and  did  nothing  while  the
informant  slowly  bled  to  death.  The  jury  found  the  eight  gang  members
guilty of murder and they appealed.

Should the appellate court uphold the convictions?

 (A) No, because mere presence at the scene of a crime is insufficient to

make one an accomplice.

(B) No, because murder is a specific intent crime, and there is insufficient

evidence to show that they intended to kill.

(C) Yes, because the gang members made no effort to save the informant

after he had been stabbed.

(D) Yes, because voluntary intoxication does not negate criminal

responsibility.

 Question 88

A  recently  established  law  school  constructed  its  building  in  a  quiet
residential neighborhood. The law school had obtained all of the necessary
municipal  permits  for  the  construction  of  the  building,  which  included  a
large  clock  tower  whose  clock  chimed  every  hour.  The  chimes  disturbed
only  one  homeowner  in  the  neighborhood,  who  had  purchased  her  house
prior  to  the  construction  of  the  building.  The  homeowner  was  abnormally
sensitive to ringing sounds, such as bells and sirens, and found the chimes to
be extremely annoying.

In a nuisance action by the homeowner against the law school, will the

homeowner prevail?

 (A) Yes, because the chimes interfere with the homeowner's use and

enjoyment of her property.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner purchased her house prior to the

construction of the building.

(C) No, because the chimes do not disturb the other residents of the

neighborhood.

(D) No, because the law school had the requisite municipal permits to erect

the clock tower.

 Question 89

A  defendant  is  on  trial  for  attempted  fraud.  The  state  charges  that  the
defendant  switched  a  price  tag  from  a  cloth  coat  to  a  more  expensive  fur-

1273

trimmed coat and then presented the latter for purchase at the cash register.
The  defendant  testified  in  her  own  behalf  that  the  tag  must  have  been
switched  by  someone  else.  On  cross-examination,  the  prosecutor  asks
two  prior  occasions  of
whether 
misdemeanor  fraud  in  the  defrauding  of  a  retailer  by  the  same  means  of
switching the price tag on a fur-trimmed coat.

the  defendant  was  convicted  on 

Is the question about the convictions for the earlier crimes proper?

 (A) It is not proper either to impeach the defendant or to prove that the

defendant committed the crime.

(B) It is proper both to prove that the defendant committed the crime and to

impeach the defendant.

(C) It is proper to impeach the defendant, but not to prove that the defendant

committed the crime.

(D) It is proper to prove the defendant committed the crime, but not to

impeach the defendant.

 Question 90

On March 1, a mechanic contracted to repair a textile manufacturer's knitting
machine and to complete the job by March 6. On March 2, the manufacturer
contracted to produce and deliver on March 15 specified cloth to a clothing
designer. The manufacturer knew that it would have to use the machine then
under repair to perform this contract. Because the designer's order was for a
rush  job,  the  designer  and  the  manufacturer  included  in  their  contract  a
liquidated  damages  clause,  providing  that  the  manufacturer  would  pay
$5,000 for each day's delay in delivery after March 15.

The mechanic was inexcusably five days late in repairing the machine,
and, as a result, the manufacturer was five days late in delivering the cloth
to the designer. The manufacturer paid $25,000 to the designer as liquidated
damages and now sues the mechanic for $25,000. Both the mechanic and the
manufacturer  knew  when  making  their  contract  on  March  1  that  under
ordinary circumstances the manufacturer would sustain little or no damages
of any kind as a result of a five-day delay in the machine repair.

Assuming  that  the  $5,000  liquidated  damages  clause  in  the  designer-
manufacturer contract is valid, which of the following arguments will serve
as the mechanic's best defense to the manufacturer's action?

 (A) Time was not of the essence in the mechanic-manufacturer contract.
(B) The mechanic had no reason to foresee on March 1 that the designer

1274

would suffer consequential damages in the amount of $25,000.
(C) By entering into the contract with the designer while knowing that its

knitting machine was being repaired, the manufacturer assumed the risk
of any delay loss to the designer.

(D) In all probability, the liquidated damages paid by the manufacturer to

the designer are not the same amount as the actual damages sustained by
the designer in consequence of the manufacturer's late delivery of the
cloth.

 Question 91

In  response  to  the  need  for  additional  toxic  waste  landfills  in  a  state,  the
state's legislature enacted a law authorizing a state agency to establish five
new state-owned and state-operated toxic waste landfills. The law provided
that the agency would decide the locations and sizes of the landfills after an
investigation  of  all  potential  sites  and  a  determination  that  the  particular
sites chosen would not endanger public health and would be consistent with
the public welfare.

A community in the state was scheduled for inspection by the agency as
a  potential  toxic  waste  landfill  site.  Because  the  community's  residents
obtained  most  of  their  drinking  water  from  an  aquifer  that  ran  under  the
entire community, a citizens' group, made up of residents of that community,
sued  the  appropriate  officials  of  the  agency  in  federal  court.  The  group
sought a declaratory judgment that the selection of the community as the site
of  a  toxic  waste  landfill  would  be  unconstitutional  and  an  injunction
preventing  the  agency  from  selecting  the  community  as  a  site  for  such  a
landfill. The agency officials moved to dismiss.

Which  of  the  following  is  the  most  appropriate  basis  for  the  court  to

dismiss this suit?

 (A) The case presents a non-justiciable political question.
(B) The interest of the state in obtaining suitable sites for toxic waste
landfills is sufficiently compelling to justify the selection of the
community as a location for such a facility.

(C) The Eleventh Amendment bars suits of this kind in the federal courts.
(D) The case is not ripe for a decision on the merits.

 Question 92

The Rapido is a sports car manufactured by a car company. The Rapido has
an  excellent  reputation  for  mechanical  reliability  with  one  exception:  the

1275

motor may stall if the engine has not had an extended warm-up. The plaintiff
had just begun to drive her Rapido in city traffic without a warm-up when
the  engine  suddenly  stalled.  A  car  driven  by  a  truck  driver  rear-ended  the
plaintiff's car. The plaintiff suffered no external physical injuries as a result
of  the  collision.  However,  the  shock  of  the  crash  caused  her  to  suffer  a
severe heart attack.

The plaintiff brought an action against the car company based on strict
liability  in  tort.  During  the  trial,  the  plaintiff  presented  evidence  of  an
alternative  engine  design  of  equal  cost  that  would  eliminate  the  stalling
problem without impairing the functions of the engine in any way. The car
company moves for a directed verdict at the close of the evidence.

This motion should be

 (A) denied, because the jury could find that an unreasonably dangerous

defect in the engine was a proximate cause of the collision.

(B) denied, if the jury could find that the Rapido was not crashworthy.
(C) granted, because the truck driver's failure to stop within an assured

clear distance was a superseding cause of the collision.

(D) granted, if a person of normal sensitivity would not have suffered a

heart attack under these circumstances.

 Question 93

Suspecting that students in a dormitory were using narcotics, the president
of  a  private  college  arranged  for  local  police  to  place  concealed
microphones  in  several  suites  of  the  dormitory.  Using  these  microphones,
the  college  security  officers  recorded  a  conversation  in  which  a  student
offered to sell marijuana to a school employee. The tape was turned over to
the local police, who played it for a local judge. The judge issued a warrant
to  search  the  student's  room.  The  room  was  searched  by  police,  and
marijuana was discovered.

The  student  is  charged  with  unlawful  possession  of  narcotics.  At  trial,
the  student's  motion  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  the  marijuana  into
evidence will most probably be

 (A) denied, because the college president, in loco parentis, had the

responsibility of preventing unlawful activity by students under the
president's supervision.

(B) denied, because there was probable cause to make the search and police

obtained a warrant before commencing the search.

1276

(C) granted, because the student's privacy was unreasonably invaded.
(D) granted, because the electronic surveillance was ‘‘fundamentally

unfair''.

 Question 94

A  hospital  patient  had  a  heart  ailment  so  serious  that  his  doctors  had
concluded  that  only  a  heart  transplant  could  save  his  life.  They  therefore
arranged  to  have  him  flown  to  a  bigger  hospital  to  have  the  operation
performed.

The patient's nephew, who stood to inherit from him, poisoned him. The
poison produced a reaction that required postponing the journey. The plane
on which the patient was to have flown crashed, and all aboard were killed.
By the following day, the patient's heart was so weakened by the effects of
the poison that he suffered a heart attack and died. If charged with criminal
homicide, the nephew should be found

 (A) guilty.
(B) not guilty, because his act did not hasten the deceased's death, but

instead prolonged it by one day.

(C) not guilty, because the deceased was already suffering from a fatal

illness.

(D) not guilty, because the poison was not the sole cause of death.

 Question 95

A  seller,  the  owner  of  a  tract  of  land,  entered  into  an  enforceable  written
agreement with a buyer providing that the seller would sell the tract to the
buyer for an agreed price. At the place and time designated for the closing,
the seller tendered an appropriate deed, but the buyer responded that he had
discovered a mortgage on the tract and would not complete the transaction,
because  the  seller's  title  was  not  free  of  encumbrances,  as  the  contract
required. The seller said that it was his intent to pay the mortgage from the
proceeds of the sale, and he offered to put the proceeds in escrow for that
purpose with any agreeable, responsible escrowee. The balance due on the
mortgage was substantially less than the contract purchase price. The buyer
refused  the  seller's  proposal.  The  seller  began  an  appropriate  legal  action
against the buyer for specific performance. There is no applicable statute in
the jurisdiction where the tract is located. The seller's best legal argument in
support of his claim for relief is that

1277

(A) as the seller of real estate, he had an implied right to use the contract

proceeds to clear the title being conveyed.

(B) the lien of the mortgage shifts from the tract to the contract proceeds.
(C) under the doctrine of equitable conversion, title has already passed to

the buyer and the only issue is how the purchase price is to be allocated.

(D) no provision of the contract has been breached by the seller.

 Question 96

Plaintiff, an environmental activist in State A, was concerned that extensive
lakeshore development would destroy vegetation that fish need in order to
spawn. Defendant was a wealthy individual who owned a 3-acre parcel of
undeveloped shoreline in State A, which she had started to develop into a
single-family residence for herself. The plans Defendant filed with the local
municipality showed that she intended to plant a lawn to a point within five
feet of the shoreline. A federal statute, the Fish Protection Act (or “FPA”),
provides,  “Because  overdeveloped  shorelines  are  harmful  to  fish,  owners
of shoreline property are strongly encouraged to maintain a 30-foot strip of
natural vegetation between the shoreline and the part of their grass or lawn
nearest the shoreline.” Plaintiff sued Defendant in federal court for State A
on  a  claim  based  on  the  FPA;  the  lawsuit  asked  the  court  to  permanently
enjoin  Defendant  from  planting  a  lawn  within  the  30  feet  of  her  property
nearest  the  shoreline.  Plaintiff  also  made  a  motion  for  a  preliminary
injunction against such planting until the case could be tried on the merits.
Defendant has now opposed the motion for preliminary injunction.

Which  statement  best  expresses  how  the  federal  court  should  decide

Plaintiff's motion?

 (A) The court should grant the motion, because damages will never be able
to repair the injury that the environment will suffer if the fish cannot
spawn due to Defendant's illegal development of her property.
(B) The court should grant the motion, because otherwise Defendant will
develop the land without the necessary buffer and the public interest
will be hurt.

(C) The court should deny the motion, because money damages will be

sufficient to remedy a violation of the Fish Protection Act.
(D) The court should deny the motion because Plaintiff is unlikely to

succeed on the merits.

 Question 97

1278

A  manufacturing  plant  located  near  a  busy  highway  uses  and  stores  highly
volatile  explosives.  The  owner  of  the  plant  has  imposed  strict  safety
measures  to  prevent  an  explosion  at  the  plant.  During  an  unusually  heavy
windstorm, a large tile was blown off the roof of the plant and crashed into
the windshield of a passing car, damaging it. The driver of the car brought a
strict  liability  action  against  the  owner  of  the  plant  to  recover  for  the
damage to the car's windshield.

Is the driver likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the damage to the windshield did not result from the

abnormally dangerous aspect of the plant's activity.
(B) No, because the severity of the windstorm was unusual.
(C) Yes, because the plant's activity was abnormally dangerous.
(D) Yes, because the plant's location near a busy highway was abnormally

dangerous.

 Question 98

On January 5, a creditor lent $1,000 to a debtor under a contract calling for
the debtor to repay the loan at the rate of $100 per month payable on the first
day  of  each  month.  On  February  1,  at  the  debtor's  request,  the  creditor
agreed to permit payment on February 5. On March 1, the debtor requested a
similar  time  extension  and  the  creditor  replied,  ‘‘Don't  bother  me  each
month. Just change the date of payment to the fifth of the month. But you must
now make the payments by cashier's check.'' The debtor said, ‘‘Okay,'' and
made payments on March 5 and April 5. On April 6, the creditor sold the
loan  contract  to  a  bank,  but  did  not  tell  the  bank  about  the  agreement
permitting payments on the fifth of the month. On April 6, the bank wrote to
the debtor: ‘‘Your debt to [the creditor] has been assigned to us. We hereby
inform you that all payments must be made on the first day of the month.''

Can the debtor justifiably insist that the payment date for the rest of the

installments is the fifth of each month?

 (A) No, because a contract modification is not binding on an assignee who

had no knowledge of the modification.

(B) No, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on

the first of the month, the bank reinstated it.

(C) Yes, because although the creditor waived the condition of payment on
the first of the month, the creditor could not assign to the bank his right
to reinstate that condition.

1279

(D) Yes, because the creditor could assign to the bank only those rights the

creditor had in the contract at the time of the assignment.

 Question 99

Al  and  Bill  are  identical  twins.  Al,  angry  at  his  neighbor,  said,  ‘‘You'd
better stay out of my way. The next time I find you around here, I'll beat you
up.''  Two  days  later,  while  in  the  neighborhood,  the  neighbor  saw  Bill
coming toward him. As Bill came up to the neighbor, Bill raised his hand.
Thinking Bill was Al and fearing bodily harm, the neighbor struck Bill.

If Bill asserts a claim against the neighbor and the neighbor relies on the

privilege of self-defense, the neighbor will

 (A) not prevail, because Bill was not an aggressor.
(B) not prevail unless Bill intended his gesture as a threat.
(C) prevail if the neighbor honestly believed that Bill would attack him.
(D) prevail only if a reasonable person under the circumstances would have

believed that Bill would attack him

 Question 100

Re-direct  examination  of  a  witness  must  be  permitted  in  which  of  the
following circumstances?

 (A) To reply to any matter raised in cross-examination.
(B) Only to reply to significant new matter raised in cross-examination.
(C) Only to reiterate the essential elements of the case.
(D) Only to supply significant information inadvertently omitted on direct

examination.


ANSWERS

PRACTICE MBE — A.M. EXAM

Answer 51

 (A) is the correct answer,

because  it  correctly  applies  the  rule  that  aggregation  is  ordinarily  not
allowed where no single plaintiff meets the jurisdictional amount.

When no single plaintiff's claim independently meets the amount-in-
controversy requirement for diversity jurisdiction,  multiple  plaintiffs
may  not  meet 
requirement  by
the  amount-in-controversy 
aggregating  the  value  of  their  claims  unless  their  claims  are
“common and indivisible,” which the tort claims of the plaintiffs are
not. Article III of the U.S. Constitution does not impose any amount-in-
controversy  requirement  on  the  grant  of  diversity  jurisdiction  (see
Article  III,  §  2),  but  Congress  has  always  imposed  such  a  minimum-
dollar  requirement  in  the  federal  statute  that  authorizes  diversity
jurisdiction.  The  current  statute  requires  that  the  amount  exceed  “the
sum or value of $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs.” 28 U.S.C. §
1332(a).  When  a  lawsuit  involves  multiple  plaintiffs,  and  each
plaintiff's claims are separate and distinct from the claims of the others
(not  “common  and  indivisible”),  at  least  one  plaintiff  must  by
him/herself have claims that meet the statutory requirement. (If one
plaintiff's  claims  do  meet  the  statutory  requirement,  the  claims  of  the
other  plaintiffs  can  be  heard  under  the  discretionary  doctrine  of
supplemental jurisdiction, assuming the other requirements of the statute
are  met.  See  28  U.S.C.  §  1367;  Exxon  Mobil  Corp.  v.  Allapattah
Services,  Inc.,  545  U.S.  546  (2005).)  Here,  since  no  plaintiff
independently has claims aggregating $75,000 or more, and since each
plaintiff's  claims  are  separate  and  distinct  from  the  others'  claims,
aggregation is not allowed and the entire case must be dismissed.

Be  attentive  as  to  why  plaintiffs'  claims  here  would  not  be
considered “common  and  indivisible.”  Claims  are  considered  to  be
common and indivisible only where, “if one plaintiff were to fail to

1433

collect  his  share,  the  remaining  plaintiffs  would  collect  a  larger
share.” Durant v. Servicemaster Co. Trugreen, Inc., 147 F. Supp. 2d
744,  749  (E.D.  Mich.  2001).  Such  claims  typically  involve  a  shared
interest  in  a  property  title  or  in  a  status  of  entitlement.  A  series  of
individual  torts,  even  when  arising  from  the  same  contaminated
product,  do  not  come  within  this  definition;  in  torts,  each  plaintiff  is
suing for the harm he or she individually suffered—the co-plaintiffs are
not suing to recover part of a shared interest.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  applies  the  amount-in-controversy  requirement
for diversity jurisdiction.

Under the federal statute, a court may exercise diversity jurisdiction
only  if  the  claim  exceeds  the  value  of  $75,000.  See  28  U.S.C.  §
1332(a). Here, no individual plaintiff meets that requirement, because
each  party's  claim  is  valued  only  at  $40,000.  Moreover,  the  plaintiffs
may  not  aggregate  their  claims  to  meet  the  amount-in-controversy
requirement  because  their  claims  are  not  common  and  indivisible;  as
discussed in the second paragraph of Choice (A) above, each plaintiff's
claims are considered to be separate and distinct from the claims of the
other plaintiffs, even though all claims arise out of the same transaction
or occurrence. And supplementary jurisdiction does not apply, because
that  doctrine  applies  only  where  at  least  one  plaintiff's  claim(s)
independently  meet  subject-matter-jurisdictional  requirements  (in
which  case  other  claims  by  other  parties  may  often  be  added  even
though they don't independently meet jurisdictional requirements); here,
there is no plaintiff whose claim(s) independently meet subject-matter-
jurisdictional requirements.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  applies  the  amount-in-controversy  requirement
for diversity jurisdiction.

As  explained  with  respect  to  Choices  (A)  and  (B),  the  diversity
statute  permits  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  only  “where  the  matter  in
controversy exceeds the sum or value of $75,000, exclusive of interest
and costs.” 28 U.S.C. § 1332. An individual plaintiff may aggregate
all claims against a single defendant, whether or not the claims are
transactionally related. Here, Husband's two claims against Defendant
together  aggregate  $75,000  or  more,  so  he  is  deemed  to  meet  the

1434

amount-in-controversy  requirement.  Once  that  happens,  supplemental
jurisdiction  permits  the  other  two  plaintiffs  to  remain  in  the  action,
since their claims and Husband's are all “so related” (since they arise
out of the same basic occurrence, joint consumption of a single can of
soup) as to form one “case or controversy,” the standard for triggering
the availability of supplemental jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. §1367(a).
Since this Choice grants a dismissal to Defendant, it's wrong.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it's wrong as a factual matter.

If  Husband's  and  Wife's  claims  were  in  fact  all  based  on  a
“common  and  undivided  interest,”  this  choice  would  be  correct,  as  is
explained  in  Choice  (A):  When  multiple  plaintiffs  have  claims  based
on a common and undivided interest, all claims by all plaintiffs based
on  that  interest  may  be  aggregated  together  for  amount-in-controversy
purposes. But as explained in the second paragraph of the discussion of
Choice  (A),  the  claims  of  Husband  and  Wife  are  not  based  on  such  a
common and undivided interest.

 Answer 52

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  lights  interfered  with  the  woman's  right  to  the  use  and
enjoyment of her land.

A  private  nuisance  is  an  unreasonable  and  substantial  interference
with a landowner's use and enjoyment of his or her land. If the private
nuisance has already occurred, the plaintiff can recover compensatory
damages. In this case, as a result of the noise and excess light from the
stadium,  the  woman  and  her  family  were  unable  to  use  their  farm  as
they would absent the stadium: they could not sleep a normal schedule
or enjoy a quiet evening. These facts strongly indicate that there was a
substantial interference with her right to enjoy her land. In addition to
showing  that  there  was  a  disruption,  in  order  to  succeed  the  woman
will  have  to  show  that  the  school  district's  actions  were  negligent  or
intentional  (with  knowledge  of  the  substantial  certainty  of  causing  the
interference) and that the district's actions were unreasonable. The first
requirement  is  clearly  met,  since  the  woman  had  made  known  her
objections  to  the  district's  plans  before  the  stadium  was  built.  It  is
unclear  from  the  facts  we  are  given  whether  the  placement  of  the

1435

stadium  was  unreasonable.  Despite  that  uncertainty  in  the  woman's
case, private nuisance is still a superior basis for her claim than any of
the other choices presented.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the school district was not the woman's landlord.

Constructive  eviction  occurs  when  a 

landlord  breaches  an
obligation  to  the  tenant  in  a  manner  that  makes  the  premises  virtually
uninhabitable for its intended use. For example, if a landlord prevents a
residential tenant from having running water, constructive eviction has
occurred.  However,  the  doctrine  of  constructive  eviction  has  no
application  outside  the  landlord-tenant  relationship,  so  it  does  not
provide the woman with a good basis for a claim for damages against
the school district, which is not her landlord.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the woman's damages are not shared by other members of the
community.

A public nuisance is an interference with a right that is common to
the  general  public.  The  plaintiff  in  a  public  nuisance  suit  must  have
suffered  damage  that  is  different  in  kind  from  that  suffered  by  the
general public. The facts we are given indicate that only one landowner
is  being  disturbed  by  the  presence  of  the  stadium.  As  a  result,  the
woman's suit will be more properly grounded in private nuisance (see
the explanation for choice B above), rather than public nuisance.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  woman  does  not  possess  an  interest  in  the  land  on  which
the stadium was built.

Waste occurs when a party in possession of land makes use of the
land in a manner that impacts the rights of other interest holders in the
land. As an example, if the party in possession holds a life estate and
sells all of the topsoil from the land, the remaindermen will be able to
sue the life tenant for waste. In this problem, the woman and the school
district  do  not  both  have  interests  in  the  same  parcel  of  land,  so  the
doctrine of waste is inapplicable.

 Answer 53

1436

(D) is the best response,

because there has been no anticipatory repudiation.

Generally,  a  plaintiff  must  wait  until  the  date  that  performance  is
due before he can sue a non-performing defendant for breach. However,
when  a  party,  before  performance  is  due,  unequivocally  indicates  that
he  will  not  perform  his  obligations  under  the  contract,  he  has
anticipatorily  repudiated,  and  the  other  party  to  the  contract  may  treat
that repudiation as a breach. In this case, there has been no unequivocal
statement  of  the  excavator's  intent  not  to  perform.  The  excavator  only
requested a 30-day delay. When the contractor didn't grant the delay, the
excavator  indicated  that  he  would  try  to  perform  as  scheduled.  As  a
result,  the  contractor  cannot  treat  the  excavator's  statements  as  an
anticipatory  repudiation  and  cannot  cancel  the  contract.  Note  that  the
contractor, if he is reasonably concerned about the excavator's ability to
perform,  can  lawfully  request  that  the  contractor  provide  adequate
assurance  that  he  will  be  able  to  meet  his  obligations  under  the
contract.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  excavator  has  not  unequivocally  stated  that  he  will  not
perform.

Generally,  a  plaintiff  must  wait  until  the  date  that  performance  is
due before he can sue a non-performing defendant for breach. However,
when  a  party,  before  performance  is  due,  unequivocally  indicates  that
he  will  not  perform  his  obligations  under  the  contract,  he  has
anticipatorily  repudiated,  and  the  other  party  to  the  contract  may  treat
that repudiation as a breach. In this case there has been no unequivocal
statement  of  the  excavator's  intent  not  to  perform.  The  excavator  only
requested a 30-day delay. When the contractor didn't grant the delay, the
excavator  indicated  that  he  would  try  to  perform  as  scheduled.  As  a
result,  the  contractor  cannot  treat  the  excavator's  statements  as  an
anticipatory  repudiation  and  cannot  cancel  the  contract.  Note  that  the
contractor, if he is reasonably concerned about the excavator's ability to
perform,  can  lawfully  request  that  the  contractor  provide  adequate
assurance  that  he  will  be  able  to  meet  his  obligations  under  the
contract.

 (B) is not the best response,

1437

because the excavator has not breached the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing.

The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is read into all
contracts. It requires all parties to a contract to refrain from acting in a
deceitful or unfair manner with each other. There is no indication that
the excavator has done anything of the sort. Absent any indication that
his request for more time to perform was part of some fraud directed at
the  contractor,  the  excavator  has  not  breached  the  covenant  of  good
faith and fair dealing.

 (C) is not the best response,

because money damages would be adequate.

In  general,  the  appropriate  remedy  in  contract  cases  is  monetary
damages.  A  court  will  only  award  specific  performance  if  monetary
damages  are  inadequate  to  make  the  plaintiff  whole  (for  example,
where the contract calls for the sale of a unique or irreplaceable item).
The  excavator-contractor  contract  is  a  typical  commercial  agreement.
The  contractor's  primary  obligation  under  the  agreement  is  to  pay  the
excavator for his services. Accordingly, should the contractor breach in
any way, the excavator could gain the benefit of his bargain through the
award  of  monetary  damages.  To  put  it  another  way,  there  is  no
indication  that  the  excavator  considers  this  a  special  job  that  he
absolutely has to do. He'd be perfectly happy to make a profit without
having to do the job, which is what would result from the contractor's
breach followed by a court's monetary award.

 Answer 54

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  issue  that  will  determine  the
newspaper's  liability.  Understanding  why  requires  a  fairly  detailed
knowledge  of  the  basic  hierarchy  of  defamation  claims  against  media
defendants:

1. If a plaintiff is a public figure and the issue is “public,” the

plaintiff must prove malice (i.e., knowing falsehood or reckless
disregard for the truth);

2. If a plaintiff is a public figure, but the issue involves his personal,
private life, the plaintiff need only prove negligence, not malice;

1438


3. If a plaintiff is a private figure, the plaintiff need only prove

negligence, not malice; and

4. Regardless of the status of the plaintiff, if the item is

“newsworthy,” malice must be proven.

Thus,  under  these  facts,  arriving  at  the  correct  response  requires
that  you  (1)  correctly  characterize  the  leader's  first  wife  as  a  private
individual  (since  she  lacks  the  “notoriety”  a  public  figure  requires),
and  (2)  apply  the  negligence  standard  to  it.  The  “ordinary  care”
language  in  D  is  referring  to  a  negligence  standard,  since  if  one  uses
ordinary care he cannot be negligent. Note that D scrupulously avoids
concluding  whether  the  newspaper  was  negligent  or  not;  it  uses  the
modifier “if” instead of “because.” As with any choice using “if,” you
have to determine whether the reasoning plausibly applies to the facts,
whether it resolves a central issue, and whether the result is consistent
with the reasoning. These are all satisfied here. While the newspaper
could always have done more to check the facts, the reporter did rely
on two “very reliable” sources. Thus, it's possible he used reasonable
care in verifying the truth of the story, and as a result wouldn't be liable
for  negligence.  As  a  rule  of  thumb,  negligence  could  be  shown,  for
instance,  by  a  failure  to  check  sources.  (On  a  related  note,  malice
would  require  more:  whether  the  reporter  entertained  serious  doubts
about the truth of what he was printing.) Since D correctly identifies the
standard that will determine if the newspaper is liable, and the result it
offers is consistent with the reasoning, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  only  addresses  part  of  what  the  leader's  first  wife  would
have to prove, on these facts, to prevail.

Realizing  why  A  isn't  sufficient  requires  a  quick  refresher  on  the

“hierarchy” of defamation claims against media defendants:

1. If a plaintiff is a public figure and the issue is “public,” the

plaintiff must prove malice (i.e., knowing falsehood or reckless
disregard for the truth);

2. If a plaintiff is a public figure, but the issue involves his personal,
private life, the plaintiff need only prove negligence, not malice;

3. If a plaintiff is a private figure, the plaintiff need only prove

negligence, not malice; and

4. Regardless of the status of the plaintiff, if the item is

1439



“newsworthy,” malice must be proven.

Here,  there's  no  real  question  but  that  the  leader's  first  wife  is  a
private individual, not a public figure, so the observation in A — that
the  issue  involves  her  personal,  private  life  —  is  not  relevant.  (She
probably  couldn't  be  considered  a  public  figure  in  relation  to  her
husband,  especially  since  they  are  long  divorced  and  the  incident
alleged occurred over 30 years ago.) What is relevant is whether or not
the newspaper was negligent in its fact-checking. If it was, it will be
liable;  if  it  wasn't,  it  won't.  Since  A  focuses  on  a  fact  that  in  and  of
itself will not determine who will prevail, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because 
it  understates 
newspaper liable for defamation.

the  standard  necessary  for  holding 

the

A statement must be false to be defamatory. However, some level of
fault  will  also  have  to  be  proven.  With  a  private  individual  as  a
plaintiff,  the  defendant  would  have  to  have  been  at  least  negligent  in
failing  to  determine  that  what  it  reported  was  false.  If  you  chose  this
response, you probably had in mind the common-law rule, which made
defamation a strict liability offense. Since modern courts require fault,
and B doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because even without the element it offers, the newspaper could still be
liable.

The reasoning in C states the definition of malice. However, malice
isn't required here. Where a media defendant and a private individual
plaintiff are concerned, the rule is this: no recovery for defamation is
allowed  unless  the  defendant  was  at  least  negligent.  If  the  defendant
was negligent but without malice, the plaintiff will prevail in the action
(but won't be able to claim punitives without proof of malice).

If you chose this response, it's probably because you confused the
rule for public figure plaintiffs with the rule for private figures. Public
figures suing for defamatory statements about public matters must prove
malice in order to recover. However, since the leader's first wife will
be  considered  a  private  individual  —  being  married  years  ago  to  a
local  labor  leader  would  not  give  her  the  notoriety  necessary  to  be
considered a public figure — she need only prove negligence. Note that

1440


choice C does correctly characterize the facts (since the newspaper did
not have malice), since malice would require, at the very least, that the
reporter  entertained  serious  doubts  about  the  truth  of  what  he  was
printing. However, since C states a standard that is stricter than the one
that will apply, it's not the best response.

 Answer 55

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that,  under  these  facts,  the  farmer  will
still be liable to the owner for the rent on the remaining portion of the
farm.

There  are  a  couple  of  facts  that  are  key  to  arriving  at  the  correct
result. First, the farmer has already been compensated for his portion of
the condemnation.

When  property  is  condemned,  the  tenant  is  entitled  to  a  share
representing  the  current  value  of  the  unexpired  term  of  the  lease,  less
future rents payable (which will not have to be paid). Presumably, the
farmer's  recovery  represented  the  unexpired  term  for  the  20  acres  of
farmland.  In  general,  when  the  condemnation  is  only  partial,  the
relationship of landlord and tenant will be unaffected. As a result, the
tenant will still be liable for rent to reflect the amount of the property
not condemned. Since D states this correctly, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the facts here do not satisfy the doctrine of frustrated purpose.

In  order  to  discharge  a  contractual  duty  due  to  frustration  of
purpose,  four  requirements  must  be  met.  First,  the  frustration  must  be
caused  by  a  supervening  act  or  event.  Second,  the  supervening  act  or
event  must  have  been  unforeseeable  when  the  parties  entered  into  the
contract.  Third,  the  act  or  event  must  destroy  or  almost  destroy  the
purpose  of  the  contract.  Finally,  both  parties  must  have  realized  this
purpose when the contract was formed. You should also keep in mind
that  courts  dislike  discharging  contracts  due  to  frustration  of  purpose.
Under the facts here, there are two facts that argue against applying the
frustration of purpose doctrine. First, there are still ten acres that were
not  taken  by  the  government.  Frustration  of  purpose  requires  that  the
frustration  be  complete  or  almost  complete.  Taking  two-thirds  of  the
land probably would not qualify. Second, the farmer has already been

1441

compensated  for  his  interest  in  the  property.  As  a  result,  it's  unlikely
that the frustration of purpose doctrine would apply, making A not the
best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts: there has been no breach of the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment.

The  implied  covenant  of  quiet  enjoyment  is  a  covenant  implied  in
every lease, which provides, first, that the tenant will not be ousted by
any  third  party  with  “paramount  title”  (superior  title  to  the  landlord),
and, second, that the landlord and his representatives will not interfere
with  the  tenant's  use  and  enjoyment  of  the  premises.  Furthermore,  the
tenant must leave the premises within a reasonable time after the breach
in order to preserve his claim, otherwise it will be waived.

What  makes  this  argument  inapplicable  here  is  that  it's  not  the
landlord or a third party with paramount title who has interfered with
the farmer's use and enjoyment, but the government.

Apart  from  that,  the  farmer  hasn't  really  been  ousted  from  the
premises  —  only  part  of  the  land  has  been  taken  by  the  government.
Since  there  hasn't  been  a  breach  of  the  implied  covenant  of  quiet
enjoyment, and that's what B says, B cannot be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it mistakenly characterizes condemnation of the property as the
tenant's responsibility.

The  tenant  is  only  liable  not  to  commit  waste  on  the  property.  He
will  have  no  responsibility  for  acts  outside  his  responsibility  and
control. Condemnation of the property by the government is just such an
act. Since choice C incorrectly blames the condemnation on the farmer,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 56

 (C) is the best response,

because it arrives at the correct result, and focuses on the reason why
the  defendant  won't  be  guilty  —  because  he  didn't  intend  to  cause  an
offensive touching.

The  criminal  assault  statute  in  this  problem  requires  an  attempt  to
commit  a  criminal  battery.  Attempt  has  two  elements:  Intent,  and  an

1442

overt  act  done  in  furtherance  of  the  intent,  beyond  mere  preparation.
Here,  the  defendant  had  no  intent  to  touch  the  plaintiff  in  any  way;  he
was  trying  to  retrieve  his  hat.  Since  he  didn't  intend  to  touch  the
plaintiff, he couldn't be liable for any crime that explicitly or implicitly
requires intent. Since intent is an element of attempt, he can't be liable.
Since C correctly identifies that this is the element that will exonerate
the defendant, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  intent  element  of  the  crime,  and  it  reaches  the
wrong result.

The  statute  under  which  the  defendant  was  charged,  the  criminal
assault statute, would require that the defendant attempted to cause an
offensive  touching.  Attempt  has  two  elements:  intent,  and  an  overt  act
done in furtherance of the intent, beyond mere preparation. Under these
facts, this would mean that the defendant would have to have intended
to  cause  an  offensive  touching.  However,  the  facts  indicate  the  only
thing the defendant intended to touch was his hat, not the plaintiff. Since
he  didn't  intend  to  touch  the  plaintiff,  he  couldn't  be  found  guilty  of  a
crime  involving  attempt,  which  is  what  the  criminal  assault  statute
requires. Since A stops short of what would be required to convict the
defendant, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  arrives  at  the  wrong  result,  and  offers  a  standard  of
culpability that is lower than the standard in the statute given.

The  statute  under  which  the  defendant  was  charged,  the  criminal
assault statute, would require that the defendant attempted to cause an
offensive  touching.  Attempt  has  two  elements:  intent,  and  an  overt  act
done  in  furtherance  of  the  intent,  beyond  mere  preparation.  Choice  B
suggests  that  the  defendant  should  be  culpable  for  merely  negligent
behavior  —  because  he  should  have  realized  harm  might  result  from
his act. This is not sufficient for attempt, since attempt requires intent.
Since B would hold the defendant liable for assault without intent, it's
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it  offers  the  right  result,  it  requires  more  than  the
actual statute requires.

1443

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

The  criminal  assault  statute  only  requires  an  attempt  to  cause  an
offensive  touching.  D  suggests  that  an  actual  touching  is  required.  If
you  chose  this  response,  it  could  be  because  you  mistakenly  believed
the  defendant  was  charged  with  criminal  battery  —  if  he  had  been
charged with criminal battery, a touching would have been required. As
it  is,  a  criminal  assault  only  requires  an  attempt  to  commit  a  criminal
battery, and so D is not the best response.

 Answer 57

 (B) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the level of scrutiny a court will apply to
the ordinance.

The  city  ordinance  is  a  content-neutral  restriction.  Since  it  only
restricts  the  physical  characteristics  of  visual  displays,  and  not  their
content,  the  ordinance  will  be  reviewed  using  intermediate  scrutiny.
Intermediate  scrutiny  requires  that  the  defendant  show  that  the
ordinance  is  narrowly  tailored  to  achieve  an  important  governmental
interest, and that it leaves open the alternate channels of communication
where the plaintiff may disseminate their message. Choice B therefore
lays  out  exactly  the  argument  that  the  party  must  make  in  order  to
succeed. Note that this does not mean that the party will win, but only
that it is their best argument. When an MBE question asks for a party's
“best  argument,”  it  is  not  required  that  the  correct  answer  be  the
winning  argument,  but  only  that  it  be  superior  to  the  other  choices
presented.

 (A) is not the best response,

because strict scrutiny is inapplicable to the ordinance.

This choice lays out the elements for arguing that an ordinance does
not  satisfy  strict  scrutiny:  i.e.,  that  the  ordinance  is  not  the  least
restrictive  means  of  achieving  a  compelling  governmental  interest.
Strict  scrutiny  will  be  applied  to  content-based  restrictions  on  free
speech.  Since  the  city  ordinance  does  not  attempt  to  regulate  speech
based on the content of the message, but only on the format in which it
is  presented,  a  court  will  assess  the  constitutionality  of  the  ordinance
using intermediate scrutiny rather than strict scrutiny.

 (C) is not the best response,

1444

because the ordinance does not impose a prior restraint.

A  prior  restraint  is  an  ordinance  that  requires  governmental
permission  before  an  individual  or  group  may  exercise  its  right  to
publish  particular  information.  The  city  ordinance  does  not  attempt  to
institute  a  system  under  which  prior  permission  is  needed,  but  rather
only  to  regulate  the  format  in  which  material  is  presented.  This  is  a
the
content-neutral  restriction.  As  a  result,  a  court  assessing 
constitutionality of the ordinance will apply intermediate scrutiny, and
uphold the ordinance if the city can show that it is narrowly tailored to
important government interest.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the ordinance is content-neutral.

The ordinance, as written, does not seek to favor some categories
of  speech  over  others,  but  rather  to  regulate  the  format  in  which  the
speech  is  conveyed  when  posted  along  the  roadside.  So  long  as  the
ordinance is applied equally to all those who seek to post signs in the
city's historic district, it is a content-neutral restriction on speech, and
will be analyzed under intermediate scrutiny. Therefore, so long as the
ordinance  is  narrowly  tailored  to  achieve  an  important  government
interest and leaves alternate channels for the party to speak, it will be
upheld.

 Answer 58

 (C) is the best response,

because the car dealer was already obligated to pay in full by June 1.

When the car dealer asked the bank to accept ten monthly payments,
rather  than  a  lump-sum  payment  due  by  June  1,  the  dealer  was
requesting  that  a  modification  be  made  to  the  existing  dealer-bank
contract.  In  order  for  a  modification  to  be  effective,  there  must  be
consideration  given  for  the  modification.  Here,  the  bank  offered
consideration in the form of allowing the car dealer to pay over time.
However,  the  car  dealer's  offer  to  provide  monthly  payments  for  ten
months was not a legal detriment to it, because the dealer was already
under  the  pre-existing  duty  to  pay  the  full  sum  within  that  time.  As  a
result,  the  car  dealer  has  not  offered  consideration  for  the  bank's
promise, and the modification to their existing agreement is ineffective.
Accordingly, the bank will be able to succeed in its suit, since the car

1445

dealer  breached  their  contract  by  not  paying  on  June  1.  Note  that  this
would not be the case if the dealer had promised that the buyer would
be responsible for making the payments, since the bank would then get
the additional consideration of having another obligor on the debt.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the Statute of Frauds does not apply.

An agreement only needs to be in writing if it is within the Statute
of Frauds. The Statute of Frauds applies only in limited circumstances:
suretyship, promises in consideration of marriage, land sales, sales of
goods valued over $500, and promises not possible to complete within
one  year.  If  a  contract,  as  modified,  would  fall  within  the  Statute  of
Frauds,  then  the  modification  must  be  in  writing.  However,  an
agreement to extend the time in which a debtor must repay a loan falls
into none of the categories covered by the Statute of Frauds. As a result,
it is irrelevant whether the agreement was in writing or not.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the dealer has not attempted to delegate its duty to pay.

The  agreement  made  between  the  car  dealer  and  the  bank  only
pertains  to  the  timing  of  payment,  not  to  who  is  obligated  to  pay  the
debt. The bank has only promised to allow the dealer to make periodic
payments,  not  to  substitute  the  buyer  as  an  obligor  on  the  debt.
Moreover, there is no reason why the dealer could not delegate its duty
to  pay  to  the  buyer,  since  the  obligation  to  pay  a  debt  is  not  a  non-
delegable duty. Remember that, even if the dealer delegates its duty to
pay to the buyer, the dealer will remain liable on the debt to the bank.

 (D) is not the best response,

because there was no attempted novation.

A novation is an agreement between the parties to a contract and a
third-party to substitute the third-party for one of the original parties to
the contract, releasing the original party from his obligations. There is
no  indication  in  the  facts  we  are  given  that  the  dealer  attempted  to
substitute the buyer's obligation to pay the bank for its own. The mere
direction to the buyer to make his payments to the bank is insufficient to
release the dealer from its own obligation, and it will remain liable on
the debt. The car dealer is not claiming that it is not liable on the debt,
but rather that it should have the right to pay the debt back at a rate of

1446

$1,000 per month, beginning on June 1. The issue is thus when payment
is due, not who is responsible for making the payments.

 Answer 59

 (C) is the best response,

because it identifies that interpretation of the delay is the central issue
in the case.

In non-UCC cases, a reasonable delay is generally not considered a
material  breach.  Here,  since  there's  no  transaction  in  goods  involved,
the  common 
law  will  control.  Thus,  absent  extraordinary
circumstances, known to the landowner when the contract was created,
that  would  make  the  May  1  deadline  essential,  the  landowner's  delay
would only be a minor breach, requiring that the contractor perform and
sue  for  damages.  If  time  was  of  the  essence,  any  delay  would  be  a
material  breach.  Thus,  this  is  a  key  issue  in  determining  if  the
contractor was entitled to cancel the contract.

If  time  was  not  of  the  essence,  the  contractor's  undue  hardship
could  become  important  in  determining  whether  the  landowner
substantially  performed  under  the  contract  (thus  meriting  return
performance).  However,  since  choice  B  ignores  the  central  issue,  it's
not the best response.

Keep in mind that the UCC treats delays somewhat differently, due
to the “perfect tender” rule under § 2-601. That is, the presumption in
contracts for the sale of goods is that time is of the essence. However,
this isn't as strict as it sounds, due to the seller's right to cure defective
performance.  §2-508.  Where  performance  is  late,  the  seller  can  still
cure, if he notifies the buyer of his intent to cure, and he had reason to
believe  that  the  buyer  would  accept  the  delay  (the  delay  making  the
goods, in effect, non-conforming).

Since  C  identifies  the  central  issue  on  these  facts,  it's  the  best

response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  central  issue  where  there  is  a  delay  in
performance: whether time was of the essence.

In non-UCC cases, a reasonable delay is generally not considered a
material  breach.  Here,  since  there's  no  transaction  in  goods  involved,
law  will  control.  Thus,  absent  extraordinary
the  common 

1447

circumstances, known to the landowner when the contract was created,
that  would  make  the  May  1  deadline  essential,  the  landowner's  delay
would only be a minor breach, requiring that the contractor perform and
sue for damages.

If time was of the essence, any delay would be a material breach.
Thus, this is a key issue in determining if the contractor was entitled to
cancel the contract.

The  landowner's  due  diligence  is,  at  best,  of  minor  importance  in
the  case.  If  time  was  of  the  essence,  the  landowner's  diligence  is
entirely irrelevant; if it wasn't, then the landowner's diligence would be
relevant in determining if the landowner substantially performed under
the contract. However, since the significance of the delay is the central
issue, and A ignores this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  central  issue  where  there  is  a  delay  in
performance: whether time was of the essence.

In non-UCC cases, a reasonable delay is generally not considered a
material  breach.  Here,  since  there's  no  transaction  in  goods  involved,
the  common 
law  will  control.  Thus,  absent  extraordinary
circumstances, known to the landowner when the contract was created,
that  would  make  the  May  1  deadline  essential,  the  landowner's  delay
would only be a minor breach, requiring that the contractor perform and
sue for damages.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it ignores a central issue in the case: whether time was of the
essence.

In non-UCC cases, a reasonable delay is generally not considered a
material  breach.  Here,  since  there's  no  transaction  in  goods  involved,
the  common 
law  will  control.  Thus,  absent  extraordinary
circumstances, known to the landowner when the contract was created,
that  would  make  the  May  1  deadline  essential,  the  landowner's  delay
would only be a minor breach, requiring that the contractor perform and
sue for damages.

If time was of the essence, any delay would be a material breach.
Thus, this is a key issue in determining if the contractor was entitled to
cancel the contract.

If  time  was  not  of  the  essence,  and  the  four-week  delay  was

1448

considered  a  minor  breach,  then  the  contractor's  good  faith  in
cancelling  the  contract  would  be  an  issue.  However,  if  the  delay  was
not  a  material  breach,  the  contractor  would  probably  have  to  perform
under the contract and sue for any damages the delay cost him. Since the
contractor's good faith is a secondary issue at best under these facts, D
is not the best response.

 Answer 60

 (B) is the best response,

because under the tort of intentional infliction of mental suffering (also
called  intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress)  the  plaintiff  can  be
compensated for his emotional suffering in addition to the value of the
cat.

The tort of intentional infliction of mental suffering is an intentional
or  reckless  infliction,  by  extreme  and  outrageous  conduct,  of  severe
emotional distress, even in the absence of physical harm. If the plaintiff
can  establish  this  claim  (and  the  facts  support  that  he  can,  as  the
neighbor was aware that the plaintiff was fond of his cat and shot the
cat  in  full  view  of  the  plaintiff),  he  can  be  compensated  for  his  own
emotional  suffering  as  well  as  the  value  of  the  cat.  As  the  other
responses  are  either  not  supported  on  the  facts  or  could  only  lead  to
compensation for the value of the cat, B is the best response,

 (A) is not the best response,

because the neighbor did not touch the man, so the neighbor is not liable
for battery.

Battery is the intentional infliction of a harmful or offensive bodily
contact.  As  there  was  not  a  bodily  contact  to  the  plaintiff  here,  the
plaintiff could not establish a battery. If the plaintiff had been holding
the  cat  when  it  was  struck,  he  could  conceivably  argue  that  an  item
closely identified with his body was struck, thereby creating a battery.
Here,  however,  the  facts  do  not  support  the  inference  that  he  was
holding the cat at the time.

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  if  established,  trespass  to  chattel  would  only  award  the
plaintiff the value of his cat.

A  trespass  to  chattel  is  an  intentional  interference  with  a  person's

1449

use  or  possession  of  the  chattel.  While  a  trespass  to  chattel  is
established  by  these  facts,  the  plaintiff  could  recover  only  $25,  the
value  of  the  cat.  As  the  call  of  the  question  asks  what  claim  would
result in the greatest monetary recovery, trespass to chattel is inferior to
intentional  infliction  of  mental  suffering,  which  would  allow  the
plaintiff  to  recover  damages  based  on  his  emotional  suffering  in
addition to the value of the cat.

 (D) is not the best response,

because, if established, conversion would only award the plaintiff the
value of his cat.

The  tort  of  conversion  occurs  when  the  defendant  so  substantially
interferes with the plaintiff's possession or ownership of property that it
is fair to require the defendant to pay the property's full value. While a
conversion is established by these facts, the plaintiff could recover only
$25,  the  value  of  the  cat.  As  the  call  of  the  question  asks  what  claim
would result in the greatest monetary recovery, conversion is inferior to
intentional  infliction  of  mental  suffering,  which  would  allow  the
plaintiff  to  recover  damages  based  on  his  emotional  suffering  in
addition to the value of the cat.

 Answer 61

 (A) is the best response,

because this choice is a precise and accurate statement of the scope of
cross-examination set forth by FRE 611(b).

Rule 611(b) states that cross-examination “should not go beyond the
subject  matter  of  the  direct  examination  and  matters  affecting  the
witness's credibility.” Since the property manager was asked on direct
“solely”  whether  the  defendant  was  the  owner  of  the  property,  the
question on cross-examination, concerning the precautions taken by the
defendant,  fell  far  outside  the  limited  scope  of  direct  examination.
While the second sentence of 611(b) gives the trial judge discretion to
allow questions going beyond the scope of direct examination, there is
no reason for the judge to exercise that discretion to allow the question
here.

 (B) is not the best response,

because denominating someone as a hostile witness has no bearing on

1450

the permissible scope of cross-examination.

Categorizing a witness as hostile means only that such a witness can
be examined through the use of leading questions; it does not relate to
the  scope  of  cross-examination.  FRE  611(b),  which  restricts  cross-
examination  to  the  scope  of  the  direct  examination  and  to  witness-
credibility issues, applies equally to hostile and non-hostile witnesses.
Thus,  the  fact  that  the  witness  is  hostile  does  not  permit  cross-
examination to extend beyond the scope of direct examination in matters
unrelated to credibility of the witness.

 (C) is not the best response,

because under FRE 611(b), cross-examination should be limited to the
subject  matter  of  the  direct  examination  and  matters  affecting
credibility.

Although  the  second  sentence  of  FRE  611(b)  gives  the  trial  court
discretion  to  permit  inquiry  into  additional  matters,  this  choice  states
that the defendant is “entitled” to a wider scope of cross-examination,
and that statement is incorrect.

 (D) is not the best response,

because there is no such rule permitting cross-examination of unlimited
scope of an agent of a party.

The  scope  of  cross-examination  for  all  witnesses  is  controlled  by
FRE  611(b),  which  limits  it  to  the  scope  of  direct  examination  and
credibility.

 Answer 62

 (A) is the best response,

because the government permanently occupied a portion of the owner's
land.

The Fifth Amendment contains the Taking Clause: “nor shall private
property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” Under the
rule  of  Loretto  v.  Teleprompter  (1982),  any  permanent  physical
occupation of any portion of an individual's land, no matter how small
or  unobtrusive,  constitutes  a  taking,  and  compensation  will  be  due  to
the landowner. (In cases where the occupation is minimal, the amount
of  compensation  may  be  negligible.)  Here,  the  government  has
constructed a surveillance facility on the owner's land, and is therefore

1451

occupying  a  portion  of  it.  The  fact  that  the  government's  use  does  not
interfere with the owner's current use of the land is irrelevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because safeguarding the nation's security is a legitimate governmental
interest.

to  a 

The test for determining if a governmental action comports with the
requirement  of  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  is  whether  the  action  is
interest.  Here,
rationally  related 
safeguarding national security is certainly a legitimate objective of the
federal  government.  In  addition,  the  construction  of  the  surveillance
facility appears to be a rational way to pursue that goal. Therefore, the
government's construction of the surveillance facility will not constitute
an Equal Protection violation.

legitimate  governmental 

 (C) is not the best response,

because the physical occupation of the owner's land is a taking even if
it does not interfere with the owner's use of the land.

The Fifth Amendment contains the Taking Clause: “nor shall private
property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” Under the
rule  of  Loretto  v.  Teleprompter  (1982),  any  permanent  physical
occupation of any portion of an individual's land, no matter how small
or  unobtrusive,  constitutes  a  taking,  and  compensation  will  be  due  to
the landowner. (In cases where the occupation is minimal, the amount
of  compensation  may  be  negligible.)  Here,  the  government  has
constructed a surveillance facility on the owner's land, and is therefore
occupying  a  portion  of  it.  The  fact  that  the  government's  use  does  not
interfere with the owner's current use of the land is irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  government's  need  is  irrelevant  to  the  issue  of  whether
there has been a taking.

The Fifth Amendment contains the Taking Clause: “nor shall private
property be taken for public use, without just compensation.” Under the
rule  of  Loretto  v.  Teleprompter  (1982),  any  permanent  physical
occupation of any portion of an individual's land, no matter how small
or  unobtrusive,  constitutes  a  taking,  and  compensation  will  be  due  to
the landowner. (In cases where the occupation is minimal, the amount
of  compensation  may  be  negligible.)  Here,  the  government  has

1452

constructed a surveillance facility on the owner's land, and is therefore
occupying  a  portion  of  it.  The  fact  that  the  government's  use  does  not
interfere with the owner's current use of the land is irrelevant.

 Answer 63

 (C) is the best response,

because the delivery of the deed completed the conveyance.

In order for a conveyance to be effective, certain formalities must
be  observed.  The  deed  must  describe  the  property,  be  signed  by  the
grantor, and identify the parties to the conveyance. The deed must then
be  “delivered,”  completing  the  conveyance.  Delivery  requires  that
there be a physical transfer of the deed and that the grantor use words
or conduct evidencing his intent to make the deed presently operative.
The recording of a deed is not necessary for an effective conveyance. In
this  problem,  the  deed  was  in  proper  form  and  was  physically
delivered  to  the  friend.  Although  the  landowner  expressed  his  desire
that the deed not be recorded until after his death, the statement “this is
yours” indicated his intention that the land described in the deed should
belong to his friend. Title to the land passed to the friend upon delivery,
and  the  landowner  no  longer  had  any  control  over  the  parcel.  As  a
result, the land was not in the landowner's estate when he died and will
not pass to his intestate heirs.

 (A) is not the best response,

because recording a deed is not necessary for a conveyance of land to
be effective.

The only formal requirement necessary to transfer real property is
that a deed, proper in form, be delivered from the grantor to the grantee.
Delivery requires that there be a physical transfer of the deed and that
the grantor use words or conduct evidencing his intent to make the deed
presently operative. In this problem, the deed was in proper form and
was  physically  delivered  to  the  friend.  Although  the  landowner
expressed his desire that the deed not be recorded until after his death,
the  statement  “this  is  yours”  indicated  his  intention  that  the  land
described  in  the  deed  should  belong  to  his  friend.  Title  to  the  land
passed to the friend upon delivery, and the landowner no longer had any
control over the parcel. As a result, the land was not in the landowner's
estate when he died and will not pass to his intestate heirs.

1453

(B) is not the best response,

because the friend's dishonesty regarding the destruction of the deed is
irrelevant.

Destroying  a  deed  does  not  operate  to  rescind  a  conveyance.  In
order  for  a  conveyance  to  be  effective,  certain  formalities  must  be
observed.  The  deed  must  describe  the  property,  be  signed  by  the
grantor, and identify the parties to the conveyance. The deed must then
be  “delivered,”  completing  the  conveyance.  Delivery  requires  that
there be a physical transfer of the deed and that the grantor use words
or conduct evidencing his intent to make the deed presently operative.
The recording of a deed is not necessary for an effective conveyance. In
this  problem,  the  deed  was  in  proper  form  and  was  physically
delivered  to  the  friend.  Although  the  landowner  expressed  his  desire
that the deed not be recorded until after his death, the statement “this is
yours” indicated his intention that the land described in the deed should
belong to his friend. Title to the land passed to the friend upon delivery,
and the landowner no longer had any control over the parcel. Since the
friend  then  owned  the  land,  in  order  for  it  to  pass  back  to  the
landowner, the formalities would have to be followed. Destroying the
deed is ineffective; for the land to pass back to the landowner, a new
deed would have to be written and delivered to the landowner.

 (D) is not the best response,

because title to the land passed to the friend immediately upon delivery.
The subsequent recording of the deed was not necessary to vest title
to  the  land  in  the  friend.  In  order  for  a  conveyance  to  be  effective,
certain  formalities  must  be  observed.  The  deed  must  describe  the
property,  be  signed  by  the  grantor,  and  identify  the  parties  to  the
conveyance.  The  deed  must  then  be  “delivered,”  completing  the
conveyance.  Delivery  requires  that  there  be  a  physical  transfer  of  the
deed and that the grantor use words or conduct evidencing his intent to
make  the  deed  presently  operative.  The  recording  of  a  deed  is  not
necessary for an effective conveyance. In this problem, the deed was in
proper  form  and  was  physically  delivered  to  the  friend.  Although  the
landowner expressed his desire that the deed not be recorded until after
his  death,  the  statement  “this  is  yours”  indicated  his  intention  that  the
land described in the deed should belong to his friend. Title to the land
passed to the friend upon delivery, and the landowner no longer had any
control  over  the  parcel.  The  friend's  recording  of  the  deed  serves  to

1454

provide  notice  to  future  takers  of  the  land,  but  is  not  needed  for  the
friend to take title.

 Answer 64

 (C) is the correct answer,

because it recognizes that the removal here was improper.

The  removal  was  improper  for  two  reasons.  First,  when  the
federal  court  would  have  lacked  original  jurisdiction  over  the
plaintiff's  claim,  removal  is  not  proper.  Second,  even  if  original
subject-matter  jurisdiction  (based  on  diversity)  over  the  plaintiff's
original  claim  had  existed,  an  in-state  defendant  cannot  remove
when jurisdiction is based solely on diversity. And as to each of these
two reasons, the presence of Defendant's counterclaim does not change
the analysis. Let's take each of these steps in turn.

First,  an  action  can  be  removed  to  federal  court  only  if,  as  an
original matter, the plaintiff could have initially filed the suit in federal
court  for  the  district  where  the  plaintiff  in  fact  brought  the  state-court
suit.  A  plaintiff  can  file  suit  in  a  federal  court  if  either  (i)  there  are
grounds for federal-question jurisdiction (see 28 U.S.C. § 1331), or (ii)
diversity jurisdiction is present (see 28 U.S.C. § 1332) (as well as if
there  is  some  other  jurisdictional  basis  that  is  not  relevant  to  this
problem). Here, there are no grounds for federal-question jurisdiction
because  plaintiff  has  asserted  solely  a  state-law  breach-of-warranty
claim  and  has  not  asserted  any  claim  arising  under  federal  law.
Therefore,  the  suit  could  have  been  filed  in  federal  court  only  if
diversity  jurisdiction  would  have  been  available  for  that  warranty
claim.  Diversity  jurisdiction  requires  both  complete  diversity  of
citizenship as between all plaintiffs and all defendants, plus satisfaction
of  the  amount-in-controversy  requirement.  (See  28  U.S.C.  §  1332(a).)
Neither  condition  is  met  here.  The  citizenship  requirement  is  not  met
because  both  the  Plaintiff  and  the  Defendant  are  citizens  of  State  A.
(The  Plaintiff,  who  owns  a  home  in  State  A,  would  be  considered  a
citizen  of  that  state  based  on  his  domicile  plus  his  intent  to  remain.
Defendant is incorporated in, and has its principal place of business in,
State A, and therefore is considered to be a citizen of that state. See 28
U.S.C.  §  1332(c);  Hertz  Corp.  v.  Friend,  559  U.S.  77  (2010).)
Moreover, the amount-in-controversy requirement for suits based solely
on diversity is met only by a claim that exceeds $75,000, and Plaintiff's

1455

claim is for less than that amount. Therefore, the federal district court
could  not  have  exercised  original  subject-matter  jurisdiction  over
Plaintiff's claim, making removal improper, and requiring that the court
remand the case to state court.

Second,  even  if  diversity  jurisdiction  were  present,  the  federal
removal statute bars a defendant who is a citizen of the state where
the action is pending from removing if diversity is the sole basis for
subject-matter  jurisdiction.  (See  28  U.S.C.  §  1441(b)(2).)  Here,
Defendant  is  a  citizen  of  State  A,  the  state  in  which  the  state-court
action  is  pending,  and  so  Defendant  is  automatically  barred  from
removing the litigation to federal court.

Finally, does the analysis change if Defendant's counterclaim arises
under  federal 
law  (i.e.,  would  qualify  for  “federal  question
jurisdiction” if it were sued on alone)? The answer is “no.” Federal-
question  jurisdiction  over  a  claim  is  available  only  if  (i)  an  issue  of
federal law appears on the face of the well-pleaded complaint, (ii) the
federal issue is actually disputed and substantial, and (iii) that issue's
resolution  by  the  federal  court  would  not  disturb  the  allocation  of
judicial business as between the federal and state courts. See Gunn v.
Minton,  133  S.  Ct.  1059  (2013).  So  Defendant's  counterclaim  would
indeed fall within the federal court's federal-question jurisdiction if it
were  brought  as  a  separate  federal  action.  However,  the  fact  that
federal-question jurisdiction would exist over the counterclaim had it
been filed in an independent lawsuit is irrelevant to the removal issue
—the  case 
the  plaintiff's  complaint
independently meets the requirements for removal. See, e.g., Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. v. Malugen, 2012 WL 1382265,
*8 (M.D. Fl. 2012) (“[t]he law is well settled that federal claims raised
in a counterclaim may not serve as a basis for removal jurisdiction”).

removable  only 

is 

if 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it makes an incorrect assertion of law.

As  explained  with  respect  to  Choice  (C),  removal  jurisdiction
exists  only  if  the  district  court  could  have  exercised  subject-matter
jurisdiction over the suit had it been filed as an original matter in the
federal,  rather  than  the  state,  court.  (See  28  U.S.C.  §  1441.)  In
determining  whether  subject-matter  jurisdiction  as  an  original  matter
exists, the district court is required to look solely at the complaint, and
not to the answer or the notice of removal. The Plaintiff's well-pleaded

1456

complaint did not raise any federal question. Furthermore, two factors
prevent  the  requirements  for  diversity  jurisdiction  from  being  met  (no
diversity  between  Plaintiff  and  Defendant,  and  lack  of  amount-in-
controversy). Thus, regardless of whether the district court could have
exercised  subject-matter  jurisdiction  over  Defendant's  federal-law
counterclaim,  jurisdiction  would  not  exist  over  the  suit  as  an  original
matter, and this fact means that the federal court must remand the case to
the state court from which it was (improperly) removed.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misapplies  the  rules  for  diversity  jurisdiction  and  for
removal jurisdiction.

As is explained with respect to Choice (C), removability is judged
by  whether  the  main  complaint  (the  Plaintiff's  original  claim)  could
have  been  brought  originally  in  federal  court.  And  the  complaint  here
could  not  have  been  brought,  because  it  is  not  supported  by  either
complete  diversity  or  federal-question  jurisdiction.  And  even  if  the
Plaintiff's claim could have been brought in federal court, a defendant
who  is  a  citizen  of  the  state  where  the  action  is  pending  may  not
remove, according to 28 U.S.C. § 1441(b).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misapplies  the  rule  governing  removal  of  a  non-removable
state-law claim and a removable federal claim.

Under  28  U.S.C.  §§  1441(c)(1)  and  1441(c)(2),  if  a  civil  action
includes both a claim arising under federal law (a “removable federal
claim”)  and  “a  claim  not  within  the  original  or  supplemental
jurisdiction of the district court” (a “non-removable claim,” usually one
based on state law), then the entire matter may be removed to district
court,  but  the  district  court  shall  sever  the  non-removable  state  law
claims and remand them “to the State court from which the action was
removed.” Id.  While  this  might  appear  to  match  the  circumstances  of
the problem here, it doesn't. That's because Plaintiff's complaint did not
include both a non-removable state-law claim and a removable federal
claim, as required under 28 U.S.C. § 1441(c)(1)-(2). Rather, Plaintiff's
complaint  contained  only  a  state-law  claim  that  could  not  have
qualified for diversity jurisdiction (because the citizenship and amount-
in-controversy requirements were not met), and that was therefore not
removable. (Defendant's assertion of a removable federal claim in the

1457

form of a counterclaim is irrelevant, because that claim was not part of
the  original  civil  action.  As  discussed  at  the  start  of  this  paragraph,
even partial removal is allowed solely when there is at least one claim
by the plaintiff as to which the federal courts would have had original
jurisdiction.)  As  a  result,  the  district  court  must  remand  the  entire
action.

 Answer 65

 (C) is the best response,

because a state may grant broader rights under its own constitution than
are granted by the federal Constitution.

Thus,  even  though  the  secret  recording  of  a  conversation  by  a
government informant does not violate the Fourth Amendment, the state
may  extend  their  rule  beyond  the  federal  guarantee.  As  the  “clear”
precedent  here  held  “that  the  conduct  of  the  police  in  making  the
recording  violated  the  employee's  rights  under  the  state  constitution,
and that the exclusionary rule is the proper remedy for this violation,”
then the court should grant the employee's motion.

 (A) is not the best response,

because, although the initial premise is correct (the employee's federal
constitutional  rights  were  not  violated),  the  latter  premise  is  not,  as  a
state  may  grant  broader  rights  under  its  own  constitution  than  are
granted by the federal Constitution.

Thus,  even  though  the  secret  recording  of  a  conversation  by  a
government informant does not violate the Fourth Amendment, the state
may  extend  their  rule  beyond  the  federal  guarantee.  As  the  “clear”
precedent  here  held  “that  the  conduct  of  the  police  in  making  the
recording  violated  the  employee's  rights  under  the  state  constitution,
and that the exclusionary rule is the proper remedy for this violation,”
then the court should grant the employee's motion.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it is irrelevant.

Regardless of the belief of the police officers regarding the legality
of  their  action  under  the  federal  Constitution,  the  precedent  under  the
state  constitution  will  control  here.  A  state  may  grant  broader  rights
under its own constitution than are granted by the federal Constitution.

1458

Thus,  even  though  the  secret  recording  of  a  conversation  by  a
government informant does not violate the Fourth Amendment, the state
may  extend  their  rule  beyond  the  federal  guarantee.  As  the  “clear”
precedent  here  held  “that  the  conduct  of  the  police  in  making  the
recording  violated  the  employee's  rights  under  the  state  constitution,
and that the exclusionary rule is the proper remedy for this violation,”
then the court should grant the employee's motion.

 (D) is not the best answer,

because it is incorrect legally.

The secret recording of a conversation by a government informant
does  not  violate  the  Fourth  Amendment.  Furthermore,  the  precedent
under the state constitution will control here. A state may grant broader
rights  under  its  own  constitution  than  are  granted  by  the  federal
Constitution. As the “clear” precedent here held “that the conduct of the
police in making the recording violated the employee's rights under the
state  constitution,  and  that  the  exclusionary  rule  is  the  proper  remedy
for this violation,” then the court should grant the employee's motion.

 Answer 66

 (B) is the best response,

because, even though he possessed the wallet briefly, all the elements
of larceny are met.

Larceny is (i) the trespassory (ii) taking and (iii) carrying away of
(iv)  personal  property  (v)  of  another  with  (vi)  intent  to  steal.  All  the
elements  are  satisfied  here.  The  taking  away  element  requires
movement of only a slight distance, so it was satisfied even though the
patron discarded the wallet shortly after taking it.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the taking was not accomplished by using force or putting the
owner in fear.

Robbery  is  defined  as  larceny  committed  with  two  additional
elements:  (i)  the  property  is  taken  from  the  person  or  presence  of  the
owner and (ii) the taking is accomplished by using force or putting the
owner  in  fear.  As  the  victim  here  was  passed  out,  the  taking  was  not
accomplished by using force or putting the owner in fear. Thus, while
all the elements of larceny are met, it is not a robbery.

1459

(C) is not the best response,

because  the  patron  could  be  convicted  of  the  more  serious  crime  of
larceny.

Thus,  even  assuming  the  patron  could  be  convicted  of  attempted
robbery,  this  offense  is  not  the  most  serious  possible  crime  of
conviction, so this response is incorrect.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  patron  could  be  convicted  of  the  more  serious  crime  of
larceny.

Thus,  even  assuming  the  patron  could  be  convicted  of  attempted
larceny,  this  offense  is  not  the  most  serious  possible  crime  of
conviction, so this response is incorrect.

 Answer 67

 (D) is the correct answer,

because the plaintiff was under an obligation to correct and supplement
her disclosure, and the sanction for the failure to do so is exclusion of
the evidence.

First,  the  treatment  notes  were  documents  that  the  pedestrian  was
required to provide at the beginning of the case, without a request for
them,  according  to  the  automatic-disclosure  provisions  of  Rule  26(a)
(1)(A).  That's  because  26(a)(1)(A)(ii)  requires  a  party  to  provide  “a
copy  .  .  .  of  all  documents  .  .  .  that  the  disclosing  party  has  in  its
possession, custody, or control and may use to support its claims or
defenses,  unless  the  use  would  be  solely  for  impeachment[.]”  It's  true
that  most  if  not  all  of  these  notes  did  not  yet  exist  at  the  moment  the
pedestrian was required to make initial disclosures (since the 18-month
treatment  period  probably  continued  past  the  time  of  this  disclosure).
However,  Rule  26(e)  says  that  a  party  who  has  made  a  Rule  26(a)
automatic  disclosure  “must  supplement  or  correct  its  disclosure  or
response:  (A)  in  a  timely  manner  if  the  party  learns  that  in  some
material  respect  the  disclosure  or  response  is  incomplete  or  correct
.  .  .”  And  the  facts  tell  you  that  the  pedestrian  is  now  “using”  these
notes as evidence in support of her claim, making the notes fall within
the
this 

duty-to-supplement-automatic-disclosure 

category.  So 

1460

pedestrian  was  required  to  supplement  her  prior  disclosure  by
furnishing  the  notes  once  they  came  into  existence.  (As  is  discussed
more fully in Choice (C), it's very unlikely that the court will find that
the  pedestrian's  ignorance  of  the  notes  was  reasonable  on  these  facts,
and  therefore  unlikely  that  the  court  will  conclude  that  her  failure  to
supplement was excusable.)

Since  the  pedestrian  and  her  lawyer  were  required  to  furnish  the
notes in a timely way, the only question is whether the remedy for the
non-disclosure  should  include  excluding  the  notes  as  evidence  in
support  of  the  pedestrian's  case.  The  issue  is  dealt  with  directly  by
Rule  37(c)(1):  “If  a  party  fails  to  provide  information  or  identify  a
witness  as  required  by  Rule  26(a)  or  (e),  the  party  is  not  allowed  to
use that information or witness to supply evidence on a motion, at a
hearing, or at a trial, unless the failure was substantially justified or
is  harmless.”  Since  what  the  pedestrian  is  trying  to  do  is  precisely
what  Rule  37(c)(1)  is  talking  about—to  use  as  evidence  at  a  trial
material that she was required to produce by the combination of Rule
26(a)'s automatic-disclosure requirements and Rule 26(e)'s requirement
to  supplement  prior  Rule  26(a)  disclosures—the  judge  is  not  only
permitted, but required, to exclude the evidence unless the judge makes
an affirmative determination that the failure was “substantially justified
or  is  harmless.”  As  to  the  “harmless”  possibility,  Choice  (D)  already
covers this possibility by adding the escape hatch that exclusion won't
be required if the judge believes the failure to be harmless (which is an
unlikely  outcome,  since  the  messenger's  lawyer  will  be  entitled  to
cross-examine the maker of the notes, and it's unlikely that, say, a brief
continuance will be enough to undo that lawyer's inability to make up
for  the  loss  of  an  adequate  time  to  study  70  pages  of  detailed  notes).
And although this choice does not refer to the possibility that the judge
might  conclude  that  the  failure  was  “substantially  justified,”  it's  very
unlikely that where a patient/litigant undergoes many treatment sessions
for  injuries  that  are  the  subject  of  the  litigation,  that  patient  and  her
lawyer are “substantially justified” in not bothering to inquire whether
the  treating  physician  has  taken  notes  during  the  course  of  the
treatments.

 (A) is not correct,

because it inaccurately states the procedure for sanctioning a party who
has failed to supplement prior disclosures. The federal discovery rules

1461

provide  that  a  sanction  is  automatic  if  a  party  fails  to  provide
information (or to identify a witness) as required by the combination of
the Rule 26(a) initial duty to make disclosure and the Rule 26(e) duty to
supplement  such  disclosures  as  time  passes;  the  wronged  party  is  not
required to make a prior motion for sanctions in this situation. See the
text of FRCP 37(c)(1), quoted in the final paragraph of the discussion
of  Choice  (D)  above,  which  sets  exclusion  as  the  sanction  while
making no reference to the need for a motion by the wronged party.

 (B) is not correct,

because it incorrectly imposes a requirement that prejudice be shown.

FRCP 37(c)(1) says that a party who fails to correct or supplement
its  prior  disclosures  as  required  under  Rule  26(e)  may  not  use  that
evidence  at  trial  “unless  the  failure  was  substantially  justified  or  is
harmless.”  This  language  does  not  require  the  wronged  party  to  show
that he or she would be prejudiced if the non-disclosed materials were
permitted  to  be  used  as  evidence.  Courts  have,  rather,  concluded  that
under  Rule  37(c)(1)  the  burden  is  on  the  party  facing  the  sanction
“to demonstrate that the failure to comply . . . is substantially justified
or harmless.” Torres v. City of Los Angeles, 548 F.3d 1197, 1213 (9th
Cir. 2008).

 (C) is not correct,

because  the  pedestrian's  ignorance  of  the  notes'  existence  would  not
“substantially justify” the lack of disclosure.

It's  true  that  the  automatic  sanction  imposed  by  Rule  37(c)(1)  for
non-disclosure—exclusion of the material from use as evidence by the
wrongdoer—does  not  apply  where  the  lack  of  disclosure  “was
substantially  justified  or  is  harmless.”  But  here,  the  pedestrian's
contention  that  she  did  not  know  about  the  notes  of  the  treating
physician  will  almost  certainly  be  found  not  meet  to  this  standard.
Courts  interpreting  this  37(c)(1)  language  have  concluded  that  a  party
who  does  not  actually  know  of  the  existence  of  the  material,  but  who
should reasonably have been aware of it, is not “substantially justified”
in  failing  to  disclose  it.  See,  e.g.,  Arthur  v.  Atkinson  Freight  Lines,
Corp.,  164  F.R.D.  19,  20  (S.D.N.Y.  1995),  a  similar  case  in  which
plaintiff and her counsel claimed to have been unaware until the eve of
trial  of  the  existence  of  a  medical  report  in  plaintiff's  doctor's
possession:  “[Rule  26(e)]  place[s]  a  duty  on  a  party  to  turn  over  not

1462

only proper materials of which he is aware, but also those of which he
reasonably ought to have been aware.”

 Answer 68

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  Commission  lacks  enforcement
powers.

Under the Constitution, Congress has the power to legislate, and the
President  has  the  executive  power,  including  the  power  to  enforce
laws.  The  problem  under  these  facts  is  that  the  Commission  has  the
power  to  prosecute,  which  is  an  enforcement  power  exclusively
possessed  by  the  President.  As  such,  all  members  of  the  Commission
would  have  to  be  appointed  by  the  President  and  approved  by  the
Senate,  under  Article  II,  §  2  of  the  Constitution.  Buckley  v.  Valeo
(1976). Since the Commission wouldn't have the power of enforcement,
choice  D  represents  the  manufacturer's  best  argument,  making  D  the
best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it overstates the actual standard, it probably misstates the facts,
and it ignores the central issue here.

Congress  may  delegate  its  legislative  power,  as  long  as  three
requirements  are  met:  (1)  Congress  must  actually  have  the  power  it's
ostensibly  delegating;  (2)  the  power  must  be  of  a  kind  capable  of
delegation; and (3) Congress must set adequate standards to govern the
exercise of the power delegated.

Choice  A  addresses  the  third  requirement  —  the  adequacy  of
standards. In fact, this requirement is interpreted liberally by the courts.
In one case, standards phrased in terms of “public interest, convenience
or necessity” were upheld. Thus, the standards delineated in these facts
—  to  investigate  automobile  safety,  to  make  recommendations  to
Congress  for  new  laws,  to  make  further  rules  establishing  safety  and
performance  standards,  and  to  prosecute  violations  of  the  Federal
Automobile  Safety  Act  —  would  more  than  suffice.  Also,  note  that
choice A suggests the standards must be clear; in fact, they need only be
“adequate.”  As  a  result,  this  would  not  be  a  good  argument  for  the
manufacturer.

All  of  this  ignores  the  central  issue  here,  which  is  that  the  power

1463

involved  in  these  facts  was  not  Congress's  to  delegate.  Congress  has
legislative  power,  which  includes  the  power  to  investigate.  However,
the  power  enjoyed  by  the  Automobile  Commission  is  the  power  to
enforce,  which  is  an  executive  power  enjoyed  exclusively  by  the
executive  branch,  not  Congress.  The  first  requirement  of  valid
delegation of power by Congress is that Congress must hold the power
delegated. Here, it doesn't. Since choice A ignores this, it's not the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law,  and  ignores  the  central  issue  on  these
facts.

Congress has broad powers over interstate commerce under Article
I, § 3, cl. 3 of the Constitution. In fact, under the “affectation doctrine,”
Congress  can  regulate  any  activity  that  has  any  appreciable  direct  or
indirect  effect  on  interstate  commerce.  Clearly  automobiles  would
qualify,  since  they  are  capable  of,  and  do,  undertake  interstate  travel.
Thus,  Congress  would  have  the  power  to  regulate  automobiles,  and  a
claim  by  the  manufacturer  that  Congress  overstepped  its  commerce
power would not be a good argument.

Instead,  choice  B  ignores  the  fact  that  the  power  Congress
delegated  here  was  not  its  to  delegate.  Congress  may  delegate  its
legislative power, as long as three requirements are met: (1) Congress
must actually have the power it's ostensibly delegating; (2) the power
must  be  of  a  kind  capable  of  delegation;  and  (3)  Congress  must  set
adequate  standards  to  govern  the  exercise  of  the  power  delegated.
Congress  has  legislative  power,  which  includes  the  power  to
investigate. The power enjoyed by the Automobile Commission is the
power to enforce, which is an executive power enjoyed exclusively by
the  executive  branch,  not  Congress.  Thus,  Congress  was  incapable  of
delegating  power 
the
Commission  invalid.  This  is  the  manufacturer's  best  argument.  Since
choice B ignores this, it's not the best response.

the  Automobile  Commission,  making 

to 

 (C) is not the best response,

because the Commission would not represent a denial of due process.

Due process is triggered by a governmental activity that amounts to
a deprivation of a property interest or right. A property interest at the
very least requires interests already acquired in specific benefits. Then,

1464

if that right or interest is “fundamental,” the strict scrutiny test is used to
determine  the  validity  of  the  enactment.  For  economic  issues,  the
“rational relation” test is used.

However,  due  process  would  not  apply  to  the  facts  here,  because
due  process  doesn't  require  that  a  private  individual  or  organization
receive representation on a congressional, investigative agency (as long
as  the  workings  of  the  agency  weren't  conducted  in  a  discriminatory
fashion).  If  the  Commission  itself  were  able  to  enforce  laws,  and  it
prosecuted the manufacturer, then it would be entitled to due process.
Under  these  facts,  it's  not.  Since  C  doesn't  recognize  this,  it's  not  the
best response.

 Answer 69

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  doctrine  of  estoppels  by  deed  protects  her  interest  in  the
land.

The  doctrine  of  estoppels  by  deed  states  that  when  a  grantor
delivers a warranty deed, describing property the grantor does not own,
to a grantee and later acquires title to the property in question, as soon
as the grantor acquires title, title immediately passes to the grantee. The
grantor  is  estopped  from  defending  himself  on  the  basis  of  his  non-
ownership of the land at the time of the conveyance. In this problem, the
nephew delivered a warranty deed to the woman. Therefore, once the
nephew  acquired  title  to  the  land,  which  he  did  upon  probate  of  the
uncle's will, title immediately passed to the woman.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  doctrine  of  estoppels  by  deed  protects  the  interest  of  the
woman even though the nephew did not own the tract at the time of the
conveyance.

The  doctrine  of  estoppels  by  deed  states  that  when  a  grantor
delivers a warranty deed, describing property the grantor does not own,
to a grantee and later acquires title to the property in question, as soon
as the grantor acquires title, title immediately passes to the grantee. The
grantor  is  estopped  from  defending  himself  on  the  basis  of  his  non-
ownership of the land at the time of the conveyance. In this problem, the
nephew delivered a warranty deed to the woman. Therefore, once the
nephew  acquired  title  to  the  land,  which  he  did  upon  probate  of  the

1465

uncle's will, title immediately passed to the woman.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the notice provided by a title search would only be relevant to
a dispute between the woman and the uncle.

Had  the  woman  conducted  a  title  search,  she  would  have
discovered that the uncle was the owner of the tract of land. However,
this fact is irrelevant to a suit between the nephew and the woman. The
doctrine  of  estoppels  by  deed  states  that  when  a  grantor  delivers  a
warranty  deed,  describing  property  the  grantor  does  not  own,  to  a
grantee  and  later  acquires  title  to  the  property  in  question,  as  soon  as
the  grantor  acquires  title,  title  immediately  passes  to  the  grantee.  The
grantor  is  estopped  from  defending  himself  on  the  basis  of  his  non-
ownership of the land at the time of the conveyance. In this problem, the
nephew delivered a warranty deed to the woman. Therefore, once the
nephew  acquired  title  to  the  land,  which  he  did  upon  probate  of  the
uncle's will, title immediately passed to the woman.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the woman's recording of her deed is irrelevant to the issue of
who holds title to the tract of land.

Recording  serves  to  provide  notice  to  future  purchasers  that  the
woman claimed an interest in the land. It does not have any effect on the
validity  of  her  claim  to  the  tract  in  a  dispute  between  her  and  her
grantor (the nephew). However, the woman's interest in the tract of land
is protected by the doctrine of estoppel by deed, which states that when
a  grantor  delivers  a  warranty  deed,  describing  property  the  grantor
does  not  own,  to  a  grantee  and  later  acquires  title  to  the  property  in
question, as soon as the grantor acquires title, title immediately passes
to the grantee.

 Answer 70

 (A) is the best response,

because the mother and son failed to mitigate damages.

When  the  tutor  repudiated  the  contract,  the  mother  and  son  were
under a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize the amount of damage
that the tutor's breach would cause. They could have satisfied this duty
to  mitigate  damages  by  hiring  a  substitute  tutor  for  $6,000.  Had  they

1466

done  so,  they  would  have  been  able  to  recover  the  $1,000  price
difference  in  a  suit  against  the  tutor.  Their  failure  to  do  so  bars  them
from  recovering  consequential  damages  that  arose  from  the  tutor's
breach, but not market price differential damages. As a result, the only
damages available to them is the price differential between the $6,000
market  price  and  the  $5,000  contract  price.  Note  that  they  are  able  to
recover  this  damage  whether  or  not  they  actually  hired  the  substitute
tutor.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the consequential damages were avoidable.

When  the  tutor  repudiated  the  contract,  the  mother  and  son  were
under a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize the amount of damage
that the tutor's breach would cause. They could have satisfied this duty
to  mitigate  damages  by  hiring  a  substitute  tutor  for  $6,000.  Had  they
done  so,  they  would  have  been  able  to  recover  the  $1,000  price
difference  in  a  suit  against  the  tutor.  Their  failure  to  do  so  bars  them
from  recovering  consequential  damages  that  arose  from  the  tutor's
breach, but not market price differential damages. Although this choice
correctly states that the son's lost salary was a consequence foreseeable
by  the  parties  at  the  time  the  contract  was  made,  it  is  incorrect  to
categorize  this  harm  is  a  consequential  damage,  because  the  lost
opportunity  was  not  caused  by  the  tutor's  breach,  but  rather  by  the
failure of the plaintiffs to hire a substitute teacher.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  son  was  an  intended  beneficiary  of  the  mother-tutor
contract.

When  the  parties  to  a  contract  intend,  at  the  time  of  the  contract's
formation,  that  a  third  party  receive  benefits  from  the  contract's
performance,  that  third  party  is  an  intended  third-party  beneficiary  of
the contract. Intended third-party beneficiaries are entitled to sue in the
event that the contract is breached. Here the mother-tutor contract was
made  in  contemplation  of  benefiting  the  son,  who  would  be  receiving
the tutoring. As a result, he was an intended beneficiary of the contract,
and may sue the tutor for damages.

 (D) is not the best response,

because they can still recover the market price differential.

1467

When  the  tutor  repudiated  the  contract,  the  mother  and  son  were
under a duty to take reasonable steps to minimize the amount of damage
that the tutor's breach would cause. They could have satisfied this duty
to  mitigate  damages  by  hiring  a  substitute  tutor  for  $6,000.  Had  they
done  so,  they  would  have  been  able  to  recover  the  $1,000  price
difference  in  a  suit  against  the  tutor.  Their  failure  to  do  so  bars  them
from  recovering  consequential  damages  that  arose  from  the  tutor's
breach, but not market price differential damages. As a result, the only
damages available to them is the price differential between the $6,000
market  price  and  the  $5,000  contract  price.  Note  that  they  are  able  to
recover  this  damage  whether  or  not  they  actually  hired  the  substitute
tutor.

 Answer 71

You have an advantage with a problem like this one, because it's fully
integrated — everything you need to solve it is given to you. Thus, with
this  type  of  problem,  it's  particularly  important  to  read  each  statute
carefully.

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  addresses  both  types  of  murder  under  the  statute,  and
correctly applies them to the facts.

The  murder  statute  here  provides 

two  possibilities:  either
premeditated  and 
intentional  murder,  OR  felony  murder.  The
intoxication  statute  exonerates  the  defendant  only  if  his  drunkenness
negates an element of the crime. Choice A correctly identifies that the
defendant cannot be guilty of felony murder if he was unable to form an
intent to commit a felony; it further correctly states that he could only be
guilty  of  the  first  type  of  murder  in  the  statute  if  he  intentionally  and
with premeditation killed the watchman. Since A addresses both parts
of  the  murder  statutes  and  analyzes  them  correctly,  it's  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  voluntary  intoxication  is  potentially  a  good  defense  to  the
crime  of  murder,  since  it  could  negate  an  element  of  the  offense  —
namely, intent.

There are two possibilities for murder in the statute given in these
facts  —  either  premeditated  and  intentional  killing,  or  killing  in  the

1468

commission of the named crimes, the relevant one here being burglary.
However,  burglary  requires  intent  as  well  —  the  intent  to  commit  a
crime in the building broken into. Either way, if the jury found that the
voluntary intoxication negated the defendant's ability to form an intent,
he  would  be  acquitted.  Since  choice  B  does  not  comport  with  the
statutes stated in the facts, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  incorrectly  eliminates  a  possibility  for  the  defendant  being
found guilty.

The  murder  statute  in  the  question  offers  two  possible  bases  on
which  the  defendant  could  be  found  guilty:  either  premeditated  and
intentional killing, OR a “felony murder”-type provision — a killing in
the  commission  of  the  named  crimes.  Thus,  the  defendant  could  be
found guilty of murder if he's found to have committed a killing in the
commission  of  a  burglary.  Note  that  choice  C  limits  the  defendant's
being found guilty to the first type of murder in the statute by stating that
the  defendant  can  be  found  guilty  “only  if”  he  premeditated  and
intended  the  killing.  Here,  it's  possible  that  the  court  could  find  the
defendant  guilty  of  a  killing  in  the  commission  of  a  burglary,  without
finding  him  guilty  of  premeditated,  intentional  killing.  (Note  that  the
defendant's intoxication couldn't exonerate him from the second type of
murder without exonerating him from the first type. If the defendant was
drunk  enough  not  to  form  an  intent,  it  would  exonerate  him  from  both
types  of  murder.)  Since  C  incorrectly  limits  the  potential  for  the
defendant's guilt, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misapplies the intoxication defense.

The statute here clearly states that intoxication is only a defense if it
negates  an  element  of  the  offense.  Thus,  the  “but  for”  reasoning  in
choice  D  is  incorrect,  because  it's  not  a  question  of  whether  the
defendant wouldn't have killed the watchman if he was sober, but rather
whether his intoxication negated an element of the offense. It's possible
for  the  defendant  to  have  been  intoxicated  without  having  his
intoxication  negate  an  element  of  the  offense.  Thus,  choice  D  applies
the intoxication defense too broadly, making it not the best response.

 Answer 72

1469

(A) is the best response,

because he did not intend to use deadly force.

The defendant may utilize the defense of self-defense when he (i) is
resisting unlawful force, (ii) does not use excessive force, (iii) does not
use  deadly  force  unless  the  danger  being  resisted  was  also  deadly
force, (iv) is not the aggressor (unless he was a non-deadly aggressor
confronted with the unexpected use of deadly force), and (v) must not
have  been  in  a  position  from  which  he  could  retreat  with  complete
safety (unless the attack takes place in the defendant's dwelling or the
defendant uses only non-deadly force). Here, all the elements are met.
The  husband,  through  both  his  physical  and  verbal  action,  threatened
unlawful force. The defendant did use excessive force or deadly force
and was not the aggressor. Furthermore, because the defendant did not
intend  to  use  deadly  force  (i.e.,  pepper  spray),  he  was  not  under  the
obligation to retreat.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the retreat rule.

The defendant may utilize the defense of self-defense when he (i) is
resisting unlawful force, (ii) does not use excessive force, (iii) does not
use  deadly  force  unless  the  danger  being  resisted  was  also  deadly
force, (iv) is not the aggressor (unless he was a non-deadly aggressor
confronted with the unexpected use of deadly force), and (v) must not
have  been  in  a  position  from  which  he  could  retreat  with  complete
safety (unless the attack takes place in the defendant's dwelling or the
defendant uses only non-deadly force). Here, the defendant was not in
his  dwelling,  and  stating  that  an  exception  exists  for  all  “occupied
structures”  is  too  broad.  Instead,  the  reason  that  the  defendant  did  not
have to retreat is that the defendant did not intend to use deadly force
(i.e., pepper spray).

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the retreat rule.

The defendant may utilize the defense of self-defense when he (i) is
resisting unlawful force, (ii) does not use excessive force, (iii) does not
use  deadly  force  unless  the  danger  being  resisted  was  also  deadly
force, (iv) is not the aggressor (unless he was a non-deadly aggressor
confronted with the unexpected use of deadly force), and (v) must not

1470

have  been  in  a  position  from  which  he  could  retreat  with  complete
safety (unless the attack takes place in the defendant's dwelling or the
defendant uses only non-deadly force). Here, the answer choice is too
broad: a person utilizing self-defense does not have to retreat whenever
an  opportunity  is  available  if  he  is  using  non-deadly  force.  Thus,  the
reason that the defendant did not have to retreat is that the defendant did
not intend to use deadly force (i.e., pepper spray).

 (D) is not the best response,

because a response of non-deadly force is justified where the defender
reasonably believes the other is about to inflict unlawful bodily harm,
which need not be deadly harm.

The defendant may utilize the defense of self-defense when he (i) is
resisting unlawful force, (ii) does not use excessive force, (iii) does not
use  deadly  force  unless  the  danger  being  resisted  was  also  deadly
force, (iv) is not the aggressor (unless he was a non-deadly aggressor
confronted with the unexpected use of deadly force), and (v) must not
have  been  in  a  position  from  which  he  could  retreat  with  complete
safety (unless the attack takes place in the defendant's dwelling or the
defendant  uses  only  non-deadly  force).  Here,  the  husband  threatened
unlawful  force,  so  the  defendant  was  entitled  to  defend  himself  using
reasonable force. The defendant responded to the threat of a punch with
non-deadly force (i.e., pepper spray), so his use of force was justified.
As this answer choice implies either that self-defense may only be used
in response to deadly force or that this defendant used deadly force, it
is wrong.

 Answer 73

 (D) is the best answer,

because it fits all the elements of an excited utterance.

FRE  803(2),  entitled  “Excited  Utterance,”  gives  a  hearsay
exception  for  “A  statement  relating  to  a  startling  event  or  condition,
made  while  the  declarant  was  under  the  stress  of  excitement  that  it
caused.”  So  the  utterance  must  relate  to  a  startling  event  and  must  be
uttered  while  still  under  the  influence  of  the  startling  event.  Here,  an
assault  qualifies  as  a  startling  event,  and  the  victim  “screamed”
(indicating her excited state) a statement immediately after the beating
stopped.

1471

(A) is not the best answer,

because the statement fits all the elements of an excited utterance.

An  excited  utterance  must  relate  to  a  startling  event  and  must  be
uttered  while  still  under  the  influence  of  the  startling  event.  Here,  an
assault  qualifies  as  a  startling  event,  and  the  victim  “screamed”
(indicating her excited state) a statement immediately after the beating
stopped.

 (B) is not the best answer,

because it states an unnecessary requirement.

This  statement  is  an  excited  utterance,  and,  under  FRE  803,  the
statement is admissible even if the witness is unavailable. So there is
no  requirement  that  the  declarant  (if  available)  be  “asked  about  the
statement.”

 (C) is not the best answer,

because this statement does not satisfy the dying declaration exception
(FRE 804(b)(2)).

Under  the  dying  declaration  exception,  an  unavailable  declarant's
statement, while believing that his or her death is imminent, concerning
the cause or circumstances of his or her impending death, is admissible
in either a civil case or a homicide prosecution concerning that death.
So, while it is true that the victim does not need to die, this exception is
not met here for two reasons. First, the declarant is not unavailable, as
she  testified  earlier  in  the  trial.  Second,  this  is  a  criminal  case  for
aggravated assault, not a civil case or a homicide prosecution.

 Answer 74

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the strongest basis on which a judgment
for the buyer could be based — the Parol Evidence Rule.

There  are  two  key  facts  here:  first,  that  the  prior  oral  agreement
contradicts  the  writing,  thus  invoking  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule;  and
second, that recording transactions is for the benefit of subsequent bona
fide purchasers, not one of the parties to the transaction.

In order to prevail based on his requirement that the buyer only fill
in  Lots  40  or  41,  the  developer  would  have  to  rely  on  his  prior,  oral

1472

understanding with the buyer. Under the Parol Evidence Rule, a writing
that is “completely integrated” cannot be contradicted or supplemented
with  prior  written  or  oral  agreements,  or  contemporaneous  oral
agreements. A “completely integrated” agreement is one that the parties
intended  to  be  a  final  and  complete  statement  of  their  agreement.  The
deed  here  would  likely  qualify,  so  that  oral  restrictions  on  the  lot
number to be included would contradict the document itself, and would
not be provable.

Of  course,  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule  does  not  bar  evidence  of
defects  in  contract  formation,  like  lack  of  consideration,  fraud,  and
duress, but there are no such facts evident here. For instance, there is no
evidence  that  the  buyer  fraudulently  put  in  the  number  of  a  more
expensive  lot;  the  facts  merely  indicate  that  he  changed  his  mind,
apparently  ignorant  of  the  difference  in  cost,  so  the  Parol  Evidence
Rule could not be avoided on grounds of fraud.

In  fact,  a  more  appropriate  remedy  would  be  reformation,  where
the  court  rewords  the  contract  to  reflect  the  parties'  true  intent.
However,  under  these  facts,  the  developer  is  attempting  to  say  that  a
contract never existed, because the buyer was in breach of the “Lot 40
or Lot 41” agreement. As such, the developer is seeking a rescission,
and,  due  to  operation  of  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule,  he's  unlikely  to
succeed. Since C recognizes this as the most likely basis for the buyer's
prevailing, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  form  as  strong  a  basis  for  the  judgment  as  does
choice C.

An  estoppel  occurs,  in  facts  like  these,  when  one  has  done  or
omitted to do something and is, as a result, forbidden from pleading or
proving an otherwise important fact. Here, the developer's carelessness
in allowing the buyer to fill in the deed would lead to his being bound
by the resultant deed — he'd be “estopped” from denying its validity.

However, what choice A fails to take into account is the existence
of  the  deed,  which  would  constitute  a  written  contract  between  the
buyer and the developer, embodying their agreement. The buyer's most
likely  means  of  prevailing  is  enforcing  the  written  agreement,  without
resorting to estoppel. He can do so if his argument focuses on the Parol
Evidence  Rule.  Under  the  Parol  Evidence  Rule,  a  writing  that  is
“completely  integrated”  cannot  be  contradicted  or  supplemented  with
prior written or oral agreements, or contemporaneous oral agreements.

1473

A “completely integrated” agreement is one that the parties intended to
be  a  final  and  complete  statement  of  their  agreement.  The  deed  here
would  likely  qualify,  so  that  oral  restrictions  on  the  lot  number  to  be
included  would  contradict  the  document  itself,  and  would  not  be
provable.

While there are exceptions to the Parol Evidence Rule, these facts
do not neatly fit into any of them. Thus, a choice focusing on the Parol
Evidence  Rule,  choice  C,  provides  a  stronger  basis  for  a  judgment  in
the buyer's favor than the estoppel argument in A, making A not the best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  although  it  states  a  correct  rule,  it  would  not  apply  to  these
facts.

Choice B suggests that the fact that the land title records show the
buyer  owning  Lot  25  means  that  the  buyer  should  prevail.  In  fact,
recording  conveyances  is  required  for  the  benefit  of  subsequent,  bona
fide  purchasers,  not  parties  to  transactions  themselves,  so  the  buyer
could not prevail on this basis. Instead, the buyer's prevailing depends
on the oral agreement, restricting the purchase to Lots 40 or 41, being
inadmissible. Since the land title records will not be a basis on which
the buyer could prevail, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because, although it states a correct rule, the developer — as a party to
the transaction — cannot rely on it.

Recording  conveyances  is  required  for  the  benefit  of  subsequent,
bona fide purchasers, not parties to transactions themselves. Thus, had
the  action  been  between  the  developer  and  a  subsequent  purchaser,
choice D could form the basis of a judgment in the purchaser's favor —
even if the deed were, in fact, void! Here, since the dispute is between
the  parties  to  the  transaction,  the  recording  of  the  deed  is  irrelevant.
Instead,  the  buyer's  prevailing  depends  on  the  oral  agreement,
restricting the purchase to Lots 40 or 41, being inadmissible. Since D
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 Answer 75

 (C) is the best response,

1474

because  the  clerk's  rights  vested  when  he  purchased  the  retirement
home.

When two parties enter into a contract that benefits someone else,
that person is considered a third-party beneficiary of the contract. If the
contracting parties intended to create the benefit, then the individual is
an  intended  third-party  beneficiary.  An  intended  beneficiary  has  the
right to sue on the contract in the event of breach even though he is not a
party  to  the  contract.  More  important  to  this  situation  is  that  when  a
third-party  beneficiary's  rights  “vest,”  the  contracting  parties  can  no
longer  modify  their  agreement  to  the  detriment  of  the  beneficiary.  The
third-party rights vest in several circumstances, the most common being
when the beneficiary acts in detrimental reliance on the promise. That
is  precisely  what  has  happened  here.  The  contract  was  intended  to
create  an  annuity  for  the  clerk  so  that  he  could  be  secure  in  his
retirement. The clerk knew of the agreement and its amount, and made
the decision to purchase a retirement home in reliance on the agreement
being performed. This caused his rights to vest. When the bookkeeper
subsequently attempted to change the agreement by reducing the amount
he  would  contribute,  he  was  attempting  to  modify  the  contract  in  a
manner  that  adversely  affected  the  vested  rights  of  the  clerk.  The
bookkeeper  could  therefore  not  change  his  obligation  without  the
clerk's permission. As a result, the bookkeeper is liable to the clerk for
the unpaid $50,000.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  accountant  and  bookkeeper  could  not  modify  their
agreement without the clerk's permission.

When two parties enter into a contract that benefits someone else,
that person is considered a third-party beneficiary of the contract. If the
contracting parties intended to create the benefit, then the individual is
an  intended  third-party  beneficiary.  An  intended  beneficiary  has  the
right to sue on the contract in the event of breach even though he is not a
party  to  the  contract.  More  important  to  this  situation  is  that  when  a
third-party  beneficiary's  rights  “vest,”  the  contracting  parties  can  no
longer  modify  their  agreement  to  the  detriment  of  the  beneficiary.  The
third-party rights vest in several circumstances, the most common being
when the beneficiary acts in detrimental reliance on the promise. That
is  precisely  what  has  happened  here.  The  contract  was  intended  to
create  an  annuity  for  the  clerk  so  that  he  could  be  secure  in  his
retirement. The clerk knew of the agreement and its amount, and made

1475

the decision to purchase a retirement home in reliance on the agreement
being performed. This caused his rights to vest. When the bookkeeper
subsequently attempted to change the agreement by reducing the amount
he  would  contribute,  he  was  attempting  to  modify  the  contract  in  a
manner  that  adversely  affected  the  vested  rights  of  the  clerk.  The
bookkeeper  could  therefore  not  change  his  obligation  without  the
clerk's permission. As a result, the bookkeeper is liable to the clerk for
the unpaid $50,000.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the clerk's rights had vested.

When two parties enter into a contract that benefits someone else,
that person is considered a third-party beneficiary of the contract. If the
contracting parties intended to create the benefit, then the individual is
an intended third-party beneficiary. Whether the intent was to satisfy a
debt  to  the  third  party  or  merely  to  make  a  gift  is  immaterial.  An
intended beneficiary has the right to sue on the contract in the event of
breach even though he is not a party to the contract. More important to
this  situation  is  that  when  a  third-party  beneficiary's  rights  “vest,”  the
contracting  parties  can  no  longer  modify  their  agreement  to  the
detriment  of  the  beneficiary.  The  third-party  rights  vest  in  several
circumstances,  the  most  common  being  when  the  beneficiary  acts  in
detrimental  reliance  on  the  promise.  That  is  precisely  what  has
happened here. The contract was intended to create an annuity for the
clerk so that he could be secure in his retirement. The clerk knew of the
agreement  and  its  amount,  and  made  the  decision  to  purchase  a
retirement  home  in  reliance  on  the  agreement  being  performed.  This
caused his rights to vest. When the bookkeeper subsequently attempted
to change the agreement by reducing the amount he would contribute, he
was  attempting  to  modify  the  contract  in  a  manner  that  adversely
affected the vested rights of the clerk. The bookkeeper could therefore
not change his obligation without the clerk's permission. As a result, the
bookkeeper is liable to the clerk for the unpaid $50,000. If you chose
this response, you were probably thinking of the distinction between a
“creditor” beneficiary and a “donee” beneficiary. However, under the
modern view, that distinction is not the relevant inquiry. Rather, a court
will  assess  whether  the  third  party  was  an  “intended”  beneficiary,  or
merely  an  “incidental”  beneficiary,  with  only  the  former  having
enforceable rights under the contract.

1476

(D) is not the best response,

because past consideration is not consideration.

In  order  to  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  supported  by
consideration.  Choice  D  indicates  that  the  clerk's  prior  employment
would  satisfy  this  requirement.  However,  under  the  bargained-for-
exchange  test  for  consideration,  this  is  not  the  case.  The  relevant
question  is  whether,  when  the  clerk  agreed  to  do  his  work,  he  did  so
with the expectation that the annuity would be set up for him upon the
firm's  dissolution.  Since  the  answer  to  that  question  is  clearly  no  (the
accountant  and  bookkeeper  only  came  up  with  the  idea  recently),  the
clerk's prior work is insufficient on its own to be consideration for the
accountant and bookkeeper's promise.

 Answer 76

 (A) is the best response,

because the statute singled out the three park rangers.

the
A  bill  of  attainder,  which  is  explicitly  prohibited  by 
Constitution,  is  a  law  that  identifies  particular  individuals  for
punishment.  The  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  punishment  includes  not
only  imprisonment,  but  an  array  of  other  conditions,  including  the
prohibition  of  government  employment.  Since  the  law  in  this  problem
both  named  the  specific  individuals  who  were  to  be  targeted  and
punished 
them  from  obtaining  government
employment, it is an unconstitutional bill of attainder.

them  by  prohibiting 

 (B) is not the best response,

because the Due Process Clause does not apply to laws passed by the
legislature.

The  Due  Process  Clause  requires  that  an  individual  who  is  to  be
deprived of a property or liberty interest be given a hearing before the
deprivation takes place. So, for example, if the park rangers were each
fined  under  a  different,  valid,  federal  statute  for  their  actions,  they
would have the right to a hearing before their property was taken. The
Due  Process  Clause  operates  in  situations  where  an  individual
determination  must  be  made,  and  is  therefore  inapplicable  to  valid
statutes enacted by Congress.

1477


(C) is not the best response,

because  the  park  rangers  were  not  charged  with  a  crime  under  the
statute.

The Ex Post Facto Clause prohibits punishing individuals for past
conduct  by  applying  laws  that  were  enacted  after  the  conduct  took
place. If, for example, after the park rangers had ceased their activities
in support of terrorism, Congress passed a law criminalizing such acts,
the  rangers  could  not  be  convicted  under  the  statute,  since  their  acts
were not prohibited at the time they were done. However, the Ex Post
Facto Clause only applies to criminal punishment. It is inapplicable to
situations that only involve civil punishment, such as the prohibition of
federal employment at issue in this problem.

 (D) is not the best response,

because no property has been taken from the park rangers.

The  Takings  Clause  prohibits  the  government  from  taking  an
individual's  property  without  paying  just  compensation.  The  park
rangers were punished by prohibiting them from obtaining government
employment,  not  by  taking  their  property.  The  Takings  Clause  is  only
applicable to governmental appropriation of property, and is therefore
not at issue here.

 Answer 77

 (C) is the best response,

because the trier of fact has found no evidence of negligence on the part
of the defendant.

More specifically, the nuclear power plant did not breach any duty
owed  to  the  plaintiff  as  the  plant  had  a  sound  design,  had  chosen  a
quality  manufacturer  for  the  component  part,  and  had  “no  way”  of
anticipating  or  preventing  the  emission  of  the  radioactive  matter.  The
plaintiff  is  limited  to  a  negligence  cause  of  action  under  the  Federal
Torts Claim Act, so his claim will fail for lack of proof of a breach of
duty.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur cannot be established here.

Res  ipsa  loquitur  is  established  when  (i)  there  is  no  direct

1478

evidence of defendant's conduct; (ii) the event ordinarily does not occur
except  through  the  negligence  of  someone;  (iii)  the  instrument  that
caused the injury was, at the relevant time, in the exclusive control of
the defendant; and (iv) the injury was not due to plaintiff's own action.
Here, the trier of fact could not find that the event ordinarily does not
occur except through the negligence of someone, as we are dealing with
complex machinery in the context of nuclear engineering. Furthermore,
another potential defendant is involved, and the findings of the jury are
inconsistent with a conclusion that this is the sort of accident that would
not ordinarily occur in the absence of the government's negligence.

 (B) is not the best response,

because, pursuant to the Federal Tort Claims Act, the plaintiff may not
rely on a strict liability theory.

This answer choice articulates the reasoning of Rylands v. Fletcher
(1868),  a  case  based  on  a  strict  liability  theory.  As  the  plaintiff  is
limited to a cause of action in negligence, this strict liability theory will
not allow the plaintiff to be successful in his suit.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  while  proximate  cause  is  necessary  to  establish  liability  in
negligence, it is not sufficient.

This  answer  choice  understates  the  reason  that  the  defendant  will
win, as it does not focus on all the elements of a negligence claim. As
answer  choice  C  encompasses  a  broader  answer,  incorporating  the
precise reason the plaintiff will lose (i.e., the defendant did not breach
a duty owed to the plaintiff), it is the superior answer.

 Answer 78

 (C) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  states  that  the  defendant  will  not  be  liable  for
robbery, and states the correct reason why.

Robbery is a larceny either from a person or a person's presence,
by either force or fear. A dead person is incapable of being put in fear,
or  being  subject  to  force.  As  a  result,  robbery  from  a  dead  person  is
impossible. Since C correctly identifies this, it's the best response.

1479


(A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  state  a  reason  that  would  exonerate  the  defendant
from liability for larceny.

Common-law  larceny  requires  only  a  trespassory  taking  and
carrying  away  of  another's  personal  property,  with  intent  to  steal  it.
Choice  A  misstates  the  facts  because  the  defendant  satisfies  the
elements of larceny — preventing identification is the defendant's “own
use,” and would not provide a valid defense to larceny. Since A states a
defense  that  would  not  exonerate  the  defendant,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states an element that is not, in fact, a requirement of larceny.
Common-law  larceny  requires  only  a  trespassory  taking  and
carrying away of another's personal property, with intent to steal it. It
does not require a living victim.

If you chose this response, you may have been thinking of robbery,
which requires a living victim since it's larceny from a person with the
use of force or fear, and only a living person is susceptible to force or
fear. Since B adds an element that is not a requirement of larceny, it's
not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it  arrives  at  the  correct  conclusion  —  that  the
defendant  is  not  guilty  of  robbery  —  it  does  not  offer  the  correct
reasoning.

Choice  D  states  an  element  that  is  not,  in  fact,  a  requirement  of
robbery.  Robbery  is  a  larceny  either  from  a  person  or  a  person's
presence, by either force or fear. The larceny element only requires that
one  take  another's  personal  property  —  it  does  not  require  that  the
personal  property  have  monetary  value.  While  it's  true  that  the
defendant  is  not  guilty  of  robbery,  it's  not  because  he  took  something
lacking  monetary  value,  but  rather  because  the  victim  was  dead,  thus
preventing the use of force or fear. Since D offers incorrect reasoning,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 79

1480


(A) is the best answer,

because the prior bad acts have no bearing on truthfulness and do not
contradict his earlier testimony.

Under  FRE  608(b),  a  prior  bad  act  must  bear  on  the  witness's
truthfulness, and driving carelessly does not qualify under that standard.
Additionally,  a  prior  bad  act  may  be  admissible  if  it  contradicts  a
witness's  testimony  on  an  issue  in  dispute,  but  this  evidence  does  not
contradict  the  witness.  The  witness  testified  that  he  “was  exercising
due  care  at  the  time  [of  the  accident.]”  Introducing  a  prior  instance
when  he  did  not  exercise  due  care  has  no  bearing  on  whether  he  was
exercising  due  care  at  the  time  of  the  accident.  As  such,  it  does  not
contradict his earlier testimony and is inadmissible.

 (B) is not the best answer,

because it confuses the requirements of FRE 609 and FRE 608.

FRE 608 does not require a conviction. Rather, under FRE 608(b),
a  prior  bad  act  must  bear  on  the  witness's  truthfulness,  and  driving
carelessly  does  not  qualify  under  that  standard.  Additionally,  a  prior
bad act may be admissible if it contradicts a witness's testimony on an
issue in dispute, but this evidence does not contradict the witness. The
witness testified that he “was exercising due care at the time  [of  the
accident.]”  Introducing  a  prior  instance  when  he  did  not  exercise  due
care has no bearing on whether he was exercising due care at the time
of the accident. As such, it does not contradict his earlier testimony and
is inadmissible.

 (C) is not the best answer,

because “improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions” does not
bear on plaintiff's credibility in this case.

In  this  case,  the  plaintiff  specifically  testified  that  he  “was
exercising due care at the time [of the accident.]” Introducing a prior
instance when he did not exercise due care has no bearing on whether
he was exercising due care at the time of the accident. As such, it does
not  affect  the  credibility  of  his  earlier  testimony  and  is  inadmissible
under FRE 608(b).

 (D) is not the best answer,

because “improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions” does not

1481

contradict plaintiff's claim in this case.

In  this  case,  plaintiff  specifically  testified  that  he  “was  exercising
due  care  at  the  time  [of  the  accident.]”  Introducing  a  prior  instance
when  he  did  not  exercise  due  care  has  no  bearing  on  whether  he  was
exercising  due  care  at  the  time  of  the  accident.  As  such,  it  does  not
contradict his earlier testimony and is inadmissible under FRE 608(b).

 Answer 80

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the buyer does not have an easement
by  implication,  and  thus  his  rights  should  wait  until  the  border  road
opens as a public street.

While  the  border  road  is  still  private,  the  buyer's  right  to  use  it
depends  on  whether  he  has  an  interest  in  the  border  road  that  would
allow him use of it. The developer, as owner of the border road, didn't
expressly  grant  the  buyer  the  right  to  use  it,  so,  if  the  buyer  has  any
easement at all, it's implied. The two most likely easements, an implied
easement  and  an  easement  by  necessity,  both  have  the  same  stumbling
block for the buyer: They each require that the two parcels of land have
been  under  common  ownership  in  the  past.  The  facts  here  do  not
indicate  that  the  widower's  plot  and  the  developer's  tract  were  ever
under  common  ownership,  so  there  can  be  no  implied  easement  or
easement  by  necessity.  Since  A  correctly  identifies  that  there  is  no
private  easement  by  implication,  and  suggests  a  plausible  alternative,
it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  Statute  of  Frauds  would  not  bar  evidence  proving  an
implied easement.

This  is  so  because  implied  easements  are  created  by  operation  of
law,  not  expression  of  the  parties,  so  they  cannot  be  in  writing!  An
implied  easement  arises  when  a  tract  of  land  under  one  owner  is
divided,  and  one  part  of  the  land  had  been  used  for  the  benefit  of  the
other  part.  A  related  easement,  an  “easement  by  necessity,”  arises
where enjoyment of one parcel of land strictly requires use of another.
These are the two most likely easements here, and, since neither one of
them requires a writing, the Statute of Frauds would not apply to them.
As a result, B cannot be the best response.

1482

(C) is not the best response,

because although it is internally consistent (in that the facts preclude the
success  of  a  claim  based  on  a  way  of  necessity),  this  is  not  the  only
claim that the buyer could make.

It's likely that the buyer would claim a way by necessity because the
facts here make such a claim attractive, in every way but one: there is
no  indication  here  that  the  two  parcels  of  land  involved  were  ever
under  common  ownership,  and  this  is  a  requirement  of  a  way  by
necessity. However, it's likely that the buyer would also claim that there
is an implied easement, which is an easement created by operation of
law. An implied easement arises when a tract of land under one owner
is divided, and one part of the land had been used for the benefit of the
other  part.  Thus,  the  stumbling  block  with  the  buyer's  proving  an
implied  easement  is  the  same  as  for  an  easement  by  necessity:  there
never  was  common  ownership  of  the  two  parcels,  under  these  facts.
Nonetheless,  it's  as  likely  that  the  buyer  would  claim  an  implied
easement as it is that he would claim an easement by necessity, and so
his assertion would not be limited to a way by necessity, as C claims.
Thus, C is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  unjust  enrichment  need  not  be  addressed  in  order  to  deny  the
buyer the right of way.

Under  the  doctrine  of  unjust  enrichment,  one  has  received  and
retained  property,  money,  or  benefits  that  justifiably  and  equitably
belong  to  another.  While  the  buyer's  use  of  the  border  road  could
constitute unjust enrichment, it is not necessary to go as far as proving
unjust  enrichment,  since,  if  the  developer  can  prove  that  the  buyer
wouldn't  be  within  his  legal  rights  to  use  the  border  road,  he  needn't
prove  any  more.  In  other  words,  in  order  to  recover  for  unjust
enrichment, the developer would be implying that the buyer was within
his legal rights to use the border road, but it would be inequitable for
him  to  do  so.  Here,  there  is  no  indication  that  the  buyer  is  within  his
legal rights to use the border road at all, and since choice A recognizes
this, D is not the best response.

 Answer 81

 (D) is the best response,

1483

because the contract is divisible.

A  divisible  contracts  is  one  in  which  the  performance  is  divided
into  discrete  units.  The  construction  contract  in  this  problem  is
divisible because it called for three distinct buildings to be constructed,
and called for a separate price for each building. A divisible contract
is, for all practical purposes, treated as a series of separate contracts.
As a result, the builder will be able to recover from the landowner the
contract price for the structure that he had completed.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the builder completed the first structure.

The substantial performance doctrine is applicable here because the
contract was divisible. The substantial performance doctrine generally
states  that  as  a  constructive  condition  of  one  party's  duty  of
performance, the other party substantially perform his duties under the
contract. If this contract were not divisible, the landowner would argue
that  completion  of  only  one  of  three  buildings  was  not  substantial
performance of a contract that called for the construction of three. As a
result  of  the  divisibility  of  this  contract,  a  court  would  treat  the
landowner-builder contract as if it were three separate contracts. Since
the builder has completed the first of these “contracts,” he may recover
the contract price on the structure that he has completed. The landowner
will  have  a  claim  against  the  builder  for  his  failure  to  complete  the
other two structures.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the builder completed the first structure.

Although 

the  builder's  voluntary  cessation  of  work  before
completing the second and third structures was a breach of the contract,
it  will  not  prevent  him  from  recovering  against  the  landowner  for  the
contract price of the first structure. Since this contract called for three
separate  buildings  to  be  constructed  at  three  separate  prices,  it  is
divisible,  and  the  court  will  treat  it  as  if  it  were  a  series  of  three
separate contracts. Because the builder has already completed the first
structure,  he  will  only  be  found  to  have  breached  the  contract  for  the
construction of the second and third structures. The builder will still be
able to recover the contract price on the structure he has completed.

 (C) is not the best response,

1484

because the landowner will be able to bring his claim for breach in the
builder's action.

The first half of choice C is correct: this contract is divisible, and
the  builder  will  be  able  to  recover  the  contract  price  for  the  first
structure,  which  he  has  completed.  (See  the  explanation  of  choice  D
above.) However, the second half of this choice is incorrect: There is
no requirement that the landowner bring his claims against the builder
in  a  separate  action,  since  they  arise  from  the  same  contract  that  the
builder  is  suing  under.  In  fact,  it  would  further  the  goal  of  judicial
economy for the landowner to bring his claims in the same suit, since
this  would  allow  a  single  action  to  dispose  of  these  closely  related
claims.

 Answer 82

 (C) is the best response,

because the city buses are a designated public forum.

Because  the  city  sells  space  on  the  side  of  its  buses  for  the
placement of placards, that space is considered a public forum. For a
designated public forum, the city cannot prevent a group from using the
forum in a manner consistent with the city's rules for its use unless the
reason  for  denying  access  passes  strict  scrutiny.  A  governmental
regulation or decision that discriminates based on the content of speech
will only survive First Amendment scrutiny if it is necessary to serve a
compelling  governmental  interest  (i.e.,  pass  the  “strict  scrutiny”  test).
Here, the administrator's reason for not allowing the anti-animal-cruelty
ads  on  the  buses  was  that  the  city  did  not  wish  to  offend  the  circus,
which  was  another  advertiser  on  the  buses.  Although  this  may  be  a
valid  concern  for  the  city,  since  the  circus  may  decide  to  pull  its
advertisements,  it  does  not  rise  to  the  level  of  a  “compelling”
governmental interest.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it applies the incorrect level of scrutiny.

Content-based  restrictions  on  speech  are  analyzed  under  strict
scrutiny,  which  requires  that  the  restriction  be  necessary  to  achieve  a
the
compelling  governmental 
administrator's  decision  to  exclude  the  anti-animal-cruelty  group's
advertisements  was  based  entirely  on  the  content  of  the  group's

the  rationale  for 

interest.  Here, 

1485

message. Accordingly, it was a content-based restriction, rather than a
time, place, or manner restriction. The administrator's decision will not
pass  strict  scrutiny  because  avoiding  offending  the  circus  is  not  a
compelling governmental need.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it raises irrelevant considerations.

The truth or falsity of a statement is only relevant to the speaker's
access  to  a  public  forum  if  the  statement  is  either  defamation  or
commercial speech. The anti-animal-cruelty group's message is neither,
even if some people viewing their ad would mistakenly believe that the
circus  in  town  also  treated  its  animals  in  a  cruel  fashion.  Since  the
decision not to allow the group's ad to be placed on the buses, which
were a public forum, was based entirely on the content of the ads, the
administrator's  decision  will  be  subject  to  strict  scrutiny,  which
requires  that  the  decision  be  necessary  to  achieve  a  compelling
governmental interest. The administrator's decision will not pass strict
scrutiny  because  avoiding  offending  the  circus  is  not  a  compelling
governmental need.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it is too broad.

While  the  First  Amendment  does  provide  broad  protections  for
individuals  and  groups  seeking  to  avail  themselves  of  public  forums,
choice  D  goes  too  far  in  two  respects.  First,  it  attempts  to  provide
public-forum-level protection to all public facilities, rather than only to
public  forums.  While  in  this  case,  the  sides  of  the  city  buses  are  a
designated public forum, it is not the case that all public facilities are
so  categorized.  Second,  choice  D  implies  that  a  public  official  may
never refuse to allow a message discussing a matter of public concern
to be distributed in a public forum. This is not true even if the decision
is based entirely on the content of the speech (which is not required by
choice  D).  Although  such  content-based  restrictions  trigger  strict
scrutiny analysis, they do not always fail, as it is possible, although not
the  case  here,  that  a  content-based  restriction  is  in  fact  necessary  to
achieve a compelling governmental interest.

 Answer 83

1486

(B) is the best response,

because it removes the situation from coverage by the statute mentioned
in the facts.

Getting this problem correct requires a careful analysis of the facts,
not merely a mechanical application of a rule of law. The key fact here
is  the  statute,  requiring  30  days'  notice  for  eviction.  What  this  should
tell  you  is  that  the  purchaser's  best  legal  argument  will  involve
characterizing the homeowner as something other than a tenant!

Under the facts, if the homeowner is characterized as a tenant, it's at
least  possible  that  he  would  be  protected  by  the  30  days'  notice
provision. Thus, the purchaser's best argument would be to characterize
the homeowner as something other than a tenant, if such an argument is
possible  on  these  facts.  Such  an  argument  is  possible  here,  since  the
homeowner  could  be  characterized  as  a  licensee.  A  licensee  is  one
with a personal privilege to enter upon the licensor's land. A license is
not considered an interest in land, and it is, with exceptions that don't
apply here, revocable. Here, the homeowner's right, created under the
contract, could be construed as a license, because it could be said that
the contract creates in the homeowner a personal privilege to enter the
the  homeowner's  possession  could  be
purchaser's 
characterized  as  a  license,  and  doing  so  removes  the  single  greatest
obstacle to the purchaser's winning the case — the statutory 30 days'
notice provision — B is the best response.

land.  Since 

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not correctly characterize the facts.

A trespasser ab initio  is  a  trespasser  “from  the  beginning.”  Here,
the homeowner initially validly possessed the home under a provision
in the contract between him and the purchaser. While his residence after
the 30-day period ended might be characterized as a trespass, certainly
the  period  before  that  could  not  be  considered  a  trespass.  Thus,  the
homeowner  was  not  a  trespasser  “from  the  beginning,”  making  A  not
the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  avoid  the  statutory  30  days'  notice  provision  for
tenants.

Otherwise, C would be an attractive response, because a tenancy at

1487

sufferance is created when a tenant wrongfully maintains possession of
the premises (“holds over”) after the expiration of the lease. Doing so
makes him liable as a trespasser, unless the lessor holds the tenant to a
new  tenancy  (e.g.,  by  accepting  rent).  However,  C  does  not  take  into
account the operation of the statute here, and if you chose this response,
you  probably  overlooked  the  statute,  too.  Since  characterizing  the
homeowner  as  a  tenant  would  likely  invoke  the  30  days'  notice
provision,  which  is  unfavorable  to  the  purchaser,  C  is  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  avoid  the  statutory  30  days'  notice  provision  for
tenants.  Furthermore,  D  misstates  the  facts,  since,  regardless  of  the
statute,  the  homeowner  could  not  be  characterized  as  a  tenant  from
month to month.

When  a  tenant  wrongfully  maintains  possession  of  the  premises
(“holds  over”)  after  the  expiration  of  the  lease,  he  is  liable  as  a
trespasser, unless the lessor holds the tenant to a new tenancy (e.g., by
accepting  rent).  If  the  lessor  does  allow  a  new  tenancy,  the  resulting
tenancy  is  a  tenancy  from  period-to-period  (a/k/a  “month  to  month”).
However, the facts here indicate that the purchaser did not accept the
rent, and instead sued immediately to gain immediate possession of the
home.  Thus,  the  homeowner  could  not  be  considered  a  tenant  from
month to month. Furthermore, D does not take into account the operation
of  the  statute.  The  purchaser's  best  legal  argument  would  involve
avoiding  invocation  of  the  30  days'  notice  statute  for  tenants.
Characterizing  the  homeowner  as  a  tenant  would  invite  invocation  of
the statute, not avoid it. Since D does not recognize this, it's not the best
response.

 Answer 84

 (D) is the best response,

because it represents an argument on which the actress can prevail.

First, you have to classify the actress's duty to perform in the play.
It's a constructive condition precedent to the producer's duty to pay. As
a constructive condition, the actress need only substantially perform her
duties  (unlike  express  conditions,  which  require  strict  performance).
Thus,  if  the  actress's  illness  is  considered  a  minor  breach,  she's

1488

substantially performed, and so the producer's duties under the contract
were  not  relieved,  and  he  couldn't  cancel  the  contract  (although  he
could recover any damages due to the breach). If, on the other hand, the
actress's  absence  was  a  major  breach  (due  to  a  lack  of  substantial
performance),  then  the  producer  would  be  able  to  terminate  the
contract. Under these facts, it's certainly arguable that the actress's one
week absence, in light of a six month contract, would not be major. If
this is true, the producer's cancellation of the contract would be a major
breach of contract, and the actress would prevail. Since D recognizes
this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because such an argument could only hurt the actress, not help her.

In  order  to  recover  from  the  producer,  the  actress  will  have  to
prove  that  she  did  not  commit  a  material  breach  of  contract,  and  the
producer did. That's because the actress's acting in the play would be a
constructive condition precedent to the producer's duty to pay her. If her
illness  were  only  a  partial  breach  of  contract,  the  producer  could
recover  damages  from  her,  but  he  couldn't  cancel  the  entire  contract;
and  in  cancelling  the  contract  as  he  did,  he'd  be  liable  for  the  entire
remaining term of the six-month contract.

If, on the other hand, the actress argues that the contract is severable
into weeks, the producer would only be liable for the weeks or portions
thereof  when  he  refused  to  perform.  Thus,  it's  advantageous  for  the
producer  to  make  this  argument,  not  the  actress.  Since  A  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because such an argument would be of no benefit to the actress.

In order to recover from the producer, the actress must establish that
she  substantially  performed  a  constructive  condition  precedent  of  the
contract  —  by  performing  in  the  play.  This  would  mean  that  the
producer  wasn't  entitled  to  cancel  the  contract,  and  he'd  be  liable  for
the rest of the six-month contract.

By  claiming  impossibility,  the  actress  would  be  admitting  that  she
didn't substantially perform her duties under the contract, which would
relieve the producer of his duty to perform, enabling him to cancel the
contract.

If the tables were turned and the producer were suing the actress for

1489

breach, impossibility would be a good defense, since her illness would
excuse  her  from  her  duties  under  the  contract.  However,  a  plaintiff's
failure  to  perform  a  constructive  condition  precedent  to  defendant's
duty is virtually never excusable due to impossibility.

Thus, it wouldn't be a good argument for the actress, making B not

the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  actress  has  a  contract  to  rely  on;  she  needn't  resort  to
promissory estoppel.

What  the  actress  wants  to  establish  is  that  she  substantially
performed a constructive condition precedent to the producer's duty to
pay  (that  is,  that  she  performed  in  the  play)  and  that  the  producer's
cancellation of the contract thus constituted a major breach of contract.

If in fact her illness caused only a partial breach of contract, then
she'll be entitled to the contract price less damages her absence caused.
If,  on  the  other  hand,  her  absence  is  considered  a  major  breach,  then
she'd  only  get  damages  due  to  her  reliance,  but  these  would  be
determined by the contract — that is, her two days' of work — not on
the basis of other jobs she passed up before the contract existed.

Instead,  promissory  estoppel  is  triggered  by  a  gratuitous  promise
that  is  likely  to,  and  does,  induce  the  promisee's  reliance.  It  is  a
it  differs  from
substitute  for  consideration 
consideration  in  that  there's  no  bargain.  The  lack  of  an  enforceable
contract  is  a  prerequisite  for  promissory  estoppel;  here,  there  is  an
enforceable  contract,  so  promissory  estoppel  cannot  apply.  Since  C
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

to  avoid 

injustice; 

 Answer 85

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  the  central  reason  the  argument  will  be
admissible: it rebuts the defendant's argument that the shirt would have
been damaging to the prosecutor's case.

As a general rule, where it would be natural for a party to introduce
a  certain  piece  of  available  evidence,  and  he  doesn't  do  so,  the  other
party can use this failure so as to invoke an adverse inference. Here, the
prosecutor didn't offer the torn shirt as evidence, when it would seem to
have  been  advantageous  for  him  to  do  so.  That's  why  the  defendant's

1490

lawyer commented on it. However, the rest of the rule holds that once
such  an  inference  has  been  invoked,  the  other  party  can  rebut  the
inference. Under normal circumstances, the other party would rebut by
explaining  why  the  evidence  in  question  wasn't  introduced.  By
suggesting  that  the  shirt  wouldn't  have  benefitted  the  defendant  either,
the prosecutor rebutted the inference that the shirt was advantageous to
the defendant. Since A recognizes that this is the basis of admitting the
prosecutor's argument, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  facts,  and  even  if  it  correctly  stated  the  facts,
such  an  argument  would  violate  the  defendant's  right  against  self-
incrimination.

Here, the prosecutor isn't commenting on the defendant's failure to
testify;  he's  rebutting  the  inference  that  the  shirt  would  have  hurt  his
case  by  suggesting  it  wouldn't  have  been  helpful  to  either  party.  This
doesn't address the defendant's failure to testify at all, and in stating that
it does, B misstates the facts.

Assuming  arguendo  that  the  prosecutor  did  comment  on  the
defendant's failure to testify, B is incorrect in stating that this would be
proper. Any comment by the prosecutor as to the defendant's failure to
testify  is  a  violation  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  against  self-
incrimination.  Griffin  v.  California  (1965).  Thus,  the  prosecutor's
comment  would  not  be  proper.  (Incidentally,  such  a  comment  may,
however, only constitute harmless error, where the prosecutor notes the
defendant's  failure  to  produce  evidence  rebutting  testimony  of  the
victim, where there is overwhelming evidence of the defendant's guilt,
and  what  scant  evidence  the  defendant  has  is  inconsistent.  U.S.  v.
Hasting  (1983).)  Since  B  mischaracterizes  the  facts  and  misstates  the
law, it can't be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the facts.

While  it's  true  that  a  closing  argument  cannot  go  beyond  the
evidence  in  the  case,  that's  not  what's  going  on  here;  instead,  the
prosecutor is rebutting an inference invoked by the defendant's counsel.
As a general rule, where it would be natural for a party to introduce
a  certain  piece  of  available  evidence,  and  he  doesn't  do  so,  the  other
party can use this failure so as to invoke an adverse inference. Here, the

1491

prosecutor didn't offer the torn shirt as evidence, when it would seem to
have  been  advantageous  for  him  to  do  so.  That's  why  the  defendant's
lawyer commented on it.

However, the rest of the rule holds that once such an inference has
been  invoked,  the  other  party  can  rebut  the  inference.  Under  normal
circumstances,  the  other  party  would  rebut  by  explaining  why  the
evidence  in  question  wasn't  introduced.  By  suggesting  that  the  shirt
wouldn't  have  benefitted  the  defendant  either,  the  prosecutor  rebutted
the inference that the shirt was advantageous to the defendant. Thus, the
prosecutor  didn't  go  beyond  the  evidence  in  the  case.  Since  C  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it mischaracterizes the facts.

It's  true  that  a  comment  by  the  prosecutor  as  to  the  defendant's
failure  to  testify  is  improper,  as  a  violation  of  the  defendant's  Fifth
Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. However, under these
facts, the prosecutor hasn't said anything about the defendant's failure to
testify. Instead, he's rebutting the inference that the shirt would have hurt
his  case  by  suggesting  it  wouldn't  have  been  helpful  to  either  party.
Thus, any correct response would have to address whether the rebuttal
was proper. Since D instead discusses the defendant's failure to testify,
it's not the best response.

 Answer 86

 (D) is the best response,

because it identifies the most likely basis on which the university could
be liable — vicarious liability — and cites correct reasoning as to why
the university will avoid liability.

Under  vicarious  liability,  one  is  liable  for  another's  wrongful
conduct due to a “special relationship” between them (e.g., employer-
employee).  To  be  liable,  the  wrongful  conduct  must  be  authorized  by
the  master,  performed  under  his  control,  or  the  servant  must  seek  to
advance  the  interests  of  the  master.  However,  under  these  facts,  it's
clear  the  professor  did  not  intend  the  students  to  carry  out  the
experiment, they were not under her control, and in fact she encouraged
them not to carry out the experiment. From the facts here the professor's
behavior was not unreasonable, so the university could not be liable on

1492

that basis.

Since D correctly identifies the most likely result under these facts,

it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not identify a sound basis on which the university will
be liable.

If the university is to be liable for the professor's actions, it must be
due to the professor's own negligence or vicarious liability. Since the
professor's  behavior  seems  reasonable,  it  could  not  be  grounds  for
negligence.  Since  the  students  were  neither  subject  to  the  professor's
control  nor  acting  on  her  behalf,  the  university  could  not  be  liable  on
grounds  of  vicarious  liability.  What  choice  A's  “but/for”  language
addresses is not the basis of liability, but causation where there is only
one  cause  of  damage.  While  causation  must  exist  for  there  to  be  tort
liability,  alone  it's  not  enough.  Since  A  fails  to  recognize  this,  it's  not
the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not provide a source of liability for the university.

Merely  pressing  a  negligence  claim  against  the  students  for
negligence  would  be  insufficient  to  pin  liability  on  the  university.
Instead, the professor's behavior itself must have been unreasonable, or
there must be some basis to hold her vicariously liable for the acts of
the  students.  From  the  facts  here  the  professor's  behavior  was  not
unreasonable, so the university could not be liable on that basis. As to
vicarious  liability,  there's  no  liability  either,  since  the  students  were
neither  subject  to  the  professor's  control,  nor  were  they  acting  on  her
behalf. Since B does not provide a basis on which the university could
be held liable, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the professor could be liable even if the students were not her
employees  (and,  by  the  same  token,  even  if  they  were  her  employees,
she may not be vicariously liable).

Choice  C  is  referring  to  the  most  common  form  of  vicarious
the
liability: 
employer is liable when the employee performs a tortious act within the
scope  of  the  employment  relationship.  However,  the  concept  of

the  employer-employee  relationship,  under  which 

1493

liability 

is  not  confined 

the  employer-employee
vicarious 
relationship — the university could be liable for the students' act if the
students had acted under the professor's direction, within her control, or
to  serve  her  interests.  Under  these  facts,  they  acted  in  spite  of  her
warning not to do so without her permission.

to 

Even  if  there  had  been  a  preexisting  relationship  justifying
vicarious liability, it's unlikely it would apply here, since the professor
specifically told the students not to undertake the experiment. While a
servant's  doing  what  he  is  told  not  to  do  is  not  determinative  on  the
issue of vicarious liability, it's strong evidence that he's acting outside
the scope of his duties, and thus the master should not be liable.

Since  C  wrongly  confines  the  vicarious  liability  concept  to  the
employer-employee  relationship,  which  is  both  too  broad  and  too
narrow, it's not the best response.

 Answer 87

 (A) is the best answer,

because  the  eight  defendants  took  no  affirmative  act  and  had  no  legal
duty requiring them to act.

The eight defendants did not take part in the stabbing and therefore
undertook  no  affirmative  act.  Additionally,  a  special  legal  duty  to  act
may  exist  when  there  is  a  special  relationship  between  the  defendant
and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty  based  on  contract,  when  the  danger
was  caused  by  the  defendant,  and/or  when  the  defendant  attempts  to
give  assistance.  Based  on  these  facts,  no  special  legal  duty  to  act
existed, as the eight defendants had no idea about the leader's plan, and
therefore  did  not  cause  the  danger  to  the  victim.  Likewise,  the  eight
defendants  had  no  relationship  with  the  victim  requiring  that  they  aid
him  and  did  not  attempt  to  give  assistance  to  the  victim.  Accordingly,
the  eight  defendants  did  not  have  a  duty  to  act  as  the  victim  “slowly
bled to death.”

 (B) is not the best answer,

because it is legally wrong.

Murder does not require specific intent to kill, as it may occur in
other circumstances, such as depraved heart murder or felony murder.
Rather, the eight defendants are not guilty because the eight defendants
took no affirmative act and had no legal duty requiring them to act. The

1494

eight  defendants  did  not  take  part  in  the  stabbing  and  therefore
undertook  no  affirmative  act.  Additionally,  a  special  legal  duty  to  act
may  exist  when  there  is  a  special  relationship  between  the  defendant
and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty  based  on  contract,  when  the  danger
was  caused  by  the  defendant,  and/or  when  the  defendant  attempts  to
give  assistance.  Based  on  these  facts,  no  special  legal  duty  to  act
existed, as the eight defendants had no idea about the leader's plan, and
therefore  did  not  cause  the  danger  to  the  victim.  Likewise,  the  eight
defendants  had  no  relationship  with  the  victim  requiring  that  they  aid
him  and  did  not  attempt  to  give  assistance  to  the  victim.  Accordingly,
the  eight  defendants  did  not  have  a  duty  to  act  as  the  victim  “slowly
bled to death.”

 (C) is not the best answer,

because the eight defendants did not have a legal duty requiring them to
act.

A  special  legal  duty  to  act  may  exist  when  there  is  a  special
relationship  between  the  defendant  and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty
based on contract, when the danger was caused by the defendant, and/or
when the defendant attempts to give assistance. Based on these facts, no
special  legal  duty  to  act  existed,  as  the  eight  defendants  had  no  idea
about  the  leader's  plan,  and  therefore  did  not  cause  the  danger  to  the
victim.  Likewise,  the  eight  defendants  had  no  relationship  with  the
victim requiring that they aid him and did not attempt to give assistance
to the victim. Accordingly, the eight defendants did not have a duty to
act as the victim “slowly bled to death.”

 (D) is not the best answer,

because it is irrelevant under the facts presented.

The  reasons  the  eight  defendants  are  not  guilty  have  nothing  to  do
with  their  level  of  intoxication.  Rather,  the  eight  defendants  are  not
guilty because the eight defendants took no affirmative act and had no
legal duty requiring them to act. The eight defendants did not take part
in the stabbing and therefore undertook no affirmative act. Additionally,
a special legal duty to act may exist when there is a special relationship
between  the  defendant  and  victim,  when  there  is  a  duty  based  on
contract, when the danger was caused by the defendant, and/or when the
defendant attempts to give assistance. Based on these facts, no special
legal duty to act existed, as the eight defendants had no idea about the

1495

leader's  plan,  and  therefore  did  not  cause  the  danger  to  the  victim.
Likewise,  the  eight  defendants  had  no  relationship  with  the  victim
requiring that they aid him and did not attempt to give assistance to the
victim. Accordingly, the eight defendants did not have a duty to act as
the victim “slowly bled to death.”

 Answer 88

 (C) is the best response,

because  a  hypersensitive  plaintiff  will  not  be  able  to  recover  for
nuisance unless the harm would affect the use and enjoyment of the land
by a normal member of the community.

To prove a private nuisance, the plaintiff must prove (i) that his use
and enjoyment of his land was interfered with in a substantial way and
(ii)  that  the  defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  abnormally  dangerous,
or intentional. In determining the interference with the plaintiff's use of
his  property,  the  significant  harm  must  be  of  a  kind  that  would  be
suffered  by  a  normal  member  of  the  community.  Here,  that  is  not  the
case,  as  the  chimes  “disturbed  only  one  homeowner”  who  was
“abnormally sensitive to ringing sounds[.]”

 (A) is not the best response,

because  interference  with  the  homeowner's  use  and  enjoyment  is  not
sufficient to win a claim for private nuisance.

To prove a private nuisance, the plaintiff must prove (i) that his use
and enjoyment of his land was interfered with in a substantial way and
(ii)  that  the  defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  abnormally  dangerous,
or intentional. The interference with plaintiff's use of his property must
be  substantial  and  unreasonable.  Thus,  this  answer  choice  understates
what  must  be  proven  by  ignoring  the  substantial  and  unreasonable
nature of the interference. Furthermore, in this problem the interference
was not unreasonable, as the chimes “disturbed only one homeowner”
who was “abnormally sensitive to ringing sounds[.]”

 (B) is not the best response,

because priority is not dispositive in a private nuisance action.

To prove a private nuisance, the plaintiff must prove (i) that his use
and enjoyment of his land was interfered with in a substantial way and
(ii)  that  the  defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  abnormally  dangerous,

1496

or intentional. What constitutes a substantial interference will generally
depend  in  part  on  the  neighborhood,  and  priority  in  time  may  be  a
factor in determining the character of the neighborhood. Priority in time
is  not  determinative  of  whether  an  invasion  is  a  nuisance.  Here,  the
better  response  is  one  that  is  determinative:  a  hypersensitive  plaintiff
(like the one here) will not be able to recover for nuisance unless the
harm  would  affect  the  use  and  enjoyment  of  the  land  by  a  normal
member of the community.

 (D) is not the best response,

because compliance with government requirements is not a defense to a
claim of private nuisance.

To prove a private nuisance, the plaintiff must prove (i) that his use
and enjoyment of his land was interfered with in a substantial way and
(ii)  that  the  defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  abnormally  dangerous,
or intentional. In determining the interference with the plaintiff's use of
his  property,  the  significant  harm  must  be  of  a  kind  that  would  be
suffered  by  a  normal  member  of  the  community.  If  the  plaintiff  could
prove this type of significant harm (which she cannot, as discussed in
answer  choice  C  above),  any  compliance  with  government
requirements would not be a defense for the law school.

 Answer 89

 (B) is the best response,

because  the  evidence  may  be  admitted  to  prove  “plan,”  and,
additionally, may be used to impeach her character for truthfulness.

First,  as  to  substantive  use:  Under  FRE  404(b)(2),  prior  bad  acts
can  be  admitted  to  prove  the  defendant's  conduct  if  offered  for  some
purpose other than to show that the defendant acted in conformity with a
character  trait.  The  rule  mentions  “plan,  knowledge,  identity,  absence
of  mistake,  or  lack  of  accident”  as  a  non-exclusive  list  of  “other
purposes.”  In  this  case,  the  defendant  denies  switching  the  price  tags
and is then confronted by two prior instances of switching a price tag.
The  prior  bad  acts  are  very  similar  to  the  acts  in  dispute  and
demonstrate  the  defendant's  plan  or  modus  operandi.  Therefore,  they
are  not  being  offered  to  prove  that  because  defendant  is  a  person  of
criminal character she probably committed the crime with which she is
now  charged.  This  use  to  prove  plan  or  modus  operandi  is  a

1497

substantive use (i.e., the prior acts are offered to prove that this time,
the defendant really did commit the tag-switching that's charged).

As to impeachment use: FRE 609(a)(2) provides that evidence of a
past  conviction  “must  be  admitted”  to  impeach  the  credibility  of  a
witness  if  “establishing  the  elements  of  the  [prior]  crime  required
proving  —  or  the  witness's  admitting  —  a  dishonest  act  or  false
statement.”  In  this  case,  the  fraud  convictions  clearly  involved
dishonesty,  and  they  are  therefore  properly  admitted  to  impeach  the
credibility of the witness/defendant.

Accordingly, the convictions are admissible both to prove that the

defendant committed the crime and to impeach the defendant.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  evidence  may  be  admitted  to  prove  “plan,”  and,
additionally, may be used to impeach her character for truthfulness.

Under FRE 404(b)(2), prior bad acts can be admitted to prove the
defendant's conduct if offered for some purpose other than to show that
the defendant acted in conformity with a character trait. In this case, the
defendant denies switching the price tags and is then confronted by two
prior  instances  of  switching  a  price  tag.  The  prior  bad  acts  are  very
similar  to  the  acts  in  dispute  and  demonstrate  the  defendant's  plan  or
modus  operandi.  Therefore,  they  are  not  being  offered  to  prove  that
because  defendant  is  a  person  of  criminal  character  she  probably
committed the crime with which she is now charged. In addition, FRE
609(a)(2)  provides  that  evidence  of  a  past  conviction  “must  be
admitted”  to  impeach  the  credibility  of  a  witness  if  “establishing  the
elements  of  the  [prior]  crime  required  proving  —  or  the  witness's
admitting — a dishonest act or false statement.”

Accordingly, the convictions are admissible both to prove that the

defendant committed the crime and to impeach the defendant.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, while it is true that the evidence is admissible to impeach the
defendant, it also may be admitted to demonstrate plan.

As  is  more  fully  explained  in  Choice  (B),  under  FRE  404(b)(2),
prior  bad  acts  can  be  admitted  to  prove  the  defendant's  conduct  if
offered for some purpose other than to show that the defendant acted in
conformity with a character trait. The prior bad acts are very similar to
the  acts  in  dispute  and  demonstrate  the  defendant's  plan  or  modus

1498

operandi.  This  use  to  prove  plan  or  modus operandi  is  a  substantive
use (i.e., the prior acts are offered to prove that this time, the defendant
really did commit the tag-switching that's charged).

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  while  it  is  true  that  the  evidence  is  admissible  to  prove  that
the defendant committed the crime, it is also admissible to impeach the
defendant as a conviction involving dishonesty.

FRE 609(a)(2) provides that evidence of a past conviction “must be
admitted”  to  impeach  the  credibility  of  a  witness  if  “establishing  the
elements  of  the  [prior]  crime  required  proving  —  or  the  witness's
admitting — a dishonest act or false statement.” In this case, the fraud
convictions  clearly  involved  dishonesty,  and  they  are  therefore
properly admitted to impeach the credibility of the witness/defendant.

 Answer 90

 (B) is the best response,

because consequential damages are limited to those that are reasonably
foreseeable by the defendant.

The rule of Hadley v. Baxendale (1854) states that courts will not
award  consequential  damages  for  breach  unless  the  damages  either
arise  naturally  from  the  breach  or  the  defendant  had  notice  of  the
possibility of unusual consequences of the breach. In this problem, the
mechanic  had  no  such  notice.  The  mechanic  knew  that  under  usual
circumstances, a five-day delay in his performance would have caused
negligible  damage  to  the  manufacturer  (the  damages  do  not  “arise
naturally”)  and  had  no  notice  of  the  liquidated  damages  provision.
Therefore,  the  mechanic  should  not  be  liable  for  the  $25,000  in
liquidated damages that the manufacturer paid to the designer as a result
of the mechanic's delay.

 (A) is not the best response,

because even if time were of the essence in the mechanic-manufacturer
contract, the mechanic would not be liable for the liquidated damages.

A  “time  is  of  the  essence”  clause  causes  a  significant  delay  in
performance  to  constitute  a  material  breach  of  the  contract.  So,  if  the
mechanic-manufacturer  contract  included  such  a  clause,  and  five  days
was  considered  significant  delay,  then  the  mechanic  would  have

1499

materially breached the contract. However, he would still not be liable
for the liquidated damages since they were not foreseeable to him. The
rule  of  Hadley  v.  Baxendale  (1854)  states  that  courts  will  not  award
consequential  damages  for  breach  unless  the  damages  either  arise
naturally from the breach or the defendant had notice of the possibility
of  unusual  consequences  of  the  breach.  In  this  problem,  the  mechanic
had no such notice. The mechanic knew that under usual circumstances,
a  five-day  delay  in  his  performance  would  have  caused  negligible
damage to the manufacturer (the damages do not “arise naturally”) and
had  no  notice  of  the  liquidated  damages  provision.  Therefore,  the
mechanic  should  not  be  liable  for  the  $25,000  in  liquidated  damages
that the manufacturer paid to the designer as a result of the mechanic's
delay.

 (C) is not the best response,

because,  apart  from  any  assumption  of  risk  taken  by  the  manufacturer,
the mechanic could not reasonably foresee the liquidated damages that
would accrue as a result of his delay.

The rule of Hadley v. Baxendale (1854) states that courts will not
award  consequential  damages  for  breach  unless  the  damages  either
arise  naturally  from  the  breach  or  the  defendant  had  notice  of  the
possibility of unusual consequences of the breach. In this problem, the
mechanic  had  no  such  notice.  The  mechanic  knew  that  under  usual
circumstances, a five-day delay in his performance would have caused
negligible  damage  to  the  manufacturer  (the  damages  do  not  “arise
naturally”)  and  had  no  notice  of  the  liquidated  damages  provision.
Therefore,  the  mechanic  should  not  be  liable  for  the  $25,000  in
liquidated damages that the manufacturer paid to the designer as a result
of the mechanic's delay.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  liquidated  damages  do  not  have  to  be  identical  to  actual
damages suffered by a non-breaching party.

Liquidated  damages  are  permissible  when  actual  damages  are
difficult  to  predict  and  the  amount  of  liquidated  damages  are  a
reasonable forecast of actual damages. There is no requirement that the
amount  fixed  as  liquidated  damages  is  identical  to  actual  damages
(since  that  would  require  a  calculation  of  actual  damages,  making  the
liquidated damages clause useless), only that the amount be reasonable

1500

relative  to  the  anticipated  or  actual  loss  from  the  breach.  Even  if  the
mechanic were to make an argument that the amount fixed as liquidated
damages  was  excessive,  that  would  only  reduce  the  amount  that  the
manufacturer  would  be  able  to  recover  from  him.  In  contrast,  arguing
that  the  damages  were  unforeseeable,  as  discussed  in  the  explanation
for choice B above, would relieve the mechanic of having to pay any
portion of the liquidated damages.

 Answer 91

 (D) is the best response,

because the state has not yet selected the community as a site.

In  order  for  a  federal  court  to  hear  a  case,  it  must  be  ripe  for
adjudication. In order to be ripe, it is not necessary that the plaintiff has
already  suffered  harm,  but  it  is  required  that  there  is  at  least  a
reasonable probability of harm to the plaintiff. The harm alleged by the
plaintiff  must  be  specific  as  to  the  type  of  harm  and  when  and  how  it
will  occur.  This  requirement  is  not  met  in  this  problem  because  harm
will  only  come  to  the  citizens  of  this  community  if  the  state  chooses
their site for a landfill. It is entirely possible, and in fact likely given
the  facts  we  are  told,  that  the  state  will  not  choose  to  locate  a  toxic
dump  near  the  community's  aquifer.  Until  the  site  is  chosen,  the
potential harm from the state's action is not yet likely enough to occur to
consider the case ripe for adjudication. The court will not hear the case
because there is still a substantial probability that no harm will come to
the residents of the community.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the agency's decision is not a political question.

The  “political  question”  doctrine  prohibits  courts  from  deciding
questions  that  are  properly  designated  to  the  other  branches  of
government.  In  order  to  determine  whether  a  case  presents  a  non-
justiciable  political  question,  a  court  will  assess  whether  the  case
presents an issue that the Constitution commits to another branch of the
federal government and if there are no manageable standards by which
a  court  can  decide  the  case.  No  such  issues  are  raised  in  the
community's  suit.  In  particular,  the  act  that  the  community  seeks  to
enjoin would be carried out by the state government, not another branch
of the federal government.

1501

(B) is not the best response,

because the court will not hear the case on the merits.

Choice B indicates that the court would apply strict scrutiny to the
state's decision to locate the toxic waste dump in the community. This is
wrong  for  several  reasons.  First,  it  is  not  responsive  to  the  question
posed.  The  question  asked  on  what  basis  the  court  would  dismiss  the
suit,  not  what  the  disposition  of  the  case  would  be  if  heard  on  the
merits.  Second,  there  are  no  facts  in  this  case  that  indicate  that  strict
scrutiny  would  be  the  appropriate  level  of  judicial  review  of  the
agency's  decision.  Finally,  the  court  will  not  decide  this  case  on  the
merits  because  it  will  dismiss  the  suit  as  unripe.  As  discussed  in  the
explanation  of  choice  D  above,  the  fact  that  the  agency  has  not  yet
decided  to  locate  a  dump  in  the  community  causes  this  case  to  be  not
yet ripe for adjudication, as there is a significant probability that, even
without judicial intervention, no harm will come to the residents of the
community.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the plaintiffs are not suing the state.

The Eleventh Amendment bars federal suits “against any one of the
states  by  citizens  of  another  state,  or  by  citizens  or  subjects  of  any
foreign  state.”  In  particular,  it  bars  suits  by  individuals  seeking
damages  against  a  state  from  being  a  brought  in  federal  court.  The
Eleventh Amendment is inapplicable in this situation for two reasons.
First,  the  community's  suit  does  not  seek  damages,  but  rather  an
injunction.  Suits  seeking  injunctive  relief  under  federal  rights  are  not
barred by the Eleventh Amendment. Second, the community is not suing
the states, but rather the officials of the agency making the decision. The
Eleventh  Amendment  only  applies  to  suits  against  states,  not  their
officers.

 Answer 92

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  plaintiff  can  make  a  prima facie  case  for  Rapido's  strict
liability.

If  one  engaged  in  a  business  of  selling  or  otherwise  distributing
products  proceeds  to  sell  or  distribute  a  defective  product,  then

1502

liability  attaches  if  the  product  contains  a  manufacturing  defect,  is
defective in design, or is defective because of inadequate instructions
or  warnings.  Here,  a  reasonable  jury  could  find  that  (1)  the  car
company was engaged in the business of selling or distributing cars; (2)
the  fact  that  Rapido's  motor  may  stall  if  the  engine  has  not  had  an
extended  warm-up  is  a  design  defect  since  an  alternative  design  was
feasible;  and  (3)  the  stalling  motor  and  ensuing  accident  caused  the
plaintiff's shock, which resulted in a heart attack. Thus, the plaintiff can
make  her  prima  facie  case,  so  the  car  company's  motion  should  be
denied.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the crashworthiness of the car was not at issue on these facts.

Crashworthiness  in  a  vehicle  is  the  attribute  of  being  able  to
withstand  a  collision  without  posing  an  unacceptably  large  risk  of
injury to the passengers. Non-crashworthiness can certainly be a type of
defect. Here, the injury to the plaintiff occurred from the “shock of the
crash,”  not  from  any  failure  of  the  vehicle  to  appropriately  withstand
the collision. In other words, the facts indicate that even in a perfectly
crashworthy  vehicle,  the  plaintiff  would  probably  have  had  the  same
shock and thus the same heart attack. Consequently, even if a reasonable
jury  could  find  that  the  vehicle  was  “defective”  because  it  was  non-
crashworthy (something not at all clear on these facts), the jury would
probably not be entitled to find that the defect of non-crashworthiness
was the legal cause of the injury. In that event, the car company would
still  win  on  its  motion.  So,  although  the  conclusion  (the  car  company
loses on the motion) is correct, the explanation for why it loses is not
correct.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it was foreseeable that cars with engines that stall could be in
accidents, so the truck driver's failure to stop was not superseding.

An intervening cause is a force that takes effect after the defendant's
negligence and contributes to that negligence in producing the plaintiff's
injury. Some, but not all, intervening causes are sufficient to prevent the
defendant's  negligence  from  being  considered  the  proximate  cause  of
the  injury.  Intervening  causes  of  this  kind  are  usually  called
“superseding causes” because they supersede or cancel the defendant's
liability.  An  intervening  cause  that  was  foreseeable  as  something  that

1503

might  combine  with  a  defect  to  cause  an  injury  will  generally  not  be
deemed to be a superseding cause. Here, it was perfectly foreseeable
that  a  car  that  stalled  due  to  a  defect  would  be  more  likely  to  be  hit
from the rear. Therefore, being hit from the rear was a foreseeable (and
thus  non-superseding)  intervening  cause  given  a  “defective  because
likely to stall” engine.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the defendant “takes the plaintiff as he finds him.”

Where  the  defendant's  negligence  causes  an  aggravation  of
plaintiff's existing physical or mental illness, the defendant is liable for
the damages caused by the aggravation. Here, the car company cannot
escape liability by arguing that a person of normal sensitivity would not
have suffered a heart attack under these circumstances.

 Answer 93

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies the central reason why the evidence will
be excluded: the student's actual and reasonable expectation of privacy
was violated.

While it's possible for the police to conduct electronic surveillance
under  a  warrant,  the  warrant  requirements  are  very  strict,  and  clearly
have not been satisfied under these facts. A wrinkle in this problem is
that  the  college  president  “arranged”  for  the  local  police  to  bug  the
student's room. This implies private action, which is not circumscribed
by  the  Fourth  Amendment  (only  governmental  action  is  covered,  or
those acting under police direction). Thus, the college president's acts
will  not  make  the  surveillance  valid.  Note  that  after  the  surveillance,
the  search  warrant  and  subsequent  search  are  not  obviously  flawed;
since  the  tape  provided  probable  cause  for  a  warrant,  and  it  was
apparently  given  by  a  neutral,  detached  magistrate.  Nonetheless,  the
original  illegal  surveillance  requires  that  the  evidence  be  excluded  at
trial. Since C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  does  not  focus  on  the  central  fact:  that  the  police
unreasonably invaded the student's privacy.

In  fact,  the  reasoning  A  states  would  not  make  the  evidence

1504

admissible  even  if  the  college  president's  acts  were  determinative,
because his acting “in loco parentis” would not in and of itself give him
the  duty  to  make  sure  the  students  are  law  abiding.  Rather,  it's  the
police activity that will determine the admissibility of the evidence. A
wrinkle in these facts is that the college president called in the police.
If you chose response A, you may have been thinking of the rule that the
Fourth  Amendment  does  not  address  private  conduct,  only  official
conduct  (unless  the  private  person  is  closely  related  to  the  state,  e.g.,
operating at the direction of the police). That isn't the case here. Since
A does not focus on the central issue, and arrives at an incorrect result,
it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because although it's correct as far as it goes, it ignores the fact that the
police initially unreasonably invaded the student's privacy.

By  placing  microphones  in  the  student's  room,  they  violated  the
student's reasonable expectation of privacy, and they had no warrant to
place  any  kind  of  electronic  surveillance.  The  requirements  for  doing
so  are  strict:  for  a  start,  there  must  be  probable  cause  to  believe
specific criminal activity has taken place or is taking place, the warrant
must  describe  with  particularity  the  conversations  that  will  be  heard,
etc.  Here,  these  requirements  are  clearly  not  met,  which  is  why  the
evidence will not be admissible. This aside, the latter part of the police
conduct — the search warrant and the search itself — are satisfactory,
as B suggests. However, since B does not recognize that the foundation
for the search warrant was faulty, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  although  it  arrives  at  the  correct  result,  it  doesn't  cite  the
correct reasoning.

“Fundamental  fairness”  is  not  the  test  for  determining  if  the
electronic  surveillance  is  unfair;  rather,  it's  whether  the  person's
reasonable expectation of privacy has been violated. (While electronic
surveillance  can  be  conducted  under  a  warrant, 
the  warrant
requirements are very strict, and clearly not satisfied here).

Since  D  does  not  apply  the  correct  test  to  these  facts,  it's  not  the

best response.

 Answer 94

1505

(A) is the best response,

because  it  recognizes  that  the  nephew  will  be  guilty.  The  key  factor
here is causation — the nephew did, in fact, cause the patient's death.

Criminal  homicide  requires  causing  the  death  of  a  living  human
being, where death occurs within a year and a day. The fortuitous plane
crash would not change this result; nor would the patient's preexisting
heart condition. The nephew's conduct was the cause in fact and legal
cause of the patient's death. Since A correctly identifies that the nephew
will be guilty of criminal homicide, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  reason  it  gives  does  not  negate  the  nephew's  liability  for
homicide.

The plane crash was a fortuitous coincidence, but does not alter the
fact that the nephew is culpable. Criminal homicide is causing the death
of  a  living  human  being,  where  death  occurs  within  a  year  and  a  day.
Here,  the  nephew  deliberately  poisoned  the  patient,  intending  to  kill
him, and the poison did in fact kill the patient. It doesn't matter that the
patient would have died without the poisoning — the key fact is that the
poison  did,  in  fact,  kill  him.  The  fortuity  of  saving  the  patient  from
dying in the plane crash would not exonerate the nephew, so B is not the
best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because its reasoning is irrelevant.

The  important  fact  is  that  the  nephew  caused  the  patient's  death,
which  is  what  criminal  homicide  requires.  The  fact  that  the  patient
would have died anyway is not an issue. The classic example of this is
the  person  who  kills  a  person  who  is  scheduled  to  be  executed  the
following day. The inevitability of the result from other causes is not a
defense  (since,  taken  to  an  extreme,  there  could  be  no  such  thing  as
homicide  —  since  everyone  will  eventually  die).  Since  C  states
incorrect reasoning, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule on causation.

In  order  to  be  a  legal  cause,  the  conduct  or  omission  must  be  a
substantial  factor  in  bringing  about  the  result.  Under  the  facts  here,

1506

although  the  patient's  heart  was  already  weakened,  the  poison  was  a
substantial  factor  in  bringing  on  the  fatal  heart  attack.  Beyond  that,
criminal  homicide  only  requires  causing  a  death  of  a  living  human
being.  Here,  the  nephew  did  far  more  than  what's  necessary  for
homicide  —  he  intended  to  kill  the  patient,  and  administered  a  fatal
dose  of  poison.  The  fact  that  the  patient's  preexisting  heart  condition
contributed to his death would not exonerate the nephew. Thus, D is not
the best response.

 Answer 95

 (A) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the seller can use the sale proceeds
to pay off the mortgage, and thus force the buyer to honor the contract.

Under  these  facts,  you're  told  that  the  seller  and  the  buyer  had  an
“enforceable  written  agreement”  for  the  sale  of  the  tract.  The
agreement,  as  a  land  sale  contract,  would  carry  with  it  the  implied
covenant of marketable title. This means that the seller, at the closing,
must  convey  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from  reasonable
doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  a  reasonable  buyer  would  accept
taxes,  and  other
litigation.  Liens,  mortgages, 
without  fear  of 
encumbrances  render  title  “unmarketable,”  and  allow  the  buyer  to
avoid the sale. Thus, for the seller to obtain specific performance of the
contract, he'd have to get around the “marketable title” problem, since
on  the  date  of  the  closing,  there's  a  mortgage  on  the  tract,  which
theoretically  renders  title  unmarketable  (and  renders  the  seller  in
breach of contract).

Choice  A  suggests  a  viable  way  to  avoid  the  “marketable  title”
problem.  Here,  you're  told  that  the  proceeds  will  cover  the  mortgage.
When that's the case, the seller has an implied right to use the proceeds
of the sale to pay off the mortgage. By arguing this, the seller not only
avoids being in breach of the contract, but he can enforce the contract
against the buyer, since this means that the buyer won't have the right to
cancel  the  contract.  When  you  think  about  it,  this  rule  comports  with
what  you'd  expect  to  happen,  since  many  homeowners,  in  real  life,
couldn't  buy  a  new  home  if  this  weren't  the  case.  Since  choice  A
recognizes a means by which the seller can enforce the contract, it's the
best response.

1507


(B) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

Under  these  facts,  you're  told  that  the  seller  and  the  buyer  had  an
“enforceable  written  agreement”  for  the  sale  of  the  tract.  The
agreement,  as  a  land  sale  contract,  would  carry  with  it  the  implied
covenant of marketable title. This means that the seller, at the closing,
must  convey  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from  reasonable
doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  a  reasonable  buyer  would  accept
taxes,  and  other
litigation.  Liens,  morgages, 
without  fear  of 
encumbrances  render  title  “unmarketable,”  and  allow  the  buyer  to
avoid the sale. Thus, for the seller to obtain specific performance of the
contract, he'd have to get around the “marketable title” problem, since
on  the  date  of  the  closing,  there's  a  mortgage  on  the  tract,  which
theoretically  renders  title  unmarketable  (and  renders  the  seller  in
breach of contract). Choice B doesn't offer a viable means of avoiding
the “marketable title” problem. Although it's possible that the law of the
jurisdiction may make the mortgage payable from the proceeds, and the
mortgage  agreement  itself  may  insist  on  payoff  if  the  property  is
conveyed, this doesn't remove the mortgage from the tract — and that's
the central problem here. A strong argument for the seller would have
to  address  how  the  mortgage  is  removed  from  the  tract,  since  that's
what  prevents  the  seller  from  enforcing  the  contract.  Since  B  doesn't
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of equitable conversion would not apply to these
facts.

The doctrine of equitable conversion addresses the period between
the signing of the land sale contract, and the closing. Under the doctrine,
the vendor has a personal property interest in the property, between the
signing of the contract and the closing, in the form of the balance of the
purchase  price  owed  to  him;  the  vendee  is  considered  the  beneficial
owner of the property.

What  this  doctrine  does,  as  an  equitable  doctrine,  is  to  allocate
risks the parties didn't address. However, under these facts, marketable
title  was  addressed,  since  the  conveyance  of  marketable  title  is  an
implied  covenant  in  land  sale  contracts.  As  a  result,  the  seller
impliedly  assumed  the  risk  that  the  title  might  not  be  marketable,  and
that the buyer could avoid the contract on this basis. Any encumbrance

1508

on  property,  like  the  mortgage  here,  would  render  it  unmarketable.
Since conveying marketable title is a duty allocated to the seller under
the land sale contract, the seller cannot turn to equity to avoid providing
it,  and  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  won't  help  him.  Since  C
doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  states  an  insufficient  ground  on  which  the  seller  could
prevail.  Of  course,  his  underlying  argument  must  be  that  he  hasn't
breached  the  contract,  because  if  he  had,  he  wouldn't  be  entitled  to
specific  performance.  However,  choice  D,  in  and  of  itself,  doesn't
provide  a  rule  allowing  the  seller  to  use  the  proceeds  to  pay  off  the
mortgage, and enforce the contract.

Under  these  facts,  you're  told  that  the  seller  and  the  buyer  had  an
“enforceable  written  agreement”  for  the  sale  of  the  tract.  The
agreement,  as  a  land  sale  contract,  would  carry  with  it  the  implied
covenant of marketable title. This means that the seller, at the closing,
must  convey  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from  reasonable
doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  a  reasonable  buyer  would  accept
without  fear  of 
taxes,  and  other
litigation.  Liens,  morgages, 
encumbrances  render  title  “unmarketable,”  and  allow  the  buyer  to
avoid the sale. Thus, for the seller to obtain specific performance of the
contract, he'd have to get around the “marketable title” problem, since
on  the  date  of  the  closing,  there's  a  mortgage  on  the  tract,  which
theoretically  renders  title  unmarketable  (and  renders  the  seller  in
breach of contract).

Simply  saying  that  the  seller  hasn't  breached  the  contract  doesn't
provide an argument for enforcing the contract. In fact, the seller has an
implied  right  to  use  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  to  pay  off  the  mortgage,
assuming  the  proceeds  cover  the  mortgage  (which  is  true,  under  these
facts) — and it's this implied right that makes the contract enforceable.
Thus, what choice D does is fail to take the extra step taken by choice
A,  addressing  the  implied  right  and  forcing  the  buyer  to  honor  the
contract. As a result, D isn't the best response.

 Answer 96

 (D) is the correct answer,

because  it  correctly  recognizes  that  Plaintiff's  motion  for  preliminary

1509

injunctive relief will not succeed due to the fact that the federal statute
upon which it is based is advisory, not mandatory.

A  court  will  issue  a  preliminary  injunction  only  if  the  person
seeking  it  shows  that  she  is  likely  to  succeed  on  the  merits  and  can
also  demonstrate  three  additional  factors:  (1)  the  likelihood  of
irreparable injury if provisional relief is not granted; (2) a balance of
hardships in favor of the movant; and (3) a showing that the requested
relief  is  in  the  public  interest.  See  Winter  v.  Natural  Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 555 U.S. 7, 20 (2008). A preliminary injunction
is never awarded as of right; it is an equitable order and viewed as “an
extraordinary remedy that may only be awarded upon a clear showing
that the plaintiff is entitled to such relief.” Id.

Plaintiff cannot show that she will succeed on the merits, because
the FPA does not create a mandatory duty on waterfront homeowners to
refrain  from  lawn-planting  in  the  buffer  zone—it  merely  recommends
that  they  do  so.  Because  Plaintiff's  likely  success  on  the  merits  is  a
necessary  condition  for  a  preliminary  injunction,  her  failure  to  prove
likely  success  on  the  merits  ends  the  analysis.  (The  other  three
conditions would only become relevant if Plaintiff showed a likelihood
that she would succeed on the merits.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because the rule it states, while accurate, is insufficient to support the
granting of preliminary relief.

It  is  true  that  preliminary  injunctive  relief  is  available  only  on  a
showing  of  irreparable  harm,  meaning  harm  that  cannot  be  remedied
through  the  payment  of  money  damages.  And  this  choice  plausibly
suggests that during the pendency of the suit, Defendant may well over-
develop her land, impede spawning, and cause damage that cannot be
remedied  through  the  payment  of  money.  However,  the  likelihood  of
irreparable harm means merely that one of the four requirements for an
injunction has been met. Given the fact that Plaintiff can't meet the other
three  requirements  (because  she  can't  show  she's  likely  to  succeed  on
the merits, as described in the treatment of Choice (D) above), the court
must deny the injunction.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  as  with  Choice  (A),  the  rule  that  it  states  is  insufficient  to
support the granting of preliminary relief.

1510

The  possibility  that  an  injunction  may  be  in  the  public  interest  is
only  one  of  the  four  necessary  conditions  before  a  preliminary
injunction  may  be  granted.  So  while  it's  true  that  the  district  court,
before  granting  preliminary  relief,  would  be  required  to  consider
whether the order will serve the public interest, the fact that Plaintiff is
unlikely to succeed on the merits (as described in Choice (D)) means
that the four conditions can't all be satisfied and that the motion must be
denied.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  the  answer  correctly  states  the  expected  outcome  of
the  request  for  the  preliminary  injunction,  it  misidentifies  the  most
likely reason for the denial.

It's true that, as this choice indicates, a preliminary injunction is an
equitable  form  of  relief  and  is  available  only  when  money  damages
will  not  be  able  to  compensate  for  the  harm  (making  the  harm
irreparable).  But  it's  far  from  clear  on  these  facts  that  an  award  of
money will indeed be sufficient to remedy the harm—perhaps an award
of  damages  would  be  enough  to  adequately  remediate  the  harm
prospectively, in that the award could pay for removal of the lawn, so
that any interim damage to fish would be minor and temporary. In any
event, this choice refers to a “violation” of the FPA, and the advisory
nature  of  the  FPA  means  that  planting  by  Defendant  would  not  be  a
“violation.”  A  far  more  compelling  reason  for  the  court  to  deny  the
motion is Plaintiff's failure to show likely success on the merits, for the
reason described in the analysis of Choice (D).

 Answer 97

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  damage  for  abnormally  dangerous  activities  is  limited  to
the kind of harm that makes the activity abnormally dangerous.

A natural first thing to notice is that the defendant was engaged in an
“abnormally  dangerous  activity”:  storing  explosives.  But  the  second
thing  to  notice  —  even  more  important  than  the  first  —  is  that  the
accident  was  unrelated  to  the  abnormally  dangerous  aspects  of  the
defendant's  conduct.  There  is  strict  liability  for  injuries  caused  by  an
abnormally dangerous activity, but only when the harm that occurs is the
kind that causes the activity to be considered abnormally dangerous in

1511

the first place. See Rest. 2d Torts, § 519(2). Here the loose roof tile had
nothing  to  do  with  the  explosives  that  made  the  defendant's  plant
abnormally dangerous — a tile could just as easily have come loose if
the building had been used to store grain or some other safe product. It's
possible  that  the  defendant  was  negligent  in  failing  to  more  carefully
secure the tile, but the facts tell us that the plaintiff brought a claim for
strict liability, not negligence. There is no strict liability for loose roof
tiles.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the strength of the windstorm is not relevant to the defendant's
liability.

If  the  owner  of  the  plant  were  strictly  liable  for  the  accident,  the
high  winds  would  not  excuse  him.  (So  if  the  unexpected  winds  had
somehow  caused  the  defendant's  dynamite  to  explode,  he  would  be
liable for the results — because there is strict liability for the storage
of  dynamite.)  The  defendant  avoids  strict  liability  not  because  the
winds  were  unusual,  but  because  the  accident  was  not  related  to  the
abnormally  dangerous  features  of  the  defendant's  conduct.  Notice  that
the unexpected nature of the winds might have helped the owner defeat
a  claim  that  he  wasn't  careful  enough  in  securing  the  roof  tile  —  he
could claim that he did a careful enough job to protect against normal
winds,  just  not  against  these  very  unusual  winds.  But  that  would  be  a
defense to a negligence claim, which the plaintiff did not bring.

 (C) is not the best response,

because, as noted in the discussion of choice A above, to win a strict
liability claim it is not enough to show that the defendant was engaged
in an abnormally dangerous activity (which storing explosives certainly
is). The plaintiff also has to show that he suffered the very sort of harm
that  caused  the  activity  to  be  considered  abnormally  dangerous.  Here
the  loose  roof  tiles  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  risks  that  make  storing
explosives an abnormally dangerous activity.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  strict  liability  applies  to  activities,  not  to  the  location  of  an
activity.

If a dangerous activity is carried out in an unsuitable location, that
fact  may  help  a  court  conclude  that  strict  liability  should  apply  to  the

1512

harm the activity causes. But that strict liability will still be limited to
the kinds of harms that arise from the activity's special dangers. Since
the  harm  caused  by  the  loose  roof  tile  was  unrelated  to  the  special
dangers of the defendant's plant, he cannot be held strictly liability for
the damage the tile caused when it fell, regardless of the location of the
plant.

 Answer 98

 (D) is the best response,

because the creditor could not have insisted on payment on the first day
of each month.

When  a  party  assigns  their  rights  under  a  contract,  they  may  only
assign  rights  that  they  could  enforce  themselves.  The  bank  could
therefore only insist on prompt payment if the creditor could have done
so, since the bank is the creditor's assignee. However, the creditor and
the debtor had modified their contract to allow the debtor to pay on the
fifth  of  each  month.  It  is  important  to  note  that  this  modification  was
effective  since  it  was  supported  by  consideration  on  both  sides:  the
creditor  agreed  to  accept  later  payment,  while  the  debtor  took  on  the
additional  obligation  of  paying  by  cashier's  check.  Since  this
modification  was  effective,  the  contract,  as  modified,  called  for
payment  on  the  fifth  of  each  month.  Upon  the  assignment,  the  bank
“stepped  into  the  shoes”  of  the  creditor,  and  could  only  enforce  the
contract as it existed at the time of the assignment.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the bank's knowledge of the modification is irrelevant.

When  a  party  assigns  their  rights  under  a  contract,  they  may  only
assign  rights  that  they  could  enforce  themselves.  The  bank  could
therefore only insist on prompt payment if the creditor could have done
so, since the bank is the creditor's assignee. Since the contract between
the debtor and the creditor had been modified (see the explanation for
choice  D  above),  the  bank  could  only  enforce  the  agreement  as
modified.  To  allow  the  bank  to  ignore  the  debtor's  bargained-for
modification simply because it was unaware of it would be unfair to the
debtor (and would essentially re-modify the contract without additional
consideration).  If  the  bank  is  harmed  by  the  modification,  its  sole
source of remedy would be an action against the creditor for failing to

1513

disclose a material term of the contract that was being assigned.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the contract was modified.

Choice  B  correctly  states  the  rule  that  a  party  that  waives  a
the  condition  for  future
time  reinstate 
condition  may  at  any 
performance. However, the creditor has not waived the condition in the
contract  calling  for  payment  on  the  first  of  each  month.  Instead,  there
has  been  a  modification  of  the  contract,  with  each  party  providing
consideration  for  the  alteration  (the  creditor  agreeing  to  take  payment
four  days  later  and  the  debtor  agreeing  to  pay  by  cashier's  check).  A
modification  cannot  be  unilaterally  reinstated  by  one  party,  so  the
creditor would not be able to require the debtor to pay on the first of
each month. Since the bank, as the assignee of the creditor's rights under
the  contract,  “steps  into  the  shoes”  of  the  creditor,  it  could  only
exercise the rights available to the creditor. Therefore, the bank has to
accept the debtor's payment by cashier's check, even if it comes in after
the first of each month.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the contract was modified.

The reason that the debtor has the right to delay payment to the fifth
of each month is that the contract was modified to allow later payment,
not  that  a  waived  condition  could  not  be  reinstated.  A  waiver  is  the
voluntary agreement not to enforce a condition of a contract. Generally,
a  party  may  reinstate  waived  conditions  as  to  future  performance.
However,  the  creditor  has  not  waived  the  condition  in  the  contract
calling for payment on the first of each month. Instead, there has been a
modification  of  the  contract,  with  each  party  providing  consideration
for the alteration (the creditor agreeing to take payment four days later
and  the  debtor  agreeing  to  pay  by  cashier's  check).  A  modification
cannot be unilaterally reinstated by one party, so the creditor would not
be able to require the debtor to pay on the first of each month. Since the
bank, as the assignee of the creditor's rights under the contract, “steps
into  the  shoes”  of  the  creditor,  it  could  only  exercise  the  rights
available to the creditor. Therefore, the bank has to accept the debtor's
payment  by  cashier's  check,  even  if  it  comes  in  after  the  first  of  each
month.

1514

Answer 99

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  characterizes  a  valid  self-defense  claim,  and
plausibly fits these facts.

All  a  self-defense  claim  requires  is  a  reasonable  belief  in  the
existence of danger, with immediate force being the only way to avoid
it.  Thus,  choice  D,  by  invoking  the  “reasonable  person”  standard,
recognizes  this.  Note  that  choice  D  uses  the  modifier  “if”  instead  of
“because.”  That  means  that  the  facts  need  only  plausibly  fit  the
reasoning.  That's  the  case  here.  It's  possible  on  these  facts  that  a
reasonable  person  would,  indeed,  view  the  gesture  as  threatening.
Since D correctly identifies the test for self-defense, and it's consistent
with these facts, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it does not address an element that will determine the validity
of the neighbor's claim of privilege

It's  not  whether  Bill  was  actually  an  aggressor  that  counts,  but
whether  the  neighbor  could  reasonably  believe  in  the  existence  of
danger,  with  immediate  force  being  the  only  way  to  avoid  it.  Thus,  a
valid  self-defense  claim  focuses  on  the  belief  of  the  one  claiming  the
privilege. Since A doesn't recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it does not address an element that will determine the validity
of the neighbor's claim of privilege.

It's not how Bill intended his gesture that's relevant, but whether the
gesture created in the neighbor a reasonable belief as to the existence
of danger, with immediate force being the only way to avoid it. Thus, a
valid self-defense claim focuses on the belief of the one claiming the
privilege. Since B ignores this, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because an honest belief is not sufficient for a self-defense claim — it
must be a reasonable belief, as well.

Thus,  if  the  neighbor's  perception  of  danger  was  a  result  of  his
hallucinating,  even  if  his  belief  was  honest,  he  would  still  be  liable

1515

because  his  belief  wasn't  reasonable.  Since  C  ignores  the  objective
element of the self-defense claim, it's not the best response.

 Answer 100

 (B) is the best response,

because it's the only choice that addresses the correct scope of re-direct
examination.

This  is  an  unusual  MBE  question,  in  that  it's  purely  theoretical:
Either  you  know  the  answer,  or  you  don't.  There's  no  factual  analysis
required. In fact, the rule is just what B says it is: Only new, material
matters  addressed  on  cross-examination  may  be  covered  on  re-direct,
as a general rule. This is not a matter specifically addressed in the text
of  the  FRE  —  it's  left  to  common-law  principles.  Under  those
principles, the judge may, in his discretion, allow counsel to address on
re-direct a matter overlooked on direct due to an oversight, but this isn't
relevant  here,  because  the  question  asks  you  for  the  circumstances
under  which  a  judge  must  allow  re-direct  examination,  not  where  he
may allow it. Since B cites the correct rule, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it overstates the scope of re-direct examination.

The  judge  is  only  required  to  allow  re-direct  examination  to
address  new,  material  matters  addressed  on  cross-examination.  He
needn't allow it for insignificant matters addressed on cross, and thus A
overstates the scope of re-direct examination, by stating that the judge
must allow re-direct to reply to any matter raised on cross. As a result,
A is not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule.

The  judge  is  required  to  allow  re-direct  examination  to  address
new, material matters addressed on cross-examination. In fact, allowing
a party to reiterate the essential elements of the case on re-direct would
contradict FRE 403, which authorizes the judge to exclude evidence if
admitting  it  would  constitute  a  waste  of  time.  Since  C  does  not
recognize  the  correct  rule  on  re-direct  examination,  it  is  not  the  best
response.

1516

(D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the rule.

Here,  the  question  asks  you  when  a  judge  must  allow  re-direct
examination of a witness. The judge is only required to allow re-direct
examination  to  address  new,  material  matters  addressed  on  cross-
examination.  The  material  D  addresses  is  allowable  in  the  judge's
discretion  —  he  may,  if  he  sees  fit,  allow  re-direct  on  matters
overlooked  on  direct  due  to  an  oversight.  However,  this  is  not
mandatory.  This  answer  indicates  the  level  of  precision  necessary  to
correctly  answer  MBE  questions!  Since  D  does  not  state  the  rule
correctly, it is not the best response.
