QUESTIONS

REAL PROPERTY

 NOTE:  For  ease  of  study,  we've  put  all  Future  Interests  questions
together, beginning with question 42.

 Question 1

A landlord and a tenant orally agreed to a commercial tenancy for a term of
six months beginning on July 1. Rent was to be paid by the first day of each
month, and the tenant paid the first month's rent at the time of the agreement.

When  the  tenant  arrived  at  the  leased  premises  on  July  1,  the  tenant
learned that the previous tenant had not vacated the premises at the end of
her  lease  term  on  May  31  and  did  not  intend  to  vacate.  The  tenant  then
successfully  sued  the  previous  tenant  for  possession.  The  tenant  did  not
inform  the  landlord  of  the  eviction  action  until  after  the  tenant  received
possession.

The tenant then sued the landlord, claiming damages for that portion of

the lease period during which the tenant was not in possession.

If  the  court  finds  for  the  landlord,  what  will  be  the  most  likely

explanation?

 (A) By suing the previous tenant for possession, the tenant elected that

remedy in lieu of a suit against the landlord.

(B) The landlord had delivered the legal right of possession to the tenant.
(C) The tenant failed to timely vacate as required to sue for constructive

eviction.

(D) The tenant had not notified the landlord before bringing the eviction

action.

 Question 2

Six months ago, a man told his cousin that he would give her his farm as a
gift  on  her  next  birthday.  The  cousin  then  entered  into  a  valid  written
contract to sell the farm to an investor with the closing to take place “one
week after [the cousin's] next birthday.”

917

 
The  man  failed  to  convey  the  farm  to  the  cousin  on  her  birthday.  One
week  after  the  cousin's  birthday,  on  the  intended  closing  date,  the  investor
first learned of the cousin's inability to convey the farm because the man had
breached his promise. The investor considered suing the cousin but realized
that she could not compel the cousin to convey the farm because it was still
owned by the man.

Two  weeks  after  the  cousin's  birthday,  the  man  died.  Under  his  valid
will, the man devised the farm to the cousin. Within a week, the executor of
the  man's  estate  gave  the  cousin  an  executor's  deed  to  the  farm  in
compliance  with  state  law.  The  investor  promptly  learned  of  this  transfer
and demanded that the cousin convey the farm to her. The cousin refused.

The investor sued the cousin for specific performance.
Who will likely prevail?

 (A) The cousin, because the contract to convey was not signed by the legal
owner of the farm as of the date of the contract and was therefore void.

(B) The cousin, because she received title by devise rather than by

conveyance.

(C) The investor, because the contract to convey merged into the executor's

deed to the cousin.

(D) The investor, because the contract to convey remained enforceable by
her within a reasonable period of time after the proposed closing date.

 Question 3

A mother who died testate devised her farm to her son and her daughter as
“joint  tenants  with  right  of  survivorship.”  The  language  of  the  will  was
sufficient to create a common law joint tenancy with right of survivorship,
which is unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. After the mother's death
and with the daughter's permission, the son took sole possession of the farm
and agreed to pay the daughter a stipulated monthly rent.

Several  years  later,  the  son  defaulted  on  a  personal  loan,  and  his
creditor obtained a judgment against him for $30,000. The creditor promptly
and properly filed the judgment.

A  statute  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  “Any  judgment  properly  filed
shall, for 10 years from filing, be a lien on the real property then owned or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the  judgment  is
rendered.”

Six months later, the son died.
There are no other applicable statutes.

918

Is the creditor entitled to enforce its judgment lien against the farm?

 (A) No, because the daughter became sole owner of the farm free and clear

of the creditor's judgment lien when the son died.

(B) No, because the son's interest was severed from the daughter's interest

upon the filing of the lien.

(C) Yes, because a joint tenancy cannot be created by devise, and the son
died owning a 50 percent undivided interest in the farm as a tenant in
common.

(D) Yes, because the son died owning a 50 percent undivided interest in the

farm as a joint tenant with the daughter.

 Question 4

A  landowner  borrowed  $100,000  from  a  lender  and  executed  a  valid
mortgage  on  a  commercial  tract  of  land  to  secure  the  debt.  The  lender
promptly recorded the mortgage.

A year later, the landowner conveyed the same tract to a developer by a
deed that expressly stated that the conveyance was subject to the mortgage
to the lender and that the grantee expressly assumed and agreed to pay the
mortgage  obligation  as  part  of  the  consideration  for  the  purchase.  The
mortgage  was  properly  described  in  the  deed,  and  the  deed  was  properly
executed  by  the  landowner;  however,  because  there  was  no  provision  or
place in the deed for the developer to sign, he did not do so. The developer
promptly recorded the deed.

The  developer  made  the  monthly  mortgage  payments  of  principal  and
interest  for  six  payments  but  then  stopped  payments  and  defaulted  on  the
mortgage obligation. The lender properly instituted foreclosure procedures
in accordance with the governing law. After the foreclosure sale, there was
a  $10,000  deficiency  due  to  the  lender.  Both  the  landowner  and  the
developer had sufficient assets to pay the deficiency.

There  is  no  applicable  statute  in  the  jurisdiction  other  than  the  statute

relating to foreclosure proceedings.

At the appropriate stage of the foreclosure action, which party will the

court decide is responsible for payment of the deficiency?

 (A) The developer, because he accepted delivery of the deed from the
landowner and in so doing accepted the terms and conditions of the
deed.

(B) The developer, because he is estopped by his having made six monthly

919

payments to the lender.

(C) The landowner, because the developer was not a signatory to the deed.
(D) The landowner, because he was the maker of the note and the mortgage,

and at most the developer is liable only as a guarantor of the
landowner's obligation.

 Question 5

Seven years ago, a man, his sister, and his cousin became equal owners, as
tenants in common, of a house. Until a year ago, the man lived in the house
alone. The sister and the cousin are longtime residents of another state.

One year ago, the man moved to an apartment and rented the house to a
tenant for three years under a lease that the man and the tenant both signed.
The tenant has since paid the rent each month to the man.

Recently, the sister and the cousin learned about the rental. They brought
an appropriate action against the tenant to have the lease declared void and
to have the tenant evicted. The tenant raised all available defenses.

What will the court likely decide?

 (A) The lease is void, and the tenant is evicted.
(B) The lease is valid, and the tenant retains exclusive occupancy rights for

the balance of the term.

(C) The lease is valid, but the tenant is evicted because one-third of the
lease term has expired and the man had only a one-third interest to
transfer.

(D) The lease is valid, and the tenant is not evicted but must share

possession with the sister and the cousin.

 Question 6

A man decided to give his farm to his nephew. The man took a deed to his
attorney  and  told  the  attorney  to  deliver  the  deed  to  the  nephew  upon  the
man's death. The man also told the attorney to return the deed to him if he
asked.  None  of  these  instructions  to  the  attorney  were  in  writing,  and  the
deed was not recorded. The man then e-mailed the nephew informing him of
the arrangement.

Shortly  thereafter,  the  nephew  died  testate.  In  his  will,  he  devised  the
farm to his daughter. Several years later, the man died intestate, survived by
two  sons.  The  nephew's  daughter  immediately  claimed  ownership  of  the
farm and demanded that the attorney deliver the deed to her.

920

Must the attorney deliver the deed to the daughter?

 (A) No, because a gratuitous death escrow is void unless supported by a

written contract.

(B) No, because the man never placed the deed beyond his control.
(C) Yes, because the death of the nephew rendered the gratuitous death

escrow irrevocable by the man.

(D) Yes, because the deed to the nephew was legally delivered when the

man took it to his attorney.

 Question 7

A  businesswoman  owned  two  adjoining  tracts  of  land,  one  that  was
improved  with  a  commercial  rental  building  and  another  that  was  vacant
and abutted a river.

Twenty  years  ago,  the  businesswoman  conveyed  the  vacant  tract  to  a
grantee  by  a  warranty  deed  that  the  businesswoman  signed  but  the  grantee
did  not.  The  deed  contained  a  covenant  by  the  grantee  as  owner  of  the
vacant  tract  that  neither  he  nor  his  heirs  or  assigns  would  “erect  any
building” on the vacant tract, in order to preserve the view of the river from
the commercial building on the improved tract. The grantee intended to use
the  vacant  tract  as  a  nature  preserve.  The  grantee  promptly  and  properly
recorded the deed.

Last  year,  the  businesswoman  conveyed  the  improved  tract  to  a
businessman.  A  month  later,  the  grantee  died,  devising  all  of  his  property,
including the vacant land, to his cousin.

Six weeks ago, the cousin began construction of a building on the vacant

tract.

The  businessman  objected  and  sued  to  enjoin  construction  of  the

building.

Who is likely to prevail?

 (A) The businessman, because the commercial building was constructed

before the cousin began his construction project.

(B) The businessman, because the cousin is bound by the covenant made by

the grantee.

(C) The cousin, because an equitable servitude does not survive the death of

the promisor.

(D) The cousin, because the grantee did not sign the deed.

921

 Question 8

A  seller  owns  a  400-acre  tract  of  land  with  5,000  feet  of  frontage  on  a
county highway. The seller and a buyer entered into a written agreement for
the  sale  of  a  portion  of  the  tract  identified  only  as  “a  parcel  of  land,
containing  not  less  than  100  acres  and  having  not  less  than  1,000  feet  of
frontage on the county highway, whose exact location and dimensions are to
be determined by the parties hereto, at a price of $8,000 per acre.”

Shortly after the execution of the agreement, the parties met to stake out
the  parcel  of  land  to  be  sold,  but  they  could  not  agree.  The  disagreement
intensified, and the seller repudiated the contract.

The buyer has sued the seller for specific performance. The seller has

asserted all available defenses.

Is the buyer entitled to specific performance of the contract?

 (A) No, because a contract for the sale of real property that requires further
agreement on an essential element cannot be specifically enforced.
(B) No, because the purchase price was not fixed by, nor determinable

under, the contract terms.

(C) Yes, because the contract bound the parties to act in good faith and to

agree upon the specific land to be conveyed.

(D) Yes, because the equity powers of the court enable the court to appoint a
master, or to take other appropriate action, to identify the land to be
conveyed.

 Question 9

A  woman  died,  devising  land  that  she  owned  in  another  state  to  her
daughter, who was then 17 years old.

A  neighbor  who  owned  the  property  immediately  adjacent  to  the  land
wrongfully  began  to  possess  the  land  at  that  time.  For  24  of  the  next  25
years,  the  neighbor  planted  and  harvested  crops  on  the  land,  hunted  on  it,
and  parked  cars  on  it.  However,  in  the  sixth  year  after  he  first  took
possession  of  the  land,  the  neighbor  neither  planted  crops  nor  hunted  nor
parked cars on the land because he spent that entire year living in Europe.
The neighbor built a small gardening shed on the land, but he never built a
residence on it.

When the daughter was 28, she was declared mentally incompetent and
had  a  conservator  appointed  to  oversee  her  affairs.  Since  then,  she  has
continuously resided in a care facility.

922

The applicable statute of limitations provides as follows: “An ejectment
action shall be brought within 21 years after the cause of action accrues, but
if the person entitled to bring the cause of action is under age 18 or mentally
incompetent  at  the  time  the  cause  of  action  accrues,  it  may  be  brought  by
such  person  within  10  years  after  attaining  age  18  or  after  the  person
becomes competent.”

If  the  daughter's  conservator  wins  an  ejectment  action  against  the

neighbor, what will be the most likely explanation?

 (A) The daughter was age 17 when the neighbor first took possession of the

land.

(B) Because the daughter is mentally incompetent, the statute of limitations

has been tolled.

(C) The neighbor never built a residence on the land.
(D) The neighbor was not in continuous possession of the land for 21 years.

 Question 10

Ten years ago, a seller sold land to a buyer, who financed the purchase price
with  a  loan  from  a  bank  that  was  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  the  land.  The
buyer  purchased  a  title  insurance  policy  running  to  both  the  buyer  and  the
bank, showing no liens on the property other than the buyer's mortgage to the
bank. Eight years ago, the buyer paid the mortgage in full.

Seven  years  ago,  the  buyer  sold  the  land  to  an  investor  by  a  full

covenant and warranty deed without exceptions.

Six years ago, the investor gave the land to a donee by a quitclaim deed.
Last year, the donee discovered an outstanding mortgage on the land that
predated  all  of  these  conveyances.  As  a  result  of  a  title  examiner's
negligence,  this  mortgage  was  not  disclosed  in  the  title  insurance  policy
issued to the buyer and the bank.

Following  this  discovery,  the  donee  successfully  sued  the  buyer  to

recover the amount of the outstanding mortgage.

If  the  buyer  sues  the  title  insurance  company  to  recover  the  amount  he

paid to the donee, is he likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because the buyer conveyed the land to an investor.
(B) No, because the title insurance policy lapsed when the buyer paid off

the bank's mortgage.

(C) Yes, because the buyer is protected by the title insurance policy even

though he no longer owns the land.

923

(D) Yes, because the buyer was successfully sued by a donee and not by a

bona fide purchaser for value.

 Question 11

A woman owned a house on a lot abutting a public street. Six months ago,
the  city  validly  revised  its  zoning  ordinances  and  placed  the  woman's  lot
and the surrounding lots abutting the public street from the north in a zone
limited to residential use; the lots abutting the public street on the south side
were zoned for both residential and light business use.

The  woman  asked  the  city's  zoning  appeals  board  to  approve  her
proposal to operate a court-reporting service from her house. This type of
use  would  be  permitted  on  the  south  side  of  the  public  street  and,  in  fact,
one such business has existed there for several years.
The board approved the woman's proposal.
Why?

 (A) A variance was granted.
(B) The doctrine of amortization applied.
(C) The doctrine of change of circumstances applied.
(D) The woman's use of her house was a nonconforming use.

 Question 12

A woman acquired title to a four-acre lot. Several years later, she executed
a  mortgage  on  the  lot  to  a  bank  to  secure  repayment  of  a  $100,000  loan.
Subsequently, the woman executed a mortgage on the same four-acre lot to a
finance  company  to  secure  repayment  of  a  $50,000  loan.  Both  mortgages
were promptly recorded.

The  woman  recently  defaulted  on  both  loans.  The  bank  promptly
initiated  foreclosure  proceedings  and  sent  proper  notice  to  all  necessary
parties. The current fair market value of the four-acre lot is $250,000.

The  finance  company  has  filed  a  timely  motion  in  the  foreclosure
proceeding asking the court to require the bank to first foreclose on two of
the four acres in the four-acre lot. The bank opposes this motion and insists
that it has the right to subject the entire four-acre lot to the foreclosure sale.

Will the court grant the finance company's motion?

 (A) No, because the bank holds a purchase-money mortgage.
(B) No, because the entire four-acre lot is subject to the bank's senior

924

mortgage.

(C) Yes, because a pro rata foreclosure of the lot will not prejudice the

rights of the bank.

(D) Yes, because of the “two funds” rule of marshalling.

 Question 13

Last year, a buyer and a seller entered into a valid contract for the sale of a
parcel of real property. The contract contained no contingencies. The seller
was killed in a car accident before the parcel was conveyed, but the closing
eventually  took  place  with  the  conveyance  by  a  deed  from  the  personal
representative of the seller's estate.

The personal representative of the seller's estate wants to distribute the
proceeds  of  the  real  property  sale.  The  seller's  will  was  executed  many
years ago and was duly admitted to probate. Paragraph 5 of his will leaves
all  of  the  seller's  real  property  to  his  son,  and  Paragraph  6  leaves  the
residue of the estate to the seller's daughter. No other provisions of the will
are  pertinent  to  the  question  regarding  to  whom  the  proceeds  of  the  sale
should be distributed.

What will determine who receives the proceeds?

 (A) Whether Paragraph 5 refers specifically to the parcel of real property

that was sold or simply to “all of my real property.”

(B) Whether the closing date originally specified in the contract was a date

before or after the seller's death.

(C) Whether the jurisdiction has adopted the doctrine of equitable

conversion.

(D) Whether the sale was completed in accordance with a court order.

 Question 14

A man conveyed his house to his wife for life, remainder to his only child, a
son  by  a  previous  marriage.  Thereafter,  the  man  died,  devising  his  entire
estate to his son.

The  wife  later  removed  a  light  fixture  in  the  dining  room  of  the  house
and replaced it with a chandelier that was one of her family heirlooms. She
then informed her nephew and her late husband's son that after her death, the
chandelier should be removed from the dining room and replaced with the
former light fixture, which she had stored in the basement.

The  wife  died  and  under  her  will  bequeathed  her  entire  estate  to  her

925

nephew.  She  also  named  the  nephew  as  the  personal  representative  of  her
estate.  After  the  nephew,  in  his  capacity  as  personal  representative,
removed the chandelier and replaced it with the original light fixture shortly
after the wife's death, the son sued to have the chandelier reinstalled.

Who will likely prevail?

 (A) The nephew, because he had the right to remove the chandelier within a

reasonable time after the wife's death.

(B) The nephew, because of the doctrine of accession.
(C) The son, because the chandelier could not be legally removed after the

death of the wife.

(D) The son, because a personal representative can remove only trade

fixtures from real property.

 Question 15

A landowner owned a tract of land in fee simple. He executed an instrument
in the proper form of a deed, purporting to convey the tract to a purchaser in
fee simple. The instrument recited that the conveyance was in consideration
of  ‘‘$5  cash  in  hand  paid  and  for  other  good  and  valuable  consideration.''
The  landowner  handed  the  instrument  to  the  purchaser,  who  promptly  and
properly recorded it.

Two months later, the landowner brought an appropriate action against
the  purchaser  to  cancel  the  instrument  and  to  quiet  title.  In  support,  the
landowner  proved  that  no  money  in  fact  had  been  paid  by  the  purchaser,
notwithstanding  the  recitation,  and  that  no  other  consideration  of  any  kind
had been supplied by the purchaser. In such action, the landowner should

 (A) lose, because any remedy the landowner might have had was lost when

the instrument was recorded.

(B) lose, because the validity of conveyance of land does not depend upon

consideration being paid, whether recited or not.

(C) prevail, because the recitation of consideration paid may be

contradicted by parol evidence.

(D) prevail, because recordation does not make a void instrument effective.

 Question 16

A woman had a season ticket for her home town hockey team's games at a
private  arena  (her  ticket  was  in  section  B,  row  12,  seat  16).  During  the
intermission  between  the  first  and  second  periods  of  a  game,  the  woman

926

solicited signatures for a petition urging that the coach of the home team be
fired.

The  arena  and  the  home  hockey  team  are  owned  by  a  management
company,  a  privately  owned  entity.  As  evidenced  by  many  prominently
displayed signs, the company prohibits all solicitations anywhere within the
arena  at  any  time  and  in  any  manner.  The  company  notified  the  woman  to
cease her solicitation of signatures. The woman continued to seek signatures
on her petition during the team's next three home games at the arena. Each
time, the company notified her to cease such solicitation. She announced her
intention to seek signatures on her petition again during the next home game
at the arena. The management company wrote a letter informing the woman
that  her  season  ticket  was  canceled  and  tendering  a  refund  for  the  unused
portion. The woman refused the tender and brought an appropriate action to
establish  the  right  to  attend  all  home  games.  In  this  action,  the  court  will
decide for

 (A) the management company, because it has a right and obligation to

control activities on realty it owns and has invited the public to visit.

(B) the management company, because the woman's ticket to hockey games

created only a license.

(C) the woman, because, having paid value for the ticket, her right to be

present cannot be revoked.

(D) the woman, because she was not committing a nuisance by her

activities.

 Question 17

By a writing, an owner leased his house to a tenant for a term of three years,
ending December 31 of last year, at the rent of $1,000 per month. The lease
provided that the tenant could sublet and assign.

The  tenant  lived  in  the  house  for  one  year  and  paid  the  rent  promptly.
After one year, the tenant leased the house to his friend for one year at a rent
of  $1,000  per  month.  The  friend  took  possession  of  the  house  and  lived
there for six months but, because of her unemployment, paid no rent. After
six  months,  on  June  30,  the  friend  abandoned  the  house,  which  remained
vacant for the balance of that year. The tenant again took possession of the
house  at  the  beginning  of  the  third  and  final  year  of  the  term  but  paid  the
owner  no  rent.  At  the  end  of  the  lease  term,  the  owner  brought  an
appropriate action against both the tenant and his friend to recover $24,000,
the unpaid rent. In such action the owner is entitled to a judgment

927

 (A) against the tenant individually for $24,000, and no judgment against the

friend.

(B) against the tenant individually for $18,000, and against the friend

individually for $6,000.

(C) against the tenant for $12,000, and against the tenant and the friend

jointly and severally for $12,000.

(D) against the tenant individually for $18,000, and against the tenant and

the friend jointly and severally for $6,000.

 Question 18

A landowner conveyed a tract of land in fee simple to a lawyer for a recited
consideration  of  ‘‘$10  and  other  valuable  consideration.''  The  deed  was
promptly  and  properly  recorded.  One  week  later,  the  landowner  and  the
lawyer  executed  a  written  document  that  stated  that  the  conveyance  of  the
tract  was  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the
landowner's  daughter.  The  lawyer  expressly  accepted  the  trust  and  signed
the  document,  as  did  the  landowner.  This  written  agreement  was  not
authenticated to be eligible for recordation and there never was an attempt
to record it.

The  lawyer  entered  into  possession  of  the  tract  and  distributed  the  net
income  from  it  to  the  landowner's  daughter  at  appropriate  intervals.  Five
years  later,  the  lawyer  conveyed  the  tract  in  fee  simple  to  a  buyer  by
warranty  deed.  The  buyer  paid  fair  market  value  for  the  tract,  had  no
knowledge of the written agreement between the landowner and the lawyer,
and  entered  into  possession  of  the  tract.  The  landowner's  daughter  made
demand upon the buyer for distribution of income at the next usual time the
lawyer would have distributed. The buyer refused. The daughter brought an
appropriate  action  against  the  buyer  for  a  decree  requiring  her  to  perform
the  trust  the  lawyer  had  theretofore  recognized.  In  such  action,  judgment
should be for

 (A) the landowner's daughter, because a successor in title to the trustee

takes title subject to the grantor's trust.

(B) the landowner's daughter, because equitable interests are not subject to

the recording act.

(C) the buyer, because, as a bona fide purchaser, she took free of the trust

encumbering the lawyer's title.

(D) the buyer, because no trust was ever created since the landowner had no

title at the time of the purported creation.

928

 Question 19

An  elderly  woman  owned  the  house  in  which  she  and  her  daughter  both
lived.  The  daughter  always  referred  to  the  house  as  ‘‘my  property.''  Two
years  ago,  the  daughter,  for  a  valuable  consideration,  executed  and
delivered  to  a  buyer  an  instrument  in  the  proper  form  of  a  warranty  deed
purporting  to  convey  the  house  to  the  buyer  in  fee  simple,  reserving  to
herself  an  estate  for  two  years  in  the  house.  The  buyer  promptly  and
properly recorded his deed.

One year ago, the woman died and by will, duly admitted to probate, left
her entire estate to her daughter. One month ago, the daughter, for a valuable
consideration,  executed  and  delivered  to  her  friend  an  instrument  in  the
proper form of a warranty deed purporting to convey the house to the friend,
who  promptly  and  properly  recorded  the  deed.  The  daughter  was  then  in
possession of the house and her friend had no actual knowledge of the deed
to the earlier buyer. Immediately thereafter, the daughter gave possession to
the friend. The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: ‘‘No conveyance
or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers
for value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law.''
Last  week,  the  daughter  fled  the  jurisdiction.  Upon  learning  the  facts,  her
friend  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  the  buyer  to  quiet  title  to  the
house. If the daughter's friend wins, it will be because

 (A) the daughter had nothing to convey to the buyer two years ago.
(B) the daughter's deed to the buyer was not to take effect until after her

deed to her friend.

(C) the friend was first in possession.
(D) the daughter's deed to the buyer was not in her friend's chain of title.

 Question 20

A  landowner  owned  several  vacant  lots  in  a  subdivision.  She  obtained  a
$50,000  loan  from  a  bank,  and  executed  and  delivered  to  the  bank  a
promissory  note  and  mortgage  describing  Lots  1,  2,  3,  4,  and  5.  The
mortgage was promptly and properly recorded.

Upon  payment  of  $10,000,  the  landowner  obtained  a  release  of  Lot  2
duly executed by the bank. She altered the instrument of release to include
Lot 5 as well as Lot 2 and recorded it. The landowner thereafter sold Lot 5
to a developer, an innocent purchaser, for value. The bank discovered that
the instrument of release had been altered and brought an appropriate action

929

against  the  landowner  and  the  developer  to  set  aside  the  release  as  it
applied to Lot 5. The landowner did not defend against the action, but the
developer  did.  The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘No
unrecorded conveyance or mortgage of real property shall be good against
subsequent purchasers for value without notice, who shall first record.'' The
court should rule for

 (A) the developer, because the bank was negligent in failing to check the

recordation of the release.

(B) the developer, because she was entitled to rely on the recorded release.
(C) the bank, because the developer could have discovered the alteration by

reasonable inquiry.

(D) the bank, because the alteration of the release was ineffective.

 Question 21

A farmer owned a farm in fee simple, as the land records showed, when he
contracted to sell the farm to a buyer. Two weeks later, the buyer paid the
agreed price and received a warranty deed. A week thereafter, when neither
the contract nor the deed had been recorded and while the farmer remained
in  possession  of  the  farm,  a  creditor  properly  filed  her  money  judgment
against the farmer. She knew nothing of the buyer's interest.

A  statute  in  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘Any  judgment  properly  filed
shall, for ten years from filing, be a lien on the real property then owned or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the  judgment  is
rendered.'' The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: ‘‘No conveyance
or  mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers
for value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law.''
The  creditor  brought  an  appropriate  action  to  enforce  her  lien  against  the
farm  in  the  buyer's  hands.  If  the  court  decides  for  the  buyer,  it  will  most
probably be because

 (A) the doctrine of equitable conversion applies.
(B) the jurisdiction's recording act does not protect creditors.
(C) the farmer's possession gave the creditor constructive notice of the

buyer's interest.

(D) the buyer was a purchaser without notice.

 Question 22

Six years ago, the owner of a parcel in fee simple, executed and delivered

930

to a buyer an instrument in the proper form of a warranty deed, purporting to
convey the parcel to the buyer ‘‘and his heirs.'' At that time, the buyer was a
widower who had one child, a daughter.

Three  years  ago,  the  buyer  executed  and  delivered  to  a  developer  an
instrument in the proper form of a warranty deed, purporting to convey the
parcel to the developer. The buyer's daughter did not join in the deed. The
developer  was  and  still  is  unmarried  and  childless.  The  only  possibly
applicable statute in the jurisdiction states that any deed will be construed
to  convey  the  grantor's  entire  estate,  unless  expressly  limited.  Last  month,
the  buyer  died,  never  having  remarried.  His  daughter  is  his  only  heir.  The
parcel is now owned by

 (A) the daughter, because the buyer's death ended the developer's life estate

pur autre vie.

(B) the developer in fee simple pursuant to the buyer's deed.
(C) the daughter and the developer as tenants in common of equal shares.
(D) the daughter and the developer as joint tenants, because both survived

the buyer.

 Question 23

A  landowner  owned  a  lot,  which  was  improved  with  a  dwelling.  A
developer  owned  an  adjoining,  unimproved  lot  suitable  for  constructing  a
dwelling.  The  developer  executed  and  delivered  a  deed  granting  to  the
landowner an easement over the westerly 15 feet of the unimproved lot for
convenient ingress and egress to a public street, although the landowner's lot
did  abut  another  public  street.  The  landowner  did  not  then  record  the
developer's  deed.  After  the  landowner  constructed  and  started  using  a
driveway within the described 15-foot strip in a clearly visible manner, the
developer  borrowed  $10,000  cash  from  a  bank  and  gave  the  bank  a
mortgage  on  her  lot.  The  mortgage  was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.
The  landowner  then  recorded  the  developer's  deed  granting  the  easement.
The developer subsequently defaulted on her loan payments to the bank.

The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘No  conveyance  or
mortgage  of  real  property  shall  be  good  against  subsequent  purchasers  for
value and without notice unless the same be recorded according to law.'' In
an appropriate foreclosure action as to the developer's lot, brought against
the  landowner  and  the  developer,  the  bank  seeks,  among  other  things,  to
have the landowner's easement declared subordinate to the bank's mortgage,
so that the easement will be terminated by completion of the foreclosure. If

931

the landowner's easement is not terminated, it will be because

 (A) the recording of the deed granting the easement prior to the foreclosure

action protects the landowner's rights.

(B) the easement provides access from a lot to a public street.
(C) the landowner's easement is appurtenant to a lot and thus cannot be

separated from a lot.

(D) visible use of the easement by the landowner put the bank on notice of

the easement.

 Question 24

An hotelier owned a hotel, subject to a mortgage securing a debt the hotelier
owed  to  an  investor.  The  hotelier  later  acquired  a  nearby  parking  garage,
financing a part of the purchase price by a loan from a bank, secured by a
mortgage on the parking garage. Two years thereafter, the hotelier defaulted
on the loan owed to the investor, which caused the full amount of that loan to
become immediately due and payable. The investor decided not to foreclose
the mortgage on the owner's hotel at that time, but instead brought an action,
appropriate  under  the  laws  of  the  jurisdiction  and  authorized  by  the
mortgage  loan  documents,  for  the  full  amount  of  the  defaulted  loan.  The
investor obtained and properly filed a judgment for that amount.

A  statute  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘Any  judgment  properly  filed
shall, for ten years from filing, be a lien on the real property then owned or
subsequently  acquired  by  any  person  against  whom  the  judgment  is
rendered.'' There is no other applicable statute, except the statute providing
for  judicial  foreclosure  of  mortgages,  which  places  no  restriction  on
deficiency  judgments.  The  investor  later  brought  an  appropriate  action  for
judicial foreclosure of its first mortgage on the hotel and of its judgment lien
on  the  parking  garage.  The  bank  was  joined  as  a  party  defendant,  and
appropriately counterclaimed for foreclosure of its mortgage on the parking
garage, which was also in default. All procedures were properly followed
and the confirmed foreclosure sales resulted as follows:

The  investor  purchased  the  hotel  for  $100,000  less  than  its  mortgage

balance.

The  investor  purchased  the  parking  garage  for  an  amount  that  is

$200,000 in excess of the bank's mortgage balance.

The $200,000 surplus arising from the bid paid by the investor for the

parking garage should be paid

932

 (A) $100,000 to the investor and $100,000 to the hotelier.
(B) $100,000 to the bank and $100,000 to the hotelier.
(C) $100,000 to the investor and $100,000 to the bank.
(D) $200,000 to the hotelier.

 Question 25

A landlord owned a house in fee simple. Three years ago, the landlord and a
tenant  agreed  to  a  month-to-month  tenancy  with  the  tenant  paying  the
landlord  rent  each  month.  After  six  months  of  the  tenant's  occupancy,  the
landlord suggested to the tenant that she could buy the house for a monthly
payment of no more than her rent. The landlord and the tenant orally agreed
that the tenant would pay $25,000 in cash, the annual real estate taxes, the
annual fire insurance premiums, and the costs of maintaining the house, plus
the  monthly  mortgage  payments  that  the  landlord  owed  on  the  house.  They
further  orally  agreed  that  within  six  years  the  tenant  could  pay  whatever
mortgage  balances  were  then  due  and  the  landlord  would  give  her  a
warranty  deed  to  the  property.  The  tenant's  average  monthly  payments  did
turn out to be about the same as her monthly rent.

The tenant fully complied with all of the obligations she had undertaken.
She  made  some  structural  modifications  to  the  house.  The  house  is  now
worth  50  percent  more  than  it  was  when  the  landlord  and  the  tenant  made
their oral agreement. The tenant made her financing arrangements and was
ready  to  complete  the  purchase  of  the  house,  but  the  landlord  refused  to
close.  The  tenant  brought  an  appropriate  action  for  specific  performance
against the landlord to enforce the agreement. The court should rule for

 (A) the landlord, because the agreements were oral and violated the Statute

of Frauds.

(B) the landlord, subject to the return of the $25,000, because the

arrangement was still a tenancy.

(C) the tenant, because the doctrine of part performance applies.
(D) the tenant, because the Statute of Frauds does not apply to oral purchase
and sale agreements between landlords and tenants in possession.

 Question 26

A  vendor  owned  a  tract  of  land  in  fee  simple.  He  entered  into  a  valid
written  agreement  with  a  purchaser  under  which  the  vendor  agreed  to  sell
and  the  purchaser  agreed  to  buy  the  tract  by  installment  purchase.  The

933

contract stipulated that the vendor would deliver to the purchaser, upon the
payment  of  the  last  installment  due,  ‘‘a  warranty  deed  sufficient  to  convey
the  fee  simple.''  The  contract  contained  no  other  provision  that  could  be
construed as referring to title.

The  purchaser  entered  into  possession  of  the  tract.  After  making  10  of
the  300  installment  payments  obligated  under  the  contract,  the  purchaser
discovered that there was outstanding a valid and enforceable mortgage on
the tract, securing the payment of a debt in the amount of 25 percent of the
purchase price the purchaser had agreed to pay. There was no evidence that
the vendor had ever been late in payments due under the mortgage and there
was no evidence of any danger of insolvency of the vendor. The value of the
tract now is four times the amount due on the debt secured by the mortgage.
The  purchaser  quit  possession  of  the  tract  and  demanded  that  the  vendor
repay  the  amounts  the  purchaser  had  paid  under  the  contract.  After  the
vendor  refused  the  demand,  the  purchaser  brought  an  appropriate  action
against the vendor to recover damages for the vendor's alleged breach of the
contract. In such action, should damages be awarded to the purchaser?

 (A) No, because the time for the vendor to deliver marketable title has not

arrived.

(B) No, because the purchaser assumed the risk by taking possession.
(C) Yes, because in the absence of a contrary express agreement, an

obligation to convey marketable title is implied.

(D) Yes, because the risk of loss assumed by the purchaser in taking

possession relates only to physical loss.

 Question 27

An owner held 500 acres in fee simple absolute. In 1960 the owner planned
and  obtained  all  required  governmental  approvals  of  two  subdivisions  of
200 acres each, one for commercial use and one for residential use. In 1960
and 1961 commercial buildings and parking facilities were constructed on
the  commercial  subdivision  in  accordance  with  the  plans  disclosed  by  the
plat for each subdivision. The commercial subdivision continues to be used
for commercial purposes.

The  plat  of  the  residential  subdivision  showed  250  lots,  streets,  and
utility and drainage easements. All of the lots in the residential subdivision
were  conveyed  during  1960  and  1961.  The  deeds  contained  provisions,
expressly  stated  to  be  binding  upon  the  grantee,  his  heirs  and  assigns,
requiring  the  lots  to  be  used  only  for  single-family,  residential  purposes

934

until  1985.  The  deeds  expressly  stated  that  these  provisions  were
enforceable  by  the  owner  of  any  lot  in  the  residential  subdivision.  At  all
times  since  1959,  the  200  acres  of  the  commercial  subdivision  have  been
zoned  for  shopping  center  use,  and  the  200  acres  in  the  residential
subdivision  have  been  zoned  for  residential  use  in  a  classification  that
permits both single-family and multiple-family use. In an appropriate attack
upon  the  limitation  to  residential  use  by  single  families,  if  the  evidence
disclosed  no  fact  in  addition  to  those  listed  above,  the  most  probable
judicial resolution would be that

 (A) there is no enforceable restriction, because judicial recognition

constitutes state action that is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution.

(B) there is no enforceable restriction because of the owner's conflict of

interest in that he did not make the restriction applicable to the 100
acres he retains.

(C) the restriction in use set forth in the deeds will be enforced at the suit of

any present owner of a lot in the residential subdivision.

(D) any use consistent with zoning will be permitted but that such uses so
permitted as are in conflict with the restrictions in the deeds will give
rise to a right to damages from owner or the owner's successor.

 Question 28

A vacant lot is contiguous to a farm. Thirty years ago the then-record owner
of  the  vacant  lot  executed  and  delivered  to  the  owner  of  the  farm  an
instrument in writing that was denominated ‘‘Deed of Conveyance'' granting
the farmer ‘‘and her heirs and assigns a right-of-way for egress and ingress''
to  the  farm.  If  the  quoted  provision  was  sufficient  to  create  an  interest  in
land, the instrument met all other requirements for a valid grant. The farmer
held record title in fee simple to the farm.

Twelve years ago, an investor succeeded to the vacant lot owner's title
in  fee  simple  in  the  vacant  lot  and  seven  years  ago  the  farmer's  daughter
succeeded to the farmer's title in fee simple in the farm by a deed that made
no mention of a right-of-way or driveway. At the time the farmer's daughter
took  title,  there  existed,  across  the  vacant  lot,  a  driveway  that  showed
evidence that it had been used regularly to travel between a highway and the
farm. The farm did have frontage on another public road, but this means of
access  was  seldom  used  because  it  was  not  as  convenient  to  the  dwelling
situated  on  the  farm  as  was  the  highway.  The  driveway  originally  was

935

established  by  the  farmer.  The  farmer's  daughter  has  regularly  used  the
driveway since acquiring title. The period of time required to acquire rights
by prescription in the jurisdiction is ten years. Six months ago the investor
notified  the  farmer's  daughter  that  he  planned  to  develop  a  portion  of  the
vacant lot as a residential subdivision and that she should cease any use of
the  driveway.  After  some  negotiations,  the  investor  offered  to  pay  for  this
offer on the ground that travel from the lot to the main road would be more
circuitous. The farmer's daughter brought an appropriate action against the
investor to obtain a definitive adjudication of their respective rights. In such
lawsuit the investor relied upon the defense that the location of the easement
created  by  the  original  grant  was  governed  by  reasonableness  and  that  the
investor's proposed solution was reasonable. The investor's defense should

 (A) fail, because the location had been established by the acts of the

original owners of the land.

(B) fail, because the location of the easement had been fixed by

prescription.

(C) prevail, because the reasonableness of the investor's proposal was

established by the farmer's daughter's refusal to suggest any alternative
location.

(D) prevail, because the servient owner is entitled to select the location of a

right-of-way if the grant fails to identify its location.

 Question 29

A  grantor,  who  owned  a  parcel  in  fee  simple,  conveyed  the  parcel  to  a
grantee  by  warranty  deed.  An  adjoining  owner  asserted  title  to  the  parcel
and  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  the  grantee  to  quiet  title  to  the
parcel.  The  grantee  demanded  that  the  grantor  defend  her  title  under  the
deed's  covenant  of  warranty,  but  the  grantor  refused.  The  grantee  then
successfully defended at her own expense.

The grantee brought an appropriate action against the grantor to recover
her  expenses  incurred  in  defending  against  the  adjoining  owner's  action  to
quiet title to the parcel. In this action, the court should decide for

 (A) the grantee, because in effect it was the grantor's title that was

challenged.

(B) the grantee, because the grantor's deed to her included the covenant of

warranty.

(C) the grantor, because the title he conveyed was not defective.

936

(D) the grantor, because the adjoining owner may elect which of the grantor

or the grantee to sue.

 Question 30

At  a  time  when  a  landowner  held  a  lot  in  a  subdivision  in  fee  simple,  a
seller executed a warranty deed that recited that the seller conveyed the lot
to a buyer. The deed was promptly and duly recorded.

After  the  recording  of  the  deed  from  the  seller  to  the  buyer,  the
landowner  conveyed  the  lot  to  the  seller  by  a  warranty  deed  that  was
promptly  and  duly  recorded.  Later,  the  seller  conveyed  the  property  to  a
different  buyer  by  warranty  deed  and  the  deed  was  promptly  and  duly
recorded.  The  later  buyer  paid  the  fair  market  value  of  the  lot  and  had  no
knowledge  of  any  claim  of  the  earlier  buyer.  In  an  appropriate  action,  the
two buyers contest title to the lot. In this action, judgment should be for

 (A) the earlier buyer, because his deed is senior to the later buyer's.
(B) the later buyer, because he paid value without notice to the earlier

buyer's claim.

(C) the earlier buyer or the later buyer, depending on whether a subsequent
grantee is bound, at common law, by the doctrine of estoppel by deed.
(D) the earlier buyer or the later buyer, depending on whether the buyer's

deed is deemed recorded in the later buyer's chain of title.

 Question 31

An  owner  owned  a  single-family  residence.  Fifteen  years  ago,  the  owner
conveyed a life estate in the house to a landlord.

Fourteen years ago, the landlord, who had taken possession of the house,
leased the house to a tenant for a term of 15 years at the monthly rental of
$500.  Eleven  years  ago,  the  landlord  died  intestate  leaving  her  son  as  her
sole  heir.  The  tenant  regularly  paid  rent  to  the  landlord  and,  after  the
landlord's death, to her son until last month. The period in which to acquire
title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is ten years. In an appropriate
action, the tenant, the owner, and the landlord's son each asserted ownership
of the house. The court should hold that title in fee simple is in

 (A) the owner, because the owner held a reversion and the landlord has

died.

(B) the landlord's son, because the landlord asserted a claim adverse to the

937

owner when the landlord executed a lease to the tenant.

(C) the landlord's son, because the tenant's occupation was attributable to

her son, and the landlord died 11 years ago.

(D) the tenant, because of the tenant's physical occupancy and because the

tenant's term ended with the landlord's death.

 Question 32

A brother and sister owned a large farm in fee simple as tenants in common,
each  owning  an  undivided  one-half  interest.  For  five  years  the  brother
occupied  the  farm  and  conducted  farming  operations.  The  brother  never
accounted  to  the  sister  for  any  income  but  he  did  pay  all  real  estate  taxes
when the taxes were due and kept the buildings located on the farm insured
against loss from fire, storm, and flood. His sister lived in a distant city and
was  interested  only  in  realizing  a  profit  from  the  sale  of  the  land  when
market conditions produced the price the sister wanted.

The  brother  died  intestate  survived  by  his  grandson,  his  sole  heir.
Thereafter the grandson occupied the farm but was inexperienced in farming
operations. The result was a financial disaster. The grandson failed to pay
real estate taxes for two years. The appropriate governmental authority held
a  tax  sale  to  recover  the  taxes  due.  At  such  sale  the  sister  was  the  only
bidder  and  obtained  a  conveyance  from  the  appropriate  governmental
authority upon payment of an amount sufficient to discharge the amounts due
for taxes, plus interest and penalties, and the costs of holding the tax sale.
The amount paid was one-third of the reasonable market value of the farm.
Thereafter the sister instituted an appropriate action against the grandson to
quiet title in and to recover possession of the farm. The grandson asserted
all  defenses  available  to  him.  Except  for  the  statutes  related  to  real  estate
taxes and tax sales, there is no applicable statute. In this lawsuit, the sister
is  entitled  to  a  decree  quieting  title  so  that  she  is  the  sole  owner  in  fee
simple of the farm

 (A) because she survived her brother.
(B) because the grandson defaulted in the obligations undertaken by the

brother.

(C) unless the grandson pays her one-half of the reasonable market value of

the farm.

(D) unless the grandson pays her one-half of the amount she paid for the tax

deed.

938

 Question 33

A man and a woman, who were cousins, acquired title in fee simple to a lot,
as equal tenants in common, by inheritance from their aunt. During the last
15 years of her lifetime, their aunt allowed the man to occupy an apartment
in  the  house  on  the  lot,  to  rent  the  other  apartment  in  the  house  to  various
tenants, and to retain the rent. The man made no payments to his aunt; and
since  her  death  seven  years  ago,  he  has  made  no  payments  to  the  woman.
For those 22 years, the man has paid the real estate taxes on the lot, kept the
building  on  the  lot  insured,  and  maintained  the  building.  At  all  times,  the
woman has lived in a distant city and has never had anything to do with her
aunt, her cousin, or the lot.

Recently, the woman needed money for the operation of her business and
demanded that the man join her in selling the lot. He refused. The period of
time to acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is ten years.
There  is  no  other  applicable  statute.  The  woman  brought  an  appropriate
action against the man for partition. The man asserted all available defenses
and counterclaims. In that action, the court should

 (A) deny partition and find that title has vested in the man by adverse

possession.

(B) deny partition, confirm the tenancy in common, but require an

accounting to determine if either the woman or the man is indebted to
the other on account of the rental payment, taxes, insurance premiums,
and maintenance costs.

(C) grant partition and require, as an adjustment, an accounting to determine
if either the woman or the man is indebted to the other on account of the
rental payments, taxes, insurance premiums, and maintenance costs.
(D) grant partition to the woman and the man as equal owners, but without

an accounting.

 Question 34

A  seller  agreed  to  sell  and  a  purchaser  agreed  to  buy  a  described  lot  on
which  a  single-family  residence  had  been  built.  Under  the  contract,  the
seller  agreed  to  convey  marketable  title  subject  only  to  conditions,
covenants,  and  restrictions  of  record  and  all  applicable  zoning  laws  and
ordinances. The lot was subject to a 10-foot side-line setback originally set
forth  in  the  developer's  duly  recorded  subdivision  plot.  The  applicable
zoning ordinance zones the property for single-family units and requires an

939

8.5-foot side-line setback.

Prior to closing, a survey of the property was made. It revealed that a
portion of the seller' house was 8.4 feet from the side line. The purchaser
refused to consummate the transaction on the ground that the seller's title is
not  marketable.  In  an  appropriate  action,  the  seller  seeks  specific
performance. Who will prevail in such an action?

 (A) The seller, because any suit against the purchaser concerning the

setback would be frivolous.

(B) The seller, because the setback violation falls within the doctrine de

minimis non curat lex.

(C) The purchaser, because any variation, however small, amounts to a

breach of contract.

(D) The purchaser, because the fact that the purchaser may be exposed to

litigation is sufficient to make the title unmarketable.

 Question 35

A  businessman  owned  in  fee  simple  a  lot  in  a  properly  approved
subdivision, designed and zoned for industrial use. A contractor owned the
adjoining  lot  in  the  same  subdivision.  The  plat  of  the  subdivision  was
recorded as authorized by statute.

Twelve years ago, the businessman erected an industrial building wholly
situated  on  his  lot  but  with  one  wall  along  the  boundary  common  with  the
contractor's  lot.  The  construction  was  done  as  authorized  by  a  building
permit,  validly  obtained  under  applicable  statutes,  ordinances,  and
regulations. Further, the construction was regularly inspected and passed as
being  in  compliance  with  all  building  code  requirements.  The  contractor's
lot  remained  vacant  until  six  months  ago,  when  the  contractor  began
excavation  pursuant  to  a  building  permit  authorizing  the  erection  of  an
industrial building situated on her lot but with one wall along the boundary
common with the businessman's lot. The excavation caused subsidence of a
portion of the businessman's lot that resulted in injury to his building. The
excavation was not done negligently or with any malicious intent to injure.
In the jurisdiction, the time to acquire title by adverse possession or rights
by prescription is ten years. The businessman brought an appropriate action
against the contractor to recover damages resulting from the injuries to his
building. In such lawsuit, judgment should be for

 (A) the businessman, if, but only if, the subsidence would have occurred

940

without the weight of the building on his lot.

(B) the businessman, because a right for support, appurtenant to his lot, had

been acquired by adverse possession or prescription.

(C) the contractor, because the lots are urban land, as distinguished from

rural land and, therefore, under the circumstances the businessman had
the duty to protect any improvements on his lot.

(D) the contractor, because the construction and the use to be made of the

building were both authorized by the applicable law.

 Question 36

A  corporation  owned  a  parcel  in  fee  simple,  as  the  real  estate  records
showed. The corporation entered into a valid, written contract to convey the
parcel to a buyer, an individual. At closing, the buyer paid the price in full
and  received  an  instrument  in  the  proper  form  of  a  deed,  signed  by  duly
authorized  corporate  officers  on  behalf  of  the  corporation,  purporting  to
convey  the  parcel  to  the  buyer.  The  buyer  did  not  then  record  the  deed  or
take possession of the parcel.

Next,  a  creditor  (who  had  no  knowledge  of  the  contract  or  the  deed)
obtained  a  substantial  money  judgment  against  the  corporation.  Then,  the
buyer  recorded  the  deed  from  the  corporation.  Thereafter,  the  creditor
properly  filed  the  judgment  against  the  corporation.  A  statute  of  the
jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘Any  judgment  properly  filed  shall,  for  ten  years
from  filing,  be  a  lien  on  the  real  property  then  owned  or  subsequently
acquired by any person against whom the judgment is rendered.'' Afterward,
the  buyer  entered  into  a  valid  written  contract  to  convey  the  parcel  to  a
developer. The developer objected to the buyer's title and refused to close.
The  recording  act  of  the  jurisdiction  provides:  ‘‘Unless  the  same  be
recorded  according  to  law,  no  conveyance  or  mortgage  of  real  property
shall be good against subsequent purchasers for value and without notice.''
The  buyer  brought  an  appropriate  action  to  require  the  developer  to
complete the purchase contract. The court should decide for

 (A) the developer, because the creditor's judgment was obtained before the

buyer recorded the deed from the corporation.

(B) the developer, because even though the corporation's deed to the buyer
prevented the creditor's judgment from being a lien on the parcel, the
creditor's filed judgment poses a threat of litigation.

(C) the buyer, because the buyer recorded her deed before the creditor filed

his judgment.

941

(D) the buyer, because the buyer received the deed from the corporation

before the creditor filed his judgment.

 Question 37

A  landowner  had  title  to  a  lot  in  fee  simple.  Without  the  landowner's
knowledge, a rancher entered the lot in 1990 and constructed an earthen dam
across a watercourse. The earthen dam trapped water that the rancher used
to water a herd of cattle he owned. After 12 years of possession of the lot,
the rancher gave possession of the lot to a buyer.

At the same time, the rancher also purported to transfer his cattle and all
his  interests  in  the  dam  and  water  to  the  buyer  by  a  document  that  was
sufficient as a bill of sale to transfer personal property but was insufficient
as a deed to transfer real property. One year later, the buyer entered into a
lease with the landowner to lease the lot for a period of five years. After the
end of the five-year term of the lease, the buyer remained on the lot for an
additional  three  years  and  then  left  the  lot.  At  that  time  the  landowner
conveyed  the  lot  by  a  quitclaim  deed  to  a  farmer.  The  period  of  time  to
acquire title by adverse possession in the jurisdiction is ten years. After the
landowner's conveyance to the farmer, title to the lot was in

 (A) the rancher.
(B) the landowner.
(C) the buyer.
(D) the farmer.

 Question 38

A niece inherited vacant land from her uncle. She lived in a distant state and
decided to sell the land to a colleague who was interested in purchasing the
land  as  an  investment.  They  orally  agreed  upon  a  price,  and,  at  the
colleague's insistence, the niece agreed to provide him with a warranty deed
without  any  exceptions.  The  price  was  paid,  the  warranty  deed  was
delivered,  and  the  deed  was  promptly  and  properly  recorded.  Neither  the
niece nor the colleague had, at that point, ever seen the land.

After recording the deed, the colleague visited the land for the first time
and  discovered  that  it  had  no  access  to  any  public  right-of-way  and  that
none  of  the  surrounding  lands  had  ever  been  held  in  common  ownership
with any previous owner of the tract of land. The colleague sued the niece
for damages. For whom will the court find?

942

 (A) The colleague, because the lack of access makes title unmarketable.
(B) The colleague, because the covenants of warranty and quiet enjoyment

in the deed were breached.

(C) The niece, because no title covenants were breached.
(D) The niece, because the agreement to sell was oral.

 Question 39

A little more than five years ago, a man completed construction of a single-
family home located on a lot that he owned. Five years ago, the man and a
tenant entered into a valid five-year written lease of the lot that included the
following language: ‘‘This house is rented as is, without certain necessary
or  useful  items.  The  parties  agree  that  the  tenant  may  acquire  and  install
such items as she wishes at her expense, and that she may remove them if
she wishes at the termination of this lease.''

The  tenant  decided  that  the  house  needed,  and  she  paid  cash  to  have
installed, standard-sized combination screen/storm windows, a freestanding
refrigerator to fit a kitchen alcove built for that purpose, a built-in electric
stove  and  oven  to  fit  a  kitchen  counter  opening  left  for  that  purpose,  and
carpeting  to  cover  the  plywood  living  room  floor.  Last  month,  by  legal
description  of  the  land,  the  man  conveyed  the  lot  to  a  purchaser  for
$100,000. The purchaser knew of the tenant's soon-expiring tenancy, but did
not examine the written lease. As the lease expiration date approached, the
purchaser learned that the tenant planned to vacate on schedule, and learned
for  the  first  time  that  the  tenant  claimed  and  planned  to  remove  all  of  the
above-listed items that she had installed. The purchaser promptly brought an
appropriate action to enjoin the tenant from removing those items. The court
should decide that the tenant may remove

 (A) none of the items.
(B) only the refrigerator.
(C) all items except the carpet.
(D) all of the items.

 Question 40

A  landowner  owned  a  tract  of  land  in  fee  simple.  The  landowner  and  a
purchaser  entered  into  a  written  agreement  under  which  the  purchaser
agreed  to  buy  the  tract  for  $100,000,  its  fair  market  value.  The  agreement
contained  all  the  essential  terms  of  a  real  estate  contract  to  sell  and  buy,

943

including  a  date  for  closing.  The  required  $50,000  down  payment  was
made. The contract provided that in the event of the purchaser's breach, the
landowner could retain the $50,000 deposit as liquidated damages.

Before the date set for the closing in the contract, the purchaser died. On
the date that the administrator of the purchaser's estate was duly qualified,
which was after the closing date, she made demand for return of the $50,000
deposit. The landowner responded by stating that he took such demand to be
a declaration that the administrator did not intend to complete the contract
and  that  the  landowner  considered  the  contract  at  an  end.  The  landowner
further  asserted  that  the  landowner  was  entitled  to  retain,  as  liquidated
damages,  the  $50,000.  The  reasonable  market  value  of  the  tract  had
increased to $110,000 at that time. The administrator brought an appropriate
action  against  the  landowner  to  recover  the  $50,000.  In  answer,  the
landowner  made  no  affirmative  claim  but  asserted  that  he  was  entitled  to
retain  the  $50,000  as  liquidated  damages  as  provided  in  the  contract.  In
such lawsuit, judgment should be for

 (A) the administrator, because the provision relied upon by the landowner is

unenforceable.

(B) the administrator, because the death of the purchaser terminated the

contract as a matter of law.

(C) the landowner, because the court should enforce the express agreement

of the contracting parties.

(D) the landowner, because the doctrine of equitable conversion prevents

termination of the contract upon the death of a party.

 Question 41

A  man  owned  property  that  he  used  as  his  residence.  The  man  received  a
loan,  secured  by  a  mortgage  on  the  property,  from  a  bank.  Later,  the  man
defaulted  on  the  loan.  The  bank  then  brought  an  appropriate  action  to
foreclose  the  mortgage,  was  the  sole  bidder  at  the  judicial  sale,  and
received title to the property as a result of the foreclosure sale.

Shortly  after  the  foreclosure  sale,  the  man  received  a  substantial
inheritance. He approached the bank to repurchase the property, but the bank
decided to build a branch office on the property and declined to sell.

If  the  man  prevails  in  an  appropriate  action  to  recover  title  to  the

property, what is the most likely reason?

 (A) He had used the property as his residence.

944

(B) He timely exercised an equitable right of redemption.
(C) The court applied the doctrine of exoneration.
(D) The jurisdiction provides for a statutory right of redemption.

 Question 42

A  woman  died  testate.  In  her  will,  she  devised  a  farm  she  owned  to  her
husband for life, remainder to her niece. Her will did not specify the duties
of  the  husband  and  the  niece  with  regard  to  maintenance  and  expenses
related to the farm. The husband took sole possession of the farm, did not
farm the land, and did not rent the land to a third person, although the fair
rental value was substantial.

For two years in a row after the woman died, the county assessor sent
the tax bills to the niece, but the niece did not pay the bills, because she and
the husband could not agree on who should pay them. Finally, the niece paid
the taxes to avoid a tax foreclosure sale.

The  niece  then  sued  the  husband  for  reimbursement  for  the  two  years'

worth of property taxes.

There is no applicable statute.
Is the niece likely to prevail?

 (A) No, because remaindermen are solely responsible for the payment of

property taxes.

(B) No, because the county assessor sent the bills to the niece.
(C) No, because the woman's will was silent on responsibility for payment

of property taxes.

(D) Yes, because the niece paid an obligation that was the sole

responsibility of the husband.

 Question 43

Under the terms of his duly probated will, a testator devised his house to his
“grandchildren  in  fee  simple”  and  the  residue  of  his  estate  to  his  brother.
The  testator  had  had  two  children,  a  son  and  a  daughter,  but  only  the
daughter  survived  the  testator.  At  the  time  of  the  testator's  death,  the
daughter was 30 years old and had two minor children (grandchildren of the
testator) who also survived the testator.

A  third  grandchild  of  the  testator,  who  was  the  child  of  the  testator's
predeceased son, had been alive when the testator executed the will, but had
predeceased the testator. Under the applicable intestate succession laws, the

945

deceased grandchild's sole heir was his mother.

A statute of the jurisdiction provides as follows: “If a devisee, including
a devisee of a class gift, who is a grandparent or a lineal descendant of a
grandparent  of  the  testator  is  dead  at  the  time  of  execution  of  the  will  or
fails to survive the testator, the issue of such deceased devisee shall take the
deceased's share under the will, unless the will expressly provides that this
statute shall not apply. For this purpose, words of survivorship, such as ‘if
he survives me,' are a sufficient expression that the statute shall not apply.”

Who now owns the house?

 (A) The testator's brother.
(B) The testator's two surviving grandchildren.
(C) The testator's two surviving grandchildren and all other grandchildren

who are born to the testator's daughter.

(D) The testator's two surviving grandchildren and the deceased

grandchild's mother.

 Question 44

The  following  facts  concern  a  tract  of  land  in  a  state  that  follows  general
U.S.  law.  Each  instrument  is  in  proper  form,  recorded,  marital  property
rights were waived when necessary, and each person named was adult and
competent at the time of the named transaction.

  1. In 1970, the owner of a tract conveyed his interest in fee simple to his
‘‘two brothers, their heirs and assigns as joint tenants with right of
survivorship.''

2. In 1980, the older brother died, devising his interest to his only child
‘‘for life, and then to his grandson for life, and then to his grandson's
children, their heirs and assigns.''

3. In 2000, the younger brother died, devising his interest to ‘‘his friend,

his heirs and assigns.''

4. In 2002, the friend conveyed his quitclaim deed to a purchaser, ‘‘his

heirs and assigns whatever right, title and interest I own.''

The  purchaser  has  never  married  and  has  contracted  to  convey

marketable record title in the land. Can the purchaser do so?

 (A) Yes, without joinder of any other person in the conveyance.
(B) Yes, if the older brother's son, his grandson, and his grandson's only

child (age 25) will join in the conveyance.

946

 
(C) No, regardless of who joins in the conveyance, because the older

brother's grandson may have additional children whose interests cannot
be defeated.

(D) No, regardless of who joins in the conveyance, because a title acquired

by quitclaim deed is impliedly unmerchantable.

 Question 45

A  landowner  owned  a  tract  of  land  in  fee  simple.  He  conveyed  it  to  a
purchaser, ‘‘his heirs and assigns; but if my friend shall be living 30 years
from  the  date  of  this  deed,  then  to  my  friend,  his  heirs  and  assigns.''  The
limitation ‘‘to the friend, his heirs and assigns'' is

 (A) valid, because the friend's interest is a reversion.
(B) valid, because the interest will vest, if at all, within a life in being.
(C) valid, because the friend's interest is vested subject to divestment.
(D) invalid.

 Question 46

The landowner owned in fee simple two lots in an urban subdivision. The
lots  were  vacant  and  unproductive.  They  were  held  as  a  speculation  that
their value would increase. The landowner died and, by his duly probated
will, devised the residue of his estate (of which the lots were part) to his
wife for life with remainder in fee simple to his daughter. The landowner's
executor  distributed  the  estate  under  appropriate  court  order,  and  notified
the  landowner's  wife  that  future  real  estate  taxes  on  the  lots  were  her
responsibility to pay.

Except  for  the  statutes  relating  to  probate  and  those  relating  to  real
estate  taxes,  there  is  no  applicable  statute.  The  wife  failed  to  pay  the  real
estate taxes due for the two lots. To prevent a tax sale of the fee simple, the
daughter paid the taxes and demanded that the wife reimburse her for same.
When  she  refused,  the  daughter  brought  an  appropriate  action  against  the
wife to recover the amount paid. In such action, the daughter should recover

 (A) the amount paid, because a life tenant has the duty to pay current

charges.

(B) the present value of the interest that the amount paid would earn during

the wife's lifetime.

(C) nothing, because the wife's sole possession gave the right to decide

whether or not taxes should be paid.

947

(D) nothing, because the wife never received any income from the lots.

 Question 47

A man owned a farm in fee simple. By his will, he devised as follows: ‘‘my
farm to such of my grandchildren who shall reach the age of 21; and by this
provision I intend to include all grandchildren whenever born.'' At the time
of his death, the man had three children and two grandchildren.

Courts  hold  such  a  devise  valid  under  the  common-law  Rule  Against

Perpetuities. What is the best explanation of that determination?

 (A) All of the man's children would be measuring lives.
(B) The Rule of Convenience closes the class of beneficiaries when any

grandchild reaches the age of 21.

(C) There is a presumption that the man intended to include only those

grandchildren born prior to his death.

(D) There is a subsidiary rule of construction that dispositive instruments
are to be interpreted so as to uphold interests rather than to invalidate
them under the Rule Against Perpetuities.

 Question 48

In  1995,  the  owner  of  a  tract  of  land  executed  and  delivered  a  deed  by
which he conveyed the tract ‘‘[t]o my cousin and his heirs as long as it is
used exclusively for residential purposes, but if it is ever used for other than
residential purposes, to a charity.'' In 2000, the owner died leaving a valid
will by which he devised all his real estate to his brother. The will had no
residuary  clause.  The  owner  was  survived  by  his  brother  and  by  his
daughter, who was the owner's sole heir.

Assume  that  the  common  law  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  applies  in  the
state where the land is located and that the state also has a statute providing
that  ‘‘[a]ll  future  estates  and  interests  are  alienable,  descendible,  and
devisable in the same manner as possessory estates and interests.'' In 2005,
the  owner's  cousin  and  daughter  entered  into  a  contract  with  a  purchaser
whereby they contracted to sell the tract to the purchaser in fee simple. After
examining  title,  the  purchaser  refused  to  perform  on  the  ground  that  the
cousin  and  the  daughter  could  not  give  good  title.  The  cousin  and  the
daughter joined in an action against the purchaser for specific performance.
Prayer for specific performance will be

948

 (A) granted, because the cousin and the daughter together own a fee simple

absolute in the tract.

(B) granted, because the cousin alone owns the entire fee simple in the tract.
(C) denied, because the brother has a valid interest in the tract.
(D) denied, because the charity has a valid interest in the tract.

 Question 49

A  landowner  died,  validly  devising  his  land  to  his  wife  ‘‘for  life  or  until
remarriage, then to'' their daughter. Shortly after the landowner's death, his
daughter executed an instrument in the proper form of a deed, purporting to
convey the land to her friend. A year later, the daughter died intestate, with
her  mother,  the  original  landowner's  wife,  as  her  sole  heir.  The  following
month,  the  wife  remarried.  She  then  executed  an  instrument  in  the  proper
form  of  a  deed,  purporting  to  convey  the  land  to  her  new  husband  as  a
wedding gift.

Who now owns what interest in the land?

 (A) The daughter's friend in fee simple.
(B) The wife owns the fee simple.
(C) The wife's new husband has a life estate in the land for the wife's life,

with the remainder to the daughter's friend.
(D) The wife's new husband owns in fee simple.

 Question 50

A  woman  conveyed  her  one-family  residence,  to  ‘‘my  son  for  life,
remainder  to  my  daughter,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  subject,  however,  to  the
mortgage  thereon.''  There  was  an  unpaid  balance  on  the  mortgage  of
$10,000,  which  is  payable  in  $1,000  annual  installments  plus  interest  at  6
percent  on  the  unpaid  balance,  with  the  next  payment  due  on  July  1.  The
woman's son is now occupying the residence. The reasonable rental value
of the property exceeds the sum necessary to meet all current charges. There
is no applicable statute.

Under  the  rules  governing  contributions  between  life  tenants  and

remaindermen, how should the burden for payment be allocated?

 (A) The daughter must pay the principal payment, but the son must pay the

interest.

(B) The daughter must pay both the principal and the interest payments.

949

(C) The son must pay both the principal and interest payments.
(D) The son must pay the principal payment, but the daughter must pay the

interest.

 Question 51

A grantor conveyed her only parcel of land to a grantee by a duly executed
and  delivered  warranty  deed,  which  provided:  ‘‘To  have  and  to  hold  the
described tract of land in fee simple, subject to the understanding that within
one  year  from  the  date  of  the  instrument  said  grantee  shall  construct  and
thereafter maintain and operate on said premises a public health center.''

The  grantee  constructed  a  public  health  center  on  the  tract  within  the
time specified and operated it for five years. At the end of this period, the
grantee converted the structure into a senior citizens' recreational facility. It
is  conceded  by  all  parties  in  interest  that  a  senior  citizens'  recreational
facility  is  not  a  public  health  center.  In  an  appropriate  action,  the  grantor
seeks a declaration that the change in the use of the facility has caused the
land and structure to revert to her. In this action, the grantor should

 (A) win, because the language of the deed created a determinable fee, which

leaves a possibility of reverter in the grantor.

(B) win, because the language of the deed created a fee subject to a
condition subsequent, which leaves a right of entry or power of
termination in the grantor.

(C) lose, because the language of the deed created only a contractual

obligation and did not provide for retention of property interest by the
grantor.

(D) lose, because an equitable charge is enforceable only in equity.

 Question 52

In  1995,  a  man  executed  his  will,  which  in  pertinent  part  provided,  ‘‘I
hereby give, devise, and bequeath my house to my surviving widow for life,
remainder to such of my children as shall live to attain the age of 30 years,
but  if  any  child  dies  under  the  age  of  30  years  survived  by  a  child  or
children, such child or children shall take and receive the share which his,
her, or their parent would have received had such parent lived to attain the
age of 30 years.''

At the date of writing his will, the man and his wife had two children, a
son  and  a  daughter.  The  man's  wife  died  in  2000  and  he  then  married  his

950

second  wife  in  2002.  At  his  death  in  2010,  the  man  was  survived  by  his
second wife and three children, the two from his first marriage, and a son,
born  in  2004,  with  his  second  wife.  In  a  jurisdiction  that  recognizes  the
common-law Rule Against Perpetuities unmodified by statute, the result of
the application of the rule is that the

 (A) remainder to the children and to the grandchildren is void because the
man could have subsequently married a person who was unborn at the
time he executed his will.

(B) remainder to the children is valid, but the substitutionary gift to the

grandchildren is void because the man could have subsequently married
a person who was unborn at the time he executed his will.

(C) gift in remainder to the man's children from his first marriage or their

children is valid, but the gift to his son from his second marriage or his
children is void.

(D) remainder to the children and the substitutionary gift to the

grandchildren are valid.

 Question 53

For a valuable consideration, a widow who owned a tract of land, signed
and  gave  her  niece  a  duly  executed  instrument  that  provided  as  follows:
‘‘The  grantor  may  or  may  not  sell  the  tract  during  her  lifetime,  but  at  her
death,  or  if  she  earlier  decides  to  sell,  the  property  will  be  offered  to  the
grantee  at  $500  per  acre.  The  grantee  shall  exercise  this  right,  if  at  all,
within  sixty  days  of  receipt  of  said  offer  to  sell.''  The  friend  recorded  the
instrument. The instrument was not valid as a will. Is the niece's right under
the instrument valid?

 (A) Yes, because the instrument is recorded.
(B) Yes, because the niece's right to purchase will vest or fail within the

period prescribed by the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(C) No, because the niece's right to purchase is a restraint on the owner's

power to make a testamentary disposition.

(D) No, because the niece's right to purchase is an unreasonable restraint on

alienation.

 Question 54

Three years ago a landowner conveyed the tract to a grantee for $50,000 by
a  deed  that  provided:  ‘‘By  accepting  this  deed,  the  grantee  covenants  for

951

herself,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  that  the  premises  herein  conveyed  shall  be
used  solely  for  residential  purposes  and,  if  the  premises  are  used  for
nonresidential purposes, the landowner, his heirs and assigns, shall have the
right  to  repurchase  the  premises  for  the  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars
($1,000).''  In  order  to  pay  the  $50,000  purchase  price  for  the  tract,  the
grantee obtained a $35,000 mortgage loan from a bank. The landowner had
full  knowledge  of  the  mortgage  transaction.  The  deed  and  mortgage  were
promptly  and  properly  recorded  in  proper  sequence.  The  mortgage,
however, made no reference to the quoted language in the deed.

Two years ago the grantee converted her use of the tract from residential
to commercial without the knowledge or consent of the landowner or of the
bank. The grantee's commercial venture failed, and the grantee defaulted on
her mortgage payments to the bank. The tract now has a fair market value of
$25,000.  The  bank  began  appropriate  foreclosure  proceedings  against  the
grantee.  The  landowner  properly  intervened,  tendered  $1,000,  and  sought
judgment that the grantee and the bank be ordered to convey the tract to the
landowner, free and clear of the mortgage. The common-law Rule Against
Perpetuities  is  unmodified  by  statute.  If  the  court  rules  against  the
landowner, it will be because

 (A) the provision quoted from the deed violates the Rule Against

Perpetuities.

(B) the bank had no actual knowledge of, and did not consent to, the

violation of the covenant.

(C) the rights reserved by the landowner were subordinated, by necessary
implication, to the rights of the bank as the lender of the purchase
money.

(D) the consideration of $1,000 was inadequate.

 Question 55

A  landowner  owned  a  farm  in  fee  simple  and  by  his  will  specifically
devised the farm as follows: ‘‘To my daughter, her heirs and assigns, but if
she dies survived by a husband and a child or children, then to her husband
during  his  lifetime  with  remainder  to  her  children,  their  heirs  and  assigns.
Specifically  provided,  however,  that  if  my  daughter  dies  survived  by  a
husband  and  no  child,  the  farm  is  specifically  devised  to  my  nephew,  his
heirs and assigns.''

While the landowner's will was in probate, his nephew quitclaimed all
interest in the farm to the landowner's daughter's husband. Three years later,

952

the daughter died, survived by her husband but no children. She left a will
devising her interest in the farm to her husband. The only applicable statute
provides  that  any  interest  in  land  is  freely  alienable.  The  landowner's
nephew instituted an appropriate action against the husband to establish title
to the farm. Judgment should be for

 (A) the nephew, because his quitclaim deed did not transfer his after

acquired title.

(B) the nephew, because the daughter's husband took nothing under the

landowner's will.

(C) the daughter's husband, because the nephew had effectively conveyed

his interest in the farm.

(D) the daughter's husband, because the doctrine of after-acquired title

applies to a devise by will.

953

ANSWERS

REAL PROPERTY

Answer Key

Use  this  Answer  Key  to  quickly  identify  the  correct  answer  to  each
question.

954

 
Answers

REAL PROPERTY

 Answer 1

 (B) is the best response,

because  we  can  infer  from  the  landlord's  victory  that  we  are  in  a
jurisdiction  that  does  not  require  the  landlord  to  put  the  tenant  into
actual possession.

It's clear that the landlord has given the new tenant the legal right to
possess  the  premises,  and  that  the  landlord  hasn't  given  a  conflicting
legal right to anyone else. (The holdover tenant's term is over, so that
tenant  cannot  be  asserting  that  he  has  a  legal  right  to  possession
deriving  from  the  landlord.  Furthermore,  there's  no  indication  in  the
facts  that  the  landlord  or  any  third  person  claiming  under  him  has
asserted a legal claim to possession of the premises.) So the new tenant
cannot win in his damages suit against the landlord by merely showing
that he had a legal right to the premises — the landlord has delivered
that to him, free of competing claims. The tenant can win if, and only if,
the  landlord  is  found  to  have  had  an  implied  duty  to  deliver  actual
possession  (as  opposed  to  just  the  legal  right  to  possession)  to  the
tenant.

American courts are split on the issue of whether the landlord owes
the  tenant  an  implied  duty  to  put  him  into  actual  possession.  Most
American courts follow the so-called “English rule,” under which the
landlord has an implied duty to deliver actual possession to the tenant.
But a minority follow the so-called “American rule,” under which the
landlord  is  merely  required  to  give  the  tenant  legal  possession.  We're
told  to  assume  that  the  court  has  found  for  the  landlord.  We  can  infer
from  this  fact  that  the  jurisdiction  follows  the  American  rule.  That
would explain how and why the landlord would win. By contrast, none
of  the  other  three  explanations  would  produce  a  victory  for  the
landlord.

 (A) is not the best response,

955

 
because the tenant did not in fact, by suing the prior tenant, waive any
remedy against the landlord.

The tenant, as the holder of the legal right to the premises, was of
course  entitled  to  sue  the  holdover  tenant  for  possession.  There  is  no
principle  of  law  by  which  the  tenant's  exercise  of  that  right  to  sue
would be found to be a waiver of his right to later sue the landlord for
damages from the delay.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  tenant  has  not  been  constructively  convicted,  and  his  suit
against the landlord was not based on a constructive-eviction theory.

Under  the  constructive-eviction  doctrine,  if  the  premises  become
uninhabitable for the tenant's intended purposes, due to the wrongful act
of the landlord, the tenant may stop paying rent and terminate the lease.
And  it's  true  that,  as  this  choice  implies,  the  tenant  cannot  rely  on  a
constructive  eviction  theory  unless  he  has  timely  moved  out  of  the
premises  following  the  event  that  made  them  uninhabitable.  But
constructive eviction is not the theory on which the tenant here is suing
the  landlord.  One  reason  we  know  this  is  that  the  tenant  is  suing  for
damages,  and  a  constructive  eviction  suit  seeks  suspension  of  rent
and/or termination of the lease, not damages. Rather, the tenant is suing
the landlord for breach of what the tenant says is the landlord's implied
obligation to deliver physical possession.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  tenant  had  no  obligation  to  notify  the  landlord  before
bringing the eviction action.

The  tenant  had  the  legal  right  to  possession,  and  the  prior  tenant
was an illegal holdover tenant. Therefore, the tenant had the sole right
(and the obligation) to sue the prior tenant to have him evicted. Since
the tenant had the absolute right to bring that suit, there was no principle
of law that required him to notify the landlord that he was about to do
so. Indeed, we can infer from the fact that the landlord prevailed in the
damages  suit  that  the  landlord  had  no  obligation  under  state  law  to
deliver  actual  possession,  so  there  would  have  been  no  purpose  in
requiring the tenant to give the landlord notice that the tenant was about
to sue the prior tenant for possession.

 Answer 2

956

 (D) is the best response,

because the investor exercised her right to sue for specific performance
with reasonable promptness.

The cousin and the investor had a valid contract for the sale of the
farm. The fact that the cousin did not have title at the time she signed the
contract  does  not  matter.  If  the  investor  had  “slept  on  his  rights”  by
delaying  the  commencement  of  suit  for  an  unreasonable  time  after  the
cousin  obtained  title,  the  court  might  conclude  that  the  investor  had
intended to abandon the contract. In that event, the court might decline
to  award  specific  performance  under  the  doctrine  of  “laches”  (since
specific performance is an equitable remedy, requiring that the plaintiff
not  behave  in  a  way  that  prejudices  the  rights  of  the  defendant).  But
here, the investor acted promptly once she learned that the cousin now
had  title.  Furthermore,  the  investor's  suit  was  prompt  as  measured  by
the fact that only two weeks passed between the scheduled closing date
and the cousin's acquisition of title.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it states an incorrect rule of law.

This  choice  asserts  that  when  a  person  signs  a  contract  to  convey
property that the person doesn't own as of the signing date, the contract
is invalid. This is simply false as a matter of law: It's not uncommon for
a person to sign a contract to convey property that she doesn't yet own,
and that person takes the risk of not being able to acquire title between
the time of signing and the scheduled closing date.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the fact that the cousin received title by devise rather than by
conveyance does not make any legal difference.

The  cousin  and  the  investor  had  a  valid  contract  requiring  the
cousin to convey the property to the investor on the scheduled closing
date.  Once  the  cousin  gained  title  to  the  property,  the  investor  was
entitled to the remedy of specific performance regardless of the means
by  which  the  cousin  had  gained  title.  If  a  long  period  of  time  had
elapsed between the scheduled closing date and the investor's attempt
to get specific performance, this might have been a reason for the court
to deny specific performance (a remedy that is equitable and thus highly
dependent  on  whether  it  would  be  fair  to  both  parties'  expectations),

957

and  leave  the  investor  to  resort  to  a  claim  for  money  damages.  But
since  the  suit  followed  quickly  after  the  scheduled  closing  date,
specific  performance  is  an  appropriate  remedy,  regardless  of  the
unanticipated sequence by which the cousin gained title.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it refers to a doctrine that would not apply on these facts.

In  this  choice  the  examiners  seem  to  be  trying  to  trick  you  into
thinking  that  the  doctrine  of  “estoppel  by  deed”  applies.  Under  that
doctrine,  if  a  grantor  under  a  deed  promises  a  particular  title  that  he
does  not  in  fact  have,  then  if  the  grantor  later  gets  that  title,  the  title
automatically  passes  to  the  grantee.  So  let's  suppose  that  on  the
scheduled closing date, the cousin actually purported to convey to the
investor  title  to  the  farm  (title  which  the  cousin  didn't  have).  Then,
when the cousin later got title by means of the executor's deed, estoppel
by  deed  would  probably  apply,  so  that  the  executor's  deed  would  be
deemed  to  automatically  vest  title  in  the  investor  rather  than  in  the
cousin.  But  estoppel  by  deed  operates  only  when  there  is  a  deed
executed  by  one  who  does  not  own  the  title  being  conveyed;  the
doctrine does not apply where a person merely agrees by contract  to
convey a title that he doesn't yet own, but later acquires. So there was
no principle by which the existence of the cousin-investor sale contract
caused  the  executor's  deed  to  automatically  convey  title  (or  any  other
new rights) to the investor.

 Answer 3

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  creditor's  obtaining  of  a  judgment  lien  did  not  cause  a
severance  of  the  joint  tenancy,  and  the  son's  death  extinguished
whatever rights the creditor had with respect to the son's interest.

To solve this problem, you have to answer two separate questions:
(1)  what,  if  anything,  was  the  effect  of  the  creditor's  getting  a  lien
against the son's real property?; and (2) what was the effect of the son's
death on the lien? Let's look at these questions one at a time.

As  to  question  (1):  When  a  creditor  gets  a  judgment  lien  good
against  the  debtor's  real  estate  interests,  the  lien  does  not  cause  a
severance of any joint tenancy with right of survivorship to which the
debtor is a party. S&W, § 5.4, p. 192. So even after the lien came into

958

existence by virtue of the filing of the judgment, the joint tenancy with
right  of  survivorship  continued  in  place.  (In  some  states,  the  creditor
would have been entitled to enforce the judgment by having the tenancy
severed  and  the  debtor's  interest  sold;  but  the  creditor  here  didn't  do
that.)

As  to  question  (2):  When  the  son  died,  his  death  automatically
caused  his  interest  to  be  extinguished,  with  full  title  vesting  in  the
daughter. At that moment, the creditor's lien disappeared, since that lien
attached  only  to  the  son's  interest  in  the  property,  not  to  the  property
itself, and the son's interest was extinguished at his death.

 (B) is not the best response,

because no severance occurred when the lien was filed.

This choice correctly concludes that the creditor cannot enforce its
lien  against  the  farm,  but  incorrectly  states  the  rationale.  As  is
discussed more fully in the treatment of choice A, the mere creation of a
judgment  lien  good  against  the  real  estate  interests  of  the  debtor  does
not act to sever a joint tenancy with right of survivorship to which the
debtor is a party. The joint tenancy continued in force after the creation
of the judgment lien, but the creditor loses because the son's interest in
the  joint  tenancy  (the  only  thing  to  which  the  lien  attached)  was
extinguished at the son's death.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  is  legally  incorrect  about  whether  a  joint  tenancy  can  be
created by devise, and is therefore factually incorrect about the nature
of the son's interest at his death.

A joint tenancy with right of survivorship can be created either by
conveyance or devise (will), so long as the creating instrument makes it
clear that the grantor intends to create a right of survivorship. Here, the
mother's will, by specifying that the farm was to pass by joint tenancy
“with  right  of  survivorship,”  made  it  adequately  clear  that  the  mother
intended  such  a  right  of  survivorship.  That  joint  tenancy  continued  in
force  after  the  creation  of  the  judgment  lien,  but  the  creditor  loses
because  the  son's  interest  in  the  joint  tenancy  (the  only  thing  to  which
the lien attached) was extinguished at the son's death.

(If  the  mother's  bequest  had  created  a  tenancy  in  common  rather
than a joint tenancy with right of survivorship, this choice would be a
correct  explanation  of  the  outcome:  The  creditor's  lien  would  have

959

attached to the son's 50 percent undivided tenancy-in-common interest
in  the  farm,  and  the  lien  would  have  survived  his  death,  allowing  a
judicial sale of that interest, with the proceeds going to the creditor.)

 (D) is not the best response,

because it misstates the nature of the son's interest at his death.

The  phrase  “50%  undivided  interest  .  .  .  as  a  joint  tenant”  is
internally-inconsistent gibberish. The sub-phrase “joint tenant” implies
“with right of survivorship” (i.e., the language “right of survivorship”
is  essentially  redundant  once  we  know  that  the  interest  is  a  joint
tenancy).  Conversely,  the  phrase  “undivided  interest”  is  used  only  in
connection  with  a  tenancy  in  common,  not  a  joint  tenancy  (so  that  a
“50%  undivided  interest”  means  that  the  holder  has  a  tenancy  in
common  equal  to  half  the  value  of  the  property).  This  is  therefore  a
choice  that  you  could  have  eliminated  without  even  reading  the  fact
pattern!

Since  the  mother's  will  was  sufficiently  specific  to  create  a  joint
tenancy with right of survivorship, and since no later event caused the
joint tenancy to be severed, this choice is factually incorrect in saying
that the son owned a “50% undivided interest” at his death — what in
fact happened was that his interest in the joint tenancy was extinguished
by his death, and the creditor's lien was extinguished at the same time.

 Answer 4

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  developer  is  deemed  to  have  assumed  the  mortgage  even
though he did not sign the deed.

According to the terms of the deed, the developer was assuming the
mortgage  obligation  as  part  of  his  consideration  for  the  property.  The
deed was a “deed poll,” i.e., a deed signed only by the grantor (here,
the landowner). When a grantee accepts a deed poll with knowledge of
its contents, he is deemed to have agreed to all conditions in it. So the
developer  will  be  deemed  to  have  made  the  promise  of  assumption
recited in the deed.

By assuming the mortgage, the developer became personally liable
for paying it. Furthermore, the developer's promise of assumption made
him the primary obligor, and transformed the landowner into a position
of a surety or guarantor. So although the landowner is still theoretically

960

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

liable  for  the  deficiency  (since  there  was  no  novation,  i.e.,  no
agreement  by  the  lender  to  release  the  landowner  from  liability  in
return for the developer's assumption of liability), the court will require
that the deficiency be paid by the developer.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  developer's  monthly  payments  did  not  result  in  any
estoppel,  making  this  choice  an  incorrect  explanation  of  the  correct
outcome.

In  general,  the  mere  fact  that  a  purchaser  of  mortgaged  property
makes  payments  on  the  mortgage  will  not  cause  the  purchaser  to
become  liable  for  further  payments.  So  if  the  developer  had  merely
taken the property “subject to” the mortgage, the making of the first six
payments  would  not  have  obligated  him  to  continue  making  payments,
or  to  satisfy  any  deficiency.  It's  only  because  the  developer  took  the
deed  with  knowledge  that  it  contained  an  assumption  clause  that  he
became personally liable, as discussed in Choice A.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  developer  is  deemed  to  have  agreed  to  assume  the
mortgage even though he did not sign the deed.

As is described more fully in the discussion of choice A, a grantee
who accepts a deed poll (a deed signed only by the grantor) is deemed
to have agreed to all conditions stated in the document. Therefore, the
developer  is  deemed  to  have  promised  to  assume  payment  of  the
mortgage, even though he did not sign the deed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the developer, having assumed the mortgage, became primarily
liable, not just a guarantor.

When  the  purchaser  of  property  is  deemed  to  have  assumed  a
mortgage on it, the purchaser becomes primarily liable for payment of
the mortgage, and it is the original mortgagor who becomes a surety or
guarantor. As discussed in choice A, when the developer took the deed
poll  and  recorded  it,  while  knowing  that  it  contained  an  assumption
clause, he became bound by that assumption provision even though he
did  not  sign  the  deed.  That  assumption  made  him  primarily  liable,  a
status inconsistent with this choice.

961

 Answer 5

 (D) is the best response,

because  the  tenant's  lease  was  valid,  but  entitled  him  only  to  the
transferor's concurrent right of possession.

To  solve  this  problem,  you  have  to  answer  two  questions  in
sequence:  (1)  Pre-lease,  what  were  the  possessory  rights  of  the  man
(the original co-tenant with his sister and cousin)?; and (2) What rights,
if any, did the lease transfer to the tenant?

As  to  (1),  each  tenant  in  any  form  of  co-tenancy  is  entitled  to
possession of all parts of the land at all times. S&W, § 5.8, p. 203. So
any  tenant  in  common  (such  as  the  man)  is  entitled  to  occupy  the  full
premises at all times, so long as he does not interfere with the rights of
the other tenants (here, the sister and the cousin) to co-occupy them.

As to (2), each undivided interest in a tenancy in common may be
transferred by its holder to a third party. That transfer may be for less
than the remainder of the tenancy in common, i.e., for a term of years.
So the man's lease to the tenant was proper, and transferred to the tenant
whatever  rights  the  man  (the  transferor)  held,  for  the  length  of  time
covered by the lease. As we saw in the answer to (1) above, the rights
held  by  the  man  did  not  include  the  right  to  exclusive  possession,  but
merely  the  right  to  share  possession  with  the  sister  and  the  cousin.
Therefore, this choice correctly states that the tenant may remain in the
premises for the rest of the lease term, but that he must share possession
with the sister and the cousin (or their transferees) if they want to move
in.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the lease was valid.

As is discussed more fully in the last paragraph of the discussion of
choice  D  above,  the  man,  as  the  holder  of  an  undivided  interest  in  a
tenancy  in  common,  was  entitled  to  transfer  that  interest  either  for  the
full remainder of the tenancy in common, or for a lesser term of years.
Therefore, this choice is incorrect in saying that the lease is void, and
also incorrect in saying that the tenant will be evicted.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  although  the  lease  is  valid,  the  tenant's  right  of  occupancy  is

962

not exclusive, and must be shared with the other co-tenants.

As  is  discussed  in  point  (1)  of  the  treatment  of  choice  D  above,
each  tenant  in  common  is  entitled  to  occupy  the  full  premises  at  all
times,  but  only  so  long  as  he  does  not  interfere  with  the  rights  of  the
other co-tenants to co-occupy the premises. So the man did not have the
power  to  prevent  his  sister  and  his  cousin  from  sharing  the  premises
with him whenever they wanted to do so. Consequently, the man could
not  transfer  what  he  did  not  have,  and  thus  did  not  have  the  power  to
transfer to the tenant the exclusive right of occupancy.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it misstates the effect of the fact that the transferor had only a
one-third interest to transfer.

This choice correctly states that the lease is valid. It also correctly
states  that  the  man  (the  transferor)  “had  only  a  one-third  interest  to
transfer.”  But  the  choice  draws  a  completely  wrong  conclusion  from
these two facts. The man's one-third interest (which he was entitled to
transfer) was the right to occupy the entire premises for the remainder
of the tenancy in common (i.e., forever, unless something happened to
extinguish the tenancy in common), subject to a similar right of shared
occupancy on the part of the holders of the other two-thirds interest. So
the  man  was  entitled  to  transfer  shared  occupancy  rights  for  however
long he wanted to do so, which in this case was the three years of the
lease.

 Answer 6

 (B) is the best response,

because a death escrow becomes effective only when the grantor places
the deed beyond his control.

The  man  was  trying  to  create  a  valid  gratuitous  death  escrow.  A
death escrow is an arrangement in which the grantor hands a deed to a
custodian for delivery on the grantor's death. But for a gratuitous death
escrow  to  be  valid  as  a  form  of  delivery,  the  grantor  must  place  the
deed  beyond  his  control,  by  giving  up  all  power  to  undo  the
arrangement in the future. S&W, § 11.4, pp. 837-38.

Here,  the  man  “told  the  attorney  to  return  the  deed  to  him  if  he
asked.”  This  explicit  power  to  recall  the  deed  was  enough  to  prevent
the man from having placed the deed beyond his control. Therefore, the

963

death escrow was not valid, and the deed was never delivered, either
by the unsuccessful escrow or by anything else that happened up until
the man's death. (The man's sending of the e-mail to the nephew telling
the  nephew  about  the  arrangement  was  also  not  enough  to  constitute
delivery,  since  the  man  still  had  the  power  to  recall  the  deed  despite
having sent the e-mail.)

When the nephew died, the nephew had no property interest in the
farm,  so  his  purported  devise  to  his  daughter  had  no  effect.  When  the
man  died,  he  was  still  the  owner  of  the  farm,  since  at  no  time  had  he
made a successful conveyance of it. Since the attempted death escrow
never took effect, the attorney does not have to deliver the deed to the
nephew's  daughter  —  the  farm  passes  by  intestacy  to  the  man's  two
sons.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it reaches the right conclusion but on incorrect reasoning.

A gratuitous death escrow can certainly be valid despite the lack of
a  written  contract  governing  the  escrow.  But  to  be  valid,  a  death
escrow  (i.e.,  a  delivery  of  a  deed  to  a  custodian  with  instructions  to
deliver  it  on  the  grantor's  death)  must  place  the  deed  beyond  the
grantor's  power  to  revoke  the  arrangement.  Since  the  man  here
explicitly retained the right to get the deed back upon request, this “no
power  to  revoke”  requirement  was  not  satisfied.  So  the  death  escrow
was void for this reason, not because of the lack of a written contract
between the man and the attorney/escrow agent.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the death escrow was never effective, so that the death of the
nephew had no consequence.

As  is  discussed  more  fully  in  choice  B,  to  be  valid  a  gratuitous
death escrow must place the deed beyond the grantor's control. Because
the  man  retained  the  power  to  call  the  deed  back  from  the  escrow
arrangement,  this  “beyond  control”  requirement  was  not  satisfied.
Therefore,  the  death  escrow  was  never  effective,  and  the  man  never
delivered  the  deed.  That  being  so,  the  nephew  had  no  interest  in  the
property  at  his  death,  making  his  death  of  no  consequence  to  the
analysis.

 (D) is not the best response,

964

because it makes an incorrect statement of law.

It  is  certainly  possible  to  create  a  valid  gratuitous  death  escrow.
And when such an escrow is created, it constitutes a valid delivery of
the deed from the grantor to the escrow agent. But for a gratuitous death
escrow to be valid, the grantor must place the deed beyond his control.
Here,  the  fact  that  the  man  retained  the  right  to  reclaim  the  deed  on
request  meant  that  he  was  not  putting  the  deed  beyond  his  control.
Therefore,  no  valid  death  escrow  ever  occurred,  which  meant  that  no
“delivery” occurred when the man handed the deed to his attorney.

 Answer 7

 (B) is the best response,

because the covenant is a valid equitable servitude, binding on anyone
who took with notice.

The  deed  from  the  businesswoman  created  a  valid  equitable
servitude. Let's verify this by reviewing each requirement for creating
such a servitude. First, the deed creating the servitude had to satisfy the
Statute of Frauds, but it did so: A servitude that is contained in a “deed
poll” (i.e., a deed signed by the grantor and accepted by the grantee, but
not  signed  by  the  latter)  is  deemed  to  satisfy  the  Statute  of  Frauds  as
against the grantee. Next, the requirements for creating a servitude (i.e.,
a  restriction  whose  burden  and  benefit  would  both  run  with  the  land)
were  satisfied,  because:  (1)  the  building  restriction  “touches  and
concerns” both the burdened property and the benefited property (as to
the latter, what's being protected is expressly stated to be the river view
from the building on the lot retained by the businesswoman); and (2) the
fact that the deed placed the no-development obligation on the grantee
and  “his  heirs  [and]  assigns”  makes  it  clear  that  both  parties  to  that
deed intended that the obligation would be binding on anyone who took
from the grantee.

Next, we have to establish whether the servitude, now that we know
it exists, is binding on the cousin. An equitable servitude is binding on
the  burden  side  only  on  someone  who  had,  at  the  time  he  took,  either
actual or constructive notice of the servitude. Since the restriction was
contained  in  the  deed  to  the  grantee,  and  that  deed  was  properly
recorded by the grantee, the cousin is deemed to have had constructive
notice,  of  the  “record  notice”  variety,  at  the  moment  he  took.  Since
nothing  has  happened  to  terminate  the  equitable  restriction,  that

965

restriction remains binding against the cousin.

One last matter: An equitable servitude may be enforced only by a
member  of  a  class  on  whom  the  original  parties  who  created  the
servitude intended to confer enforcement rights. Where the plaintiff is
the  present  owner  of  a  parcel  that  was  originally  intended  to  be
benefitted  by 
the
businessman, as the present owner of the very parcel that was intended
to  be  benefited  by  that  restriction  (the  parcel  with  the  desirable  river
view) is entitled to sue for the injunction.

this  requirement 

the  restriction, 

is  met.  So 

 (A) is not the best response,

because, although it correctly states the outcome, it does so on incorrect
reasoning.

The  businessman  is  entitled  to  enforce  the  equitable  servitude
created  in  the  deed  from  the  businesswoman  to  the  grantee.  The
servitude was intended to protect against development of the parcel that
abuts  the  river,  and  was  intended  to  benefit  the  other  parcel  (the  one
retained  by  the  businesswoman).  There  is  no  evidence  that  the
restriction was intended to benefit the retained parcel only because or
as  long  as  there  was  a  building  on  it.  So,  for  instance,  if  the  present
owner of the retained parcel had torn down the commercial building on
it,  that  owner  would  still  be  entitled  to  enforce  the  restriction,  on  the
theory  that  he  (the  owner)  might  someday  want  to  build  another
structure that would benefit from a comparable river view.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  an  equitable  servitude  normally  will  survive  the  death  of  the
promisor.

The  deed  from  the  businesswoman  to  the  grantee  created  a  valid
equitable servitude, for the reasons discussed in the treatment of choice
B.  An  equitable  servitude,  by  its  nature,  runs  with  the  land  on  the
“burden”  side,  so  it  will  not  terminate  with  the  death  of  the  promisor
(the  person  who  agrees  to  the  restriction).  The  parties  to  a  deed  are
always free to specify that the promise contained in it will not run with
the  land,  and  is  binding  only  on  the  promisor  (in  which  case  the
promise  is  not  a  “servitude”  at  all),  but  unless  they  so  specify,  the
burden  runs  with  the  land,  and  is  binding  on  anyone  who  takes  with
notice.

966

 (D) is not the best response,

because the grantee accepted the deed and recorded it, thus indicating
his willingness to be bound.

As is discussed in choice B, an equitable servitude must satisfy the
Statute of Frauds. But where a servitude is contained in a “deed poll”
(i.e.,  a  deed  signed  only  by  the  grantor,  not  by  the  grantee),  any
obligation contained in that deed is binding on the grantee if the latter
accepts the deed. And that's even more clearly the case when, as here,
the grantee records the deed. So the fact that the grantee didn't sign the
deed  doesn't  prevent  the  servitude  from  arising,  and  burdening  the
property as against anyone who took with notice of the restriction.

 Answer 8

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  contract  did  not  adequately  identify  the  land  to  be
conveyed.

A contract for the sale of an interest in land must satisfy the Statute
of  Frauds,  and  must  thus  be  evidenced  by  a  signed  writing  stating  the
essential  terms  of  the  contract.  Courts  are  usually  lenient  as  to  what
elements  the  writing  must  cover,  but  all  agree  that  the  writing  must
adequately  identify  the  particular  parcel  to  be  sold.  Since  the  writing
here indicates that the parties had not yet decided which portion of the
seller's larger tract was to be included in the sale, the writing fails to
identify  the  land  to  be  sold  with  even  minimal  specificity.  Therefore,
there  is  no  writing  that  satisfies  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  and  this  fact
makes the contract unenforceable, either by specific performance or by
an action for damages.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  it  states  the  correct  outcome,  but  bases  it  on  incorrect
reasoning.

The Statute of Frauds applies to contracts for the sale of an interest
in land, so a writing was required. The writing was required to state all
the  essential  elements  of  the  deal.  Price  is  certainly  an  essential
element,  so  the  contract  could  satisfy  the  Statute  of  Frauds  only  if  it
provided a reasonably certain method for ascertaining the price. But the
contract  here  did  so,  by  quoting  the  price  as  a  per-acre  charge.  The

967

problem, as discussed in Choice A, is that the writing does not permit
identification of the particular parcel to be sold, so we don't know how
many acres will be included. If we had known which acres were to be
included, the price would have been fully ascertainable.

 (C) is not the best response,

because any requirement that the parties negotiate in good faith would
not be sufficient to overcome the Statute of Frauds problem here.

The Statute of Frauds requires that a contract for sale of an interest
in  land  be  manifested  by  a  signed  writing  covering  the  essential
elements of the deal. One of those elements is the particular acreage to
be sold. It's true that the parties agreed that they would later determine
the  precise  acreage.  And  that  agreement  imposed  on  each  of  them  the
obligation  to  negotiate  in  good  faith.  But  that  good-faith  obligation
cannot  be  a  substitute  for  compliance  with  the  Statute  of  Frauds.
Furthermore, there is no evidence that either party failed to negotiate in
good faith, so there is no basis for saying, as this choice does, that the
buyer  wins.  And  even  if  the  court  believed  that  the  seller  had  not
negotiated in good faith, how would the court decide which acreage to
require  the  seller  to  convey?  So  even  if  the  buyer  could  prove  the
seller's failure to negotiate in good faith, the buyer would be entitled at
best  to  a  money-damages  recovery,  not  a  decree  of  specific
performance.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  whatever  equity  powers  the  court  might  have  would  not
authorize the court to ignore the Statute of Frauds.

The  Statute  of  Frauds  requires  that  a  contract  for  the  sale  of  an
interest in land be manifested by a signed writing covering the essential
elements of the deal. It's true that an action for specific performance is
an equitable action, entitling the judge to use his equitable powers. And
those powers might include, in an appropriate case, the right to appoint
a  master.  But  the  existence  of  those  equitable  powers  would  not
authorize  the  court  to  nullify  the  Statute  of  Frauds.  Since  there  is  no
writing  to  identify  which  particular  acreage  is  to  be  sold,  the  court's
equitable powers are irrelevant.

 Answer 9

968

 (D) is the best response,

because the neighbor's year in Europe prevented there from ever being
21 years of continuous adverse possession by him.

An adverse possessor gains title only if he adversely possesses the
land  continuously  for  the  number  of  years  stated  in  the  statute  of
limitations  on  ejectment  actions.  Here,  this  means  that  the  neighbor
would  have  to  have  been  continuously  (and  openly  and  hostilely)  in
possession for 21 years. The year in Europe meant that the neighbor had
one period of five years continuous possession, and another period of
19 years of continuous possession. Neither of these, therefore, met the
requirement  of  21  continuous  years  (and  they  cannot  be  “tacked
together” because of the gap between them). The fact that the neighbor
at some point built a gardening shed does not help him — even if the
shed was built during the first five years, its existence doesn't constitute
ongoing “possession” by him during the year he was in Europe.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the fact that the daughter was a minor for some of the relevant
period did not extend her time to sue.

This statute does indeed extend the time to sue by one day for each
day that the plaintiff is under 18 during the time of adverse possession.
But  the  maximum  extension  available  through  this  disability-tolling
clause  is  10  years.  So  the  clause  only  extended  the  daughter's  time  to
sue until she turned 28. At the moment she turned 28, she still had 16
years to sue by virtue of the 21 years total given to her in the first part
of the statute (she had 21 years from the time she was 23, since she was
23  when  the  neighbor  returned  from  Europe  and  started  his  21-year
clock  anew).  So  the  fact  that  she  was  under  18  for  one  year  of  the
adverse possession makes no difference to the analysis.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the daughter's mental incompetence did not exist at the time the
adverse possession began.

This choice illustrates why you must very carefully read the terms
of any statute recited in the question. The statute here gives a 10-year
extension of the time to sue “if the person entitled to bring the cause of
action  is  .  .  .  mentally  incompetent  at  the  time  the  cause  of  action
accrues[.]”  An  action  for  ejectment  accrues  at  the  time  the  would-be

969

adverse  possessor  first  takes  open  and  hostile  possession  of  the
property.  The  relevant  possession  began  when  the  neighbor  returned
home from Europe, at which time the daughter was 23. (The first, pre-
Europe, five-year possession doesn't matter, since it cannot be tacked to
the later post-Europe possession.) Since the daughter was not declared
mentally  incompetent  until  the  age  of  28,  she  does  not  meet  the
requirement of having been incompetent “at the time the cause of action
accrue[d].” So the tolling for mental incompetence never applied at all.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  lack  of  a  residence  did  not  prevent  adverse  possession
from occurring.

There is no requirement that the possessor build a residence on the
land (or, for that matter, “reside” on the land) in order to be deemed in
adverse  possession  of  it.  Any  activity  that  would  bring  home  to  the
record  owner  that  the  other  person  is  occupying  the  premises  in  a
continuous,  open  and  hostile  way  is  sufficient  to  meet  the  possession
requirement.  So  planting  and  harvesting  crops,  hunting,  and  parking
cars on the land are, taken together, more than enough to establish that
the  neighbor  was  using  the  property  in  an  open  and  hostile  manner
inconsistent  with  the  rights  of  the  record  owner.  What  causes  the
adverse possession claim to fail is the fact that there never was any 21-
year-period  in  which  these  uses  were  continuously  made,  due  to  the
neighbor's year in Europe.

 Answer 10

 (C) is the best response,

because  title  insurance  covers  the  insured's  liability  under  any
warranties of title made when he sold the property.

This  question  is  asking  you  to  anticipate  a  detail  of  how  title
insurance handles the problem of the insured's liability for warranties
of title made in the deed by which the insured sells the property. You
cannot  know  for  certain  how  the  particular  title  policy  in  question
handles  that  issue.  But  nearly  all  owner's  title  policies  issued  in  the
United States follow the basic provisions of the standard form of owner
policy published by the American Land Title Association (ALTA), the
title  industry's  trade  association.  That  standard  policy  says  that  the
coverage shall continue in force until the later of various events, one of

970

which  is  “so  long  as  the  insured  shall  have  liability  by  reason  of
warranties  in  any  transfer  or  conveyance  of  the  Title.”  2006  ATLA
Owner's  Policy,  Conditions,  Par.  2.  So  no  matter  how  many  years
elapse between the time when the insured owner makes a warranty of
title in connection with his sale of the property, and the time when the
owner is successfully sued for damages for breach of the warranty, the
standard U.S. title policy covers the owner's liability.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the coverage under the buyer's policy continued after the sale,
with respect to the buyer's liability for warranties of title.

You have to distinguish between the two title policies involved in
this  fact  pattern.  The  lender's  title  policy  ended  when  the  loan  was
repaid. But as is more fully described in Choice C above, the standard
owner's  title  policy  continues  to  give  the  owner  coverage  against
liability for warranties of title that the owner makes when he sells the
property.  So  the  coverage  would  not  end  at  the  time  of  the  buyer's
conveyance to the investor.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the coverage under the buyer's policy continued after the buyer
paid off the bank mortgage.

As with choice A, you have to distinguish between the two policies
in this fact pattern, the lender's policy and the owner's policy. It's true
that  when  the  buyer  paid  off  the  bank  mortgage,  the  lender's  policy
terminated.  But  this  payoff  had  no  effect  on  the  owner's  policy.  You
should be able to figure out that this would have to be the case — after
paying off the mortgage, the buyer still owned the property, and would
still  suffer  a  loss  when  there  turned  out  to  be  a  prior  mortgage  not
shown  on  the  policy's  report  of  liens,  so  an  owner's  title  policy
wouldn't be much good if it didn't cover this situation. In general, don't
check your common sense at the door — as this choice illustrates, you
can often anticipate the correct result, or at least eliminate one or more
incorrect choices, just by trying to figure out what the answer “ought to
be.”

 (D) is not the best response,

because it reaches the correct conclusion but on incorrect reasoning.

This choice asserts that the BFP status of the person who recovers

971

damages from the owner makes a difference to whether the owner's title
policy covers those damages. There is absolutely no reason why there
should be such a difference in policy coverage based on the claimant's
BFP  status,  and  indeed  there  is  not.  As  is  described  more  fully  in
choice C, a standard owner's title policy covers the owner for any loss
on  a  breach  of  warranty  claim  brought  by  one  who  takes  (directly  or
indirectly)  from  the  owner,  regardless  of  whether  the  taker  is  a  bona
fide purchaser for value or not.

 Answer 11

 (A) is the best response,

because  a  variance  is  the  appropriate  means  of  allowing  a  proposed
use that is inconsistent with a parcel's zoning.

A  variance  is  essentially  a  waiver  of  some  restriction  that  the
applicable  zoning  act  would  otherwise  impose.  S&W,  §  9.29,  p.  649.
To  get  a  variance,  the  owner  must  convince  the  zoning  appeals  board
that  without  the  variance,  the  owner  would  suffer  an  unnecessary
hardship  in  the  use  of  his  land.  Id.  On  the  facts  here,  it  is  not  at  all
certain that the board would grant the requested variance — granting or
denying  variances  is  within  the  board's  discretion.  But  the  question
doesn't ask you whether the woman will win; it tells you to assume that
she  wins,  and  asks  you  to  supply  the  reason.  Of  the  four  choices,
issuance  of  a  variance  is  the  only  one  that  could  possibly  explain  the
decision in the woman's favor.

By  the  way,  an  owner  is  especially  likely  to  be  granted  a  use
variance when her property is at the edge of one zoning district, and the
proposed use would be allowed in the immediately adjacent  district.
Here,  where  the  use  would  be  allowed  on  the  south  side  of  the  street
(and there is in fact a business of that same type on that side), granting a
variance  to  allow  the  use  on  the  north  side  of  the  street  is  unlikely  to
dramatically  harm  the  neighborhood,  so  the  woman's  case  for  a
variance is especially strong.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of amortization could not explain why the use was
allowed.

An amortization provision provides that where a particular use was
valid under the prior zoning act, but is invalid under a newly-enacted

972

zoning  act,  the  now-non-conforming  use  may  continue,  but  only  for  a
specified period that will permit the owner to recover, or “amortize,”
her  investment.  (For  instance,  a  zoning  act  might  provide  that  any  use
that was previously legal but is now illegal in a particular district must
be terminated within five years of the adoption of the new act.) So the
amortization doctrine is a way to phase out a non-conforming use, not a
method  of  allowing  a  non-conforming  use.  Therefore,  amortization
could not explain why the board would approve the woman's proposal.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the doctrine of change of circumstances has nothing to do with
the zoning process.

In property law, the only “change of circumstances” doctrine is one
providing that a party whose land is burdened by an equitable servitude
may  be  relieved  of  that  servitude  if  the  surrounding  land-use  patterns
have changed in a way that makes the restriction no longer appropriate.
For instance, a servitude that limits a particular parcel to single-family
residence  use  might  be  ordered  terminated  by  a  court  if  changes  in
land-usage patterns have led to the rest of the neighborhood's becoming
entirely commercial. Since there is no equitable servitude at issue here,
the change-of-circumstances doctrine couldn't be relevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the woman's use of her house was not a non-conforming use.

A non-conforming use is a use that was permitted under a previous
zoning regime, but is not permitted under the new zoning. Typically, the
owner  is  permitted  to  continue  the  non-conforming  use  for  a  limited
period of time, to “amortize” his investment. (See the discussion of the
“amortization” doctrine in Choice B.) Here, the woman is not yet using
her  property  to  operate  a  court-reporting  service  (the  now-prohibited
use). Rather, she's presently using the house as a residence, a permitted
use. So her use is not a non-conforming use, preventing this choice from
being a possible explanation of why her proposal was approved.

 Answer 12

 (B) is the best response,

because  a  senior  lender  has  the  right  to  foreclose  on  the  entire
mortgaged  property,  regardless  of  the  financial  damage  that  this

973

foreclosure might do to a junior mortgagee.

Both the bank and the finance company have mortgages covering the
entire four-acre parcel. When two mortgages cover the same property,
priority is determined by which mortgagee recorded first, assuming (as
is  the  case  here)  that  neither  mortgage  is  a  purchase-money  mortgage.
Therefore,  since  the  bank  recorded  first,  it  has  priority  in  the
foreclosure  process,  both  as  to  deciding  when  to  foreclose,  and  as  to
distribution of proceeds.

This priority means that once the bank's mortgage went into default,
the bank had a right to insist that the entire mortgaged property be sold
in  a  single  auction.  That's  true  even  though  the  value  of  the  property
was  much  greater  than  the  amount  owed  on  the  bank's  mortgage,  and
even though a sale of the entire property rather than of just a part of it
might  well  cause  needless  financial  loss  to  the  holder  of  the  junior
mortgage. Therefore, the court will reject the finance company's motion
that just two of the four acres be sold — and that's true even if the court
is certain that such a sale of two acres would make the bank whole, and
would  improve  the  finance  company's  chances  of  eventual  recovery
from the remainder of the acreage.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the bank does not hold a purchase-money mortgage, and even if
it did, that fact would not change the outcome.

This  choice  correctly  states  the  outcome  (that  the  bank  can
foreclose  on  the  entire  four  acres),  but  it  misstates  the  reason.  A
purchase  money  mortgage  is  a  mortgage  given  to  secure  the  loan  of
funds  that  are  used  to  purchase  the  mortgaged  property.  Since  the
woman already owned the four-acre lot at the time she took out the loan
from  the  bank,  the  bank's  loan  was  not  used  by  her  to  purchase  the
property,  a  fact  that  prevents  the  loan  from  being  a  purchase  money
mortgage.

By  the  way,  the  significance  of  a  loan's  being  a  purchase  money
mortgage  is  that  that  loan  takes  priority  over  any  lien  against  the
property-owner  that  was  filed  before  the  owner  bought  the  property.
Restatement  (Third)  Property,  Mortgages,  §  7.2(b).  So  suppose  the
finance company had lent against the woman's other assets, and filed a
mortgage that covered the woman's “after-acquired” property; suppose
that  the  woman  had  then  borrowed  from  the  bank  the  funds  to  buy  the
four-acre parcel. In that scenario, the fact that the bank's mortgage was
a purchase money mortgage would have meant that it had priority over

974

the finance company's earlier-filed mortgage, and this choice would be
a correct explanation of why the bank would have the right to insist on a
foreclosure  of  the  entire  parcel.  But,  of  course,  that's  not  the  scenario
that occurred here.

 (C) is not the correct response,

because  the  senior  mortgagee  can  foreclose  on  the  entire  property
regardless of what prejudice this might cause to the junior mortgagee.

Since  the  bank  recorded  first,  and  since  neither  mortgage  is  a
purchase  money  mortgage,  the  bank's  mortgage  has  priority  in  the
foreclosure process. This priority means that once the bank's mortgage
went into default, the bank had a right to insist that the entire mortgaged
property be sold in a single auction. That's true even if selling just the
first  two  acres  would  have  been  certain  to  make  the  bank  whole,  and
would have improved the chances that the finance company would later
recover  more  on  its  loan.  In  other  words,  equity,  fairness,  and
minimizing  overall  losses  do  not  enter  into  the  equation  at  all  —  the
first mortgagee gets to demand a sale of the entire asset regardless of
the impact on junior creditors.

In any event, as a factual matter it's not at all clear that a pro rata
foreclosure of the lot “will not prejudice the rights of the bank,” as this
choice asserts. Prices bid at foreclosure sales are often much less than
the estimated market value, so a foreclosure on just the first two acres
might not in fact make the bank whole, in which case having to wait for
a separate foreclosure sale on the second two acres might indeed harm
the  bank  (e.g.,  because  the  market  deteriorated  further,  or  because  the
property had more value per acre if sold as a single four-acre parcel).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  invokes  a  doctrine  that  has  no  relevance  to  the  present
situation.

The  “two  funds”  rule  of  marshaling  applies  in  a  narrow  situation
where two or more parcels are each subject to at least one mortgage,
and  one  of  those  parcels  is  subject  to  competing  mortgages.  Let's
assume that Parcel 1 is encumbered by two mortgages (held by Senior
and Junior, respectively), and that Parcel 2 is encumbered by only one
mortgage (held by Senior). Normally, a senior lender's absolute right to
foreclose  on  any  mortgage  in  default  would  mean  that  Senior  can
foreclose  on  Parcel  1  before  Parcel  2,  even  though  that  might

975

needlessly  damage  Junior's  ability  to  recover  the  full  amount  of  his
mortgage on Parcel 1. But the “two funds” rule says that upon request
by  Junior,  and  if  Senior  would  not  be  materially  harmed,  Senior  must
first  foreclose  on  Parcel  2  (as  to  which  there  are  no  subordinate
interests),  before  foreclosing  on  Parcel  1  (as  to  which  there  is  a
subordinate  interest,  the  one  held  by  Junior).  That  way,  if  Parcel  1
produces enough cash to pay off Senior's entire loan, Parcel 2 doesn't
get  subjected  to  a  foreclosure  until  Junior  wants  to  do  so,  avoiding
unnecessary  harm  to  Junior.  See  Restatement  (Third)  Property,
Mortgages, § 8.6.

Here,  there  is  only  a  single  four-acre  parcel  subject  to  two
competing  mortgages,  not  two  separate  parcels  one  of  which  has
competing  mortgages  on  it  and  the  other  of  which  does  not.  So  the
conditions required for use of the “two funds” marshaling rule apply do
not exist.

 Answer 13

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  daughter  will  win  if  and  only  if  equitable  conversion
applies to give the daughter an equitable interest in the sale proceeds.

To understand why this is the correct choice, you need to compare
what the result would be with and without application of the equitable
conversion doctrine. Without the doctrine, the analysis is simple: At the
moment of the seller's death, the seller still owned the parcel, and the
parcel was real estate. Therefore, the parcel, as real estate, would pass
to the son under mechanical operation of Paragraph 5 of the will. When
the real estate was later sold, the proceeds would belong to the son in
return  for  his  having  surrendered  his  interest  in  the  real  estate.  Apart
from equitable conversion, there is no doctrine or rule that would alter
this result.

The  equitable  conversion  doctrine,  when  it  applies,  supplies
special  rules  for  dealing  with  unexpected  events  that  occur  during  the
“executory period” of a contract for the sale of real estate, that is, the
time  between  when  the  contract  is  signed  and  when  the  actual
conveyance  is  made.  In  general,  the  doctrine  holds  that  “once  the
parties  have  entered  into  a  contract  that  equity  would  specifically
enforce, the buyer's interest in the contract is converted into real estate
and the seller's interest to personal property.” S&W, § 10.13, pp. 786-

976

87. Where the seller dies during the gap between contract and closing,
application of equitable conversion means that at the moment of death
the  seller's  estate  is  no  longer  deemed  to  hold  the  real  estate,  but
instead to hold an interest in the eventual sale proceeds, an interest that
constitutes personal property. So if the doctrine applies here, then: (1)
at  the  moment  of  death  the  estate  had  no  real  estate,  only  personal
property  in  the  form  of  an  expectation  of  proceeds  of  the  to-be-
completed sale; and (2) once the personal representative received the
proceeds, he was required to treat them as personal property payable to
the daughter under Paragraph 6. So the application (or non-application)
of the equitable conversion doctrine will be completely determinative
of who gets the proceeds.

What's  the  significance  of  the  statement  in  the  facts  that  “The
contract  contains  no  contingencies”?  You  can  rely  on  the  idea  that  the
examiners  seldom  if  ever  tell  you  a  fact  that  doesn't  matter  to  the
analysis of any of the choices. Here's why this fact matters:

Even  in  states  that  apply  equitable  conversion,  courts  sometimes
say  that  such  a  conversion  occurs  only  if  and  when  the  contract
becomes “unconditional.” S&W, § 1013, p. 798. So if the contract here
had been subject to some contingency not under control of either party
(e.g.,  the  buyer's  ability  to  get  mortgage  financing),  then  even  in  an
equitable conversion state the court might have held that no conversion
had occurred by the moment of the seller's death; and in that event, the
son would have won. So the absence of any contingency was required
to ensure that if the state has adopted equitable conversion, the doctrine
would necessarily apply here and make the daughter victorious.

By  the  way,  most  American  states  apply  the  equitable  conversion
doctrine in situations in which the vendor or purchaser dies while the
contract is in force. So in most states, the daughter would win. But you
didn't have to actually know whether most states apply the doctrine or
not  in  order  to  answer  this  question  —  you  only  had  to  know  that  the
answer would turn on whether the jurisdiction applies the doctrine.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  precise  phrasing  in  Paragraph  5  would  not  affect  the
outcome.

If equitable conversion did not apply, then the son, as devisee of all
real  estate,  would  win  whether  the  Paragraph  5  bequest  referred
specifically to that parcel, or instead referred generally to “all my real
property.” And if equitable conversion did apply, the son would lose,

977

again  without  reference  to  how  the  parcel  was  referred  to  in  the
Paragraph  5  bequest.  So  the  specificity  of  the  reference  would  not
matter  to  the  outcome  —  only  the  use  or  non-use  of  equitable
conversion would matter.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  temporal  relationship  between  the  closing  date  and  the
seller's death would not affect the outcome.

To see whether this choice is correct, you have to figure out what
the outcome would be if the closing date was scheduled for a date that
turned  out  to  be  before  the  seller's  death,  and  then  compare  that
outcome to the outcome in a scenario where the scheduled closing date
was a date that turned out to be after the seller's death. If the equitable
conversion doctrine did not apply, the son would take the proceeds no
matter whether the closing was scheduled for before or after the seller's
death — in either event, the seller's estate was still the holder of legal
title  on  the  date  of  death,  and  that  fact  would  be  dispositive.
Conversely, if equitable conversion did  apply  in  the  state,  the  seller's
estate  would  be  treated  as  having  a  personal-property  interest  in  the
proceeds,  regardless  of  whether  the  contractually-scheduled  time  for
closing had or had not passed as of the moment of the seller's death. So
regardless  of  whether  equitable  distribution  applied,  the  sequence
between  scheduled  closing  date  and  seller's  death  could  not  have
affected the outcome.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the existence or non-existence of a court order would make no
difference to the outcome.

Again, you have to compare how the case would come out if there
was  a  court  order  and  how  it  would  come  out  if  there  was  not.  If
equitable conversion did not apply, the proceeds would be deemed to
be real estate (making the son victorious) whether the closing occurred
under court order or not. Conversely, if equitable conversion did apply,
the  proceeds  would  be  deemed  to  be  personal  property,  again
regardless  of  whether  the  closing  occurred  under  court  order.  So  the
applicability of equitable conversion, not the existence of a court order,
is the only factor that would have determined who got the proceeds.

 Answer 14

978

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  wife  did  not  intend  to  make  the  chandelier  a  permanent
annexation,  and  the  chandelier  was  removable  without  seriously
damaging the real estate or the chandelier.

When  the  holder  of  a  life  estate  (or  a  tenant  for  years)  annexes  a
chattel  (commonly  called  a  “fixture”)  to  the  real  estate,  and  does  not
intend to make a permanent annexation, the holder or her representative
is  permitted  to  remove  the  fixture  before  or  soon  after  the  end  of  the
estate, if removal can be done without causing substantial injury to the
real estate or substantial destruction of the fixture itself. S&W, § 4.9, p.
168.  These  conditions  apply  here:  (1)  we  know  that  the  wife  did  not
intend  to  make  the  chandelier  a  permanent  annexation,  since  she  told
her nephew and her stepson that after her death, the chandelier should
be  removed;  and  (2)  there  is  no  evidence  that  the  removal  damaged
either  the  ceiling  or  the  fixture  itself.  Therefore,  the  nephew,  as  the
wife's  personal  representative,  had  the  right  to  remove  the  chandelier
within a reasonable time after the wife's death.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the accession doctrine does not apply where, as here, there is
no  intent  to  make  a  permanent  annexation  of  the  chattel  to  the  real
estate.

By the doctrine of accession, if a tenant or the holder of a life estate
attaches  a  chattel  to  the  real  estate  under  such  circumstances  that  the
law  will  not  permit  the  chattel  to  be  removed  later,  ownership  of  the
chattel passes to the owner of the real estate. S&W, § 6.48, p. 353. So if
the  accession  doctrine  applied,  it  would  be  the  son  (as  owner  of  the
real  estate),  not  the  nephew,  who  would  prevail.  So  whether  the
accession doctrine applies or not, that doctrine could not be a correct
explanation of why the nephew would win.

In  any  event,  accession  would  apply  only 

the
circumstances, the woman would not have been entitled to remove the
chandelier while she was still alive. As is discussed more extensively
in  the  treatment  of  choice  A,  removal  was  allowed.  Therefore,  by
definition the accession doctrine does not apply.

if,  under 

 (C) is not the best response,

because it reaches an incorrect conclusion of law.

979

As  is  discussed  more  extensively  in  choice  A,  the  fact  that  the
woman never intended to attach the chandelier permanently to the real
estate,  coupled  with  the  fact  that  it  could  be  was  removed  without
substantial damage to the real estate or the chandelier itself, means that
the chandelier could be legally removed after the wife's death.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  non-trade  fixtures  can  also  sometimes  be  removed  from  the
real estate, and the situation here is one of those times.

A trade fixture is a fixture installed by a tenant for use in her trade
or  business.  At  the  end  of  the  lease  term,  the  tenant  is  permitted  to
remove  all  trade  fixtures,  provided  that  they  can  be  removed  without
serious  damage  to  the  real  estate  or  destruction  of  the  fixture  itself.
Since the woman was not operating a trade or business, the chandelier
was not a trade fixture. But it is not the case, as this choice asserts, that
trade  fixtures  are  the  only  type  of  fixtures  that  may  be  removed  from
real  estate.  A  non-trade  fixture  may  also  be  removed,  as  long  as  the
person who attached it did not intend to annex it permanently, and the
fixture  can  be  removed  without  serious  damage  to  the  real  estate  and
without  destruction  of  the  fixture  itself.  (See  the  discussion  of  choice
A.) Here, the chandelier fell into this category of removable non-trade
fixtures.

 Answer 15

 (B) is the best response,

because consideration is not required to make a deed valid.

The  valid  execution  of  a  deed  requires  several  formalities.  The
presence of consideration, however, is not one of them. Therefore, even
if the landowner was able to prove that no money had in fact been paid
by  the  purchaser,  notwithstanding  the  recitation,  and  that  no  other
consideration  of  any  kind  had  been  supplied  by  the  purchaser,  the
landowner would still lose.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the purchaser's recording did not end the landowner's right to
bring suit.

The  principal  function  of  recording  acts  is  to  give  a  subsequent

purchaser a way to check the chain of title of a piece of land.

980

The  landowner  should  lose,  but  not  for  the  reason  given.  The
purchaser's  act  of  recording  would  not  prevent  the  landowner  from
recovering.  One  of  the  things  that  recording  does  is  to  create  a
rebuttable  presumption  that  the  recorded  instrument  is  valid.  The
landowner could still challenge the validity of the deed, i.e., rebut the
presumption.  However,  under  these  facts,  the  deed  was  authentic  and
validly  delivered,  notwithstanding  the  lack  of  consideration  and  the
false  recital  about  it;  therefore,  the  landowner's  attempt  to  rebut  the
presumption of validity from recording would fail.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  whether  consideration  was  paid  (and  therefore  how  the
existence of consideration can be proved) is irrelevant.

As described in the analysis of choice B above, consideration is not
required  for  a  deed  to  be  valid.  Consequently,  the  fact  that  the  parol
evidence rule might allow the recitation of consideration to be proved
false (a true statement), is irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the deed was valid, not an ineffective void instrument.

It's  true  that  recordation  does  not  validate  an  invalid  conveyance,
such  as  a  forged  or  undelivered  deed.  However,  that  rule  does  not
apply to these facts: The deed the landowner gave to the purchaser is
valid,  since  consideration  is  not  required  for  the  valid  execution  of  a
deed.  Therefore,  the  landowner  will  lose,  not  prevail  as  choice  D
states.

 Answer 16

 (B) is the best response,

because tickets to a sporting event are licenses.

A  ticket  to  a  sporting  event  or  other  public  function  is  virtually
always  considered  a  license  rather  than  an  easement.  A  license  is  a
right  to  use  the  licensor's  land  that  is  revocable  at  the  will  of  the
licensor.

The woman's season tickets to the hockey games at the private arena
constituted  a  license  granted  to  her  by  the  management  company.
Because she held only a license, that interest was revocable at the will
of  the  licensor.  (If  the  revocation  had  been  without  proper  cause,  she

981

would  have  a  claim  for  damages,  but  even  then  a  court  would  not
award her the right to attend games. In the actual event, the fact that she
violated the announced no solicitation rule would probably prevent her
from even getting damages.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because the management company's right to revoke the woman's tickets
arises under its rights as a licensor, not out of its “right and obligation
to control activities. . . .”

A ticket to a sporting event or other public function is nearly always
considered a license rather than an easement. A license is a right to use
the licensor's land that is revocable at the will of the licensor.

Although the management company may have a right and obligation
to control activities on realty it owns, its right to revoke the woman's
season tickets arises from the fact that it has issued her only a license.

 (C) is not the best response,

because licenses issued for value can be revoked.

A ticket to a sporting event or other public function is nearly always
considered a license rather than an easement. A license is a right to use
the licensor's land that is revocable at the will of the licensor. The fact
that the licensee pays value for the license does not change the license's
revocability,  at  least  in  cases  where  (as  here)  the  licensee  does  not
honor the rules governing the license.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the terms of the woman's license prohibited solicitation.

The  woman  would  not  need  to  be  committing  a  nuisance  for  the
management  company  to  have  the  right  to  revoke  her  license.  The
company granted the woman a license in the form of season tickets.

That  license  expressly  prohibited  licensees  from  solicitations
anywhere  within  the  arena  at  any  time  and  in  any  manner.  When  the
woman violated this prohibition by soliciting signatures for her petition
urging that the coach of the team be fired, the management company had
the right to revoke her license, whether she was a “nuisance” or not.

 Answer 17

982

 
(A) is the best response,

because the tenant's sublease to his friend leaves the tenant responsible
for all 24 months of unpaid rent.

An “assignment” is the transfer by the lessee of his entire interest in
the  leased  premises.  If  something  less,  even  a  term  one  day  less,  is
transferred,  the  transfer  is  not  an  assignment,  but  is  a  “sublease.”  A
sublease is a lease executed by the lessee of land or premises to a third
person, conveying the same interest the lessee enjoys but for a shorter
term  than  that  for  which  the  lessee  holds.  With  a  sublease,  there  is  a
relationship  between  the  lessee  and  the  sublessee,  but  there  is  no
relationship  —  no  privity  of  estate  —  between  the  lessor  and
sublessee.  Since  there  is  no  privity  of  estate  between  the  two,  the
lessor cannot sue the sublessee for rent.

The tenant's lease of the house to his friend was a sublease, because
it was for a shorter time (one year) than remained on the original lease
(two years).

Because this was a sublease, there was no privity of estate between
the owner and the friend. Therefore, the owner cannot sue the friend for
the rent not paid during the one year the friend was in possession of the
house.

On the other hand, the creation of the sublease did not release the
tenant  from  his  original  liability  to  the  owner  for  the  full  rent  (only  a
release  executed  by  the  owner  could  do  that).  Therefore,  the  tenant  is
responsible to the owner for the full unpaid 24 months.

 (B), (C), and (D) are not the best response,

because the tenant subleased the house to his friend, leaving the tenant
individually liable for the full amount.

See the discussion of choice A above.

 Answer 18

 (C) is the best response,

because the buyer had no notice of the lawyer's trust.

One  who  purchases  from  the  record  owner  of  property  is  eligible
for  the  protection  of  the  recording  act,  as  against  someone  else  who
previously  took  from  that  same  record  owner.  Here,  the  lawyer  is  the
record owner (in fee simple), and the landowner's daughter is a “prior
transferee” from the lawyer. (That is, the lawyer created an interest in

983

the  landowner's  daughter  by  the  trust  document,  and  this  interest  was
created  prior  to  the  conveyance  to  the  buyer.)  So  the  buyer  is  in
position  to  use  the  recording  act  to  gain  protection  against  the
landowner's  daughter  as  prior  transferee  from  the  same  grantor  (the
lawyer).

Only bona fide purchasers (BFPs) are entitled to prevail against a
prior transferee under recording statutes. To be a BFP, a person must:
(1) be a “purchaser” (holder of a fee interest or mortgagee or creditor),
(2)  take  without  notice  (actual,  constructive,  or  inquiry)  of  the  prior
instrument,  and  (3)  pay  valuable  consideration.  Since  the  buyer  (1)
holds what purports to be a fee interest, (2) took without either actual
or  constructive  notice  (since  she  couldn't  have  found  anything  to
indicate the existence of the landowner's daughter's interest by looking
in the public records), and (3) paid fair market value, she meets all of
these requirements for getting the benefit of the recording act.

Therefore,  the  failure  of  the  landowner's  daughter's  interest  to  be
recorded  means  that  as  against  the  landowner's  daughter,  the  buyer's
interest  takes  priority,  and  the  landowner's  daughter's  interest  is  null
and void.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it ignores the effect of the recording act.

It may be true as a general principle that “a successor in title to the
trustee takes title subject to the grantor's trust.” But this is subject to the
rule that a bona fide purchaser (BFP) from the trustee will take free of
the unrecorded instrument by which the BFP's grantor created the trust.
(If  this  were  not  true,  no  one  could  ever  safely  buy  property  —  there
would  always  be  the  risk  that  the  grantor  had  secretly  created  a  trust
encumbering the property.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because trusts creating equitable interests are subject to the recording
act.

A beneficiary's interest in a trust is indeed, as this choice suggests,
an  equitable  interest.  (The  trustee  has  legal  title.)  But  this  choice  is
false in stating that equitable interests are not subject to recording acts.
Because  no  attempt  was  made  to  record  the  instrument  creating  the
trust, the trust was not in the chain of title and the buyer took the tract as
a BFP.

984

 (D) is not the best response,

because  a  trust  was  created,  and  because  this  choice  ignores  the
operation of the recording act.

As between the lawyer and the landowner's daughter, the property
would  be  deemed  to  be  held  in  trust  for  the  landowner's  daughter,
because  the  transactions  in  which  the  landowner  conveyed  to  the
lawyer  and  the  lawyer  later  signed  the  trust  document  were  certainly
sufficient  to  create  a  trust.  The  problem  is  that  this  trust  was  an
unrecorded instrument, and like any unrecorded instrument, will be void
against a subsequent transferee from the same grantor (the lawyer) who
takes without notice and for value. So this choice predicts the correct
result, but on incorrect reasoning.

 Answer 19

 (D) is the best response,

because the deed was indeed not in the friend's chain of title (since it
was recorded before the daughter took title), making the friend a BFP
who gets the protection of the recording act.

As between the daughter and the buyer, the buyer could rely on the
doctrine  of  “estoppel  by  deed”  (sometimes  called  “after-acquired
title”)  to  establish  that  he  owns  the  property.  Under  this  doctrine,  one
who  makes  a  conveyance  of  property  she  doesn't  own,  and  who  then
acquires that property, is estopped from denying the grantee's superior
claim  to  the  property.  So  if  the  daughter  had  never  made  any
conveyance of the house to anyone but the buyer, and the buyer sued the
daughter to establish that he now owns the property rather than she, the
buyer would win.

But most courts hold that the doctrine of estoppel by deed does not
apply as against a subsequent BFP from the original grantor. That is,
most courts would say that as between the friend (the subsequent BFP
from the daughter) and the buyer, the buyer cannot rely on the estoppel-
by-deed  doctrine,  even  though  he  recorded  his  title  promptly.  The
reason is that a contrary rule would mean that the friend would have an
immense  burden  when  checking  the  daughter's  title  —  he  would  have
had  to  check  for  conveyances  by  the  daughter  dating  from  before  the
time when, according to the records, the daughter herself got title. For
this reason, an “early recorded document” (one recorded as a grant by
the grantor before the date when the grantor got record title) is in most

985

courts deemed to be outside the grantor's chain of title.

There's no guarantee that a court would follow this majority view,
but (1) the court would probably do so; and (2) if the court did so, the
friend would win.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  it  ignores  the  possible  application  of  the  estoppel-by-
deed/after-acquired-title doctrine.

This doctrine (which is summarized in the discussion of choice D
above) would mean that the buyer did indeed get title, even though the
buyer  got  nothing  at  the  time  of  the  purported  conveyance  two  years
ago.  So  although  choice  A  is  factually  correct,  it  doesn't  explain  why
the friend would win.

 (B) is not the best response,

because nothing would delay the buyer's deed from taking effect.

There is nothing under these facts that would make the buyer's deed
take effect after the friend's. It's possible that the doctrine of estoppel-
by-deed (see the analysis of choice D above) might apply, but even if it
did, the doctrine would cause the conveyance from the daughter to the
buyer to “relate back” to the date the daughter delivered the instrument
to  the  buyer,  not  the  date  the  daughter  herself  got  record  title.  So  this
choice doesn't explain how things would work. (And in any event, the
estoppel-by-deed  doctrine  probably  would  apply  as  against  a
subsequent purchaser for value like the friend.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because the friend's possession would not give him rights greater than
the buyer's fee simple.

Priority  in  possession  generally  does  not  affect  who  wins  in  a
dispute  between  two  people  who  have  received  conveyances  of  the
same  property.  Therefore,  if  one  ignores  the  possible  effect  of  the
estoppel-by-deed  doctrine  (see  the  analysis  of  choice  D  above),  the
fact that the buyer recorded before the friend would cause the buyer to
win in a dispute between him and the friend even though the friend took
possession first. (The fact that the friend was in possession would have
put the buyer on inquiry notice of the friend's interest after the time that
the friend took possession. So if the friend had received an unrecorded
conveyance before the buyer did, the buyer might have been deprived

986

of the ability to use the recording act. But here, the buyer, not the friend,
has  recorded  first,  so  the  state  of  the  buyer's  knowledge  about  the
friend's interest is irrelevant.)

 Answer 20

 (D) is the best response,

because the forged release was not effective, and recording this forged
document had no effect.

A person who procures record title by forging (and then recording)
a deed has nothing to convey. The grantee then gets nothing, despite the
apparently  perfect  record  title.  (This  problem  points  up  a  major
problem  of  recording  acts:  If  a  person  procures  title  by  a  forged
document that she then records, a prospective grantee from that person
has  no  way  to  determine  from  inspection  of  the  records  that  she  is
taking  nothing.  That's  one  of  the  risks  that  title  insurance  guards
against.)

Therefore,  the  landowner's  forged  document  saying  that  she  had
unencumbered title to Lot 5 was of no effect, even when recorded. The
developer  loses  despite  the  absolutely  perfect  appearance  of  the
landowner's record title.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  an  owner  of  an  interest  has  no  obligation  to  check  the  public
records to guard against fraud.

As  explained  in  the  analysis  of  choice  D  above,  the  forgery  here
was not effective. Consequently, the bank was entitled to sit back and
ignore  the  state  of  the  public  records.  A  person  who  already  holds  a
recorded interest has no “duty to check the records” to guard against a
subsequent forgery, and thus cannot be “negligent.”

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  developer  was  not  entitled  to  rely  on  the  records  as
protection against a forgery in her grantor's chain of title.

A forged instrument is void. It's void against the forger, of course,
but  more  interestingly  it's  also  void  against  one  who  takes  from  the
forger (or even against anyone down the chain from the forger, until the
statute  of  limitations  has  run).  So  the  developer  was  not  “entitled  to
rely  on  the  recorded  release”  as  a  guarantee  that  her  grantor  did  not

987

obtain her an unencumbered interest by fraud.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  even  if  the  developer  couldn't  have  discovered  the  alteration
by reasonable inquiry she would still lose.

It's true that the developer could have seen from the public records
that the bank once had a mortgage on the parcel. So the developer could
theoretically have asked the bank, “Did you really release your lien on
Lot  5?”  and  the  bank  might  well  have  answered,  “No.”  But  even  if  a
court  were  to  rule  that  the  developer  had  reason  to  be  suspicious
enough  to  check  with  the  bank,  or  even  if  the  court  were  to  conclude
that the bank wouldn't have answered her inquiry, the developer would
still  lose.  That's  because  of  the  general  rule  (described  in  the
discussion  of  choice  D  above)  that  a  forged  instrument,  even  when
perfectly  recorded,  is  completely  ineffective  when  relied  on  by  a
subsequent grantee.

 Answer 21

 (B) is the best response,

because creditors are probably not “purchasers for value” as required
for protection under the recording act.

Some  recording  acts  have  language  that  specifically  protects
judgment creditors who file their judgment after the debtor has made an
unrecorded conveyance.

But  where  the  language  of  the  recording  act  is  ambiguous  about
whether  judgment  creditors  are  covered  (e.g.,  where,  as  here,
“purchasers  for  value”  are  what  are  covered),  most  courts  have
interpreted the statute so as not to cover the judgment creditor. There is
no guarantee that a court would interpret the statute in this anti-creditor
way, but that's at least a possibility, and of the four choices this is the
most  likely  explanation  for  an  anti-creditor  result.  (Remember,  you're
not asked to say how the case will come out — you're merely asked to
say what the most likely rationale will be if the case is decided for the
buyer.)

A  second  rationale  for  the  creditor's  loss,  by  the  way,  is  that  the
judgment  lien  statute  here  gives  a  lien  on  “property  then  owned  or
subsequently  acquired”  by  the  debtor.  A  court  could  very  plausibly
conclude  that  this  language  is  limited  to  “property  then  actually

988

owned,” not “property then owned as of record,” by the debtor.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  does  not  apply  to  these
facts.

The  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  applies  to  conflicts  between
grantor  and  grantee  arising  during  the  gap  between  the  signing  of  the
contract and the delivery of the deed. (For instance, a structure on the
property  may  be  destroyed  during  the  gap,  in  which  case  the  doctrine
would mean that the buyer would be viewed as the equitable owner at
the  time  of  destruction,  and  would  be  required  to  close.)  Equitable
conversion  might  apply  in  this  scenario  if  the  creditor  filed  her
judgment  during  the  gap  (i.e.,  between  the  time  when  the  farmer
contracted  to  sell  and  when  he  made  the  conveyance).  But  once  the
farmer  made  the  conveyance  while  the  creditor  had  not  yet  filed  her
judgment, the equitable conversion doctrine had no further application.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the farmer's possession would not suggest the farmer had sold
the farm to the buyer.

Under a recording statute like the one here, a subsequent bona fide
purchaser (BFP) (i.e., a person who gives valuable consideration and
has  no  actual  or  constructive  notice  of  the  prior  instrument)  prevails
over a prior grantee who failed to record. If the creditor was trying to
become covered by the recording act, and the buyer was in possession
at  the  time  the  creditor  filed  her  lien,  the  fact  that  the  buyer  (not  the
farmer,  the  record  owner)  was  in  possession  at  the  date  of  lien  filing
might have been enough to cause the buyer to lose, since this possession
might  have  put  her  on  inquiry  notice  that  the  farmer  was  perhaps  no
longer  the  owner.  But  the  fact  that  the farmer  was  still  in  possession
didn't  put  the  buyer  on  notice  of  anything,  so  it's  irrelevant  on  these
facts.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  being  a  purchaser  without  notice  only  helps  the  subsequent
“purchaser” gain protection of the recording act, and the person seeking
protection of the act here is the creditor, not the buyer.

Recording acts protect the second, not the first, purchaser in certain
circumstances. Here, it would be the creditor (who can argue that she

989

“purchased” by filing her lien), not the buyer, who is trying to get the
protection of the recording act. It is the person seeking the protection of
the  recording  act  (the  second  purchaser),  not  the  person  resisting
application  of  the  act  (the  first  purchaser)  who  needs  to  be  “without
notice.” So here, the notice status of the creditor might well matter (if
the recording act otherwise applied to judgment lien creditors). But the
notice status of the buyer, the first “purchaser,” does not matter at all.

 Answer 22

 (B) is the best response,

because it recognizes that a grant “to A and his heirs” is a grant of a fee
simple interest.

A  literal  reading  of  the  grant  to  the  buyer  “and  his  heirs”  would
suggest  that  the  buyer's  heirs  take  something.  But  a  gift  “to  A  and  his
heirs”  has  always  been  interpreted  to  mean  the  grant  of  a  fee  simple
interest to A, with A's heirs taking nothing. Consequently, the buyer had
the  ability  to  convey  that  same  fee  simple  to  the  developer,  which  he
did,  and  the  fact  that  the  buyer's  daughter  did  not  join  the  deed  is
irrelevant. (She had no interest to convey or not convey.)

 (A), (C), and (D) are not the best response,

because each choice incorrectly suggests that the daughter received an
interest as the buyer's “heir.”

 Answer 23

 (D) is the best response,

because the landowner's use of the easement put the bank on notice of
her  interest,  preventing  the  bank  from  being  a  purchaser  “without
notice” who is entitled to the protection of the recording act.

Under  a  recording  statute  like  the  one  here,  a  subsequent  BFP
prevails  over  a  prior  grantee  who  failed  to  record  by  the  time  of  the
subsequent  grant.  But  the  statute  gives  a  subsequent  purchaser
protection only if she had no actual or constructive notice at the time of
the conveyance.

The subsequent grantee will be deemed to have notice not only of
matters of which he has “actual” notice, and of matters that are shown

990

by  the  public  records  (“record  notice”),  but  also  of  any  matter  as  to
which  the  grantee  is  (or  should  be)  in  possession  of  facts  that  would
lead  the  grantee  to  make  an  investigation.  This  is  called  “inquiry
notice.”  One  source  of  inquiry  notice  is  that  if  the  property  is  in
possession of one other than the record owner, the prospective grantee
is  under  a  duty  to  inquire  about  the  facts  that  put  that  person  into
possession  (since  the  reason  may  be  that  the  possessor  has  an
unrecorded interest).

Here, the bank should have noticed that though the strip was shown
as  belonging  to  the  developer's  parcel,  it  was  “possessed”  by  the
landowner in the form of the driveway. Had the bank made inquiry of
the  landowner,  she  would  (presumably)  have  told  the  bank  about  her
easement. Consequently, the bank is deemed to have been on notice of
the  landowner's  easement,  preventing  the  bank  from  being  the
“subsequent  purchaser  for  value  and  without  notice”  required  for
protection  under  the  recording  statute.  Since  the  landowner's  interest
precedes the bank's, the bank could win only with the protection of the
recording act, so it loses.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  late  recording  would  not  have  prevented  the  landowner's
rights  from  being  subordinate  to  the  bank's  if  the  bank  was  a  BFP
without notice.

Recording the easement deed prior to the foreclosure action would
not protect the landowner's rights. If the bank was a BFP without notice
of the landowner's interest at the time the bank made the mortgage, the
landowner's  interest  would  be  subordinate  to  the  bank's  recorded
mortgage,  and  the  fact  that  the  landowner  later  (after  the  mortgage)
recorded would not change this. (You can see how this would have to
work  this  way  if  lenders  are  to  be  able  to  lend  in  reliance  on  the
records  —  once  the  loan  is  made,  the  lender  needs  to  be  able  to  be
confident  that  no  later-filed  interest  can  take  priority  over  its  own
interest.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  mere  fact  that  the  easement  provided  access  to  a  public
street  from  the  landowner's  lot  is  not  sufficient  to  provide  inquiry
notice to the bank of the existence of the easement.

The  fact  pattern  indicates  that  the  landowner's  property  abutted

991

another  public  street,  so  the  public  street  access  afforded  by  the
easement over the developer's lot would not by itself impose a duty on
a  prospective  grantee  to  inquire  further.  On  the  other  hand,  the
landowner's visible use of the driveway on the developer's lot would
put the bank on notice of the easement, as discussed in choice D above.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it ignores the operation of the recording act, and in any event
misstates how the assignment of appurtenant easements works.

The easement here is, indeed, “appurtenant” rather than “in gross.”
(That  is,  it  pertains  to  a  particular  benefitted  parcel  —  here,  the
landowner's lot.) It's true that an easement appurtenant generally passes
with the property; so if the landowner sold her lot, the easement would
pass with the land, rather than being extinguished.

But  here,  these  mechanics  are  irrelevant  (for  one  thing,  the
landowner  isn't  transferring  her  interest  in  her  lot).  The  recording  act
operates  completely  separately  from  the  assignment  of  appurtenant
easements.  The  easement  is  an  interest  in  the  developer's  lot,  and
needed to be recorded if it was not to be subordinated to a BFP of the
developer's  lot.  (In  other  words,  it  was  only  the  bank's  inquiry  notice
that prevented the bank from getting protection of the recording statute
vis-à-vis the landowner's easement).

 Answer 24

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  investor's  judgment  lien  on  the  garage  came  ahead  of  the
hotelier's equity.

When  the  investor  filed  his  judgment  for  the  amount  owed  on  the
hotel,  that  lender  got  a  lien  against  the  garage  (as  well  as  against  the
hotel)  for  the  full  amount  owed  on  the  garage.  So  at  that  moment,  the
investor  was  in  the  position  of  a  second  mortgagee  on  the  garage,
behind the bank.

Then, when the investor purchased the hotel for $100,000 less than
the  mortgage  balance,  the  investor  obtained  a  deficiency  judgment  for
that $100,000 amount. This became the amount covered by the earlier-
filed  judgment  lien,  and  was  secured  by  a  second  position  on  the
garage.  (It's  irrelevant  that  the  hotel  was  bought  by  the  investor:  The
same  result,  a  $100,000  second-position  lien  for  the  investor  on  the

992

garage, would have come into existence regardless of who bought the
hotel  at  foreclosure,  if  the  price  paid  was  $100,000  less  than  the
balance due.)

When  the  investor  paid  $200,000  more  than  the  outstanding
mortgage  balance  for  the  garage,  this  $200,000  amount  was  “excess”
and was required to be handled the same way as if the bank had had no
mortgage  and  the  total  purchase  price  was  $200,000.  That  is,  the
investor's lien now moved to first position, and was entitled to be paid
in  full  before  anything  went  to  the  equity  owner  (the  hotelier).  So  the
investor  got  the  first  $100,000  of  the  excess.  The  balance,  $100,000,
went to the equity owner (the hotelier).

 (B), (C), and (D), are not the best response,

because  they  involve  computations  that  are  inconsistent  with  this
analysis.  (In  particular,  you  should  have  been  able  to  immediately
eliminate choices B and C, since these involved payments to the bank.
Like any mortgagee, the bank was not entitled to any money brought in
by a foreclosure that was in excess of the money then owed to it on the
mortgage.)

 Answer 25

 (C) is the best response,

because the tenant's actions made the oral contract enforceable.

The Statute of Frauds requires that a promise to transfer or buy any
interest in land be in writing. However, even if an oral contract for the
transfer of an interest in land is not enforceable at the time it is made
due to the lack of a writing, subsequent acts by the parties may render
it enforceable. Under the “part performance” exception to the Statute of
Frauds, a party who takes action in reliance on the oral agreement will
be  permitted  to  gain  enforcement  of  it,  provided  that  the  acts  taken  in
part  performance  are  “unequivocally  referable”  to  the  alleged  oral
agreement, i.e., are not adequately explained by some other facet of the
parties' relationship.

Here, if all that had happened was that after the oral agreement, the
tenant had kept making approximately the same monthly payment to the
landlord that she had always made, the tenant would have been out of
luck  —  the  court  would  likely  have  ruled  that  these  payments  could
therefore  not
simply  have  been  continued 

rents,  and  were 

993

“unequivocally  referable”  to  the  purchase  agreement.  But  here,  the
tenant  paid  the  $25,000  in  original  cash,  the  taxes,  the  insurance
premiums, and the maintenance costs — all things that she hadn't paid
before  the  oral  agreement.  So  a  court  would  be  convinced  that  these
“extra”  payments  were  unequivocally  referable  to  the  alleged  oral
agreement,  since  they  could  not  be  explained  by  the  prior  landlord-
tenant arrangement.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the tenant's actions made the oral promise, which violated the
Statute of Frauds, enforceable.

The  part  performance  doctrine,  where  applicable,  furnishes  an
exception to the Statute of Frauds. See the analysis of choice C above
for an explanation of how and why the doctrine applies here.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the tenant had an enforceable contract to buy the property.

If the court had ruled that the oral agreement didn't qualify for the
part performance doctrine, this might have been a correct answer (since
if  the  court  didn't  enforce  the  oral  agreement,  it's  unlikely  that  the
landlord  would  have  been  permitted  to  retain  the  $25,000).  But  as
described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  C  above,  the  oral  agreement  did
qualify  for  the  part  performance  doctrine,  so  the  contract  was
enforceable.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the answer incorrectly states the applicable law.

The Statute of Frauds generally applies to contracts for the purchase
of  land  —  there's  no  exception  for  “purchase  and  sale  agreements
between  landlords  and  tenants  in  possession.”  Part  performance  may
sometimes  take  a  contract  out  of  the  Statute  of  Frauds,  but  choice  D
states a broad principle that's simply incorrect.

 Answer 26

 (A) is the best response,

because  under  an  installment  contract,  marketable  title  need  not  be
delivered until after the last payment.

994

Ordinarily,  the  obligation  to  convey  a  marketable  title  is  implied.
So  the  vendor  has  the  obligation  to  convey  a  marketable  title  (among
other  things,  a  title  free  from  encumbrances  such  as  unsatisfied
mortgages) after all installment payments have been made.

There can be circumstances in which the buyer under an installment
provision  has  reasonable  grounds  for  worrying  about  whether  the
vendor  will  be  able  to  convey  marketable  title  when  the  time  comes
(e.g., the vendor simply doesn't seem to have record title at all). If the
buyer has such grounds for insecurity, most courts say she can demand
reasonable  assurances  that  the  defect  will  be  cured  and,  if  the
assurances are not forthcoming, can rescind or sue for breach.

But here, there are no grounds that would make a reasonable buyer
insecure about whether marketable title will ultimately be forthcoming,
given  that  the  mortgage  is  small  relative  to  the  value  of  the  property,
that  the  vendor  is  solvent  and  pays  the  mortgage  on  time  each  month,
and that 97 percent of the purchase price remains to be paid (so that the
purchaser  will  have  ample  time  to  see  whether  the  mortgage  is
continuing  to  be  paid).  Consequently,  the  fact  that  a  very  curable
encumbrance happens to exist at the moment will not constitute a breach
by the vendor.

 (B) is not the best response,

because possession did not cause the purchaser to assume the risk that
the vendor would end up not being able to convey marketable title.

A vendee who takes under an installment contract — and who (as is
usually the case) takes possession before the installments are fully paid
— does not “assume the risk” that the vendor won't be able to convey
good  title.  If,  for  instance,  the  vendee  has  reasonable  grounds  for
worrying  about  whether  the  vendor  will  have  the  ability  to  convey
marketable  title  down  the  road,  the  vendee  may  be  entitled  to
reasonable  assurances  that  there  won't  be  a  problem.  (See  the
discussion of choice A above.)

 (C) is not the best response,

because although an obligation to convey marketable title is implied in
the absence of an express agreement to the contrary, the vendor hasn't
breached that obligation.

Unless the contract of sale otherwise expressly states, courts find an
implied  duty  to  convey  a  marketable  title.  The  reference  here  to  “a

995

warranty  deed  sufficient  to  convey  the  fee  simple”  —  although
somewhat  vague  about  just  what  type  of  deed  has  been  promised  —
will not be found to constitute an express provision that marketable title
is  not  required.  So,  since  the  promise  is  ambiguous,  the  usual
presumption in favor of an obligation to convey marketable title will be
applied.

The  fact  that  this  is  an  installment  contract  does  not  change  that
presumption.  However,  for  the  reasons  stated  in  the  discussion  of
choice  A  above,  the  vendor  has  not  breached  that  obligation,  making
this choice wrong.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  risk  of  loss  relating  to  possession  would  not  be  grounds  on
which the purchaser could recover.

It's  true  that  any  “risk  of  loss”  assumed  by  the  purchaser  would
relate  only  to  physical  events  (e.g.,  destruction  of  a  structure  on  the
land).  But  the  fact  that  “risk  of  loss”  doesn't  apply  does  not  by  itself
mean  that  the  purchaser  can  recover  damages  now.  Indeed,  for  the
reason given in the discussion of choice A (time to deliver marketable
title hasn't yet arrived), the purchaser will lose, not win, so choice D
can't be correct.

 Answer 27

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the restriction will be enforceable by
any owner in the residential subdivision.

The  basis  for  this  is  an  implied  reciprocal  servitude,  which  is  a
means  by  which  a  subsequent  property  owner  can  be  bound  by  a
covenant  even  if  it  is  not  present  in  his  own  deed,  as  long  as  the
restriction  is  in  deeds  from  the  same  grantor  to  prior  purchasers,
typically in the same subdivision. The prior purchasers can enforce the
servitudes as long as the restriction in the earlier deeds resulted from a
general  plan,  under  a  covenant  that  all  properties  later  conveyed
would  be  burdened  by  the  same  restriction,  and  the  prior  purchasers
relied  on  same.  There  must  also  be  either  actual,  constructive,  or
implied notice of the restriction. This applies to the facts here. There is
a general plan for the residential subdivision, and the restrictions in the
deeds  suggest  that  all  lots  in  it  would  be  so  bound,  and  would  be

996

enforceable  by  any  lot  owner  in  it.  Even  if  the  restriction  were  not
present in every deed, there would be, at the very least, implied notice,
since  a  look  at  the  subdivision  would  indicate  that  such  a  restriction
exists (because it would be entirely populated by single-family homes).
Since  the  residential  subdivision  satisfies  the  requirements  of  an
implied  reciprocal  servitude,  the  current  owners  will  be  able  to
enforce the restriction. Since C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the restriction here would be constitutional.

Thus,  even  with  judicial  recognition,  there  would  not  be  any
conflict  with  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  to  the  Constitution.  It's  when
the restriction is discriminatory that judicial recognition would be state
action  in  conflict  with  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  In  these  facts,
however,  there  is  nothing  to  suggest  that  the  restriction  would  be
unenforceable;  single-family  restrictions  are  fairly  common.  If  you
chose  this  response,  you  may  have  been  thinking  of  the  Constitutional
Law  case  Moore  v.  City  of  East  Cleveland  (1977),  in  which  the
Supreme  Court  held  that  related  people  (even  if  not  part  of  the  same
“nuclear  family”)  have  a  fundamental  right  to  live  together  in  a
household, and that any zoning ordinance abridging that right would be
subject  to  strict  scrutiny  (and  thus  likely  be  a  due  process  violation).
But  a  zoning  regulation  requiring  a  particular  area  to  contain  only
single-family residences does not infringe a fundamental right, involve
a  suspect  classification  (as,  for  instance,  a  race-conscious  zoning
classification  would),  or  otherwise  trigger  heightened  scrutiny.  So  the
classification  here,  based  on  whether  the  property  is  being  used  by  a
single  family,  would  be  subjected  to  the  easy-to-satisfy  “mere
rationality”  review  standard  employed  in  equal  protection  and
substantive  due  process  cases  not  involving  suspect  classes  or
fundamental  rights,  and  would  easily  survive  that  review.  Since  A
mistakenly  states  that  the  restriction  would  be  unenforceable  as  a
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it's irrelevant.

Whether  or  not  the  single-family  restriction  on  the  residential
subdivision  is  enforceable  depends  on  whether  there  is  a  valid
restriction  on  the  use  of  that  land  itself;  in  fact,  there  is  a  valid

997

restriction  in  the  form  of  an  implied  reciprocal  servitude.  Contrary  to
what  B  states,  the  owner's  non-restricted  acreage  would  not  bear  on
whether  or  not  the  restriction  on  the  100  acres  involved  here  is
enforceable, and thus the concept of “conflict of interest” is misapplied.
As a result, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because it does not correctly apply the law.

Enforcement  of  the  restriction  would  be  through  a  claim  that  the
restriction was an implied reciprocal servitude. The correct remedy for
breach  of  an  implied  reciprocal  servitude  is  not  damages,  but  an
injunction  to  enforce  the  restriction.  Choice  D  is  a  muddle,  because
either the restriction is enforceable, in which case the other landowners
would be entitled to an injunction against an errant landowner — or it's
unenforceable,  in  which  case  each  landowner  need  only  comply  with
zoning restrictions. If the restriction were unenforceable, then the other
landowners  would  certainly  not  be  entitled  to  damages  from  a
landowner  violating  the  restriction.  Since  D  states  otherwise,  it's  not
the best response.

 Answer 28

 (A) is the best response,

because the easement was fixed and the investor did not have the right
to move it.

There are various ways of creating an easement. One of those ways
is by express grant. That is what happened here. Although the investor
might  argue  that  the  grant  of  a  “right  of  way”  was  the  grant  of  a
revocable license rather than of an easement, this argument would fail.
The  reference  in  the  document  to  the  farmer  “and  her  heirs”  would
convince  a  court  that  a  permanent  interest  in  land  (i.e.,  an  easement),
not a revocable personal license, was intended.

The easement by express grant did not, of course, fix the location in
the  document.  However,  when  the  original  owner  of  the  vacant  lot
acquiesced  in  the  farmer's  building  of  the  driveway  over  a  particular
strip of his property, this acquiescence acted to fix the location of the
easement  as  being  the  driveway.  Once  that  location  was  definitively
fixed, neither the owner of the vacant lot nor his successor had the right
to  compel  the  easement  holder  (whether  the  holder  was  the  farmer  or

998

her  daughter)  to  move  the  location,  no  matter  how  non-burdensome
moving that location would have been for the easement holder.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  location  of  the  easement  was  fixed  by  grant,  not
prescription.

Easements  can  certainly  be  created  by  prescription.  But  that's  not
what happened here — rather, the easement was created by grant. Then,
the  original  owner  of  the  vacant  lot's  acquiescence  in  having  the
driveway run over particular land acted to fix the location, but this, too,
happened  by  permission,  not  by  prescription.  So  this  choice  explains
the right result by the wrong reasoning.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  farmer's  daughter  had  the  right  to  refuse  to  move  the
easement, regardless of the new location's reasonableness.

Once the location of the easement was fixed by the express grant in
the  document,  together  with  the  original  owner  of  the  vacant  lot's
acquiescence  to  the  farmer's  choice  of  location,  that  route  became
permanently  associated  with  the  easement,  and  became  an  interest  in
land.  When  an  easement  has  been  established  over  a  particular  route,
the holder cannot be forced to accept a different route, no matter how
“reasonable” the suggestion of a different route may be.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the easement was defined by the original owner's use.

If an easement is created but not specifically located on the servient
tenement,  a  location  of  sufficient  size  to  make  the  intended  use
reasonably  convenient  will  be  implied.  The  owner  of  the  servient
tenement may indeed select the location of the easement so long as her
selection is reasonable.

However,  once  the  owner  of  the  servient  tenement  selects  the
reasonable  route  (or  acquiesces  in  the  dominant  holder's  choice,  as
happened here), that route becomes fixed, and the dominant holder can't
later be forced to allow the servient owner to change the route. So the
fact that servient owner might have been permitted to select the original
location of the right-of-way became irrelevant once the driveway was
built and used.

999

 Answer 29

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  covenant  of  warranty  requires  defense  only  against  suits
that turn out to be meritorious.

The covenant of warranty includes a promise by the covenantor to
defend on behalf of the covenantee any lawful or reasonable claims of
title by a third party. So if the grantee had lost the suit, she could have
recovered  her  legal  costs  (and  the  value  of  the  property)  from  the
grantor.

But ironically, by winning against the adjoining owner, the grantee
lost  her  right  to  recover  from  the  grantor.  When  she  won  versus  the
neighbor, she established that the adjoining owner's claim was without
merit. At that point, the grantor had no obligation to reimburse her for
defending this now-known-to-be-valueless claim.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although  in  a  sense  the  grantor's  title  was  challenged,  the
challenge was without merit.

As  discussed  in  the  analysis  of  choice  C  above,  the  grantor  was
obliged  to  defend  (or  cover  the  costs  of  defending)  only  against
meritorious  challenges  to  his  vendee's  title.  Because  the  grantee  won
against the adjoining owner, this condition was not met. So even though
the  quality  of  title  that  the  grantor  conveyed  to  the  grantee  was  being
challenged, he had no obligation to defend.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the covenant of warranty required the grantor to defend against
only meritorious claims.

As described in the discussion of choice C above, the grantor only
had  an  obligation  to  defend  against  a  meritorious  claim.  Since  the
grantee defeated the adjoining owner's claim, that claim is now known
not  to  be  meritorious,  so  the  fact  that  the  grantor  made  a  covenant  of
warranty was irrelevant.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the adjoining owner has to sue the holder of title, which at the
time was the grantee.

1000

The court should decide for the grantor, but not for the reason given.
The  adjoining  owner  cannot  elect  to  sue  the  grantor.  The  grantee
presently claims to have title to the parcel, so she, not the grantor, is the
proper target for the neighbor's suit. In any event, even if the adjoining
owner had had a right of election, this would make no difference — the
grantor  is  only  obligated  to  defend  meritorious  suits  against  his
covenantee, and this suit is now known not to be meritorious. (See the
analysis of choice C above).

 Answer 30

 (D) is the best response,

because it identifies the issue upon which the dispute will be decided.

Note that D does not resolve this issue, but states, instead, that the
outcome of the case will turn on how the issue is resolved. Thus, all
you needed to do to answer this question correctly was to identify the
central  issue.  This  problem  is  one  in  which  it's  vitally  important  to
chart the facts, to keep track of exactly how each transaction relates to
the others.

The  “chain  of  title”  refers  to  the  string  of  recorded  instruments
reflecting  prior  ownership  and  encumbrances  of  a  piece  of  property.
Thus,  every  grantor  should  appear  as  a  grantee  in  the  land  records  to
reflect  when  he  received  the  property,  and  then  as  a  grantor  when  he
conveys it away. Furthermore, any encumbrance must at least be recited
in  an  instrument  in  the  chain  of  title  in  order  to  bind  subsequent
grantees. If an interest does not appear in this chain, then it will not be
considered  recorded  and  will  not  give  constructive  notice  to  any
subsequent purchasers or encumbrancers. Under these facts, the earlier
buyer's title would not be considered within the later buyer's chain of
title.  If  the  later  buyer  checked  the  grantor-grantee  index  for  the
jurisdiction,  he'd  find  the  seller  as  a  grantee  from  the  landowner,  and
thus  the  chain  of  title  wouldn't  indicate  any  gaps  or  contain  any
indication  that  something  was  amiss.  Since  the  later  buyer  wouldn't
have any indication that there was a problem with title, and since he's a
subsequent bona fide purchaser, he'd prevail. Note that this would not
be  terribly  unfair,  since  if  the  earlier  buyer  had  checked  land  records
when  the  seller  conveyed  to  him,  he'd  realize  that  the  seller  did  not
appear in the grantee index in any former instrument. As such, the seller
would be an “interloper” and a deed from him would not be considered

1001

within  the  chain  of  title  from  the  landowner  to  the  later  buyer.  (This
problem has an added wrinkle in that title would inure automatically to
the earlier buyer when the landowner conveyed to the seller, under the
doctrine  of  “estoppel  by  deed.”)  Although  it  is  reasonably  clear  how
this case would be resolved, D is the best answer because it identifies
the central issue.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the factor it cites is not determinative of who will prevail.

The earlier buyer's deed is senior to the later buyer's because title
passed to him first, under the doctrine of estoppel by deed (also known
as the “after-acquired title doctrine”). The doctrine of estoppel by deed
is applicable where the grantor intends to convey an estate larger than
he in fact has, and he later acquires the estate he purportedly conveyed.
Under “estoppel by deed,” the title inures automatically to the grantee.
Here,  the  seller  claimed  to  own  the  lot  in  fee  simple  when  he  didn't;
once he did, the title would inure automatically to the earlier buyer, the
seller's grantee. Here, the earlier buyer obtained title to the lot when the
landowner  conveyed  it  to  the  seller,  and  recorded  it  before  the  later
buyer recorded his interest.

However, this will not determine if the earlier buyer is entitled to
judgment  in  his  favor,  because  if  the  later  buyer  is  not  bound  by  the
earlier conveyance, then he will prevail. The later buyer will only be
bound  by  the  earlier  buyer's  title  if  it  is  deemed  recorded  in  the  later
buyer's “chain of title.” Thus, the mere superiority of the earlier buyer's
title will not be determinative, making A not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it cites as a conclusion a fact that is in issue.

If the later buyer did, in fact, pay value without notice of the earlier
buyer's  claim,  he  would  prevail.  However,  what's  at  issue  here  is
whether he actually had notice of the earlier buyer's claim, since it's not
clear whether the earlier buyer's deed was recorded in the later buyer's
“chain of title.” If it was, then the earlier buyer will prevail, since the
later  buyer  would  have  had  notice  of  the  earlier  buyer's  claim;  if  it
wasn't,  the  later  buyer  will  prevail,  as  a  subsequent  bona  fide
purchaser (for value without knowledge of prior conveyances). Since B
states this as a conclusion, it's not the best response.

1002

 (C) is not the best response,

because the issue it focuses on is not determinative of the result here.

Furthermore, it cites as an issue a fact that is settled at common law,
viz., the doctrine of estoppel by deed. The doctrine of estoppel by deed
is applicable where the grantor intends to convey an estate larger than
he in fact has, and he later acquires the estate he purportedly conveyed.
Under “estoppel by deed,” the title inures automatically to the grantee.
Here,  the  seller  claimed  to  own  the  lot  in  fee  simple  when  he  didn't;
once he did, the title would inure automatically to the earlier buyer, the
seller's grantee. Here, the earlier buyer obtained title to the lot when the
landowner  conveyed  it  to  the  seller,  and  recorded  it  before  the  later
buyer recorded his interest. Thus, the issue is not whether the doctrine
of estoppel by deed applies, but whether the later buyer is bound by the
earlier buyer's title. Since C does not address this issue, it's not the best
response.

 Answer 31

 (C) is the best response,

because  the  tenant's  occupancy,  as  a  tenant  of  the  landlord's  son,
satisfied all the requirements of adverse possession.

Title to real property may be acquired by adverse possession. If all
the requirements are fulfilled, at the end of the statutory period title to
the property passes from the owner to the possessor, who claims title.
The possession must typically meet the following requirements: It must
be (1) open, notorious, and visible; (2) hostile; and (3) continuous for
the statutory period.

In this case, the owner retained a right of reversion, effective upon
the landlord's demise. The landlord died 11 years ago, at which point
the  owner's  reversion  became  possessory.  So  at  that  point,  the
landlord's  son's  continued  constructive  possession  of  the  property
(through  his  tenant)  became  adverse  to  the  owner's  ownership.  This
started the ten-year statutory period running against the owner.

It's true that the landlord's son did not himself physically occupy the
property.  But  he  rented  it  out  to  the  tenant,  by  letting  the  tenant
physically occupy it and by collecting rent. So the landlord's son would
be  deemed  to  have  constructively  possessed  the  property  “openly,
notoriously  and  visibly.”  That  is,  one  in  the  owner's  position  who
inspected the property would have been able to determine immediately

1003

that  the  tenant  was  occupying  it  under  a  purported  grant  from  the
landlord's  son,  so  the  owner  would  have  been  on  notice  that  the
landlord's  son  was  treating  the  property  as  if  he  owned  it.  Since  the
landlord's son's possession (through the tenant) was hostile (without the
owner's consent), and continuous for more than ten years, the landlord's
son gained title by adverse possession.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  although  the  owner  had  a  reversion  that  became  possessory
when  the  landlord  died,  the  owner  then  lost  the  property  through
adverse possession.

Under the analysis discussed in choice C above, the landlord's son
gained title from the owner by adverse possession. Therefore, the fact
that  the  owner  held  a  reversion  that  became  possessory  when  the
landlord died is irrelevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the landlord conveyed an interest less than her life tenancy, so
the conveyance was not adverse or hostile to the owner.

A life tenant has a right to convey his interest, such as by a lease.
What the life tenant cannot do is convey any estate greater than the life
estate he holds.

Since the landlord was entitled to convey the leasehold interest, her
doing so was not “adverse” to the owner's reversion. Consequently, that
lease is not what started the landlord's son's statutory period of adverse
possession  running.  (Instead,  it  was  the  landlord'  death,  and  the
landlord's  son's  collection  of  rents,  that  began  the  period  of  adverse
possession, as discussed in choice C above).

 (D) is not the best response,

because the tenant had a leasehold interest, which was not adverse to
the landlord's son, while the landlord's son gained title to the house.

It's  true  that  once  the  landlord  died,  her  estate  (or  her  son,  as  her
heir)  no  longer  had  any  interest  to  convey,  so  the  landlord's  son's
leasehold  interest,  strictly  speaking,  ended  at  the  landlord's  death.
However, the fact that the tenant paid rent to the landlord's son pursuant
to  what  the  tenant  apparently  thought  was  his  leasehold  obligation
means  that  the  tenant's  possession  was  not  “hostile”  to  the  landlord's
son.  Therefore,  the  tenant  never  even  began  the  type  of  possession

1004

required by the statute.

 Answer 32

 (D) is the best response,

because when the sister bought the tax debt, she will be deemed to have
acted on the grandson's behalf.

First, note that the sister and the grandson were tenants in common.
(Because  the  brother  and  the  sister  were  tenants  in  common,  not  joint
tenants, the brother's interest passed to his grandson when he died.)

Tenants  in  common  (like  joint  tenants)  owe  each  other  a  fiduciary
duty of fair dealing and good faith. One aspect of that duty is that when
one  co-tenant  buys  an  outstanding  interest,  she  holds  that  interest  on
behalf of the other co-tenant(s).

So  here,  when  the  sister  bought  the  tax  deed,  she  was  deemed  to
have  bought  on  behalf  of  the  grandson  as  well  as  herself.  Thus  the
grandson  received,  in  effect,  an  option  to  contribute  (after  the  fact)  to
the tax sale, and the sister got a lien to make sure that if the grandson
didn't exercise that option, the sister would own the property free and
clear. So now, the grandson can choose either to pay his one-half share
of the amount the sister paid at the tax sale (at which point the sister and
the  grandson  would  each  own  one-half  of  the  tax  debt  and  would  in
effect  retire  it),  or  to  forfeit  his  undivided  one-half  interest.  (The
grandson is not personally liable for the one-half — the only sanction
against  him  if  he  doesn't  pay  is  to  lose  his  one-half  interest  in  the
property.)

 (A) is not the best response,

because there is no right of survivorship with a tenancy in common.

The  facts  tell  us  that  the  brother  and  the  sister  held  as  tenants  in
common  (not  joint  tenants).  There  is  no  right  of  survivorship  under  a
tenancy  in  common.  Therefore,  when  the  brother  died  intestate,  his
undivided  one-half  interest  passed  by  the  statutes  of  descent  and  his
grandson became a tenant in common with his sister. Consequently, the
sister's surviving her brother did not make her sole owner.

 (B) is not the best response,

because neither failure to operate the property successfully nor failure
to pay taxes ended the grandson's rights as a tenant in common.

1005

Generally, each co-tenant has the right to occupy the entire premises
(subject to the other's right to do the same), without accounting to any
absent co-tenant(s) for profits made from that occupancy. Nor does the
fact that the tenant who is in possession pays more than his share of the
taxes  or  maintenance  constitute  any  kind  of  an  “obligation”  or
“undertaking”  to  the  other(s)  that  he  will  continue  to  do  so,  in  the
absence  of  an  express  contract  between  the  two.  So  there  were  no
“obligations  undertaken”  by  the  brother,  and  no  “default”  by  the
grandson.

 (C) is not the best response,

because under the duty of fair dealing, the sister's right to purchase is
shared by the grandson.

When one co-tenant buys an outstanding interest in the property, the
purchaser  in  a  sense  buys  on  behalf  of  all  other  co-tenants  (see  the
discussion of choice D above). What the sister bought here was not the
whole  property,  but  the  government's  tax  lien  on  the  property.  At  that
point,  the  sister  succeeded  to  the  government's  lien  position.  The
grandson had a right to “redeem” his interest in the property from that
lien,  by  paying  his  share  of  the  tax  debt  represented  by  that  lien.  The
grandson was not required to pay the value of his interest in the entire
property, because the sister did not own the whole property outright. (In
other words, what the grandson had the right to do was analogous to her
right to pay off his share of an outstanding mortgage.)

 Answer 33

 (C) is the best response,

because  either  co-tenant  had  the  right  to  demand  partition  and  an
accounting.

Either  co-tenant  has  the  right,  at  any  time,  to  demand  partition.
(Courts will try to physically divide the property where this is feasible;
if not, they will order the property sold and the proceeds divided. But
in either event, the proceeding is referred to as “partition.”)

During the course of partition, the court will order an accounting, to
determine  whether  either  party  owes  the  other  money  for  rents
collected,  taxes  paid,  etc.  It  is  not  clear  what  substantive  rules  will
govern  that  analysis  —  for  instance,  jurisdictions  differ  on  whether  a
co-tenant  who  occupies  the  premises  himself  must  account  for  the

1006

imputed value of rent received beyond his pro rata share. But the one
thing that we can be sure of is that the court will require an accounting,
and that's what this choice specifies.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the man never occupied the lot in a “hostile” manner.

If the man had occupied the property “hostilely” as against his aunt,
he  might  indeed  have  obtained  title  by  adverse  possession  five  years
before the aunt died. But it's quite clear that the aunt acquiesced in the
man's keeping the rent and occupying the house, so his possession was
not “hostile” and therefore never started the adverse possession clock
running.  (Nor  did  he  hostilely  possess  vis-à-vis  the  woman,  since  he
never denied her the right to co-occupy the premises.) So the man did
not take by adverse possession.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the court would grant partition.

As explained in the discussion of choice C above, either co-tenant
has  the  right,  at  any  time,  to  demand  partition.  To  the  extent  that  this
choice indicates that the court would deny partition, it's wrong (though
it's correct about requiring an accounting).

 (D) is not the best response,

because  a  court  would  conduct  an  accounting  to  determine  if  either
party has an obligation to pay money to the other.

It's  not  clear  exactly  what  substantive  rules  would  apply  to  such
questions as whether the man has a duty to pay the woman one-half of
the rents he collected from outsiders (probably he does), or whether he
has the duty to pay one-half of the imputed value of his own occupancy
(probably he doesn't). But the one thing that is certain is that the woman
would  have  the  right  to  have  these  matters  examined  in  an  accounting
procedure.

 Answer 34

 (D) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the zoning violation will render the
title unmarketable.

1007

Marketable  title  is  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from
reasonable  doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  the  reasonable  buyer
would  accept  without  fear  of  litigation.  Here,  the  zoning  violation
would give the purchaser a reasonable fear of litigation, since he could
be compelled to make the property comply with the zoning regulation.
While  there  is  a  possibility  he  could  be  granted  a  variance  and  thus
avoid the restrictions of the setback ordinance, there's no guarantee this
would happen, and even if it did, it would still mean that the original
title  conveyed  was  not  marketable.  The  seller's  supplying  marketable
title  is  a  condition  to  the  purchaser's  performance;  without  it,  the
purchaser  is  excused  from  performing  under  the  contract.  Since  D
correctly  identifies  that  the  setback  violation  renders  the  title
unmarketable, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because it misstates the law.

A  frivolous  lawsuit  is  one  that  lacks  the  purpose  of  actually
determining  a  controversy.  Under  these  facts,  a  claim  against  the
purchaser  concerning  the  setback  would  certainly  not  be  frivolous,
since  the  setback  rule  has  been  violated.  As  a  result,  the  purchaser
could be forced to move the house or tear down the offending portion.
Since  choice  A  incorrectly  states  that  any  suit  against  the  purchaser
concerning the setback would be frivolous, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  any  setback  violation  is  sufficient  to  consider  the  title
unmarketable.

Marketable  title  is  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from
reasonable  doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  the  reasonable  buyer
would  accept  without  fear  of  litigation.  The  doctrine  de  minimis  no
curat lex means that, literally, “the law is not concerned with trifles.”
While  this  doctrine  generally  means  that  substantial  performance  is
enough  for  contracts,  it  does  not  apply  to  zoning  regulations,  which
require  strict  compliance.  A  violation,  no  matter  how  small,  is
actionable. As a result, title to the property would not be “marketable.”
Since choice B incorrectly states that the violation is not actionable, it's
not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

1008

because  it  doesn't  identify  the  central  reason  title  here  is  not
“marketable.”

Marketable  title  is  title  that,  viewed  objectively,  is  free  from
reasonable  doubt  in  both  law  and  fact,  and  that  the  reasonable  buyer
would accept without fear of litigation. While it's true that any variation
from  a  contract  amounts  to  a  breach  of  contract,  this  in  and  of  itself
doesn't  address  whether  the  seller  will  be  entitled  to  specific
performance of the contract. The purchaser could only be compelled to
perform  if  the  breach  was  minor,  and  substantial  performance  was
sufficient  to  require  return  performance,  and  no  remedy  at  law  would
be  adequate.  However,  the  rule  with  zoning  violations  is  that  they
require strict, not substantial, performance. Any violation could subject
the  purchaser  to  litigation,  which  would  make  the  title  unmarketable.
Since  the  seller's  providing  marketable  title  was  a  condition  to  the
purchaser's performance, the purchaser will not be forced to perform,
as  C  recognizes.  However,  it's  not  due  to  a  breach  of  contract  alone,
but  the  fact  that  the  breach  here  relieves  the  purchaser  of  his  duty  to
perform. Thus, C is not the best response.

 Answer 35

 (A) is the best response,

because  the  contractor  is  strictly  liable  if  the  businessman's  building
did not contribute to the subsidence, but not liable without negligence if
the businessman's building did contribute.

One  of  the  rights  incident  to  land  is  the  right  to  “lateral  support.”
That  is,  every  landowner  is  entitled  to  have  his  land  receive  the
necessary physical support from adjacent and underlying soil. The right
to  lateral  support  is  absolute  —  that  is,  once  support  has  been
withdrawn and injury occurs, the responsible person is liable even if he
used  utmost  care.  However,  the  absolute  right  to  later  support  exists
only  with  respect  to  land  in  its  natural  state.  If  owner  A  has
constructed a building, and the soil under the building subsides in part
due  to  the  acts  of  adjacent  owner  B,  but  also  in  part  because  of  the
weight  of  A's  building  itself,  B  is  not  liable  without  negligence.
Therefore, this choice accurately states the rule.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  businessman's  right  to  lateral  support  is  not  gained  by

1009

adverse possession but is a right incident to his ownership of his own
land.

Subject to zoning limits, a landowner is permitted to build right up
to the property line. (This happens routinely in large cities.) Therefore,
the fact that the businessman put up his building right up against his lot
line did not cause him to gain anything by adverse possession. The right
to lateral support that he had was an incident of his original ownership
of his lot.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the businessman has no duty to protect the improvements on his
lot against subsidence that would have occurred even had there been no
building on that lot.

If  the  subsidence  would  not  have  occurred  had  there  been  no
building on the businessman's lot, then (C) would essentially be correct
—  that  is,  the  businessman  would  lose  because  in  the  absence  of
negligence  by  the  contractor,  the  risk  of  damage  to  the  businessman's
land would have been borne by him, and it would have been up to him
to  assure  that  his  building  was  buttressed  in  such  a  way  that  an
excavation on the contractor's lot wouldn't damage his own building.

But  this  choice  also  implies  that  the  risk  would  be  borne  by  the
businessman even if the excavation would have caused a cave-in on his
lot  had  there  been  no  building  there.  And  this  is  not  the  law  —  as
explained in the analysis of choice A above — a landowner's right to
lateral  support  means  that  the  excavator  next  door,  not  the  landowner,
bears the risk of a cave-in of the landowner's unoccupied land.

 (D) is not the best response,

because following the law would not be an excuse or a defense for the
contractor.

A's right of lateral support is violated when an adjoining owner, B,
causes a cave-in that would have occurred even on an unoccupied lot;
and that statement is true even if B  has  not  only  acted  non-negligently
but also followed all applicable laws.

 Answer 36

 (D) is the best response,

because by the time the creditor purported to get his lien, the buyer, not

1010

the corporation, was the owner of the parcel.

The statute here says that the creditor could get a lien on property
“then  owned”  (or  after-acquired)  by  his  judgment  debtor.  So  if  the
parcel can be viewed as still having been owned by the corporation on
the  day  the  creditor  filed,  the  creditor  might  well  win  as  against  the
buyer  (because  the  prior  unrecorded  conveyance  would  not  be  good
against the creditor's lien, assuming that the creditor was viewed as a
“purchaser for value,” which he might well be). But the problem for the
creditor is that a court would probably conclude that when the creditor
filed,  the  property  was  not  “then  owned”  by  the  corporation.  That's
because  this  type  of  statute  is  generally  interpreted  to  exclude  any
property that has been properly conveyed by the judgment debtor, even
if the conveyance has not been recorded.

Since  the  creditor's  lien  isn't  valid  against  the  property  because  it
was  no  longer  the  corporation's  property  at  the  moment  of  filing,  the
lien was ineffective, and the buyer has good title.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the creditor's judgment did not affect the buyer's title.

It's  only  the  filing  of  a  judgment  lien,  not  the  obtaining  of  a
judgment,  that  causes  an  encumbrance  on  the  judgment  debtor's  real
estate.  So  the  fact  that  the  creditor  got  his  judgment  before  the  buyer
recorded is irrelevant.

 (B) is not the best response,

because any suit by the creditor would definitely fail, so that the threat
of meritless litigation would not be enough to cloud the buyer's title.

The  obligation  to  convey  marketable  title  does  not  mean  an
obligation to convey “perfect title,” or title that could not possibly be
attacked  by  anyone.  So  long  as  it  is  quite  clear  (not  merely  “barely
probable”)  that  the  vendor  would  be  found  in  litigation  to  have  valid
unencumbered title, the title is not unmarketable.

For  the  reasons  described  in  the  analysis  of  choice  D  above,  the
buyer would clearly win as against the creditor if the creditor sued. So
the mere fact that the creditor might file suit based on his filed judgment
would not be enough to render the buyer's title unmarketable.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  it  wasn't  the  fact  that  the  buyer  won  the  race  to  record  that

1011

caused her to prevail.

As  explained  in  the  discussion  of  choice  D  above,  as  soon  as  the
unrecorded  conveyance  to  the  buyer  occurred,  the  corporation  no
longer  owned  the  property,  and  any  filing  by  the  creditor  of  his
judgment  that  occurred  after  that  would  have  had  no  effect.  So  this
choice explains the correct outcome by incorrect reasoning — even if
the buyer had not recorded until after the creditor filed, the buyer would
still have won because the creditor's filing was of no effect.

 Answer 37

 (A) is the best response,

because the rancher owns the lot.

This is a question where the facts are so complex that it's necessary
to  chart  them  in  order  to  be  able  to  arrive  at  the  correct  response.
Here's basically what happens:

1990:  The  rancher  moves  in,  builds  dam.  Adverse  possession

begins.

2000: Title vests in the rancher by adverse possession.
2002:  Rancher  gives  possession  of  land  to  buyer;  rancher  also
purports  to  convey  to  the  buyer,  with  ineffective  deed.  Result:  The
rancher has title to land; the buyer has cattle.

2003:  The  buyer  leases  the  lot  from  the  landowner  for  five  years.
No  lease.  The  rancher  still  has  title;  the  buyer  is  not  in  adverse
possession,  because  his  use  isn't  adverse  as  against  the  rancher,  the
owner of the lot.

2007: Lease ends — the rancher still has title.
2010:  The  buyer  leaves  —  the  rancher  has  title.  The  landowner
conveys  via  quitclaim  to  the  farmer.  The  farmer  gets  the  landowner's
interest, which is nothing. The rancher still has title.

As this chart indicates, the rancher's title in the lot matured after his
ten  years  of  adverse  possession,  in  2000.  Thereafter,  the  buyer's  use
was permissive, and, beyond that, he didn't occupy the lot long enough
to obtain title via adverse possession. When the landowner leased the
lot to the buyer in 2003, the landowner went into adverse possession of
the lot by treating it as his, but, since the lease lasted only five years,
the  landowner  did  not  get  title  to  the  lot.  The  buyer's  five-year  lease
would  not  be  tacked  on  to  the  buyer's  possession,  since  he  possessed
the lot for that five-year period under a lease, not a claim of ownership.

1012

The three years after the lease were adverse to the rancher's ownership,
but a non-permissive period cannot be tacked onto a permissive period
for  purposes  of  adverse  possession.  Thereafter,  the  landowner's
conveyance  to  the  farmer  is  irrelevant,  since  the  landowner  had  no
interest to convey. Under these facts, once the rancher gained title to the
lot, he never surrendered it. Since A correctly identifies the rancher as
the owner of the lot, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because it states an incorrect result.

Under  these  facts,  the  last  time  that  the  landowner  had  title  was
before  the  rancher's  title  matured,  in  2000.  The  rancher  moved  into
adverse  possession  of  the  lot  in  1990,  because  his  use  of  the  lot  was
open,  notorious,  continuous,  hostile  to  the  landowner's  interest,  and
exclusive.  Once  the  rancher's  title  matured  in  2000,  the  landowner  no
longer owned the lot. Granting a lease to the buyer in 2002 would be
considered an adverse use of the lot, but the adverse use ended in 2007
for the landowner, when the lease ended, so the use would not satisfy
the statutory period of ten years. Even if the landowner had owned the
lot after that, his quitclaiming his interest to the farmer would end the
landowner's ownership. Since B states that the owner is still owner of
the lot, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because it states an incorrect result.

Basically, the buyer's use of the lot was only adverse for the three-
year  period  after  his  lease  from  the  landowner  ran  out.  For  the  five
years  of  the  buyer's  ostensible  lease  from  the  landowner,  it  was  the
landowner whose use was adverse, not the buyer — and, in any case,
the  use  was  not  long  enough  to  establish  title  via  adverse  possession.
The rancher had title via adverse possession, and the buyer's use was
permissive, not adverse; thus title could not mature in the buyer for that
period. Since the buyer could not be the owner of the lot, C is not the
best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the farmer is clearly not the owner of the lot.

In order for the farmer to own the lot, he'd have to have received an
interest from the landowner. The landowner didn't own the lot, because

1013

his title ended when the rancher gained title by adverse possession in
2000. The landowner's leasing the property to the buyer for five years
in the 2000s was the type of possession that could be adverse (since it
was open, notorious, continuous, exclusive, and hostile), but it did not
continue  long  enough  for  title  to  mature  in  the  landowner.  Thus,  since
the landowner did not own the lot, the farmer could not own it either,
making D not the best response.

 Answer 38

 (C) is the best response,

because it is too late for the colleague to challenge the marketability of
title.

The  warranty  of  marketable  title  was  likely  breached  in  this
situation  because  the  lot  lacked  access  to  a  public  right-of-way.
However, the time for a buyer to raise an objection based on failure to
convey marketable title is before accepting the deed. In this fact pattern,
the colleague did not challenge the conveyance until after the deed was
delivered.  At  this  stage,  any  challenge  by  the  buyer  must  be  based  on
the title covenant contained in the deed. Since the niece had title to the
land she conveyed and there are no encumbrances on the land, the title
covenants  (which  include  superiority  of  title,  seisin,  right  to  convey,
quiet  enjoyment,  and  the  general  warranty)  have  not  been  breached.
Because access to a public right-of-way is not required under any of the
title covenants, the colleague has no claim against the niece that can be
raised at this point.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  colleague  cannot  raise  the  issue  of  lack  of  access  to  a
public right-of-way after accepting the deed.

While  lack  of  access  to  a  public  right-of-way  may  constitute  a
breach of the obligation to deliver marketable title, a buyer must raise
this issue prior to accepting delivery of the deed. Since the colleague
has already accepted the deed, any challenge at this point in time must
be based on a breach of one of the title covenants. Since, as discussed
in  the  explanation  of  choice  C  above,  none  of  the  title  covenants  has
been  breached,  the  colleague  has  no  claim  that  can  be  raised  at  this
stage.

1014

 (B) is not the best response,

because the covenants have been breached.

The  covenants  of  warranty  and  quiet  enjoyment  warrant  that  the
grantor will defend title against other claimants and that the grantor is
conveying title that is superior to any other claimant. Since there is no
indication  that  there  is  any  other  possible  claimant  with  a  superior
claim  to  the  niece's,  these  covenants  have  been  satisfied.  The  only
claim  that  the  colleague  has  against  the  niece  is  that  the  title  may  be
unmarketable.  However,  that  would  be  a  breach  of  the  obligation  to
deliver marketable title, which may only be raised prior to acceptance
of the deed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the Statute of Frauds may only be raised as a defense if some
portion of the contract has yet to be performed.

The  Statute  of  Frauds  requires  that,  in  order  to  be  enforceable,  a
contract for the sale of land must be in writing. However, the colleague
is not attempting to avoid the contract, nor could the colleague raise that
issue at this point, since both parties have fully performed their duties
under the contract of sale. Since no performance is due by either party,
the Statute of Frauds cannot be used to rescind the sale. The only claim
that  the  colleague  has  against  the  niece  is  that  the  title  may  be
unmarketable.  However,  that  would  be  a  breach  of  the  obligation  to
deliver marketable title, which may only be raised prior to acceptance
of the deed.

 Answer 39

 (D) is the best response,

because none of the items was a fixture.

A tenant may not remove “fixtures” at the end of the lease term. A
fixture  is  a  chattel  attached  to  real  property  so  that  it  ceases  being
personal  property  and  becomes  part  of  the  real  property.  So  the
question is which, if any, of the items here is a fixture. The following
factors, if present, argue in favor of a finding that the item is a chattel:
(1) it is firmly embedded in the real estate; (2) it is peculiarly adapted
or  fitted  to  the  real  estate;  (3)  removal  would  destroy  the  chattel  or
significantly  damage  the  real  estate;  and  (4)  the  person  who  did  the

1015

annexing  (in  this  case,  the  tenant)  had  a  substantial  and  permanent
interest in the real estate (with a tenancy of years being the shortest, and
a fee simple being the longest).

Here, all of these factors point to none of the chattels being fixtures:
(1) none of the items is really “firmly embedded” in the real estate; (2)
all were designed and manufactured without reference to the building's
particular  dimensions  and  characteristics,  so  none  can  be  said  to  be
“peculiarly adapted or fitted” to the real estate; (3) removal would be
relatively easy and non-damaging in all cases; and (4) the affixer's (the
tenant's)  interest  at  the  time  of  affixation  was  very  short  and
impermanent  (a  five-year  lease).  Furthermore,  the  lease  seems  to
contemplate  that  all  such  items  can  be  removed.  (Though  it's  not
absolutely certain that these are the items the “may remove” clause was
talking about.)

 (A), (B), and (C) are not the best responses,

for the same reasons that D is the best choice.

 Answer 40

 (A) is the best response,

because the liquidated damages clause was not a measure of either the
landowner's  anticipated  or  actual  losses,  and  was  therefore  an
unenforceable penalty.

Liquidated damages are agreed to by both parties at the time of the
contract.  Such  liquidated  damages  clauses,  where  enforced  by  the
court, determine the measure of damages that the court will award. In
order  for  such  a  clause  to  be  enforceable,  however,  it  must  meet  this
requirement: The amount fixed must be reasonable relative to either the
anticipated loss (viewed as of the time the contract was signed) or to
the actual loss (as determined by the passage of time).

The clause here does not meet this standard. It was not a reasonable
forecast viewed as of the time the contract was made, because a loss of
$50,000  in  value  during  the  contract-closing  gap  is  highly  unlikely
given  that  the  market  value  at  the  outset  was  $100,000  (i.e.,  a  50
percent loss of value during a relatively short — two- or three-month
— period).

Nor was the amount set in the clause reasonable compared with the
actual  damages,  since  we're  told  that  the  value  of  the  property  had

1016

actually increased between the signing and the time for closing. So the
clause  was  not  reasonable  relative  to  either  the  anticipated  or  actual
loss, making it an unenforceable penalty.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the purchaser's death does not discharge the contract.

If  a  contract  does  not  call  for  significant  personal  services  by  a
party,  that  party's  death  or  incapacity  generally  does  not  terminate  or
discharge the contract. The reason is that the dead person's duties can
be delegated to some other person and the contract continued.

So  here,  the  purchaser's  death  did  not  cause  the  contract  to
terminate,  since  the  purchaser's  estate  could  continue  to  perform  its
duties under the contract.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  court  would  not  enforce  an  unenforceable  term  of  a
contract.

As  described  in  the  discussion  of  choice  A  above,  the  liquidated
damages clause was an unenforceable penalty. Therefore, the court will
not  (and  should  not)  enforce  it,  even  though  it  was  the  express
agreement  of  the  parties.  In  other  words,  there  are  some  types  of
agreements that parties are simply not permitted to make, and a penalty
masquerading as a liquidated damages clause is one of those types.

 (D) is not the best response,

because,  although  the  doctrine  of  equitable  conversion  would  indeed
prevent  the  contract  from  terminating,  that  doctrine  wouldn't  make  the
liquidated damages clause enforceable.

The doctrine of equitable conversion applies to situations that arise
during  the  gap  between  the  signing  of  the  contract  and  the  delivery  of
the deed. If the purchaser dies while the contract is still executory, the
equitable conversion doctrine applies so that (1) the person entitled to
receive  the  decedent's  estate  is  entitled  to  the  land,  and  (2)  the
recipients of the personal property not only do not receive the land, but
must pay any remaining portion of the purchase price out of their shares
of the estate.

So here, the administrator was required to pay the purchase price,
so  that  whoever  was  entitled  to  the  purchaser's  real  estate  could  and
would receive the property.

1017

However, this fact did not entitle the landowner to keep the deposit,
because  (as  described  in  the  discussion  of  choice  A  above)  the
liquidated  damages  clause  was  an  unenforceable  penalty.  The
landowner's  remedy  was  to  keep  only  that  portion  of  the  deposit  that
reflected  any  damage  to  him  from  the  breach.  Since  the  property
increased  in  value,  there  was  no  damage  (except  perhaps  incidental
expenses  like  having  to  re-advertise  the  property).  Therefore,  the
landowner would have to return all or nearly all the deposit.

 Answer 41

 (D) is the best response,

because  it  identifies  a  theory  under  which  the  man  may  be  able  to
repurchase his property.

Some  jurisdictions  have  a  statutory  right  of  redemption,  which
allows an individual to repurchase property sold at a foreclosure sale
for a limited amount of time after the sale. This right is not available in
all  jurisdictions,  but  it  is  the  only  theory  among  the  choices  that
conceivably would allow the man to recover his property.

 (A) is not the best response,

because,  absent  a  specific  statute,  there  is  no  general  right  to
repurchase one's home after a foreclosure sale.

The only situation in which a landowner can recover property after
a  foreclosure  sale  is  if  the  sale  took  place  in  a  jurisdiction  in  which
there is a statutory right of redemption. Where such statutes exist, they
allow the original owner of a property to repurchase the property from
the  buyer  at  the  sale  for  a  limited  time.  In  jurisdictions  that  have  a
statutory right of redemption, the right is not necessarily limited to the
owner's  residence.  However,  even  if  such  a  limitation  were  to  exist,
choice  D  is  still  a  better  response  to  the  question  posed  because  it
correctly  identifies  the  basis  upon  which  the  man  will  be  able  to
repurchase his residence after the foreclosure sale.

 (B) is not the best response,

because an equitable right of redemption can only be exercised prior to
the foreclosure sale.

The equitable right of redemption allows a landowner to prevent a
foreclosure sale by paying the amount due on the mortgage. However,

1018

the landowner can only exercise this right after foreclosure, but before
the  foreclosure  sale.  Since  we  are  told  that  the  foreclosure  sale  has
already occurred, the man will no longer have the option of exercising
his right to equitable redemption.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the man is alive.

The  doctrine  of  exoneration  applies  to  the  situation  in  which  a
testator, in his will, has bequeathed land that is subject to a mortgage at
the time of his death. The doctrine dictates that the mortgage debt will
be  paid  by  the  estate,  coming  from  the  assets  in  the  residuary  estate.
However, this doctrine is inapplicable here since the man has not died.

 Answer 42

 (D) is the best response,

because the husband was obligated to pay all current charges up to the
rental value of the land.

Assuming that the document creating the life estate (here, the will)
does  not  say  otherwise,  a  life  tenant  has  the  obligation  to  pay  all
current  charges,  including  property  taxes,  mortgage  interest,  and  the
cost  of  maintenance.  Restatement  (First)  Property,  §  129.  This  is  a
personal liability, entitling the holder of the future interest to a damages
award. However, the life tenant's obligation to pay current expenses is
limited to the income produced by (or that could reasonably have been
produced by) the land, such as rents that could have been obtained. Id.
at  §  130.  But  here,  since  we  are  told  that  “the  fair  rental  value  was
substantial,” we can assume that that rental value was greater than the
tax bills; therefore, the limit on the husband's liability to the niece does
not come into play. Thus the husband owes the niece reimbursement for
the  full  two  years'  worth  of  property  taxes,  since  he  was  obligated  to
pay those taxes in the first place.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  remaindermen  have  no  responsibility  for  the  payment  of
current charges.

As  is  more  fully  described  in  the  answer  to  choice  D,  the  life
tenant, not the remainderman, is responsible for the payment of current
charges, including property taxes, up to the level of the income that can

1019

be  generated  from  the  property.  So  the  statement  in  choice  A  is  flatly
wrong as a matter of law.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the assessor's choice of whom to bill is irrelevant on the issue
of who is obligated to pay.

Assuming that the instrument creating the life estate (here, the will)
is  silent  on  the  matter,  the  issue  of  which  party  is  required  to  pay
current expenses is to be determined by general legal principles, not by
the  assessor's  choice  of  whom  to  bill.  Those  general  principles  state
that  the  holder  of  the  life  estate  has  the  obligation  to  pay  current
charges, at least up to the level of the income that can be generated from
the property.

 (C) is not the best response,

because when the will was silent on this issue, the holder of the current
interest was required to pay all current charges.

This  choice  is  correct  in  recognizing  that  if  the  woman's  will  had
specified  which  party  was  to  pay  the  taxes,  that  provision  would  be
given  effect.  But  where  the  document  creating  the  present  and  future
interests  is  silent,  it  is  not  the  case  that  the  remainderman  (the  niece)
must pay the property taxes. Rather, the rule is exactly the opposite: The
holder  of  the  present  interest  (the  husband)  is  obligated  to  pay  the
property  taxes  and  other  current  charges,  at  least  up  to  the  level  of
income that could be generated by the property.

 Answer 43

 (B) is the best response,

because the two surviving grandchildren were covered by the class gift,
and the deceased grandchild was not survived by any issue.

The testator made a “class gift” of his house, with the class defined
as  his  “grandchildren.”  Any  grandchild  who  was  alive  when  the  gift
took  effect  (i.e.,  when  the  testator  died)  is  obviously  covered  by  the
class gift. So the two surviving grandchildren are certainly members of
the  class.  What  is  the  effect  of  the  statute  that  is  quoted?  This  is  an
“anti-lapse”  statute.  The  deceased  grandchild  qualified  for  protection
under  the  statute,  since  the  grandchild  was  “a  lineal  descendant  of  a
grandparent of the testator.” So if that grandchild had had “issue” at the

1020

taken 

time of the testator's death, under the anti-lapse statute the issue would
have 
the  grandchild's  share.  But  “issue”  means  “direct
descendants,”  such  as  children  or  grandchildren.  The  deceased
grandchild's mother, though she is his “heir” under the intestacy statute,
does not qualify as his “issue” because she is not his direct descendant.
Therefore, she does not take any share in the house.

What  about  children  who  might  be  born  to  the  testator's  daughter
after the testator's death? These would be grandchildren of the testator,
so  it  might  be  argued  that  once  they  are  born,  the  class  of
“grandchildren” should open up to include them. But that is not the way
such  class  gifts  are  interpreted  —  the  class  is  deemed  to  close  at  the
moment the gift takes effect. See, e.g., Amer. Law of Prop., § 22.42: “If
a gift of either real or personal property is made by deed or will ‘to the
children  of  A,'  and  A  is  alive  when  the  instrument  takes  effect,  all
children of A born thereafter are excluded.”

Thus, the two surviving grandchildren are the only takers.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the house never became part of the residue.

If the testator had died without any living grandchildren, and there
were no lineal descendants of grandchildren alive either, then the class
gift  to  the  “grandchildren”  would  have  failed,  and  the  house  would
have become part of the residue of the estate. In that event, the brother
would  have  taken  the  house.  But  the  testator  was  in  fact  survived  by
two grandchildren, which made the class gift effective. Therefore, the
house never became part of the residue, and the brother never took any
interest in it.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the class that received the gift closed at the moment the testator
died.

The  gift  to  the  grandchildren  was  a  class  gift.  The  class  was
capable  of  being  increased  to  include  any  grandchild  who  was  born
between the date the will was executed and the date the testator died.
But  by  general  principles  of  construction,  once  the  testator  died  (and
the gift became effective), the class closed. For more about this, see the
last full paragraph of discussion about choice B. So any grandchildren
born to the testator's daughter after the testator's death will not gain any
interest in the class gift, i.e., the house.

1021

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  deceased  grandchild's  mother  is  not  that  grandchild's
“issue.”

The  anti-lapse  statute  would  have  given  a  share  to  any  “issue”  of
the deceased grandchild. But “issue” means “direct descendants.” The
grandchild's mother was not his descendant, and thus not his issue. So
she is not covered by the statute. For more about this, see the first full
paragraph of Choice B above.

 Answer 44

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  the  purchaser  is  the  owner  in  fee
simple absolute of the land.

You  need  only  have  picked  up  on  one  key  fact  to  get  this  answer
right:  that  the  older  brother  was  not  free  to  devise  his  interest  in  the
land, since he owned the land in joint tenancy with the younger brother,
and thus the younger brother was entitled to the older brother's interest,
on  the  older  brother's  death,  due  to  the  right  of  survivorship.  The
younger  brother's  right  would  take  precedence  over  any  devise  the
older brother ostensibly made. Once the older brother dies, the younger
brother  owns  the  land  in  fee  simple  absolute,  and  the  devises  and
conveyances  thereafter  transfer  ownership  of  the  land,  in  fee  simple
absolute,  to  his  friend,  then  to  the  purchaser,  then  to  the  purchaser's
grantee.  Since  A  correctly  identifies  that  the  purchaser  need  have  no
one join him in the conveyance, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the purchaser can convey the land without joining anyone else
in the conveyance.

If you chose this response, it's because you mistakenly found that the
older brother could devise his interest in the land to anyone he chose. In
fact,  the  “right  of  survivorship”  —  the  hallmark  of  a  joint  tenancy  as
opposed to a tenancy in common — means that a co-tenant's devise of
the  land  will  be  disregarded,  and  it  will  automatically  go  to  his  co-
tenant.

Here, this would mean that the younger brother becomes sole tenant.
When the younger brother dies, his devise is valid, since there's no co-

1022

tenant  with  a  right  of  survivorship.  That  leaves  his  friend  with  the
property  in  fee  simple  absolute.  The  friend  is  free  to  convey  the
property  as  he  sees  fit,  so  when  he  conveys  it  to  the  purchaser,  the
purchaser  has  it  in  fee  simple  absolute,  and  the  purchaser  is  likewise
free to dispose of it as he chooses. Since B incorrectly requires that the
older brother's son, his grandson, and his grandson's only child join in
the conveyance, it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  no  one  else  needs  to  join  in  the  conveyance,  since  the
purchaser owns the land in fee simple absolute.

If  you  chose  this  response,  it's  because  you  didn't  realize  that  the
older brother was not free to devise his interest in the land, since the
land  was  held  as  a  joint  tenancy  that  had  a  right  to  survivorship  —
meaning that the younger brother would take the older brother's interest
in  the  land,  regardless  of  any  devise  by  the  older  brother.  Thereafter,
the younger brother can dispose of the land any way he wants, since
he's  the  sole  surviving  joint  tenant,  meaning  no  one  has  a  right  to
survivorship  as  to  the  younger  brother's  interest.  Since  C  does  not
recognize this, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  it  misstates  the  law,  and,  beyond  that,  arrives  at  the  wrong
conclusion.

For  one  thing,  the  concept  of  merchantability  is  not  applicable  to
title;  it's  marketable  title  that's  an  implied  covenant  of  land  sale
contracts.  Even  if  the  correct  terminology  were  employed  here,  it
would still be wrong, since title by quitclaim deed means only that the
vendor  is  conveying  whatever  interest  in  the  property  he,  in  fact,  has.
Since marketable title is an implied covenant of land sale contracts, if
the vendor tries to pass a quitclaim deed at the closing to the vendee,
the vendee can refuse to accept it. However, once the deed is passed,
the vendee could not claim a breach due to failure to pass a marketable
title, since the terms of the deed control under the doctrine of merger,
and a quitclaim deed has no covenants associated with it whatsoever.
Since D misstates the law, it cannot be the best response.

 Answer 45

1023

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

 (B) is the best response,

because  it  arrives  at  the  correct  conclusion,  identifies  the  major
obstacle  to  the  interest  —  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  —  and
correctly  identifies  that  the  friend's  interest  will  overcome  this
obstacle.

The key fact here is that, although the friend's interest is a shifting
executory  interest  and  thus  subject  to  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  it
must vest within a life in being plus 21 years.

The  conveyance  here  creates  a  fee  simple  subject  to  an  executory
interest in the purchaser, and a shifting executory interest in the friend
(since  the  friend's  interest  does  not  become  possessory  on  the  natural
termination  of  the  prior  estate,  and  it  divests  another  grantee,  not  the
grantor  (making  it  a  “shifting”  instead  of  a  “springing”  executory
interest)). As an executory interest, the most important point about the
validity  of  the  friend's  interest  is  whether  or  not  it  meets  the  Rule
Against Perpetuities.

In order to do so, it must vest or fail within a life in being plus 21
years.  Here,  it  will  vest  or  fail  within  a  life  in  being  —  the  friend's.
The friend must be alive now, and whether or not he is to take the tract
will be determined within a “life in being” — the friend's — since if
he's alive 30 years from now, his interest vests and he takes; if he dies,
his  interest  will  fail  whenever  he  dies  within  30  years.  Since  the
friend's executory interest satisfies the Rule Against Perpetuities, it will
be valid, making B the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  although 
mischaracterizes the facts.

it  arrives  at 

the  correct  conclusion, 

it

The  friend's  interest  is  not  a  reversion,  but  a  shifting  executory
interest. A reversion is a future interest arising in the grantor when he
conveys an estate of shorter duration than the estate he possesses (e.g.,
grantor has a fee simple; he conveys a fee tail, life estate or leasehold;
grantor's interest is a reversion). Here, the friend's interest cannot be a
reversion because, if nothing else, he's not the grantor. Since choice A
does not recognize this, it cannot be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  although  it  arrives  at  the  correct  conclusion,  it  does  not

1024

correctly characterize the facts.

The friend's interest is not a vested remainder subject to divestment,
but  rather  a  shifting  executory  interest.  The  easiest  way  to  tell  if  an
interest is a remainder or an executory interest is to determine if it takes
at  the  natural  termination  of  the  previous  interest.  Here,  the  previous
estate is the purchaser's. If the friend is to take at all, his interest will
divest  the  purchaser  of  possession  30  years  from  now.  Since  the
friend's  possession  terminates  the  purchaser's  interest  at  a  time  other
than  its  natural  termination,  the  friend's  interest  must  be  an  executory
interest,  not  a  remainder.  (By  the  way,  the  friend's  interest  is  a
“shifting” executory interest instead of a “springing” executory interest
because  he  divests  another  grantee,  not  the  grantor,  of  possession.)
Since C does not correctly characterize the facts, it cannot be the best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the limitation is valid.

The  friend's  interest  is  valid  because,  although  it  is  a  shifting
executory  interest  and  thus  subject  to  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  it
will vest or fail within a life in being plus 21 years. If you chose this
response, it could be because mention of the “30 years” threw you off,
and  made  you  think  that  the  interest  violates  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities.  However,  the  important  fact  here  is  that  the  friend  is  the
life in being, and the interest will vest or fail in his lifetime — if he's
alive in 30 years' time, it vests, and if he dies before then, the interest
fails  when  he  dies.  Since  D  mischaracterizes  the  friend's  interest  as
invalid, it's not the best response.

 Answer 46

 (D) is the best response,

because the wife's obligation to pay property tax is limited to the rent
she received.

Since  a  life  tenancy  is  by  definition  to  be  followed  by  another
interest, a life tenant has a number of duties vis-à-vis the future interest.
One of those duties is to pay all property taxes that come due while the
life  tenant  holds  possession  of  the  property.  However,  a  life  tenant  is
liable to the holder of the future interest for property taxes only to the
extent  of  the  rents  received,  or  the  fair  rental  value  if  the  life  tenant

1025

occupies it.

Since  the  property  was  vacant,  there  were  no  rents,  and  the  wife
consequently  had  no  liability  to  the  daughter  for  failing  to  pay  them.
And  that's  true  even  though  the  daughter  went  into  her  pocket  to  pay
these taxes.

 (A) and (B) are not the best response,

because a life tenant's obligation to pay taxes is limited by the amount
received in rent, which in this case is $0; see the discussion of choice
D above.

 (C) is not the best response,

because had the wife received rental income, her possession would not
have given her the right to determine whether or not the taxes should be
paid.

In that event, she would have been liable for non-payment of taxes
up to the amount of rent received. In other words, this choice states the
correct result, but on wrong reasoning.

 Answer 47

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  gives  the  reason  why  the  class  gift  will  be  valid  under  the
Rule Against Perpetuities.

The  key  fact  here  is  that  the  class  gift  was  created  in  a  will,  and

thus the man cannot have more children.

Under  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  an  interest  is  only  valid  if  it
must  vest,  if  at  all,  no  later  than  21  years  after  one  or  more  lives  in
being at the creation of the interest. “Measuring lives” are the “lives in
being”  for  purposes  of  the  Rule.  Here,  the  man's  children  will  be  the
measuring lives for determining the validity of the class gift. In fact, the
gift  here  must  vest  or  fail  within  21  years  of  the  deaths  of  the  man's
children, since, once the man's children die, their children can turn 21
after no more than 21 years. In fact, the key to this question is that the
man created the class gift in his will. Thus, the class gift would not be
“created” until the will took effect — that is, upon the man's death. At
the man's death, all of his children must be lives in being, since he can't
have more children once he's dead. (The law of future interest doesn't
like  sperm  banks.)  Thus,  he  couldn't  have
recognize 

things 

1026

grandchildren  who  would  turn  21  more  than  21  years  after  the
“measuring lives” — his children. If there's one rule that you remember
for  the  Multistate  concerning  class  gifts,  it  should  be  this:  Class  gifts
(like the one here) that take effect when grandchildren turn 21 are valid
if the gift is created in a will, but not if the gift is created in an inter
vivos conveyance. In the case of a conveyance, the grantor could have
children  after  the  conveyance  takes  place,  and  those  children  could
have  children  who  would  turn  21  after  the  perpetuities  period,  thus
violating  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities.  However,  since  the  class  gift
for the grandchildren was created in a will under these facts, it will be
valid. Since A implies this, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the Rule of Convenience is not applicable to these facts.

The  Rule  of  Convenience  is  a  rule  of  construction  that  applies  to
class gifts. Where there is no expression of intent that all members of a
class should take, the class closes when a member of the class can call
for distribution of a share of the class gift. The rule is designed to avoid
delaying  distribution  beyond  that  period  necessary  and,  at  the  same
time,  avoiding  rebates  in  the  future.  Its  primary  significance  is  that,
under it, no after-born members can take. However, the rule would not
apply  here,  because  the  man  expressly  intended  to  include  “all
grandchildren whenever born.” Since there is no need to construe this
language, the Rule of Convenience will not apply, making B not the best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because there is no basis on which to employ this presumption.

to 

intended 

include  only 

The  man  could  not  have 

those
grandchildren  born  prior  to  his  death,  because  he  expressly  included
“all  grandchildren  whenever  born.”  This  could  only  be  interpreted  as
including  “after-born”  children.  Note  that  choice  C  implies  that  the
Rule  of  Convenience  should  apply  to  these  facts.  Under  the  Rule  of
Convenience, applicable to class gifts, where there is no expression of
intent that all members of a class should take, the class closes when a
member of the class can call for distribution of a share of the class gift.
The rule could have applied if the man had not specifically mentioned
“all  grandchildren  whenever  born.”  Had  he  merely  said,  “to  all  my
grandchildren  who  shall  reach  the  age  of  21,”  children  born  after  his

1027

death would not take (while those born before his death, but not 21 by
the  time  he  died,  could  not  take  a  share  until  and  unless  they  reached
age  21).  However,  since  the  man  was  explicit  about  his  wishes  and
provided for all his grandchildren, C cannot be the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the Rule Against Perpetuities is interpreted strictly: An interest
must  vest  or  fail  within  a  life  in  being  plus  21  years  in  order  to  be
valid.

There isn't room for a Rule of Construction in connection with the
Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  because  if  an  interest  may,  for  whatever
remote reason, not vest within the perpetuities period, it's not valid.
Since D states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 Answer 48

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the owner's brother must join in the
conveyance, since he holds a possibility of reverter in the tract.

The  key  fact  here  is  that  the  executory  interest  in  the  charity  is
invalid because it violates the Rule Against Perpetuities — and that, as
a result, the interest reverts to the owner and his heirs.

The owner tried to convey a fee simple determinable subject to an
executory interest to the cousin, and a shifting executory interest to the
charity.  A  “fee  simple  determinable”  is  a  fee  simple  estate  that
automatically terminates on the occurrence of a specified event — it's a
type of defeasible fee. An executory interest is an interest, in anyone but
the grantor, that can't become possessory on the natural termination of
the prior estate. (Natural termination meaning, for instance, the death of
a life estate holder.) If an executory interest divests another grantee, it's
a “shifting” executory interest; if it divests the grantor, it's a “springing”
interest.

The problem here is that a future interest can't follow a defeasible
fee, since the executory interest may never vest or fail, and thus violates
the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  (which  requires  that  an  interest  vest  or
fail  within  a  life  in  being  plus  21  years).  Since  the  executory  interest
must be removed, the cousin is left with a defeasible fee, and the owner
and  his  heirs  are  left  with  a  possibility  of  reverter.  Since  the  owner
devised all his real estate to his brother, the owner's brother will hold

1028

the possibility of reverter.

In order to convey the tract, both the cousin and the owner's brother
would  have  to  join  to  convey  a  fee  simple  absolute.  (The  daughter
needn't  join  in  the  conveyance  at  all.)  As  a  result,  the  prayer  for
specific performance should be denied. Since C correctly identifies the
result and the reasoning behind it, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the cousin and the daughter do not own a fee simple absolute in
the  tract  —  the  owner's  brother  has  a  possibility  of  reverter,  and  the
daughter does not have an interest in the tract.

The owner tried to convey a fee simple determinable subject to an
executory interest to the cousin, and a shifting executory interest to the
charity.  A  “fee  simple  determinable”  is  a  fee  simple  estate  that
automatically terminates on the occurrence of a specified event — it's a
type of defeasible fee. An executory interest is an interest, in anyone but
the grantor, that can't become possessory on the natural termination of
the prior estate. (Natural termination meaning, for instance, the death of
a life estate holder.) If an executory interest divests another grantee, it's
a “shifting” executory interest; if it divests the grantor, it's a “springing”
interest.

The problem here is that a future interest can't follow a defeasible
fee, since the executory interest may never vest or fail, and thus violates
the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  (which  requires  that  an  interest  vest  or
fail  within  a  life  in  being  plus  21  years).  Since  the  executory  interest
must be removed, the cousin is left with a defeasible fee, and the owner
and  his  heirs  are  left  with  a  possibility  of  reverter.  Since  the  owner
devised  all  his  real  estate  to  his  brother,  the  brother  will  hold  the
possibility of reverter.

Thus,  in  order  to  convey  a  fee  simple  absolute  in  the  tract,  the
cousin and the owner's brother would have to join in the conveyance,
since  the  cousin  owns  the  defeasible  fee,  and  the  brother  has  a
possibility  of  reverter,  which  “add  up”  to  the  entire  fee.  Since  the
brother has not been joined in the conveyance and the daughter has, the
prayer  for  specific  performance  should  be  denied.  Since  A  states
otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the cousin does not own the whole fee simple in the tract.

1029

The cousin has only a defeasible fee, and so, to convey a fee simple
absolute in the tract, the owner's brother, the holder of a possibility of
reverter, would have to join in.

The owner tried to convey a fee simple determinable subject to an
executory interest to the cousin, and a shifting executory interest to the
charity.  A  “fee  simple  determinable”  is  a  fee  simple  estate  that
automatically terminates on the occurrence of a specified event — it's a
type of defeasible fee. An executory interest is an interest, in anyone but
the grantor, that can't become possessory on the natural termination of
the prior estate. (Natural termination meaning, for instance, the death of
a life estate holder.) If an executory interest divests another grantee, it's
a “shifting” executory interest; if it divests the grantor, it's a “springing”
interest.

The problem here is that a future interest can't follow a defeasible
fee, since the executory interest may never vest or fail, and thus violates
the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  (which  requires  that  an  interest  vest  or
fail  within  a  life  in  being  plus  21  years).  Since  the  executory  interest
must be removed, the cousin is left with a defeasible fee, and the owner
and  his  heirs  are  left  with  a  possibility  of  reverter.  Since  the  owner
devised  all  his  real  estate  to  his  brother,  the  brother  will  hold  the
possibility of reverter. Thus, in order to convey a fee simple absolute in
the tract, the cousin and the owner's brother would have to join in the
conveyance, since the cousin owns the defeasible fee, and the brother
has a possibility of reverter, which “add up” to the entire fee. Since the
cousin could not convey the entire fee simple himself, B is not the best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the charity does not have a valid interest in the tract.

The owner tried to convey a fee simple determinable subject to an
executory interest to the cousin, and a shifting executory interest to the
charity.  A  “fee  simple  determinable”  is  a  fee  simple  estate  that
automatically terminates on the occurrence of a specified event — it's a
type of defeasible fee. An executory interest is an interest, in anyone but
the grantor, that can't become possessory on the natural termination of
the prior estate. (Natural termination meaning, for instance, the death of
a life estate holder.) If an executory interest divests another grantee, it's
a “shifting” executory interest; if it divests the grantor, it's a “springing”
interest.

The problem here is that a future interest can't follow a defeasible

1030

fee, since the executory interest may never vest or fail, and thus violates
the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities  (which  requires  that  an  interest  vest  or
fail  within  a  life  in  being  plus  21  years).  Since  the  executory  interest
must be removed, the cousin is left with a defeasible fee, and the owner
and  his  heirs  are  left  with  a  possibility  of  reverter.  Since  the  owner
devised  all  his  real  estate  to  his  brother,  the  brother  will  hold  the
possibility of reverter.

If  you  chose  this  response,  it  could  be  because  you  mistakenly
believed the “charity-to-charity” exception to remote vesting applied to
these  facts.  It  doesn't,  because  for  that  exception  to  apply,  both  the
cousin and the charity would have to be charities; it's not enough if only
one  of  them  is  a  charity.  If  the  cousin  had  been  a  charity,  the  charity
would have had a valid shifting executory interest in the tract.

As it is, the cousin and the owner's brother would have to join in a
conveyance  of  the  tract.  Since  D  states  that  the  charity  would  have  to
join  in  the  conveyance,  and  not  the  owner's  brother,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 Answer 49

 (A) is the best response,

because the daughter validly conveyed her future interest to her friend.

The landowner's will created a determinable life estate in his wife:
The  words  “for  life”  dictate  that  her  ownership  will  terminate  on  her
death,  while  the  words  “or  until  remarriage”  create  a  condition  upon
which her life estate may be cut short. The daughter received a vested
remainder  (which  follows  the  life  estate)  as  well  as  an  executory
interest, which would become possessory in the event that her mother
remarried.  The  owner  of  a  future  interest  in  land  may  convey  that
interest,  either  in  their  will  or  inter  vivos.  Thus,  when  the  daughter
made the conveyance to her friend, the friend became the holder of both
future interests. When the daughter died, the future interests were not in
her  estate,  so  they  did  not  pass  by  intestate  succession  to  her  mother.
The mother's estate terminated upon her remarriage, and the friend, as
holder of the executory interest, gained title in fee simple.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the wife's life estate terminated when she remarried.

The landowner's will created a determinable life estate in his wife.

1031

Since  the  condition  upon  which  her  estate  would  end  was  her
remarriage, the land passed to the holder of the executory interest. So,
the  wife  would  only  own  the  land  if  she  held  the  executory  interest,
which  could  have  only  occurred  if  she  acquired  it  through  her
daughter's estate. However, the daughter conveyed her future interest to
her friend, so the executory interest was not in her estate when she died.
Rather, the daughter's friend, as holder of the executory interest, became
the  owner  of  the  land  in  fee  simple  when  the  landowner's  wife
remarried.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the wife's life estate terminated when she remarried.

The landowner's will created a determinable life estate in his wife.
Since  the  condition  upon  which  her  estate  would  end  was  her
remarriage,  the  land  passed  to  the  holder  of  the  executory  interest.
When  she  remarried,  the  life  estate  terminated,  and  the  holder  of  the
executory  interest  owned  the  land  in  fee  simple.  Whoever  owns  the
land at this point (the daughter's friend, as discussed in the explanation
for  choice  A  above)  owns  it  in  fee  simple,  rather  than  a  life  estate.
Since choice C indicates that the new husband holds the land for the life
of his wife, it cannot be correct.

 (D) is not the best response,

because  the  daughter's  friend  owned  the  executory  interest  in  the  land
when the wife remarried.

The landowner's will created a determinable life estate in his wife.
The  daughter  received  a  vested  remainder  as  well  as  an  executory
interest, which would become possessory in the event that her mother
remarried.  The  only  way  that  the  wife's  new  husband  could  own  the
land in fee simple is if, when the wife's life estate terminated due to her
remarriage, she held the executory interest. In that case, she would have
acquired  title  in  fee  simple  and  been  able  to  convey  title  to  her  new
husband.  However,  the  owner  of  a  future  interest  in  land  may  convey
that interest, either in their will or inter vivos. Thus, when the daughter
made the conveyance to her friend, the friend became the holder of both
future interests. When the daughter died, the future interests were not in
her  estate,  so  they  did  not  pass  by  intestate  succession  to  her  mother.
The mother's estate terminated upon her remarriage, and the friend, as
holder  of  the  executory  interest,  gained  title  in  fee  simple.  Since  the

1032

wife had nothing to convey to her new husband, he cannot own the land
in fee simple.

 Answer 50

 (A) is the best response,

because  it  reflects  the  traditional  rule  on  splitting  mortgage  payments
between the life estate holder and the remainderman.

That  rule  is  that  the  life  estate  holder  pays  the  portion  of  the
mortgage  reflecting  interest,  and  the  remainderman  pays  the  principal.
Since A reflects this rule, it's the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  daughter,  as  remainderman,  will  be  liable  only  for  the
portion of the mortgage representing principal.

The traditional rule is that the life estate holder pays interest on any
mortgage  on  the  property,  whereas  the  remainderman  pays  the
principal.  Under  these  facts,  this  would  mean  that  the  son  pays  the
interest, and the daughter pays the principal. Since B states otherwise,
it's not the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  son  will  be  liable  only  for  the  portion  of  the  mortgage
representing interest.

The traditional rule is that the life estate holder pays interest on any
mortgage  on  the  property,  whereas  the  remainderman  pays  the
principal.  Under  these  facts,  this  would  mean  that  the  son  pays  the
interest, and the daughter pays the principal. Since C states that the son
should be liable for the entire amount, it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because while it suggests that the payment should be split between the
son and the daughter, it has their liabilities reversed.

The traditional rule is that the life estate holder pays interest on any
mortgage  on  the  property,  whereas  the  remainderman  pays  the
principal.  Under  these  facts,  this  would  mean  that  the  son  pays  the
interest, and the daughter pays the principal. Since D has these the other
way around, it's not the best response.

1033

 Answer 51

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the language of the deed created only
a contractual obligation for the grantee, not a restriction on the use of
the land.

The language here is a bit misleading because it sounds as though it
creates a defeasible fee. A “defeasible fee” is a fee simple estate that
terminates  on  the  occurrence  of  a  specified  event.  If  the  estate
automatically terminates when the condition occurs, the estate is known
as  a  “fee  simple  determinable.”  If  the  grantor  must  reenter  and  retake
the  property  when  the  condition  occurs,  it's  a  fee  simple  defeasible
subject to a condition subsequent.

What C recognizes is that courts dislike restraints on alienation, so
if there is any question as to the interpretation of a conveyance, courts
will favor a fee simple absolute over a defeasible fee. As a result, the
grantee  would  be  left  with  a  fee  simple  absolute  and  a  personal,
contractual liability to use the property as instructed by the deed. Since
C recognizes this, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because the language of the deed did not create a defeasible fee.

A  “defeasible  fee”  is  one  that  terminates  on  the  occurrence  of  a
specified  event.  (If  it  terminates  automatically,  it's  a  fee  simple
determinable;  if  the  grantor  must  actively  reenter  and  retake  the
property, it's a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent.)

The “subject to the understanding that” language would not impose
restrictions  on  usage  of  the  estate;  instead,  it  would  impose,  at  most,
only a contractual obligation on the grantee's part.

This  is  somewhat  tricky  because  the  language  sounds  as  though  it
could  create  a  defeasible  fee  estate.  However,  courts  do  not  like
restraints  on  alienation,  so  if  there  is  any  question  as  to  the
interpretation  of  a  conveyance,  courts  will  favor  fee  simple  absolute
over a defeasible fee (either a fee simple determinable or a fee simple
subject  to  a  condition  subsequent).  Thus,  the  grantor  would  have  to
have  worded  the  conveyance  something  like  “to  the  grantee  only  so
long  as  the  premises  are  used  for  a  public  health  center,  which  the
grantee  must  build  within  one  year,”  to  create  a  defeasible  fee.  Since
the  conveyance  did  not  create  a  fee  simple  determinable,  A  is  not  the

1034

best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because  the  language  of  the  fee  did  not  create  a  fee  subject  to  a
condition subsequent.

The  “subject  to  the  understanding  that”  would  not  impose
restrictions on the usage of the estate; instead, it would impose, at most,
only a contractual obligation on the grantee's part.

This  is  difficult  because  the  language  sounds  as  though  it  could
create a defeasible fee estate. A “defeasible fee” is one that terminates
on  the  occurrence  of  a  specified  event.  (If  it  terminates  automatically,
it's a fee simple determinable; if the grantor must actively reenter and
retake the property, it's a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent.)
However,  courts  do  not  like  restraints  on  alienation,  so  if  there  is
any question as to the interpretation of a conveyance, courts will favor
fee  simple  absolute  over  a  defeasible  fee  (either  a  fee  simple
determinable  or  a  fee  simple  subject  to  a  condition  subsequent).
Assuming arguendo  that  the  language  here  had  created  restrictions  on
usage,  it  would  not  have  created  a  fee  simple  subject  to  a  condition
subsequent  anyway,  but  a  fee  simple  determinable.  That's  because
there's  no  language  here  giving  the  grantor  the  power  to  reenter  and
retake the premises; rather, the property would revert automatically to
the grantor. To create a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent, the
conveyance  would  have  to  have  been  worded  something  like  “to  the
grantee  as  long  as  he  constructs  and  maintains  and  operates  on  said
premises  a  public  health  center,  but  if  he  ever  ceases  to  do  so,  the
grantor  or  his  successors  can  reenter  and  retake  the  premises.”  Since
the conveyance here does not resemble this, B is not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the agreement here would not have to be enforced in equity.

If an obligation was created by the wording of the deed, it will be
enforceable  at  law  as  a  contract,  since  it  would  not  be  sufficient  to
create  a  restriction  on  the  use  of  the  estate.  Since  D  would  have  the
obligation enforceable only in equity, it is not the best response.

 Answer 52

 (D) is the best response,

1035

because  it  correctly  identifies  that  neither  of  the  gifts  created  here
violates the Rule Against Perpetuities.

The key fact here is that the man created the gift in his will, and the

day he dies is the date the interests would be considered “created.”

Under  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities,  an  interest  must  vest  or  fail
within a life in being plus 21 years or the creation of the interest. Both
of  the  classes  here  —  the  children  and  the  substitutionary  gift  to  the
grandchildren  —  fulfill  this  requirement.  The  key  fact  here  is  that  the
gift was created in the man's will. Since the will does not take effect
—  and  the  interests  are  thus  not  “created”  —  until  he  dies,  no  more
members  of  the  class  of  measuring  lives  (the  children)  can  be  added
after the interests are created. Thus, all interests created in it must vest
or fail within a life in being plus 21 years. In fact, all the interests will
be determined when the youngest of the man's children turns, or would
have  turned,  30.  Since  D  correctly  identifies  that  the  interests  created
here are valid, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  the  interests  were  created  in  a  will,  not  in  an  inter  vivos
conveyance.  As  a  result,  the  remainder  to  the  children  and  the
grandchildren is valid.

The Rule Against Perpetuities requires that, to be valid, an interest
must vest or fail within a life in being plus 21 years, as of the date of
the  creation  of  the  interest.  Here,  the  interests  would  be  considered
created when the will takes effect, not when the man executed the will.
Thus,  he  could  not  remarry  after  the  instrument  takes  effect,  unless  he
engages in some Frankensteinian behavior beyond the reach of the Rule
Against Perpetuities.

Since the man cannot have any more children once he's dead, all of
his children must be “lives in being” when the will takes effect. Thus,
his  grandchildren  cannot  take  any  later  than  the  thirtieth  year  after  the
birth  of  a  life  in  being  (namely,  the  man's  children).  Since  these
interests cannot violate the Rule Against Perpetuities, the remainder to
the children and grandchildren is valid, making A not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

for  the  same  reasons  as  A:  Since  the  interests  were  created  in  a  will
and  not  in  an  inter  vivos  conveyance, 
the
grandchildren is valid.

the  remainder 

to 

1036

The relevant date in these facts is not when the will was executed,
but  when  the  man  dies,  because  that's  when  the  interests  would  be
deemed  “created.”  Once  the  man  is  dead,  he  can  neither  marry  again
nor have any more children. Thus, his children are all “lives in being”
when  the  interests  come  into  being  (the  man's  death),  and  the
grandchildren's interests either vest (if their parent dies before 30) or
fails  (if  the  parent  reaches  30)  within  a  life  in  being,  never  mind  the
additional  21  years  in  the  perpetuities  period.  Since  B  incorrectly
states  that  the  gift  to  the  grandchildren  will  fail,  it's  not  the  best
response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the man's will became operative when he died. Thus, it doesn't
matter that his youngest son was born after he executed his will.

If you chose this response, it's probably because you misapplied the
Rule of Convenience. The Rule of Convenience is a rule of construction
that applies to class gifts. Where there is no expression of intent that all
members of a class should take, the class closes when a member of the
class can call for distribution of a share of the class gift. Under the facts
here,  no  member  of  the  “class”  —  the  man's  children  —  can  call  for
distribution  until  he  dies,  since  the  gift  is  in  his  will.  Thus,  all  his
children  will  be  included,  no  matter  when  they  are  born,  since  they
have to be born before his death (or within nine months of it).

In order to make choice C a correct answer, let's change the facts:
Say the man left his house to “my friend Aloysius' children.” When the
man  dies,  Aloysius  has  two  children,  Allan  and  Beth,  and  after  the
man's death, Aloysius has a child, Carter. With this hypothetical devise,
Carter  would  be  excluded,  since  Allan  and  Beth  could  call  for
distribution  of  the  gift  at  the  man's  death.  However,  under  the  facts  in
the  problem  as  given,  the  operative  date  is  the  man's  death,  when  his
will takes effect. Since the son from the man's second marriage was a
member of the “class” by then, he'll be entitled to a share, making C not
the best response.

 Answer 53

 (B) is the best response,

because it identifies the niece's right as valid.

Under the contract here, the widow has given the niece a valid right

1037

of first refusal in the event that she decides to alienate the property, or
upon her death. This is an interesting question in that there really isn't a
pressing Rule Against Perpetuities issue under these facts; however, it's
clear  that  the  other  responses  are  incorrect,  leaving  B  as  the  best
response,  even  though  it  doesn't  address  a  central  issue.  Since  B
correctly  identifies  the  niece's  interest  as  valid  and  states  correct
reasoning, it's the best response.

 (A) is not the best response,

because  recording  an  instrument  would  not  make  it  valid;  it  only
establishes priority.

The question here asks about the validity of the niece's interest, not
the priority of it vis-à-vis someone else's interest in the property, and
that's when priority is an issue. Thus, A cannot be the best response.

 (C) is not the best response,

because  the  widow  is  restricting  only  her  own  power  to  convey  or
devise the property, by giving her niece a right of first refusal.

Restraints on alienation come into question only when a grantor or
testator  wants  to  convey  or  dispose  of  property  while,  at  the  same
time, retaining control over its alienation. While it's true that restraints
on fee estates are not valid, what the widow has here is not a restraint,
but  merely  a  right  of  first  refusal  for  the  niece  in  the  event  that  the
widow does decide to unload the property, since she isn't conveying or
disposing  of  property.  This  will  be  valid,  making  C  not  the  best
response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because there is no transfer of property involved, so there cannot be a
restraint on alienation.

Restraints on alienation come into question only when a grantor or
testator  wants  to  convey  or  dispose  of  property  while,  at  the  same
time,  retaining  control  over  its  alienation.  What  the  widow  has
essentially done is to give the niece a right of first refusal in the event
she does decide to alienate the property. Since this will be valid, D is
not the best response.

 Answer 54

1038

 (A) is the best response,

because an option to purchase “in gross” is subject to the Rule Against
Perpetuities, and this option might be exercised beyond the perpetuities
period.

The  option  to  purchase  here,  although  it  is  contingent,  would  be
held  to  create  an  interest  in  land.  (That  is,  if  the  holder  of  the  fee
refused to convey after using the property for non-residential purposes,
the optionee could get an order of specific performance. That's enough
to give the optionee a contingent interest in the land.)

The  option  here  is  “in  gross”  —  that  is,  the  option  is  not
appurtenant to an interest already held by the optionee in the land. (A
purchase option given to a tenant, by contrast, would not be in gross.)
Options  in  gross  are  generally  held  to  be  subject  to  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities.

The Rule says that an interest is void if it might vest more than 21
years  after  some  life  in  being  at  the  time  of  creation  of  the  interest.
Here,  the  only  lives  that  might  qualify  as  measuring  lives  are  the
landowner's  and  the  grantee's.  Yet  by  its  terms,  the  clause  might  be
exercisable in the very distant future — by the landowner's great-great-
grandchildren,  for  instance,  as  against  the  grantee's  great-great-
grandchildren.  This  exercise  would  be  far  after  any  measuring  life
mentioned  in  the  document  plus  21  years.  Consequently,  the  option
would  be  void  if  options  in  gross  are  subject  to  the  Rule.  (It's  not
absolutely certain that options in gross would be subject to the Rule in a
particular jurisdiction. But if the court rules against the landowner, the
only plausible explanation from those given is that the court has found
that the Rule applies to options in gross, and that this option violates the
Rule.)

 (B) is not the best response,

because the bank's rights are subordinate to the option, even though the
bank may have been unaware of the option.

A  mortgagee's  rights  are  no  greater  than  the  rights  held  by  the
mortgagor  at  the  moment  the  mortgage  is  issued.  Therefore,  at  the
moment the bank funded the purchase and took its mortgage, it merely
obtained  the  right,  in  the  event  of  default,  to  foreclose  on  whatever
rights  the  grantee  had.  Those  rights  were  subject  to  the  option  to
repurchase.  The  fact  that  the  bank  didn't  know  this  is  irrelevant,
especially  since  it  had  the  opportunity  to  inspect  the  deed  giving  the

1039

grantee her rights and failed to do so.

 (C) is not the best response,

because the landowner's rights were not subordinated to the bank's.

This  is  simply  not  a  correct  statement  of  how  the  law  works.  If
there  were  no  perpetuities  problem,  the  landowner's  purchase  option
would be superior to the bank's mortgage, because the purchase option
existed  in  the  very  deed  creating  the  grantee's  interest,  and  the  bank's
mortgage merely gave it the right to foreclose on whatever interest the
grantee obtained by the deed.

 (D) is not the best response,

because courts will not inquire into the adequacy of consideration.

A  court  will  not  examine  the  “adequacy”  of  the  consideration,  as
long  as  the  court  is  satisfied  that  there  really  was  a  bargain  or
exchange.  Here,  the  court  would  look  at  the  overall  transaction,  and
would undoubtedly conclude that it represented a true bargain, in which
the grantee agreed to accept the land with the restriction on it, and to be
faced with the chance that if she broke her covenant, the land could be
taken away from her (or her heirs) for a less-than-market price. Since
there was an actual bargain, the fact that the option standing alone might
have been for an “inadequate” (i.e., much-less-than-market) price will
be irrelevant.

 Answer 55

 (C) is the best response,

because it correctly identifies that the conveyance was valid.

Under the will, the nephew took a contingent remainder, contingent
on  the  daughter's  dying  without  children  surviving  her,  but  with  a
husband.  The  facts  state  specifically  that  any  interest  in  land  is  freely
alienable.  Thus,  the  nephew  was  free  to  convey  his  contingent
remainder to the daughter's husband.

He  did  so  when  he  quitclaimed  his  interest  in  the  farm  to  the
daughter's  husband,  since  a  quitclaim  deed  transfers  whatever  interest
the conveyor has in the property, without any covenants. Since choice C
recognizes that the nephew took a valid interest under the will, which
he  later  validly  conveyed  to  the  daughter's  husband,  it's  the  best
response.

1040

 (A) is not the best response,

because the after-acquired title doctrine will not apply to these facts.

The  “after-acquired  title  doctrine,”  also  known  as  “estoppel  by
deed,”  covers  this  situation:  The  grantor  purports  to  convey  an  estate
larger  than  the  one  he  has;  the  grantor  subsequently  acquires  the  title
he's  already  purportedly  conveyed;  title  automatically  passes  to
grantee, by estoppel. Here, the nephew conveyed whatever interest he
had in the farm. In fact, he had a contingent remainder, contingent on the
daughter's dying without children surviving her, but with a husband.

Under the facts here, all interests in land are freely alienable, so the
nephew  was  free  to  convey  his  contingent  remainder.  Thus,  once  he
conveys  the  contingent  remainder  to  the  daughter's  husband,  the
daughter's  husband  takes  whatever  interest  the  nephew  had,  and  it
becomes possessory whenever it would have become possessory in the
nephew's hands. Thus, the nephew didn't transfer an estate larger than
he had; he transferred exactly what he had — a contingent remainder.
As  a  result,  the  after-acquired  title  doctrine  would  not  apply,  and  the
nephew's  quitclaim  deed  would  be  sufficient  to  convey  his  contingent
remainder. Since A states otherwise, it's not the best response.

 (B) is not the best response,

because the nephew took a contingent remainder under the landowner's
will.

It's  a  contingent  remainder  because  it's  subject  to  a  condition
precedent:  the  daughter's  dying  with  a  husband  but  no  children.  The
facts  here  state  that  any  interest  in  land  is  freely  alienable;  thus,  the
nephew was free to quitclaim his interest in the farm to the daughter's
husband. If you thought the nephew had no interest in the farm, it could
be because his interest hadn't vested when he transferred it. However,
that doesn't mean it's not an interest at all.

Since B wrongly states that the nephew took no interest in the farm,

it's not the best response.

 (D) is not the best response,

because the after-acquired title doctrine would not apply to these facts.
The  “after-acquired  title  doctrine,”  also  known  as  “estoppel  by
deed,”  covers  this  situation:  The  grantor  purports  to  convey  an  estate
larger  than  the  one  he  has;  the  grantor  subsequently  acquires  the  title

1041

he's  already  purportedly  conveyed;  title  automatically  passes  to
grantee, by estoppel.

Here, the nephew conveyed whatever interest he had in the farm. In
fact, he had a contingent remainder, contingent on the daughter's dying
without  children  surviving  her,  but  with  a  husband.  Thus,  the  nephew
didn't transfer an estate larger than he had; he transferred exactly what
he  had  —  a  contingent  remainder.  Since  D  would  wrongly  apply  the
after-acquired title doctrine to these facts, it's not the best response.