Page 146

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1145 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

At a defendant's murder trial, the defendant calls his first witness to testify that the defendant has a reputation
in their community as a peaceable and truthful person. The prosecutor objects on the ground that the witness's
testimony would constitute improper character evidence. 

The court should 

A: admit the testimony as to peaceableness, but exclude the testimony as to truthfulness.
B: admit the testimony as to truthfulness, but exclude the testimony as to peaceableness.
C: admit the testimony as to both character traits.
D: exclude the testimony as to both character traits.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is A. Although evidence of a person's character or a trait of character is not admissible for
the purpose of proving action in conformity therewith on a particular occasion, there is an exception that allows
the accused to offer evidence of a trait of character that is pertinent to the trial. In a case where the charge is
murder, the accused's reputation in the community as being a peaceable person would be a pertinent trait and
should be admissible if proposed by the accused. However, the accused's reputation in the community as a
truthful person would not be pertinent to the murder charge, and should be inadmissible. Because the
defendant has not testified, his reputation in the community as a truthful person would be irrelevant and
inadmissible. 

Answer B is incorrect because the evidence for truthfulness should be excluded and the evidence of
peaceableness should be admitted. Answer C is incorrect because the evidence for truthfulness should be
excluded and the evidence of peaceableness should be admitted. Answer D is incorrect because the evidence
for truthfulness should be excluded and the evidence of peaceableness should be admitted.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 147

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1148 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

In a federal civil trial, the plaintiff wishes to establish that, in a state court, the defendant had been convicted of
fraud, a fact that the defendant denies. 

Which mode of proof of the conviction is LEAST likely to be permitted? 

A: A certified copy of the judgment of conviction, offered as a self-authenticating document.
B: Testimony of the plaintiff, who was present at the time of the sentence.
C: Testimony by a witness to whom the defendant made an oral admission that he had been convicted.
D: Judicial notice of the conviction, based on the court's telephone call to the clerk of the state court, whom the
judge knows personally.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is D. A judicially noticed fact must be one not subject to reasonable dispute, in that it is
either generally known within the territorial jurisdiction of the trial court or capable of accurate and ready
determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. Because the proof of
conviction is subject to reasonable dispute, because the conviction is not generally known within the territorial
jurisdiction of the federal court, and because the telephone call to the clerk of the state court, which is hearsay,
can reasonably be questioned, judicial notice of the conviction is the least likely method available to prove the
conviction. 

Answer A is incorrect because certified copies of the judgment of conviction are self-authenticating and would
be a proper mode of proof of the conviction. Answer B is incorrect because a witness can testify as to items
within his first-hand knowledge, and, the plaintiff, if he was present at the time of sentence, would have that
requisite first-hand knowledge. Answer C is incorrect because an oral admission by the defendant that he had
been convicted would be admissible under the admission by a party opponent exception to the hearsay rule.
The least likely permissible mode of proving a conviction is allowing the judge to take judicial notice based on
a telephone call.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 148

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1154 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries sustained in an automobile collision. During the plaintiff's hospital stay,
a staff physician examined the plaintiff's X-rays and said to the plaintiff, "You have a fracture of two vertebrae,
C4 and C5." An intern, who was accompanying the doctor on her rounds, immediately wrote the diagnosis on
the plaintiff's hospital record. At trial, the hospital records custodian testifies that the plaintiff's hospital record
was made and kept in the ordinary course of the hospital's business. 

The entry reporting the doctor's diagnosis is 

A: inadmissible, because no foundation has been laid for the doctor's competence as an expert.
B: inadmissible, because the doctor's opinion is based upon data that are not in evidence.
C: admissible as a statement of then existing physical condition.
D: admissible as a record of regularly conducted business activity.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is D. Medical records are admissible as a record of regularly conducted activity. The
medical records are reports or records of acts, events, conditions, opinions, and diagnoses, made at or near
the time by, or from information transmitted by, a person with knowledge, and they are kept in the course of a
regularly conducted business activity. The doctor's statement to the intern is a diagnosis made near the time of
occurrence and the information was transmitted to the intern from the doctor. The entry reporting the doctor's
diagnosis is admissible under the record of regularly conducted business activity exception to the hearsay
rule. 

Answer A is incorrect because the doctor does not need to be an expert before his statement is admissible. As
long as the doctor is considered a person with knowledge, his statement is admissible. Answer B is incorrect
because the data relied on by the doctor does not need to be introduced into evidence. If they are of a type
reasonably relied upon by experts in the particular field in forming opinions, the facts or data themselves need
not be admissible in evidence in order for the opinion or inference to be admitted. Answer C is incorrect
because the doctor cannot make an admissible statement of then-existing physical condition about another
person. The doctor's recounting of his diagnosis of the patient is not a statement of the doctor's then existing
state of mind, emotion, sensation, or physical condition.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 149

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1160 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for participating in a drug sale. The prosecution calls a witness, an undercover officer, to
testify that, when the seller sold the drugs to the witness, the seller introduced the defendant to the witness as
"my partner in this" and the defendant shook hands with the witness but said nothing. 

The witness's testimony is 

A: inadmissible, because there is no evidence that the seller was authorized to speak for the defendant.
B: inadmissible, because the statement of the seller is hearsay not within any exception.
C: admissible as a statement against the defendant's penal interest.
D: admissible as the defendant's adoption of the seller's statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is D. The defendant, by not correcting the witness, by accepting the introduction, and by
shaking hands with the witness, manifested an agreement with the seller's statement that the defendant was
the seller's "partner in this." These actions will suffice for a finding that the defendant adopted the seller's
statement, and the seller's statement that the defendant was his partner will be admissible as an adopted
admission by a party opponent. The defendant does not need to verbally acknowledge the statement; the
mere acceptance and some action on the part of the defendant will act as an adoption of the statement. 

Answer A is incorrect because, although the seller was not authorized to speak for the defendant, the
statement is still admissible as an admission by a party opponent because the defendant manifested an
adoption or belief in the statement's truth. Answer B is incorrect because admissions, and adoptive
admissions, are specifically excluded from the definition of hearsay. Answer C is incorrect because the
admission is not hearsay needing that exception. In addition, the defendant was not the declarant of the
statement. He did, however, manifest a belief in the truth of the seller's statement, making it admissible as an
adoptive admission.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 150

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1174 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a defendant's trial for sale of drugs, the government called a witness to testify, but the witness refused to
answer any questions about the defendant and was held in contempt of court. The government then calls a
police officer to testify that, when the witness was arrested for possession of drugs and offered leniency if he
would identify his source, the witness had named the defendant as his source. 

The testimony offered concerning the witness's identification of the defendant is 

A: admissible as a prior consistent statement by a witness.
B: admissible as an identification of the defendant by a witness after having perceived him.
C: inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
D: inadmissible, because the witness was not confronted with the statement while on the stand.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is C. The witness's statement that the defendant was his source was an out-of-court
statement that is being offered for the truth of the matter asserted - that the defendant was the source for the
drugs. It is therefore hearsay; because it does not meet the requirements of any exception to the hearsay rule,
it is inadmissible. 

Answer A is incorrect because, before a prior consistent statement is admissible as substantive evidence, the
declarant must testify at the trial or hearing and be subject to cross-examination concerning the statement. In
this case, the witness has never testified or been subject to cross-examination, so his prior statements are not
admissible. In addition, the witness's hearsay statement is not being offered to rebut an express or implied
charge against the declarant of recent fabrication or improper influence or motive. 

Answer B is incorrect because, before a prior identification is admissible as substantive evidence, the
declarant must testify at the trial or hearing and must be subject to cross-examination concerning the
statement. In this case, the witness has never testified or been subject to cross-examination, so his prior
identification is not admissible. In addition, the witness's hearsay statement was not simply one of identification
of the defendant, such as "That is the defendant," but instead it was a statement of fact that the defendant
supplied him with drugs. As such, it is not an identification of a person. 

Answer D is incorrect because the statement is inadmissible hearsay, regardless of whether the witness was
not confronted with the statement while on the stand.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 151

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1181 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

In an arson prosecution the government seeks to rebut the defendant's alibi that he was in a jail in another
state at the time of the fire. The government calls a witness to testify that he diligently searched through all the
records of the jail and found no record of the defendant having been incarcerated there during the time the
defendant specified. 

The testimony of the witness is 

A: admissible as evidence of absence of an entry from a public record.
B: admissible as a summary of voluminous documents.
C: inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
D: inadmissible, because the records themselves must be produced.

The explanation for the answer is:

The correct answer is A. The witness's statement that he diligently searched all the records of the jail and
found no record of the defendant is admissible under the absence of an entry from a public record exception to
the hearsay rule. To prove the nonoccurrence or nonexistence of a matter of which a record was regularly
made and preserved by a public office or agency, evidence in the form of testimony that a diligent search failed
to disclose the record is admissible. Jail records are records regularly made and preserved by a public office or
agency, and the witness's testimony about his diligent search of those records is admissible to prove the
defendant was not in the jail when he claimed to be. 

Answer B is incorrect because a summary of voluminous documents allows for the admission of charts and
summaries of large amounts of documents. Although the witness's testimony is an account of a search of
voluminous documents, the testimony is admissible under the absence of public records exception to the
hearsay rule, not because it is a summary. Answer C is incorrect because the witness's testimony does meet
the requirements for the absence of an entry in public records exception to the hearsay rule. Answer D is
incorrect because the exception to the hearsay rule does not require that the documents be produced or
introduced into evidence before the testimony is admissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 152

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1205 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

In a civil trial for professional malpractice, the plaintiff sought to show that the defendant, an engineer, had
designed the plaintiff's flour mill with inadequate power. The plaintiff called an expert witness who based his
testimony solely on his own professional experience but also asserted, when asked, that the book Smith on
Milling Systems was a reliable treatise in the field and was consistent with his views. On cross-examination,
the defendant asked the witness whether he and the book's author were ever wrong. The witness answered,
"Nobody's perfect." The defendant asked no further questions. The defendant called a second expert witness
and asked, "Do you accept the book as reliable?" The second witness said, "It once was, but it is now badly
out of date." The plaintiff requested that the jury be allowed to examine the book and judge for itself the book's
reliability.  

Should the court allow the jury to examine the book? 

A: No, because the jury may consider only passages read to it by counsel or witness.
B: No, because the plaintiff's expert in testifying did not rely on the treatise but on his own experience.
C: Yes, because an expert has testified that the treatise is reliable.
D: Yes, because the jury is the judge of the weight and credibility to be accorded both written and oral
evidence.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Federal Rule of Evidence 803(18), the learned treatise exception, provides that if the
court finds a publication to be a reliable authority, then "statements" may be read into evidence, but that the
publication may not be received as an exhibit. Thus, the jury is not allowed to bring learned treatises into the
jury room. There is a concern that if juries were allowed unrestricted access to the whole publication, they may
rely on parts of the publication that are not germane to the case. Moreover, the intent of the rule is that juries
need to be guided through the pertinent parts of the publication by the testifying experts.  

Answer B is incorrect. Federal Rule of Evidence 803(18), the learned treatise exception, allows statements
from a treatise to be read into evidence where the treatise is "called to the attention of an expert witness" and
is found to be reliable by the court. The rule does not require that an expert rely on the treatise. In this case,
the publication was called to the attention of the defendant's expert.  

Answer C is incorrect. Federal Rule of Evidence 803(18), the learned treatise exception, allows statements
from a treatise to be read into evidence when the treatise is "established as a reliable authority by the
testimony or admission of the witness or by other expert testimony or by judicial notice." In this case, one
expert testified that the publication was reliable, but the other expert contests that assertion. The decision on
reliability is for the court; it is not correct to say that the court should find the publication reliable simply
because one expert has found it to be so. In addition, the rule allows "statements" from a learned treatise to be
read into evidence, but does not allow the publication to be received as an exhibit.  

Answer D is incorrect. The statement is technically correct, but it does not mean that the jury gets to consider
every piece of evidence that the parties wish to present. Federal Rule of Evidence 803(18), the learned
treatise exception, requires the judge to determine that the publication is reliable before it can be considered
by the jury. In addition, the rule allows "statements" from a learned treatise to be read into evidence, but does
not allow the publication to be received as an exhibit.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 153

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1212 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

In a civil trial arising from a car accident at an intersection, the plaintiff testified on direct that he came to a full
stop at the intersection. On cross-examination, the defendant's lawyer asked whether the plaintiff claimed that
he was exercising due care at the time, and the plaintiff replied that he was driving carefully. At a sidebar
conference, the defendant's lawyer sought permission to ask the plaintiff about two prior intersection accidents
in the last 12 months where he received traffic citations for failing to stop at stop signs. The plaintiff's lawyer
objected.  

Should the court allow defense counsel to ask the plaintiff about the two prior incidents? 

A: No, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions does not bear on the plaintiff's veracity and
does not contradict his testimony in this case.
B: No, because there is no indication that failing to stop on the recent occasions led to convictions.
C: Yes, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions bears on the plaintiff's credibility, since he
claims to have stopped in this case.
D: Yes, because improperly failing to stop on the recent occasions tends to contradict the plaintiff's claim that
he was driving carefully at the time he collided with the defendant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 608(b), a witness can be impeached with prior bad acts
that bear upon truthfulness. Failing to stop at a stop sign has no bearing on truthfulness. As a general matter,
a witness also can be impeached with evidence that contradicts a part of his testimony that bears on an
important issue in dispute. However, in this case, the prior bad acts do not contradict the witness's testimony
that he stopped on this occasion. Essentially, the defendant is trying to show that the plaintiff is a careless
driver. Carelessness is a character trait, and evidence of a person's character is not admissible in a civil case
to prove how that person acted on the occasion in question.
Answer B is incorrect. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 608(b), a witness can be impeached with bad acts that
do not result in convictions. The reason that the prior acts are inadmissible is not because there were no
convictions, but rather because the acts have no bearing on veracity or contradiction of prior testimony.
Answer C is incorrect. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 608(b), a witness can be impeached with prior bad acts
that bear upon truthfulness by demonstrating falsity, dishonesty, or the like. Otherwise, the probative value of
the acts as to credibility are substantially outweighed by the risks of prejudice, confusion, and delay, and would
be excluded under Federal Rule of Evidence 403. In this case, the plaintiff's prior acts may demonstrate
carelessness, but they do not demonstrate dishonesty.  

Answer D is incorrect. A person can be acting carefully on one occasion and not another, so the prior acts are
not contradictory of the plaintiff's testimony that he was careful in this instance. If the plaintiff testified that he
had never run a stop sign, then the prior acts would contradict his testimony.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 154

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1216 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with burglary. At trial, a police officer testified that, after the defendant was arrested
and agreed to answer questions, the officer interrogated him with a stenographer present, but that he could not
recall what the defendant had said. The prosecutor presented the officer with a photocopy of the stenographic
transcript of the interrogation. The officer, after looking at it, was prepared to testify that he recalled that the
defendant admitted to being in the area of the burglary. The defendant objected to the officer's testimony on
the ground that it violated the "original document" rule (also known as the "best evidence" rule). 

Should the officer's testimony concerning the defendant's recorded confession be admitted? 

A: No, because a photocopy cannot be used without a showing that the original is unavailable.
B: No, because the stenographer has not testified to the accuracy of the transcript.
C: Yes, because a photocopy is a duplicate of the original.
D: Yes, because the prosecutor is not attempting to prove the contents of the document.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The prosecutor is trying to prove what the defendant said, not what the transcript says.
Accordingly, Federal Rule of Evidence 1003, the best evidence rule, is not relevant. It would be different, for
example, if this were a contract and the parties differed over the wording of a clause in the contract. In this
case, the copy of the transcript is properly used under Federal Rule of Evidence 612 to revive the officer's
recollection. 

Answer A is incorrect. The prosecutor is trying to prove what the defendant said, not what the transcript says.
Accordingly, Federal Rule of Evidence 1003, the best evidence rule, is not relevant. Even assuming that the
best evidence rule applied here, this is not an accurate statement of the law. Under Rule 1003, a duplicate can
be admissible without any showing that the original is unavailable. A showing of unavailability is required only if
the party is seeking to introduce something other than a duplicate (e.g., oral testimony) to prove the contents
of a document. See Federal Rule of Evidence 1004. 

Answer B is incorrect. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 612, the copy of the transcript is properly used to
revive the officer's recollection. This is not a case of past recollection recorded, in which the prosecutor would
have to show that the stenographer accurately recorded what the defendant said. In this case, the officer is
testifying to his own recollection of what the defendant said, that recollection having been revived by looking at
the transcript. A document used only to revive recollection does not have to be accurate or reliable, because
the document is not being admitted into evidence. The officer's testimony is the evidence. 

Answer C is incorrect. Although Federal Rule of Evidence 1003 supports the admission of photocopies with
some exceptions, this option assumes that the best evidence rule applies here, which it doesn't. The
prosecutor is trying to prove what the defendant said, not what the transcript says. The transcript here is being
used to revive the officer's recollection under Federal Rule of Evidence 612, and Rule 1003 is not relevant.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 155

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1249 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged in federal court with selling a controlled substance (heroin) in interstate commerce.
At trial, the prosecutor introduced evidence that the defendant obtained the substance from a supplier in
Kansas City and delivered it in Chicago. The defendant denied that the substance in question was heroin, but
he introduced no contrary evidence on the issue of transportation. 

Which of the following instructions regarding judicial notice may the judge legitimately give the jury? 

A: "If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and delivered them to Chicago, I instruct
you to find that the substance was sold in an interstate transaction."
B: "If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and delivered them to Chicago, then the
burden of persuasion is on the defendant to establish that the transaction was not interstate."
C: "If you find that the defendant obtained the drugs in Kansas City and delivered them to Chicago, then you
may, but you are not required to, find that the transaction was interstate in nature."
D: "I instruct you that there is a presumption that the substance was sold in an interstate transaction, but the
burden of persuasion on that issue is still on the government."

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. This instruction complies with Federal Rule of Evidence 201(f), which states that in a
criminal case, "the court shall instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept as conclusive any fact
judicially noticed." A judicially-noticed fact in a criminal case allows the court to instruct on a permissible
inference, but nothing more. 

Answer A is incorrect. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 201(f), a judge may not instruct a jury to find a fact in a
criminal case, even if it is a fact that is subject to judicial notice. Such an instruction would violate the
accused's Sixth Amendment right to a trial by jury on all elements of the crime. A judicially-noticed fact in a
criminal case allows the court to instruct on a permissible inference, but nothing more. 

Answer B is incorrect. The government has the burden of proving all elements of a crime beyond a reasonable
doubt. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 201(f), a judicially-noticed fact in a criminal case cannot shift that
constitutionally mandated burden of proof. Here, the court may instruct on a permissible inference, but nothing
more. 

Answer D is incorrect. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 201(f), a judicially-noticed fact in a criminal case does
not create a presumption. In civil cases, a judicially-noticed fact is conclusive; in a criminal case, because of
the accused's constitutional right to trial by jury, the judicially-noticed fact can be brought to the attention of the
jury, but the jury is free to reject it. Any instruction about a "presumption" is inappropriate in these
circumstances. The court may instruct on a permissible inference, but nothing more.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 156

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1258 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

In a personal injury case, the plaintiff sued a retail store for injuries she sustained from a fall in the store. The
plaintiff alleged that the store negligently allowed its entryway to become slippery due to snow tracked in from
the sidewalk. When the plaintiff threatened to sue, the store's manager said, "I know that there was slush on
that marble entry, but I think your four-inch-high heels were the real cause of your fall. So let's agree that we'll
pay your medical bills, and you release us from any claims you might have." The plaintiff refused the offer. At
trial, the plaintiff seeks to testify to the manager's statement that "there was slush on that marble entry." 

Is the statement about the slush on the floor admissible? 

A: No, because it is a statement made in the course of compromise negotiations.
B: No, because the manager denied that the slippery condition was the cause of the plaintiff's fall.
C: Yes, as an admission by an agent about a matter within the scope of his authority.
D: Yes, because the rule excluding offers of compromise does not protect statements of fact made during
compromise negotiations.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. Federal Rule of Evidence 408 excludes "[e]vidence of conduct or statements made in
compromise negotiations." Here, there is a dispute, and the manager's statement was made in an effort to
settle that dispute. As such, the entire statement is protected as a settlement offer under Rule 408. While
normally an admission of fact accompanying an offer to pay medical bills would be admissible, here the offer to
pay medical bills was part of a settlement negotiation, making any accompanying admissions of fact
inadmissible. 

Answer B is incorrect. If not for Federal Rule of Evidence 408, which protects compromise negotiations, the
statement about the slippery condition would be admissible even though the manager denied that it was the
cause. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 801(d)(2)(A), party admissions are not considered hearsay when
offered against the party who made the admission. Therefore, the plaintiff would be allowed to offer the part of
the statement that favors the plaintiff's case, while the part that favors the defendant's case would be excluded
as hearsay. The latter part would not be admissible under Rule 801(d)(2)(A), because it would be offered by
the manager who made the statement. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statement is true as far as it goes. But that only means that the statement is not
excluded as hearsay. As explained above, the manager's statement was made in an attempt to settle the
dispute, and as such, will be barred by Federal Rule of Evidence 408. 

Answer D is incorrect. Federal Rule of Evidence 408 protects not only offers of compromise, but also "conduct
or statements made in the course of compromise negotiations." The rationale is to allow the parties and
counsel to speak freely during settlement negotiations, without having to worry that their statements will be
used against them at trial. Here, there is a dispute, and the manager's statement was made in an attempt to
settle that dispute. Therefore, the statement would be excluded under Rule 408.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 157

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1265 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs

 The question was: 

In a civil action for misrepresentation in the sale of real estate, the parties contested whether the defendant
was licensed by the State Board of Realtors, a public agency established by statute to license real estate
brokers. The defendant testified she was licensed. On rebuttal, the plaintiff offers a certification, bearing the
seal of the secretary of the State Board of Realtors. The certification states that the secretary conducted a
thorough search of the agency's records and all relevant databases, and that this search uncovered no record
of a license ever having been issued to the defendant. The certification is signed by the secretary. 

Is the certification that there was no record of a license issuance admissible? 

A: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the writing was not properly authenticated.
C: Yes, for the limited purpose of impeaching the defendant.
D: Yes, to prove the nonexistence of a public record.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The certification is hearsay, but it qualifies under Federal Rule of Evidence 803(10), the
hearsay exception for a certification offered to prove the absence of a public record. The certification is offered
for the proper inference that if a license had been issued, it would have been recorded in the public record.
Thus, the fact that there was no record found is probative evidence that a license was never issued. To be
admissible, the certification must be prepared by a public official and must, on its face, indicate that a diligent
search of the records was conducted. This certification satisfies the requirements of the exception. Thus,
answer D is correct, and answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. No extrinsic evidence of authenticity is required to admit a domestic public document
bearing a government seal under Federal Rule of Evidence 902(1). Here, the certification is from a public
agency of the United States and bears the agency's seal. Therefore, it is self-authenticating under Rule 902(1)
and is admissible under Federal Rule of Evidence 803(10), the hearsay exception for a certification offered to
prove the absence of a public record. 

Answer C is incorrect. The certification qualifies under Federal Rule of Evidence 803(10), the hearsay
exception for a certification offered to prove the absence of a public record. The certification can be offered for
its truth--that there was no record of any issuance of a license to the defendant. Therefore its admissibility is
not limited to impeachment; it can be used both for impeachment and as substantive proof of the disputed fact.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 158

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1268 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for attempted fraud. The state charges that the defendant switched a price tag from a
cloth coat to a more expensive fur-trimmed coat and then presented the latter for purchase at the cash
register. The defendant testified in her own behalf that the tag must have been switched by someone else. On
cross-examination, the prosecutor asks whether the defendant was convicted on two prior occasions of
misdemeanor fraud in the defrauding of a retailer by the same means of switching the price tag on a
fur-trimmed coat. 

Is the question about the convictions for the earlier crimes proper? 

A: It is not proper either to impeach the defendant or to prove that the defendant committed the crime.
B: It is proper both to prove that the defendant committed the crime and to impeach the defendant.
C: It is proper to impeach the defendant, but not to prove that the defendant committed the crime.
D: It is proper to prove the defendant committed the crime, but not to impeach the defendant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b), prior bad acts can be admitted to prove the
defendant's conduct if offered for some purpose other than to show that the defendant is a bad person. In this
case, the bad acts are very similar to the acts in dispute, and tend to show non-character purposes such as
intent, knowledge, lack of accident, and modus operandi (i.e., that the defendant has a tendency to engage in
particularized activity that sets her apart from others). Thus the bad acts can be offered as proof that the
defendant committed the crime charged. In addition, Federal Rule of Evidence 609(a)(2) provides that
evidence of a past conviction "shall be admitted" to impeach the credibility of a witness if the crime "involved
dishonesty or false statement, regardless of the punishment." In this case, fraud convictions clearly involve
dishonesty, and are therefore properly admitted to impeach the defendant. Accordingly, the convictions are
admissible both to prove that the defendant committed the crime and to impeach the defendant. Thus, answer
B is correct, and answers A, C, and D are incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 159

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1274 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

The defendant, a young doctor, is charged with falsely claiming deductions on her federal income tax return. At
trial, a witness testified for the defendant that she has a reputation in the community for complete honesty.
After a sidebar conference at which the prosecutor gave the judge a record showing that the defendant's
medical school had disciplined her for altering her transcript, the prosecutor proposes to ask the witness on
cross-examination: "Have you ever heard that the defendant falsified her medical school transcript?" 

Is the prosecutor's question proper? 

A: No, because it calls for hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because its minimal relevance on the issue of income tax fraud is substantially outweighed by the
danger of unfair prejudice.
C: Yes, because an affirmative answer will be probative of the defendant's bad character for honesty and,
therefore, her guilt.
D: Yes, because an affirmative answer will impeach the witness's credibility.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The incident can be offered on cross-examination of the character witness, the proper
purpose being to show that the witness's assessment of the defendant's character for honesty is not credible.
The intent of the question is to test the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation on the one hand, and
the quality of the community on the other. If the witness hasn't heard about the falsification, he might not be
very plugged in to the community and so might be a poor reputation witness. On the other hand, if the witness
answers "yes," then the jury might infer that the community in which the defendant has a reputation for
complete honesty may be setting the honesty bar pretty low. In either case, the alleged falsification is probative
impeachment whether or not it occurred. Note that the courts require that the cross-examiner must have a
good faith belief that the event actually occurred before inquiring into the act on cross-examination. In this
case, that good faith standard is met by the evidence presented at the sidebar conference that the defendant
was disciplined in medical school. 

The question does not call for a statement that would be used for its truth. Therefore, it is not hearsay.
Likewise, the alleged incident is not offered to prove income tax fraud. Rather, the intent of the question is to
test the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation on the one hand, and the quality of the community
on the other. If the witness hasn't heard about the falsification, he might not be very plugged in to the
community and so might be a poor reputation witness. On the other hand, if the witness answers "yes," then
the jury might infer that the community in which the defendant has a reputation for complete honesty may be
setting the honesty bar pretty low. In either case, the alleged falsification is probative impeachment whether or
not it occurred. Thus, answers A and B are incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. Federal Rule of Evidence 405 prohibits evidence of specific acts indicative of a person's
character when that character evidence is offered to prove that a person acted in accordance with the
character trait on the occasion in question at trial. Thus, the prosecutor may not introduce the incident
involving the medical school transcript for the inference that, because the defendant acted dishonestly on that
occasion, she likely acted dishonestly with regard to her tax return.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 160

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1278 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

In a civil action for breach of an oral contract, the defendant admits that there had been discussions, but
denies that he ever entered into an agreement with the plaintiff. 

Which of the following standards of admissibility should be applied by the court to evidence proffered as
relevant to prove whether a contract was formed? 

A: Whether a reasonable juror would find the evidence determinative of whether the contract was or was not
formed.
B: Whether the evidence has any tendency to make the fact of contract formation more or less probable than
without the evidence.
C: Whether the evidence is sufficient to prove, absent contrary evidence, that the contract was or was not
formed.
D: Whether the evidence makes it more likely than not that a contract was or was not formed.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. This is the standard of relevance applied by the judge in determining admissibility under
Federal Rule of Evidence 401. Under that rule, evidence is relevant if it has "any tendency to make the
existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable
than it would be without the evidence." 

Answer A is incorrect because the test for admissibility is whether the judge believes that the evidence is
probative, not whether a reasonable jury could believe it to be so. This is established by Federal Rule of
Evidence 104(a). 

Answer C is incorrect because the judge determines admissibility and the jury determines sufficiency. It would
be impossible for a party to build a case if every piece of evidence had to be sufficient to prove the point in
dispute. 

Finally, answer D is incorrect because the preponderance standard is applied by the jury to all of the evidence
admitted. It is not applied by the court to determine whether a particular piece of evidence can be considered
by the jury on the ultimate question. Thus, this answer confuses the standard of proof used by the jury with the
standard of admissibility used by the judge.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 161

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1287 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

At a civil trial for slander, the plaintiff showed that the defendant had called the plaintiff a thief. In defense, the
defendant called a witness to testify, "I have been the plaintiff's neighbor for many years, and people in our
community generally have said that he is a thief." 

Is the testimony concerning the plaintiff's reputation in the community admissible? 

A: No, because character is an essential element of the defense, and proof must be made by specific
instances of conduct.
B: Yes, to prove that the plaintiff is a thief, and to reduce or refute the damages claimed.
C: Yes, to prove that the plaintiff is a thief, but not on the issue of damages.
D: Yes, to reduce or refute the damages claimed, but not to prove that the plaintiff is a thief.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. In slander cases, where the defendant makes a statement that the plaintiff has an
unsavory character, the plaintiff's character is considered "in issue" (i.e., an essential element of the claim or
defense under the substantive law) in two respects. First, the plaintiff's actual character will determine whether
the defendant was incorrect in his assessment, and thus liable for slander, because truth is a defense.
Second, the plaintiff will allege that he is damaged by the statement, which is another way of saying that his
true character has been besmirched. If, however, the plaintiff actually has a bad reputation anyway, then
damages are limited. Thus, in slander cases like the one in this question, character evidence is relevant both
to whether the plaintiff has a certain character trait and to the extent of damages. Under Federal Rule of
Evidence 405, when character is "in issue" it can be proved by evidence of reputation, opinion, or specific acts.
Thus, answer B is correct, and answers A, C, and D are incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 162

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1301 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

In a suit based on a will, inheritance of $1 million depended upon whether the wife had survived her husband
when both died in the crash of a small airplane. An applicable statute provided that, for purposes of distributing
an estate after a common disaster, there was a rebuttable presumption that neither spouse had survived the
other. A witness was called to testify that as she approached the plane she heard what she thought was a
woman's voice saying, "I'm dying," although by the time the two occupants were removed from the wreckage,
they were both dead. 

Is the witness's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the matter is governed by the presumption that neither spouse survived the other.
B: No, because the witness's testimony is too speculative to support a finding.
C: Yes, because the hearsay rule does not apply to statements by decedents in actions to determine rights
under a will.
D: Yes, because it is relevant and not otherwise prohibited.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The testimony is not barred by the hearsay rule or any other rule and is relevant on the
issue of whether the wife survived the husband. Furthermore, the statement by the woman is not hearsay,
because it is not being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. It is being offered to prove that the
woman was alive at the time she made the statement and hence is relevant on the issue of whether she
survived her husband, even if by only a few minutes. The witness's testimony is based on her perception and
memory and thus satisfies Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. 

Answer A is incorrect. The majority common law rule, which is followed by Rule 301 of the Federal Rules of
Evidence, adopts the "bursting bubble" view under which a presumption disappears when sufficient
counterproof is offered about the presumed fact. Here the testimony of the witness, although not conclusive, is
sufficient to rebut the presumption that neither spouse survived the other and to support a jury finding that the
wife outlived the husband. Therefore, the presumption is no longer controlling, and the witness's testimony is
admissible. 

Answer B is incorrect. The testimony is not "too speculative." A witness need not be absolutely certain of
matters about which the witness testifies. Here the testimony is based on the perception and memory of the
witness and thus satisfies Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statement by the woman is not hearsay because it is not being offered to prove the
truth of the matter asserted. It is being offered to prove that the woman was alive at the time she made the
statement and hence is relevant on the issue of whether she survived her husband, even if by only a few
minutes.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 163

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1315 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with murder. While walking down the hallway during a recess in the defendant's trial,
the judge overheard the defendant say to his attorney, "So what if I did it? There's not enough proof to
convict." Upon the judge's reporting the incident to counsel, the prosecutor called the judge as a witness in the
trial. 

Is the judge's testimony regarding the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.
B: Yes, because the defendant's statement, although otherwise privileged, was made without reasonable
efforts to preserve confidentiality.
C: No, because the statement was a privileged attorney-client communication.
D: No, because a judge may never testify in a trial over which he or she is presiding.

The explanation for the answer is:

Rule 605 of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides that a "judge presiding at the trial may not testify in that
trial as a witness." Therefore, the judge will not be able to testify as to the defendant's statements, so long as
the judge is still presiding over the defendant's trial. Thus, Answer D is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The statement is the admission of a party-opponent and would be otherwise admissible
under Rule 801(d)(2)(A) of the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, under Rule 605, the admission may not
be proven by the testimony of the presiding judge. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although it is true that reasonable efforts were not made by the defendant and his
attorney to preserve confidentiality, this means only that the communication was not privileged. It does not
mean the statement is necessarily admissible. The problem here is that under Rule 605, the statement cannot
be proven through the testimony of the presiding judge. The defendant's statement probably would be
admissible if someone other than the presiding judge had heard it. 

Answer C is incorrect. The statement would not be privileged because reasonable efforts were not made by
the defendant and his attorney to preserve confidentiality. The statement was made in a public place in a voice
loud enough to be overheard.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 164

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1318 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant's house was destroyed by fire and she was charged with arson. To prove that the defendant had
a motive to burn down her house, the government offered evidence that the defendant had fully insured the
house and its contents. 

Should the court admit this evidence? 

A: No, because the probative value of the evidence of insurance upon the issue of whether the defendant
intentionally burned her house down is substantially outweighed by the dangers of unfair prejudice and
confusion of the jury.
B: No, because evidence of insurance is not admissible upon the issue of whether the insured acted
wrongfully.
C: Yes, because evidence of insurance on the house has a tendency to show that the defendant had a motive
to burn down the house.
D: Yes, because any conduct of a party to the case is admissible when offered against the party.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Although this evidence is certainly not conclusive that the defendant committed arson
(many people fully insure their houses), it is relevant to the issue of whether the defendant would have had a
financial incentive to commit the arson. The defendant might be able to generate cash more quickly by burning
down the house and collecting insurance proceeds than by attempting to sell the house. To be relevant under
Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, the evidence need only have "any tendency to make the existence
of a fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would
be without the evidence." Therefore, evidence that has only the slightest probative value can be admitted
under this rule. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. Although the probative value of this evidence on the issue of whether the defendant
intentionally burned her house down is not particularly strong, the evidence is relevant to the issue of possible
motive. Rule 403 of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides that relevant evidence should be admitted unless
its probative value is "substantially outweighed" by the dangers of unfair prejudice or confusion. Here, the
evidence of insurance is neither unfairly prejudicial nor particularly confusing. 

Answer B is incorrect. Under Rule 411 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, it is true that evidence that a person
was insured is generally not admissible to prove that the person acted negligently or otherwise wrongfully.
However, such evidence may be received for other purposes, and proof of motive is such a purpose. In this
respect, Rule 411 is similar to Rule 404(b), under which evidence of past conduct cannot be admitted to prove
a propensity to engage in such conduct but can be admitted on the issue of motive. 

Answer D is incorrect. There is no such broad rule that any conduct of a party may be admitted against that
party.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 165

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1329 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with battery for allegedly attacking a man as they left a local bar together. No one
else witnessed the fight. At trial, each testified that he had acted only in self-defense. The defendant called his
next-door neighbor as a witness to testify as to the defendant's reputation both for truthfulness and for
peacefulness. The government objected to the testimony in its entirety. 

How should the court proceed? 

A: Admit the evidence in its entirety.
B: Admit the evidence regarding the defendant's reputation for peacefulness, but exclude the evidence
regarding his truthfulness.
C: Exclude the evidence regarding the defendant's reputation for peacefulness, but admit the evidence
regarding his truthfulness.
D: Exclude the evidence in its entirety.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. In a prosecution for battery, the defendant's character for peacefulness is a pertinent,
relevant character trait under Rule 404(a)(1) of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Rule 405 allows the defendant
to offer evidence of his reputation for peacefulness. However, the evidence of the defendant's truthfulness
must be excluded. Under Rule 608(a), truthfulness is a relevant trait only to rehabilitate a witness whose
character for truthfulness has been attacked, but there is no indication that such an attack has taken place
here. Thus, Answer B is correct, and Answers A, C, and D are incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 166

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1334 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a trial of a contract dispute, the plaintiff offered to testify to what the defendant said in a private conversation
between the two of them, which the plaintiff had secretly recorded on an audiotape that she did not offer in
evidence. 

Is the plaintiff's testimony admissible? 

A: Yes, because the plaintiff has personal knowledge of the statement of a party-opponent.
B: Yes, because the original document rule does not apply to audiotapes.
C: No, because the statement must be proved by introduction of the audiotape itself.
D: No, because of the plaintiff's deception, even if the recording was not illegal.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. What the defendant said to the plaintiff, even in a private conversation, is an admission of
a party-opponent and is admissible under Rule 801(d)(2)(A) of the Federal Rules of Evidence. The plaintiff has
personal knowledge of what the defendant said and can testify about it. The fact that the audiotape might be
better evidence of what the defendant actually said makes no difference. The best evidence rule applies only
when a witness testifies about the content of a writing or recording. Here the plaintiff would not be testifying
about the content of the audiotape but rather about what she personally heard. 

Answer B is incorrect. The testimony is admissible because the plaintiff will testify to what she heard directly
from the defendant, not about what she heard on the audiotape. Therefore, she would not be attempting to
prove the content of the audiotape and there would be no violation of the original document rule. The answer is
incorrect in stating that the original document rule does not apply to audiotapes. The original document rule,
Rule 1002 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, applies to writings, recordings, and photographs. 

Answer C is incorrect. Rule 1002 of the Federal Rules of Evidence requires a recording to be introduced only
when its contents are being proved. Here the plaintiff is offering to testify about what she heard directly from
the defendant, not about what she heard on the audiotape. The fact that an audiotape was contemporaneously
made does not mean that the tape has to be produced, since the plaintiff has independent knowledge of what
the defendant said. If the problem were changed so that the plaintiff only learned of the defendant's statements
by listening to an audiotape, then the audiotape would have to be produced. 

Answer D is incorrect. There is no rule automatically barring evidence obtained by deception. Moreover, the
evidence obtained by deception (the secretly recorded audiotape) was not in fact offered. Some state and
federal statutes do regulate secret recordings of conversations, and violation of such statutes sometimes
means that recordings obtained in violation thereof must be excluded. But the recording was not offered in
evidence in this problem. Only the statements made by the defendant were offered, and they would be
admissible whether or not a contemporaneous recording was made.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 167

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1348 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for wrongful death arising out of a traffic collision between the plaintiff's decedent
and the defendant. At trial, the investigating traffic officer authenticated a tape recording of her shift-end
dictation of comments used in preparing the written report of her factual findings. She testified that the tape
recording was accurate when made and that she currently had no clear memory of the details of the
investigation. 

Is the tape recording admissible as evidence? 

A: Yes, under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule.
B: Yes, under the public records exception to the hearsay rule.
C: No, because it is hearsay and is a police report being offered against the defendant in a wrongful death
case.
D: No, because the police report itself is the best evidence.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. This statement meets the requirements of Rule 803(5) of the Federal Rules of Evidence,
the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule. The witness once had knowledge but now has
insufficient recollection to testify fully and accurately about her investigation. She made the recording when the
matter was fresh in her memory, and she has testified that the recording was an accurate reflection of her
memory. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the officer's formal written report would qualify as a public record, the informal
dictated comments she made to help her prepare the report would not. The tape recording would be
admissible under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule. 

Answer C is incorrect. Although the tape recording is hearsay, it fits the hearsay exception of Rule 803(5) of
the Federal Rules of Evidence as a past recollection recorded. It contains only informal comments so probably
does not qualify as a "police report." Even if it were a police report, there is no prohibition against the
admission of a police report in a civil case if it satisfies a hearsay exception. 

Answer D is incorrect. The tape recording was made prior to the written report and was used as a basis for the
written report. It is not being offered to prove the content of the written report and hence its admission does not
violate Rule 1002 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Instead it is being offered to prove the factual details of the
officer's investigation as she remembered them at the end of her shift when she made the tape recording.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 168

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1348 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant for wrongful death arising out of a traffic collision between the plaintiff's decedent
and the defendant. At trial, the investigating traffic officer authenticated a tape recording of her shift-end
dictation of comments used in preparing the written report of her factual findings. She testified that the tape
recording was accurate when made and that she currently had no clear memory of the details of the
investigation. 

Is the tape recording admissible as evidence? 

A: Yes, under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule.
B: Yes, under the public records exception to the hearsay rule.
C: No, because it is hearsay and is a police report being offered against the defendant in a wrongful death
case.
D: No, because the police report itself is the best evidence.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. This statement meets the requirements of Rule 803(5) of the Federal Rules of Evidence,
the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule. The witness once had knowledge but now has
insufficient recollection to testify fully and accurately about her investigation. She made the recording when the
matter was fresh in her memory, and she has testified that the recording was an accurate reflection of her
memory. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

Answer B is incorrect. Although the officer's formal written report would qualify as a public record, the informal
dictated comments she made to help her prepare the report would not. The tape recording would be
admissible under the past recollection recorded exception to the hearsay rule. 

Answer C is incorrect. Although the tape recording is hearsay, it fits the hearsay exception of Rule 803(5) of
the Federal Rules of Evidence as a past recollection recorded. It contains only informal comments so probably
does not qualify as a "police report." Even if it were a police report, there is no prohibition against the
admission of a police report in a civil case if it satisfies a hearsay exception. 

Answer D is incorrect. The tape recording was made prior to the written report and was used as a basis for the
written report. It is not being offered to prove the content of the written report and hence its admission does not
violate Rule 1002 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Instead it is being offered to prove the factual details of the
officer's investigation as she remembered them at the end of her shift when she made the tape recording.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 169

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1361 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the full loss of his banquet hall by fire. The insurance company
defended under a provision of the policy limiting liability to 50 percent if "flammable materials not essential to
the operation of the business were stored on the premises and caused a fire." The insurance company called
the keeper of the city fire inspection records to identify a report prepared and filed by the fire marshal as
required by law, indicating that shortly before the fire, the fire marshal had cited the plaintiff for storing gasoline
at the banquet hall. 

Is the report admissible? 

A: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the proceeding is civil, rather than criminal.
C: Yes, as a public record describing matters observed as to which there was a duty to report.
D: Yes, as a record of regularly conducted activity, provided the fire marshal is unavailable.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The report is admissible as a public record under Rule 803(8) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence. The facts of the problem indicate that the fire marshal had a legal duty to report. The fact that the
fire marshal issued the citation indicates that he observed gasoline being stored in the banquet hall. Thus,
Answer C is correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The fact that this is a civil case does not make the report inadmissible. Public records
are admissible in both civil and criminal cases. In fact, they are more broadly admissible in civil cases than in
criminal cases. The report is admissible as a public record under Rule 803(8) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence. 

Answer D is incorrect. Although the exception for records of regularly conducted activity (Rule 803(6) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence) might apply, this answer is incorrect because this exception does not require a
showing of the unavailability of the fire marshal.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 170

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1368 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued an individual defendant for injuries suffered in a collision between the plaintiff's car and the
defendant's truck while the defendant's employee was driving the truck. The plaintiff sought discovery of any
accident report the employee might have made to the defendant, but the defendant responded that no such
report existed. Before trial, the defendant moved to preclude the plaintiff from asking the defendant in the
presence of the jury whether he destroyed such a report, because the defendant would then invoke his
privilege against self-incrimination. 

Should the court allow the plaintiff to ask the defendant about the destruction of the report? 

A: No, because a report that was prepared in anticipation of litigation is not subject to discovery.
B: No, because no inference may properly be drawn from invocation of a legitimate privilege.
C: Yes, because a party in a civil action may not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination.
D: Yes, because the defendant's destruction of the report would serve as the basis of an inference adverse to
the defendant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. If a party destroys evidence, it is proper for the jury to draw an inference that the evidence
was adverse to that party. It is also proper for the jury to draw an adverse inference in a civil case from a
party's assertion of the privilege against self-incrimination. Thus, the court should allow the question to be
asked, because it is proper regardless of how the defendant responds. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer
B is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that a report prepared in anticipation of litigation may qualify as work product.
However, the work-product immunity is not absolute. Documents that are work product are still subject to
discovery upon a showing of substantial need and the inability to obtain the substantial equivalent of the
materials by other means. Moreover, a claim of work-product immunity must be asserted in front of and ruled
on by the court. A party cannot simply destroy the material and claim work-product protection. Finally, here the
plaintiff would not be asking the defendant to produce the report for the jury to see. The plaintiff would only ask
whether such a report had been destroyed. 

Answer C is incorrect. The privilege against self-incrimination may be asserted in both civil and criminal cases.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 171

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1368 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued an individual defendant for injuries suffered in a collision between the plaintiff's car and the
defendant's truck while the defendant's employee was driving the truck. The plaintiff sought discovery of any
accident report the employee might have made to the defendant, but the defendant responded that no such
report existed. Before trial, the defendant moved to preclude the plaintiff from asking the defendant in the
presence of the jury whether he destroyed such a report, because the defendant would then invoke his
privilege against self-incrimination. 

Should the court allow the plaintiff to ask the defendant about the destruction of the report? 

A: No, because a report that was prepared in anticipation of litigation is not subject to discovery.
B: No, because no inference may properly be drawn from invocation of a legitimate privilege.
C: Yes, because a party in a civil action may not invoke the privilege against self-incrimination.
D: Yes, because the defendant's destruction of the report would serve as the basis of an inference adverse to
the defendant.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. If a party destroys evidence, it is proper for the jury to draw an inference that the evidence
was adverse to that party. It is also proper for the jury to draw an adverse inference in a civil case from a
party's assertion of the privilege against self-incrimination. Thus, the court should allow the question to be
asked, because it is proper regardless of how the defendant responds. Thus, Answer D is correct, and Answer
B is incorrect. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that a report prepared in anticipation of litigation may qualify as work product.
However, the work-product immunity is not absolute. Documents that are work product are still subject to
discovery upon a showing of substantial need and the inability to obtain the substantial equivalent of the
materials by other means. Moreover, a claim of work-product immunity must be asserted in front of and ruled
on by the court. A party cannot simply destroy the material and claim work-product protection. Finally, here the
plaintiff would not be asking the defendant to produce the report for the jury to see. The plaintiff would only ask
whether such a report had been destroyed. 

Answer C is incorrect. The privilege against self-incrimination may be asserted in both civil and criminal cases.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 172

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1374 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

In a prosecution for aggravated battery, a police officer testified that when he arrested the defendant, he took a
knife from the defendant and delivered it to the medical examiner. The medical examiner testified that the knife
blade was consistent with the victim's wound but admitted on cross-examination that any number of other
knives could also have caused the wound. 

Should the judge grant a motion to strike the medical examiner's testimony? 

A: No, because the probative worth of this evidence is for the jury to assess.
B: Yes, because in light of the medical examiner's admission, his testimony has insufficient probative value.
C: Yes, because the medical examiner could not state the probability that the wound was caused by the
defendant's knife.
D: Yes, because the probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. This evidence has some probative value because it links the knife in defendant's
possession to the type of knife that could have caused the victim's wound. The evidence is not very strong,
because other knives could also have caused the wound. But how much weight to give to the evidence is a
decision for the jury. Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence requires only that evidence have "any
tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more
probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence." Thus to be relevant, evidence need only
have some probative value in establishing a fact. The Advisory Committee's Note to Rule 401 quotes the
famous statement "A brick is not a wall," making the point that evidence is admissible even if it is only a single
brick that is a part of a large wall of evidence establishing a party's case. Thus, Answer A is correct, and
Answer B is incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence does not require such a statement of
probability. The medical examiner's testimony does not have to establish that defendant's knife caused the
wound by any particular standard, such as beyond a reasonable doubt, by clear and convincing evidence, or
by a preponderance of the evidence. It need only have probative value to be admissible. 

Answer D is incorrect. Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence has a very broad and liberal standard of
what is relevant: evidence that has "any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to
the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence." Rule
403 allows evidence to be excluded under certain circumstances. But Rule 403 establishes what might be
described as a presumption of admissibility, because evidence meeting Rule 401's definition of relevance is
admissible unless its probative value is "substantially outweighed" by the danger of unfair prejudice. Here
there does not appear to be any significant degree of unfair prejudice, let alone enough to "substantially
outweigh" the value of the medical examiner's testimony.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 173

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1376 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant was on trial for perjury for having falsely testified in an earlier civil case that he knew nothing
about a business fraud. In the perjury trial, the defendant again testified that he knew nothing about the
business fraud. In rebuttal, the prosecutor called a witness to testify that after the civil trial was over, the
defendant admitted to the witness privately that he had known about the fraud. 

Is the witness's testimony in the perjury trial admissible? 

A: Yes, but only to impeach the defendant's testimony.
B: Yes, both to impeach the defendant's testimony and as substantive evidence of the perjury.
C: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
D: No, because it relates to the business fraud and not to the commission of perjury.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. This statement is admissible both to impeach the defendant's testimony as a prior
inconsistent statement and as substantive evidence, because it is an admission of a party-opponent under
Rule 801(d)(2)(A) of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Thus, Answer B is correct and Answers A and C are
incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. The statement made to the witness does relate to the prior business fraud, but it is a
statement by the defendant that in fact he did know about the fraud, when he testified in two trials that he did
not know of it. Thus the statement is relevant to prove that the defendant's trial testimony was knowingly false
and hence constituted perjury.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 174

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1385 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

When a man entered a bank and presented a check for payment, the bank teller recognized the signature on
the check as a forgery because the check was drawn on the account of a customer whose handwriting she
knew. The bank teller called the police. Before the police arrived, the man picked up the check from the
counter and left. 

The man was charged with attempting to cash a forged check. At trial, the prosecutor called the bank teller to
testify that the signature on the check was forged. 

Is the bank teller's testimony admissible? 

A: Yes, because a bank teller is by occupation an expert on handwriting.
B: Yes, because it is rationally based on the bank teller's perception and is helpful to the jury.
C: No, because the bank teller was at fault in allowing loss of the original by failing to secure the check.
D: No, because it is not possible for either the jury or an expert to compare the signature on the missing check
with a signature established as genuine.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. Rule 701 of the Federal Rules of Evidence allows lay opinion testimony when it is
rationally based on the perception of the witness and is helpful to the jury. Here the teller knew the signature of
the bank customer on whose account the check was drawn. This knowledge made it possible for her to
recognize the signature on the check as a forgery. Her testimony that the signature was a forgery is testimony
that the signature on the check presented was different from the signature of the owner of the account (a
signature she knows). Obviously the owner of the account would be a stronger prosecution witness than the
teller in establishing that the signature was forged, but this doesn't mean that the teller would not be allowed to
testify. Thus, Answer B is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. There is nothing in the fact pattern to suggest that the bank teller is an expert on
handwriting, and merely working as a bank teller would not give a person such expertise. 

Answer C is incorrect. There is no rule in the law of evidence that would allow exclusion of the testimony on
this basis. Moreover, there is no indication in the facts that there was fault on the part of the teller. 

Answer D is incorrect. Having an expert or even the jury members themselves compare an exemplar
established as genuine with the disputed signature is one way to establish whether a signature is forged or
authentic. This method of authentication is specifically recognized by Rule 901(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence. But it is not the only method authorized. Rule 901(b) also allows authentication by "[n]onexpert
opinion as to the genuineness of handwriting, based upon familiarity not acquired for purposes of the
litigation."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 175

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1391 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs

 The question was: 

A pedestrian sued a driver for injuries suffered in a hit-and-run accident. At trial, the pedestrian called a
witness who testified that he saw the accident and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license
number into his properly operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no longer
remembered the number. 

May the tape recording be played? 

A: Yes, as a present sense impression only.
B: Yes, as a recorded recollection only.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.
D: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The statement is admissible as a present sense impression under Rule 803(1) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence because it describes or explains an event or condition and was "made while the
declarant was perceiving the event or condition, or immediately thereafter." It is also admissible under Rule
803(5) of the Federal Rules of Evidence because it is a record "concerning a matter about which a witness
once had knowledge but now has insufficient recollection to testify fully and accurately," and it was made by
the witness "when the matter was fresh in the witness' memory" and "reflect[s] that knowledge correctly." Thus,
Answer C is correct while Answers A and B incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. The statement on the recording is hearsay because it is an out-of-court statement
offered for its truth. But it is admissible under Rule 803(1) of the Federal Rules of Evidence as a present sense
impression and also under Rule 803(5) as a past recollection recorded.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 176

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1391 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs

 The question was: 

A pedestrian sued a driver for injuries suffered in a hit-and-run accident. At trial, the pedestrian called a
witness who testified that he saw the accident and that as the car sped off he accurately dictated the license
number into his properly operating pocket dictating machine. The witness stated that he no longer
remembered the number. 

May the tape recording be played? 

A: Yes, as a present sense impression only.
B: Yes, as a recorded recollection only.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression and as a past recollection recorded.
D: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The statement is admissible as a present sense impression under Rule 803(1) of the
Federal Rules of Evidence because it describes or explains an event or condition and was "made while the
declarant was perceiving the event or condition, or immediately thereafter." It is also admissible under Rule
803(5) of the Federal Rules of Evidence because it is a record "concerning a matter about which a witness
once had knowledge but now has insufficient recollection to testify fully and accurately," and it was made by
the witness "when the matter was fresh in the witness' memory" and "reflect[s] that knowledge correctly." Thus,
Answer C is correct while Answers A and B incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. The statement on the recording is hearsay because it is an out-of-court statement
offered for its truth. But it is admissible under Rule 803(1) of the Federal Rules of Evidence as a present sense
impression and also under Rule 803(5) as a past recollection recorded.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 177

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1398 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A defendant was on trial for tax evasion. The IRS, seeking to establish the defendant's income by showing his
expenditures, called on the defendant's attorney to produce records showing only how much the defendant
had paid his attorney in fees. 

Should the demand for the attorney's fee records be upheld? 

A: Yes, because it calls for relevant information not within the attorney-client privilege.
B: Yes, because the attorney-client privilege cannot be invoked to conceal evidence of a crime.
C: No, because the records are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
D: No, because the records are protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The attorney-client privilege applies only to confidential communications made for the
purpose of facilitating legal representation of the client. The amount the defendant paid in legal fees does not
qualify as such a communication. Fee arrangements and payments are generally outside the protection of the
attorney-client privilege. Thus, Answer A is correct and Answer C is incorrect. Additionally, Answer B is
incorrect because the attorney-client privilege can be invoked even where it conceals evidence of a past
crime. 

The work-product doctrine provides a qualified immunity for materials prepared by an attorney or client in
anticipation of litigation, such as witness statements, investigative reports, or trial memoranda. The amount a
client paid to his attorney for legal representation is outside the protection of the work-product doctrine. Thus,
Answer D is incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 178

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1410 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

Several defendants, senior executives of a corporation, were charged with securities fraud. The government
called as a witness another executive of the corporation, who had not been charged and who had been given
immunity from prosecution, to authenticate handwritten notes that she had made after meetings of the
corporation's management team at which the alleged fraud was discussed. The witness testified that she had
prepared the notes on her own initiative to help her remember what had happened at the meetings. After this
testimony, the government offered the notes into evidence to establish what had happened at the meetings. 

Should the witness's notes be admitted? 

A: No, because the notes are hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the witness's immunity agreement with the government makes her notes untrustworthy and
thus substantially more prejudicial than probative.
C: Yes, because they are business records.
D: Yes, because they are past recollections recorded.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. The notes are hearsay because they are out-of-court statements offered to prove the truth
of the matter asserted, and they do not fit any hearsay exception. 

Answer B is incorrect. The grant of immunity was given after the notes were made and therefore could not
affect the reliability of the notes. Moreover, with the threat of prosecution removed, a witness is arguably more
trustworthy. The notes are inadmissible, however, because they are hearsay not within any exception. 

Answer C is incorrect. The notes do not qualify as business records because they were prepared on the
executive's own initiative to help her remember what had happened at the meetings. The business records
exception to the hearsay rule requires that it be the regular practice of a business (not an individual employee)
to make such records and that the records be kept in the course of regularly conducted business activity. 

Answer D is incorrect. No foundation has been laid to admit the notes under the past recollection recorded
exception to the hearsay rule. The executive has not testified that she has insufficient recollection to testify
fully and accurately without the notes, nor has she testified that the notes are an accurate reflection of her
knowledge when the matter was fresh in her memory. Moreover, even if the hearsay exception were satisfied,
the notes themselves are not admissible. Under FRE 803(5), a record of recorded recollection "may be read
into evidence but may not itself be received as an exhibit unless offered by an adverse party."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 179

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1413 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued a defendant, alleging that she was seriously injured when the defendant ran a red light and
struck her while she was walking in a crosswalk. During the defendant's case, a witness testified that the
plaintiff had told him that she was "barely touched" by the defendant's car. 

On cross-examination, should the court allow the plaintiff to elicit from the witness the fact that he is an
adjuster for the defendant's insurance company? 

A: No, because testimony about liability insurance is barred by the rules of evidence.
B: No, because the reference to insurance raises a collateral issue.
C: Yes, for both substantive and impeachment purposes.
D: Yes, for impeachment purposes only.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. Although FRE 411 generally bars evidence of liability insurance to prove negligence or
wrongful conduct, it contains an exception allowing the use of such evidence to prove bias. The fact that the
witness is an adjuster for the defendant's insurance company is a legitimate ground for impeachment for bias.
Thus, Answer A is incorrect. Furthermore, the witness's employment by the insurance company is therefore
not collateral. Thus, Answer B is incorrect. 

Answer C is incorrect. The evidence is not admissible for substantive purposes. FRE 411 bars evidence of
liability insurance to prove negligence or wrongful conduct. However, the rule contains an exception allowing
the use of such evidence to prove bias. Thus, the fact that the witness is an adjuster for the defendant's
insurance company is a legitimate ground for impeachment for bias but not a basis for admission as
substantive evidence. Thus, Answer D is correct.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 180

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1421 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with the crime of defrauding the federal agency where he worked as an accountant.
At trial, the court allowed the defendant to call his supervisor at the large corporation where he had previously
worked, who testified about the defendant's good reputation in the community for honesty. Over objection, the
defendant then sought to elicit testimony from his former supervisor that on several occasions the corporation
had, without incident, entrusted him with large sums of money. 

Should the testimony be admitted? 

A: No, because the testimony is extrinsic evidence on a collateral matter.
B: No, because good character cannot be proved by specific instances of conduct unless character is an
essential element of the charge or defense.
C: Yes, because it is evidence of a pertinent character trait offered by an accused.
D: Yes, because it is relevant to whether the defendant was likely to have taken money as charged in this
case.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. When a criminal defendant seeks to prove his good character under FRE 404(a)(2), FRE
405(a) allows proof only by reputation evidence or opinion evidence, not by specific instances of conduct. 

Answer A is incorrect. The testimony does not relate to a collateral matter. Under FRE 404(a)(2), a criminal
defendant is allowed to present evidence about a pertinent trait of character, such as honesty in a fraud case.
The problem with the testimony in this case is that it relates to specific instances of conduct. FRE 405(a)
allows only reputation or opinion evidence when a criminal defendant is proving his good character, not
instances of specific conduct. 

Answer C is incorrect. Honesty is a pertinent trait of character in a case such as this where a defendant is
charged with fraud. However, when an accused seeks to prove his good character under FRE 404(a)(2), FRE
405(a) allows proof only by reputation evidence or opinion evidence, not by specific instances of conduct. 

Answer D is incorrect. The evidence is relevant, because FRE 404(a)(2) allows an accused to present
evidence of a pertinent trait of character, and honesty is a pertinent trait in a case such as this where a
defendant is charged with fraud. However, when an accused seeks to prove his good character under FRE
404(a)(2), FRE 405(a) allows proof only by reputation evidence or opinion evidence, not by specific instances
of conduct.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 181

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1427 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued his insurance company for the proceeds of a casualty insurance policy covering his 60-foot
yacht, claiming that the yacht was destroyed by an accidental fire. The company denied liability, claiming that
the plaintiff hired his friend to set the fire. In the hospital the day after the fire, the friend, who had been badly
burned in the fire, said to his wife, in the presence of an attending nurse, "I was paid to set the fire." Two
weeks later, the friend died of an infection resulting from the burns. At trial, the insurance company called the
wife to testify to the friend's statement. 

Is the wife's testimony admissible over the plaintiff's objection? 

A: No, because the marital privilege survives the communicating spouse's death.
B: No, because the statement was made after the conspiracy ended.
C: Yes, because it is a statement against interest.
D: Yes, because it is a statement by a co-conspirator.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The statement is against the friend's interest because it could subject him to civil or
criminal liability. The friend is unavailable, so the statement satisfies FRE 804(b)(3). 

Answer A is incorrect. While it is true that the marital privilege survives the communicating spouse's death, the
privilege never arose here, because the communication between the friend and his wife was not confidential. It
was made in the presence of an attending nurse. The testimony is admissible because the friend's statement
was a statement against interest and the friend is unavailable. 

Answer B is incorrect. The friend's statement would not satisfy the co-conspirator exception because it was
made after the conspiracy was over and it was not made in furtherance of the conspiracy. But because the
statement qualifies as a statement against interest and because the friend is unavailable, the wife's testimony
is admissible under FRE 804(b)(3). 

Answer D is incorrect. The statement would not satisfy the co-conspirator exception because it was made after
the conspiracy was over and it was not made in furtherance of the conspiracy. The wife's testimony is
otherwise admissible under FRE 804(b)(3), however, because it contains the friend's statement against
interest and the friend is unavailable.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 182

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1430 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with possession of marijuana with intent to distribute. On direct examination, the
defendant testified that he worked with disadvantaged children as a drug counselor, that he hated drugs, that
he would "never possess or distribute drugs," and that he had never used drugs and would not touch them.
The government offered as a rebuttal witness a police officer who would testify that, three years earlier, he saw
the defendant buy cocaine from a street dealer. The defendant objected. 

Is the testimony of the police officer about the prior drug transaction admissible to impeach the defendant? 

A: No, because the bad act of buying drugs is not sufficiently probative of a witness's character for
truthfulness.
B: No, because it is contradiction on a collateral matter.
C: Yes, because it is proper contradiction.
D: Yes, because the bad act shows a disregard for the law and makes it less likely that the defendant would
respect the oath of truthfulness.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. This is an example of impeachment by contradiction. The evidence of the prior cocaine
purchase directly contradicts the defendant's testimony on direct examination that he would never possess
drugs and is admissible for that purpose. 

Answer A is incorrect. The evidence of purchasing cocaine being offered to impeach the defendant's character
for truthfulness. Instead it is being offered to contradict his testimony on direct examination that he would never
possess drugs. The offered testimony is admissible for that purpose.  

Answer B is incorrect. The evidence of a prior cocaine purchase is not collateral, because the defendant is
charged with drug possession and the evidence directly contradicts the defendant’s testimony on direct
examination that he would never possess drugs. The offered testimony is admissible for that purpose.  

Answer D is incorrect. The evidence of the prior cocaine purchase is not being offered under FRE 608(b) to
show a prior bad act bearing on the witness's truthfulness. The evidence would not be admissible under FRE
608(b) in any case, because FRE 608(b) prohibits extrinsic evidence of prior acts and only allows questioning
about them on cross-examination. Instead this is an example of impeachment by contradiction.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 183

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1440 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A woman sued her friend for injuries she received as a passenger in the friend's car. On direct examination,
the woman testified that the friend had been speeding and ran a red light. On cross-examination, the woman
was asked whether she was under the influence of drugs at the time of the accident. The woman invoked the
privilege against self-incrimination. 

How should the court treat the woman's claim of privilege? 

A: Deny it, because the woman waived the privilege by voluntarily testifying.
B: Deny it, because evidence of the woman's drug intoxication is essential to assessing the accuracy of her
observations.
C: Uphold it, because the privilege applies in both civil and criminal cases.
D: Uphold it, because the woman's credibility cannot be impeached by a crime for which she has not been
convicted.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, a witness cannot be compelled to testify
against herself. A witness in a civil or criminal proceeding may refuse to give an answer that tends to connect
the witness to the commission of a crime. The woman cannot be forced to reveal facts that could subject her to
criminal prosecution. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Although a person can waive the privilege against self-incrimination by voluntarily testifying about the
incriminating matter, in this case, the woman did not testify about anything that was self-incriminating. Thus,
Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. A standard impeachment method is to challenge the ability of a witness to perceive and
remember the event about which the witness is testifying. If the woman was under the influence of drugs, the
accuracy of her observations could certainly be put in question. However, an evidence rule generally allowing
this type of impeachment cannot prevail over the woman's constitutional right not to be forced to incriminate
herself. 

Answer D is incorrect. Even if a witness has not been convicted of a crime, an admission by the witness that
he or she committed that crime could certainly affect the witness's credibility.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 184

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1447 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A consumer has sued the manufacturer of a microwave oven for burn injuries allegedly caused by the
manufacturer's negligent failure to warn purchasers of the dangers of heating foods in certain types of
containers. The consumer has offered into evidence three letters, all received by the manufacturer before the
oven was shipped to the consumer, in which customers had complained of serious burns under circumstances
similar to those in the consumer's case. The manufacturer has objected to the letters on the grounds of
hearsay and, in the alternative, has asked for a limiting instruction directing that the letters be considered not
for the truth of the assertions contained in them but only regarding the issue of notice. 

How should the court respond? 

A: The court should sustain the objection and treat the request for a limiting instruction as moot.
B: The court should overrule the objection and deny the request for a limiting instruction.
C: The court should overrule the objection and give the limiting instruction.
D: The court should overrule the objection but allow only that the letters be read to the jury, not received as
exhibits.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Hearsay is a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at trial or
hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. The letters are hearsay if they are
offered to prove the assertions contained in them--that there were dangers in using the microwave and that
other persons had been injured. The letters are admissible only if they are offered for the limited purpose of
proving that the manufacturer was put on notice of possible dangers in using the microwave. Such notice
supports the claim of negligence, because it suggests that the manufacturer should have investigated and
taken action to protect future consumers. Accordingly, the objection should be overruled because a limiting
instruction will suffice to limit the use of the letters to the issue of notice. Thus, Answer C is correct, and
Answers A and B are incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. Allowing the letters to be read to the jury but not received as exhibits does not
overcome the hearsay objection to the substantive use of these letters.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 185

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1447 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A consumer has sued the manufacturer of a microwave oven for burn injuries allegedly caused by the
manufacturer's negligent failure to warn purchasers of the dangers of heating foods in certain types of
containers. The consumer has offered into evidence three letters, all received by the manufacturer before the
oven was shipped to the consumer, in which customers had complained of serious burns under circumstances
similar to those in the consumer's case. The manufacturer has objected to the letters on the grounds of
hearsay and, in the alternative, has asked for a limiting instruction directing that the letters be considered not
for the truth of the assertions contained in them but only regarding the issue of notice. 

How should the court respond? 

A: The court should sustain the objection and treat the request for a limiting instruction as moot.
B: The court should overrule the objection and deny the request for a limiting instruction.
C: The court should overrule the objection and give the limiting instruction.
D: The court should overrule the objection but allow only that the letters be read to the jury, not received as
exhibits.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Hearsay is a statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at trial or
hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted. The letters are hearsay if they are
offered to prove the assertions contained in them--that there were dangers in using the microwave and that
other persons had been injured. The letters are admissible only if they are offered for the limited purpose of
proving that the manufacturer was put on notice of possible dangers in using the microwave. Such notice
supports the claim of negligence, because it suggests that the manufacturer should have investigated and
taken action to protect future consumers. Accordingly, the objection should be overruled because a limiting
instruction will suffice to limit the use of the letters to the issue of notice. Thus, Answer C is correct, and
Answers A and B are incorrect. 

Answer D is incorrect. Allowing the letters to be read to the jury but not received as exhibits does not
overcome the hearsay objection to the substantive use of these letters.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 186

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1454 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued for injuries arising from a car accident, claiming a back injury. At trial, she wishes to testify that
prior to the accident she had never had any problems with her back. 

Is the plaintiff's proposed testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the plaintiff has not been qualified as an expert.
B: No, because the plaintiff's pain could have been caused by factors arising after the accident, such as an
injury at work.
C: Yes, because it is probative evidence of the plaintiff's injury.
D: Yes, because the testimony of parties is not subject to the lay opinion rule.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The fact that the back problems arose after the accident is probative on the issue of
whether the accident was the cause of the injury. Therefore, the evidence meets the standard of relevance,
and the testimony should be allowed. 

Answer A is incorrect. The plaintiff does not need to be qualified as an expert to testify that she had never
previously had any problems with her back. Because the substance of the proposed testimony is a matter of
personal knowledge, not expert opinion, the testimony should be allowed. 

Answer B is incorrect. Even though other factors may have contributed to the plaintiff's back injury after the
accident, she nonetheless is allowed to testify that she never had any problems with her back before the
accident. 

Answer D is incorrect. All testimony, even testimony by parties, is subject to the lay opinion rule under FRE
701. However, in this instance the plaintiff is not giving a lay opinion but is merely testifying on the basis of
personal knowledge that she had not previously had any problems with her back. The testimony should be
allowed.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 187

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1454 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff sued for injuries arising from a car accident, claiming a back injury. At trial, she wishes to testify that
prior to the accident she had never had any problems with her back. 

Is the plaintiff's proposed testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the plaintiff has not been qualified as an expert.
B: No, because the plaintiff's pain could have been caused by factors arising after the accident, such as an
injury at work.
C: Yes, because it is probative evidence of the plaintiff's injury.
D: Yes, because the testimony of parties is not subject to the lay opinion rule.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. The fact that the back problems arose after the accident is probative on the issue of
whether the accident was the cause of the injury. Therefore, the evidence meets the standard of relevance,
and the testimony should be allowed. 

Answer A is incorrect. The plaintiff does not need to be qualified as an expert to testify that she had never
previously had any problems with her back. Because the substance of the proposed testimony is a matter of
personal knowledge, not expert opinion, the testimony should be allowed. 

Answer B is incorrect. Even though other factors may have contributed to the plaintiff's back injury after the
accident, she nonetheless is allowed to testify that she never had any problems with her back before the
accident. 

Answer D is incorrect. All testimony, even testimony by parties, is subject to the lay opinion rule under FRE
701. However, in this instance the plaintiff is not giving a lay opinion but is merely testifying on the basis of
personal knowledge that she had not previously had any problems with her back. The testimony should be
allowed.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 188

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1469 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A cyclist sued a defendant corporation for injuries sustained when she was hit by a truck owned by the
defendant and driven by its employee, who was making deliveries for the defendant. The day after the
accident, the employee visited the cyclist in the hospital and said, "I'm sorry for what I did." At trial, the
employee testified that he had exercised due care.  

Why is the cyclist's testimony relating what the defendant's employee said at the hospital admissible to prove
negligence? 

A: It is a prior inconsistent statement.
B: It is a statement against interest.
C: It is a statement by a party-opponent's agent.
D: It is a statement of then-existing state of mind.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. FRE 801(d)(2)(D) provides that a statement is "not hearsay" if it is offered against a party
and “was made by the party's agent or employee on a matter within the scope of that relationship and while it
existed.” Here, the statement was made by the defendant's agent while the agent was still employed by the
defendant. Furthermore, the statement concerned a matter within the scope of the agency. The agent stated
he was sorry for his actions at the time of the accident, which occurred while the agent was working with the
scope of his employment. Thus, Answer C is correct. 

Answer A is incorrect. It is true that the statement is admissible to impeach as a prior inconsistent statement.
Being sorry "for what I did" is arguably inconsistent with the testimony by the employee at trial that he had
exercised due care. But a statement admissible only to impeach cannot be used for substantive purposes such
as to prove negligence. As stated above, the statement is admissible as an admission by an agent under FRE
801(d)(2)(D). 

Answer B is incorrect. A statement against interest is only admissible if the declarant is unavailable. Here the
declarant is available and testifying at trial. As stated above, the statement is admissible as an admission by
an agent under FRE 801(d)(2)(D). 

Answer D is incorrect. The statement "I'm sorry" reflects the employee's state of mind at the time the statement
was made. But the relevant issue is not the employee's state of mind the day after the accident but whether he
was negligent at the time of the accident. The hearsay exception for state-of-mind statements is not backward
looking. It generally does not allow statements of current mental feeling to prove past conduct or to show why
the declarant has a certain state of mind. As stated above, the statement is admissible as an admission by an
agent under FRE 801(d)(2)(D).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 189

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1475 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for bank robbery. Evidence at the trial has included testimony by a bank teller who was
present during the robbery. The teller testified for the prosecution after having refreshed her memory by
looking at an FBI agent's investigative report that was created shortly after the robbery. The defendant has
asked to examine the report.  

How should the court respond? 

A: The court may allow the examination if the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory before
testifying, and must allow it if she used it during her testimony.
B: The court must allow the examination, but only to the extent that the report contains the teller's own
statement to the FBI agent.
C: The court should not allow the examination, unless the report was used by the teller to refresh her memory
while on the witness stand.
D: The court should not allow the examination, because the report was not shown to have been read and
approved by the teller while the matter was fresh in her mind.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer A is correct. FRE 612 provides that if a witness uses a writing to refresh memory for the purpose of
testifying, either (1) while testifying, or (2) before testifying, if the court in its discretion determines it is
necessary in the interests of justice, an adverse party is entitled to have the writing produced at the hearing, to
inspect it, to cross-examine the witness thereon, and to introduce in evidence those portions which relate to
the testimony of the witness. Thus, Answer A is correct. 

FRE 612 allows an opponent to inspect a writing used to refresh a witness's recollection regardless of whether
the writing contains the witness's own statement. Thus, Answer B is incorrect. 

FRE 612 gives the court discretion to require production of a writing used to refresh a witness's recollection,
even if the writing was provided to the witness before he or she testified. Thus, Answer C is incorrect. 

FRE 612 allows an opponent to see material used to refresh the memory of a witness regardless of whether
the material was read and approved by the witness while the matter was fresh in his or her mind. The
requirement of a witness approving a writing made while the matter was fresh in the witness's mind relates to
an entirely different evidence rule--FRE 803(5), which creates a hearsay exception for past recollection
recorded. Thus, Answer D is incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 190

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1485 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A patient sued a hospital for medical negligence, claiming that a nurse employed by the hospital failed to
administer critical medication prescribed by the patient's treating physician during the plaintiff's hospitalization.
To prove the nurse's failure to administer the prescribed medication, the patient called the medical records
librarian, who authenticated the hospital's record of the patient's treatment, which contained no entry showing
that the medication in question had been administered.  

Is the hospital record admissible? 

A: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the nurse's testimony would be the best evidence of her actions in treating the plaintiff.
C: Yes, although hearsay, because it is a statement against interest by agents of the hospital.
D: Yes, because it is within the hearsay exception covering the absence of entries in business records.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The hospital record itself is hearsay, but it qualifies as a record of regularly recorded
conduct under FRE 803(6). The absence of an entry in such a record is admissible under FRE 803(7) to prove
the nonoccurrence of a matter that would normally have been recorded if it had occurred. Thus, the absence of
an entry can be used by the patient to establish that the medication was not administered. Thus, Answer D is
correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. No rule of evidence requires the patient to call the nurse to prove whether the
medication was administered. Although the patient has the option of calling the nurse, the patient also has the
option of introducing the hospital record as a business record to prove absence of an entry showing that the
medication was administered. Both forms of proof are permissible. Under the circumstances of this case,
where the nurse may have an incentive to testify falsely, the hospital record is arguably the best evidence. 

Answer C is incorrect. To fit the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule, the declarant must be
shown to be unavailable, and there is no such showing here. While it is true that the hospital record itself is
hearsay, it qualifies for admission as a record of regularly recorded conduct under FRE 803(6), as explained
above.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 191

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1485 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A patient sued a hospital for medical negligence, claiming that a nurse employed by the hospital failed to
administer critical medication prescribed by the patient's treating physician during the plaintiff's hospitalization.
To prove the nurse's failure to administer the prescribed medication, the patient called the medical records
librarian, who authenticated the hospital's record of the patient's treatment, which contained no entry showing
that the medication in question had been administered.  

Is the hospital record admissible? 

A: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the nurse's testimony would be the best evidence of her actions in treating the plaintiff.
C: Yes, although hearsay, because it is a statement against interest by agents of the hospital.
D: Yes, because it is within the hearsay exception covering the absence of entries in business records.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer D is correct. The hospital record itself is hearsay, but it qualifies as a record of regularly recorded
conduct under FRE 803(6). The absence of an entry in such a record is admissible under FRE 803(7) to prove
the nonoccurrence of a matter that would normally have been recorded if it had occurred. Thus, the absence of
an entry can be used by the patient to establish that the medication was not administered. Thus, Answer D is
correct, and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. No rule of evidence requires the patient to call the nurse to prove whether the
medication was administered. Although the patient has the option of calling the nurse, the patient also has the
option of introducing the hospital record as a business record to prove absence of an entry showing that the
medication was administered. Both forms of proof are permissible. Under the circumstances of this case,
where the nurse may have an incentive to testify falsely, the hospital record is arguably the best evidence. 

Answer C is incorrect. To fit the statement against interest exception to the hearsay rule, the declarant must be
shown to be unavailable, and there is no such showing here. While it is true that the hospital record itself is
hearsay, it qualifies for admission as a record of regularly recorded conduct under FRE 803(6), as explained
above.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 192

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1494 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant was charged with robbery of a savings and loan branch after being arrested near the scene and
found with marked bills. An hour after the robbery, the officer investigating the crime videotaped an interview
with an eyewitness, in which the eyewitness described the crime and the robber. The officer then arranged for
a lineup, at which the teller who was robbed identified the defendant as the robber. The officer later obtained
computerized records of that day's deposits and withdrawals at the savings and loan, which allowed the
calculation of how much cash was taken in the robbery. A month later, the teller testified before a grand jury,
which indicted the defendant. The teller and the eyewitness both died of unrelated causes shortly afterward.  

At trial, which of the following evidence, if properly authenticated, may properly be admitted against the
defendant over his attorney's objection that its receipt would violate the confrontation clause? 

A: A transcript of the teller's sworn grand jury testimony.
B: The computerized records from the savings and loan.
C: The officer's testimony that the teller picked the defendant out of the lineup as the robber.
D: The videotape of the eyewitness's statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer B is correct. The computerized records are not a testimonial statement. Crawford v. Washington
specifically cites business records as an example of statements that are generally not testimonial. Thus,
Answer B is correct. 

The teller's grand jury testimony is a classic testimonial statement barred by the confrontation clause. Since a
defendant has no right to be at a grand jury hearing, the defendant does not have a chance to confront the
witness at the hearing. The fact that the witness's statements were made under oath does not cure the
defendant's inability to confront the witness at the grand jury hearing. Accordingly, admitting the witness's
grand jury testimony without a chance for the defendant to confront and cross-examine the witness would
violate the confrontation clause. Thus, Answer A is incorrect. 

The officer's statement does not violate the confrontation clause because he can be cross-examined, but the
teller's identification of the defendant is a testimonial statement. Since the teller is dead, it would violate the
defendant's right of confrontation to admit the statement of identification by the teller. Answer C is incorrect. 

The eyewitness's statement is clearly testimonial. Because the eyewitness was not cross-examined when the
statement was made and cannot be cross-examined at trial (because the eyewitness is dead), the statement is
inadmissible under the confrontation clause. Thus, Answer D is incorrect.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 193

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1499 - Evidence - Writings Recordings and Photographs

 The question was: 

A defendant is being prosecuted for conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine. At trial, the
government seeks to have its agent testify to a conversation that he overheard between the defendant and a
co-conspirator regarding the incoming shipment of a large quantity of cocaine. That conversation was also
audiotaped, though critical portions of it are inaudible. The defendant objects to the testimony of the agent on
the ground that it is not the best evidence of the conversation.  

Is the testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the testimony of the agent is not the best evidence of the conversation.
B: No, because the testimony of the agent reports hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because the best evidence rule does not require proof of the conversation through the audiotape.
D: Yes, because the audiotape is partly inaudible.

The explanation for the answer is:

Answer C is correct. Since the agent personally heard the conversation, he is not relying on the contents of the
audiotape for his testimony. Therefore there is no violation of the best evidence rule. The agent is not
attempting to prove the contents of the audiotape, only what he overheard. The conversation could, of course,
also be proved by introducing the audiotape, and it can be argued that the audiotape is "better" evidence than
the agent's testimony. Nonetheless, so long as the agent obtained his knowledge of the conversation from his
own perception, and not by listening to the audiotape, the best evidence rule is not violated. Thus, Answer C is
correct and Answer A is incorrect. 

Answer B is incorrect. The statements made by the defendant are admissible as individual admissions under
FRE 801(d)(2)(A). The statements made by the co-conspirator are admissible as admissions of a
co-conspirator under FRE 801(d)(2)(E). 

Answer D is incorrect. The testimony of the agent is admissible because it is based on the personal perception
of the agent who overheard the conversation. Therefore, the agent will be allowed to testify to what he
personally heard regardless of whether any recording was made and regardless of any defects in the
recording.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 194

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1504 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A businessman was the target of a grand jury investigation into the alleged bribery of American and foreign
officials in connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press
conference that no bribes had been offered or taken and that no laws of any kind had been broken. The grand
jury issued a subpoena requiring the businessman to testify before it. The businessman moved to quash the
subpoena on the ground that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a
grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled statements before the grand jury could not
be used against him in any state or federal prosecution). The businessman responded that the grant of use
immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.  

Should the businessman be compelled to testify? 

A: No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.
B: No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the
bribery scheme.
C: Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability and therefore his Fifth Amendment rights
are not at stake.
D: Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. While the businessman does face the possibility of foreign prosecution, the U.S. Supreme Court
has squarely held that the Fifth Amendment does not protect against the risk of foreign prosecution. Because
the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment. He should
therefore be compelled to testify.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the grant of use immunity does not protect the businessman from being
prosecuted. Instead, it protects against the businessman's compelled statements--or any fruits of those
statements--being used against him in any domestic prosecution. The U.S. Supreme Court has long held that
the Fifth Amendment right is satisfied by a grant of use immunity. The Fifth Amendment does not require a
grant of immunity from prosecution ("transactional immunity"). The businessman should therefore be
compelled to testify.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the businessman has denied liability does not mean that any statement he makes
could never tend to incriminate him. Even an innocent person might say something that would tend to
incriminate himself, and a tendency to incriminate is all that is required to trigger Fifth Amendment protection.
However, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights,
he should be compelled to testify.  

D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity,
that neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic
prosecution, then he loses his right to refuse to testify because his statements cannot tend to incriminate him.
Because the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 195

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1504 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A businessman was the target of a grand jury investigation into the alleged bribery of American and foreign
officials in connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press
conference that no bribes had been offered or taken and that no laws of any kind had been broken. The grand
jury issued a subpoena requiring the businessman to testify before it. The businessman moved to quash the
subpoena on the ground that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a
grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled statements before the grand jury could not
be used against him in any state or federal prosecution). The businessman responded that the grant of use
immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.  

Should the businessman be compelled to testify? 

A: No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.
B: No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the
bribery scheme.
C: Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability and therefore his Fifth Amendment rights
are not at stake.
D: Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. While the businessman does face the possibility of foreign prosecution, the U.S. Supreme Court
has squarely held that the Fifth Amendment does not protect against the risk of foreign prosecution. Because
the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment. He should
therefore be compelled to testify.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the grant of use immunity does not protect the businessman from being
prosecuted. Instead, it protects against the businessman's compelled statements--or any fruits of those
statements--being used against him in any domestic prosecution. The U.S. Supreme Court has long held that
the Fifth Amendment right is satisfied by a grant of use immunity. The Fifth Amendment does not require a
grant of immunity from prosecution ("transactional immunity"). The businessman should therefore be
compelled to testify.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the businessman has denied liability does not mean that any statement he makes
could never tend to incriminate him. Even an innocent person might say something that would tend to
incriminate himself, and a tendency to incriminate is all that is required to trigger Fifth Amendment protection.
However, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights,
he should be compelled to testify.  

D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity,
that neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic
prosecution, then he loses his right to refuse to testify because his statements cannot tend to incriminate him.
Because the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 196

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1504 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A businessman was the target of a grand jury investigation into the alleged bribery of American and foreign
officials in connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press
conference that no bribes had been offered or taken and that no laws of any kind had been broken. The grand
jury issued a subpoena requiring the businessman to testify before it. The businessman moved to quash the
subpoena on the ground that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a
grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled statements before the grand jury could not
be used against him in any state or federal prosecution). The businessman responded that the grant of use
immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.  

Should the businessman be compelled to testify? 

A: No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.
B: No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the
bribery scheme.
C: Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability and therefore his Fifth Amendment rights
are not at stake.
D: Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. While the businessman does face the possibility of foreign prosecution, the U.S. Supreme Court
has squarely held that the Fifth Amendment does not protect against the risk of foreign prosecution. Because
the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment. He should
therefore be compelled to testify.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the grant of use immunity does not protect the businessman from being
prosecuted. Instead, it protects against the businessman's compelled statements--or any fruits of those
statements--being used against him in any domestic prosecution. The U.S. Supreme Court has long held that
the Fifth Amendment right is satisfied by a grant of use immunity. The Fifth Amendment does not require a
grant of immunity from prosecution ("transactional immunity"). The businessman should therefore be
compelled to testify.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the businessman has denied liability does not mean that any statement he makes
could never tend to incriminate him. Even an innocent person might say something that would tend to
incriminate himself, and a tendency to incriminate is all that is required to trigger Fifth Amendment protection.
However, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights,
he should be compelled to testify.  

D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity,
that neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic
prosecution, then he loses his right to refuse to testify because his statements cannot tend to incriminate him.
Because the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 197

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1504 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A businessman was the target of a grand jury investigation into the alleged bribery of American and foreign
officials in connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press
conference that no bribes had been offered or taken and that no laws of any kind had been broken. The grand
jury issued a subpoena requiring the businessman to testify before it. The businessman moved to quash the
subpoena on the ground that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a
grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled statements before the grand jury could not
be used against him in any state or federal prosecution). The businessman responded that the grant of use
immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.  

Should the businessman be compelled to testify? 

A: No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.
B: No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the
bribery scheme.
C: Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability and therefore his Fifth Amendment rights
are not at stake.
D: Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. While the businessman does face the possibility of foreign prosecution, the U.S. Supreme Court
has squarely held that the Fifth Amendment does not protect against the risk of foreign prosecution. Because
the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment. He should
therefore be compelled to testify.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the grant of use immunity does not protect the businessman from being
prosecuted. Instead, it protects against the businessman's compelled statements--or any fruits of those
statements--being used against him in any domestic prosecution. The U.S. Supreme Court has long held that
the Fifth Amendment right is satisfied by a grant of use immunity. The Fifth Amendment does not require a
grant of immunity from prosecution ("transactional immunity"). The businessman should therefore be
compelled to testify.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the businessman has denied liability does not mean that any statement he makes
could never tend to incriminate him. Even an innocent person might say something that would tend to
incriminate himself, and a tendency to incriminate is all that is required to trigger Fifth Amendment protection.
However, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights,
he should be compelled to testify.  

D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity,
that neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic
prosecution, then he loses his right to refuse to testify because his statements cannot tend to incriminate him.
Because the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 198

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1504 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

A businessman was the target of a grand jury investigation into the alleged bribery of American and foreign
officials in connection with an international construction project. The businessman had stated at a press
conference that no bribes had been offered or taken and that no laws of any kind had been broken. The grand
jury issued a subpoena requiring the businessman to testify before it. The businessman moved to quash the
subpoena on the ground that his testimony could tend to incriminate him. The prosecutor responded with a
grant of use immunity (under which the businessman's compelled statements before the grand jury could not
be used against him in any state or federal prosecution). The businessman responded that the grant of use
immunity was not sufficient to protect his Fifth Amendment rights.  

Should the businessman be compelled to testify? 

A: No, because the businessman remains subject to the risk of foreign prosecution.
B: No, because use immunity does not prevent the government from prosecuting the businessman on the
bribery scheme.
C: Yes, because the businessman has denied any criminal liability and therefore his Fifth Amendment rights
are not at stake.
D: Yes, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. While the businessman does face the possibility of foreign prosecution, the U.S. Supreme Court
has squarely held that the Fifth Amendment does not protect against the risk of foreign prosecution. Because
the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment. He should
therefore be compelled to testify.  

B is incorrect. It is true that the grant of use immunity does not protect the businessman from being
prosecuted. Instead, it protects against the businessman's compelled statements--or any fruits of those
statements--being used against him in any domestic prosecution. The U.S. Supreme Court has long held that
the Fifth Amendment right is satisfied by a grant of use immunity. The Fifth Amendment does not require a
grant of immunity from prosecution ("transactional immunity"). The businessman should therefore be
compelled to testify.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the businessman has denied liability does not mean that any statement he makes
could never tend to incriminate him. Even an innocent person might say something that would tend to
incriminate himself, and a tendency to incriminate is all that is required to trigger Fifth Amendment protection.
However, because the grant of use immunity is coextensive with the businessman's Fifth Amendment rights,
he should be compelled to testify.  

D is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that if a person is guaranteed, through a grant of use immunity,
that neither his statements nor the fruits of those statements can be used against him in a domestic
prosecution, then he loses his right to refuse to testify because his statements cannot tend to incriminate him.
Because the businessman has been protected against the use of his statements in a domestic prosecution, his
statements cannot tend to incriminate him in any sense protected by the Fifth Amendment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 199

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1507 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television
was a gift from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the
friend told her neighbor that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.  

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible? 

A: No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the
statement.
C: Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.
D: Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement would be hearsay if it were offered to prove that the friend actually owned the
television. But the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay and is admissible.  

B is incorrect. There is no requirement that a statement offered to prove its effect on the person who heard it
must be corroborated. In this case, the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the
defendant thought that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant
is charged with knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had
heard the friend say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of
mind regardless of whether it was corroborated. Because the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is
not hearsay and is admissible.  

C is correct. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

D is incorrect. The statement is offered for a nonhearsay purpose, so there is no need to find an applicable
hearsay exception. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought
that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with
knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend
say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of
the truth of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

Moreover, if an exception were required, the exception for statements affecting an interest in property would
not be applicable, because that exception requires that the statement be contained in a document. Here the
statement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 200

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1507 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television
was a gift from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the
friend told her neighbor that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.  

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible? 

A: No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the
statement.
C: Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.
D: Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement would be hearsay if it were offered to prove that the friend actually owned the
television. But the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay and is admissible.  

B is incorrect. There is no requirement that a statement offered to prove its effect on the person who heard it
must be corroborated. In this case, the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the
defendant thought that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant
is charged with knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had
heard the friend say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of
mind regardless of whether it was corroborated. Because the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is
not hearsay and is admissible.  

C is correct. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

D is incorrect. The statement is offered for a nonhearsay purpose, so there is no need to find an applicable
hearsay exception. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought
that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with
knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend
say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of
the truth of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

Moreover, if an exception were required, the exception for statements affecting an interest in property would
not be applicable, because that exception requires that the statement be contained in a document. Here the
statement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 201

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1507 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television
was a gift from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the
friend told her neighbor that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.  

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible? 

A: No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the
statement.
C: Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.
D: Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement would be hearsay if it were offered to prove that the friend actually owned the
television. But the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay and is admissible.  

B is incorrect. There is no requirement that a statement offered to prove its effect on the person who heard it
must be corroborated. In this case, the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the
defendant thought that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant
is charged with knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had
heard the friend say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of
mind regardless of whether it was corroborated. Because the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is
not hearsay and is admissible.  

C is correct. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

D is incorrect. The statement is offered for a nonhearsay purpose, so there is no need to find an applicable
hearsay exception. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought
that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with
knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend
say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of
the truth of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

Moreover, if an exception were required, the exception for statements affecting an interest in property would
not be applicable, because that exception requires that the statement be contained in a document. Here the
statement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 202

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1507 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television
was a gift from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the
friend told her neighbor that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.  

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible? 

A: No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the
statement.
C: Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.
D: Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement would be hearsay if it were offered to prove that the friend actually owned the
television. But the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay and is admissible.  

B is incorrect. There is no requirement that a statement offered to prove its effect on the person who heard it
must be corroborated. In this case, the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the
defendant thought that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant
is charged with knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had
heard the friend say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of
mind regardless of whether it was corroborated. Because the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is
not hearsay and is admissible.  

C is correct. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

D is incorrect. The statement is offered for a nonhearsay purpose, so there is no need to find an applicable
hearsay exception. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought
that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with
knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend
say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of
the truth of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

Moreover, if an exception were required, the exception for statements affecting an interest in property would
not be applicable, because that exception requires that the statement be contained in a document. Here the
statement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 203

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1507 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is on trial for knowing possession of a stolen television. The defendant claims that the television
was a gift from a friend, who has disappeared. The defendant seeks to testify that he was present when the
friend told her neighbor that the television had been given to the friend by her mother.  

Is the defendant's testimony about the friend's statement to the neighbor admissible? 

A: No, because the friend's statement is hearsay not within any exception.
B: No, because the defendant has not presented evidence of circumstances that clearly corroborate the
statement.
C: Yes, as nonhearsay evidence of the defendant's belief that the friend owned the television.
D: Yes, under the hearsay exception for statements affecting an interest in property.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement would be hearsay if it were offered to prove that the friend actually owned the
television. But the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay and is admissible.  

B is incorrect. There is no requirement that a statement offered to prove its effect on the person who heard it
must be corroborated. In this case, the defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the
defendant thought that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant
is charged with knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had
heard the friend say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of
mind regardless of whether it was corroborated. Because the statement is not being offered for its truth, it is
not hearsay and is admissible.  

C is correct. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought that the
friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with knowing
possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend say that
the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of the truth
of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

D is incorrect. The statement is offered for a nonhearsay purpose, so there is no need to find an applicable
hearsay exception. The defendant is offering the friend's statement as evidence that the defendant thought
that the friend owned the television (i.e., that it had not been stolen). Because the defendant is charged with
knowing possession of a stolen television, his state of mind is relevant. If the defendant had heard the friend
say that the television was hers, that evidence would be relevant to the defendant's state of mind regardless of
the truth of the statement. Therefore, the friend's out-of-court statement is not hearsay.  

Moreover, if an exception were required, the exception for statements affecting an interest in property would
not be applicable, because that exception requires that the statement be contained in a document. Here the
statement was oral.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 204

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1511 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The
day after the fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official
police report. At trial, the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement
attributed to the eyewitness, who is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."  

Should the court admit the statement from the report? 

A: No, unless the entire report is introduced.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement is inadmissible hearsay even if the entire report is introduced; the eyewitness's
statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public
record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be
shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness
had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

B is correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present
sense impression, because it was made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the eyewitness purports to have personal knowledge does not solve the hearsay
problem, which arises because the eyewitness might not have told the truth about the event he purportedly
saw and is not subject to cross-examination about it. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay
report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is
admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a
business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other
hearsay exception applies.  

D is incorrect. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 205

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1511 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The
day after the fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official
police report. At trial, the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement
attributed to the eyewitness, who is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."  

Should the court admit the statement from the report? 

A: No, unless the entire report is introduced.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement is inadmissible hearsay even if the entire report is introduced; the eyewitness's
statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public
record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be
shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness
had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

B is correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present
sense impression, because it was made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the eyewitness purports to have personal knowledge does not solve the hearsay
problem, which arises because the eyewitness might not have told the truth about the event he purportedly
saw and is not subject to cross-examination about it. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay
report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is
admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a
business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other
hearsay exception applies.  

D is incorrect. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 206

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1511 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The
day after the fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official
police report. At trial, the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement
attributed to the eyewitness, who is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."  

Should the court admit the statement from the report? 

A: No, unless the entire report is introduced.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement is inadmissible hearsay even if the entire report is introduced; the eyewitness's
statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public
record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be
shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness
had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

B is correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present
sense impression, because it was made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the eyewitness purports to have personal knowledge does not solve the hearsay
problem, which arises because the eyewitness might not have told the truth about the event he purportedly
saw and is not subject to cross-examination about it. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay
report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is
admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a
business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other
hearsay exception applies.  

D is incorrect. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 207

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1511 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The
day after the fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official
police report. At trial, the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement
attributed to the eyewitness, who is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."  

Should the court admit the statement from the report? 

A: No, unless the entire report is introduced.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement is inadmissible hearsay even if the entire report is introduced; the eyewitness's
statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public
record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be
shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness
had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

B is correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present
sense impression, because it was made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the eyewitness purports to have personal knowledge does not solve the hearsay
problem, which arises because the eyewitness might not have told the truth about the event he purportedly
saw and is not subject to cross-examination about it. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay
report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is
admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a
business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other
hearsay exception applies.  

D is incorrect. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 208

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1511 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a civil suit against a defendant for injuries arising out of a fistfight between them. The
day after the fight, a police officer talked to the plaintiff, the defendant, and an eyewitness, and made an official
police report. At trial, the plaintiff seeks to introduce from the properly authenticated police report a statement
attributed to the eyewitness, who is unavailable to testify at trial, that "[the defendant] started the fight."  

Should the court admit the statement from the report? 

A: No, unless the entire report is introduced.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, because it was based on the eyewitness's firsthand knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is an excerpt from a public record offered in a civil case.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The statement is inadmissible hearsay even if the entire report is introduced; the eyewitness's
statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public
record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be
shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness
had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

B is correct. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty. The eyewitness's statement is also not a present
sense impression, because it was made the day after the fight, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The fact that the eyewitness purports to have personal knowledge does not solve the hearsay
problem, which arises because the eyewitness might not have told the truth about the event he purportedly
saw and is not subject to cross-examination about it. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay
report. The report itself could be admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is
admissible only if it satisfies a separate hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a
business or public duty to report the information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other
hearsay exception applies.  

D is incorrect. The eyewitness's statement is hearsay within the hearsay report. The report itself could be
admissible as a business or public record, but the hearsay within it is admissible only if it satisfies a separate
hearsay exception or if it can be shown that the eyewitness had a business or public duty to report the
information accurately. The eyewitness had no such duty, and no other hearsay exception applies.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 209

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1517 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant.
The plaintiff was unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in
an ambulance.  

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's
husband if he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two
hours ago by a driver who went right through the intersection without looking."  

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it relates an opinion.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
D: Yes, as an excited utterance.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. An out-of-court statement is not inadmissible simply because it contains an opinion. Statements
of opinion by out-of-court declarants may be admitted if they qualify under a hearsay exception and otherwise
satisfy the rules governing opinion testimony of in-court witnesses. This statement, however, is hearsay not
within any exception and is inadmissible.  

B is correct. The statement is offered to prove liability for the accident. As such, it is not a statement made for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is
very unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of
excitement between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is
not admissible as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The husband's statement is making an accusation of fault for the accident. Such a statement is
not pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment of the plaintiff, as is required by the hearsay exception. No other
hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.  

D is incorrect. In order for this statement to be admissible as an excited utterance, the declarant must have
been under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the event and the time of the statement.
Here, the husband made the statement two hours after the accident, so it is very unlikely that the husband
(who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the
accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible as an excited
utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 210

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1517 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant.
The plaintiff was unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in
an ambulance.  

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's
husband if he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two
hours ago by a driver who went right through the intersection without looking."  

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it relates an opinion.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
D: Yes, as an excited utterance.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. An out-of-court statement is not inadmissible simply because it contains an opinion. Statements
of opinion by out-of-court declarants may be admitted if they qualify under a hearsay exception and otherwise
satisfy the rules governing opinion testimony of in-court witnesses. This statement, however, is hearsay not
within any exception and is inadmissible.  

B is correct. The statement is offered to prove liability for the accident. As such, it is not a statement made for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is
very unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of
excitement between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is
not admissible as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The husband's statement is making an accusation of fault for the accident. Such a statement is
not pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment of the plaintiff, as is required by the hearsay exception. No other
hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.  

D is incorrect. In order for this statement to be admissible as an excited utterance, the declarant must have
been under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the event and the time of the statement.
Here, the husband made the statement two hours after the accident, so it is very unlikely that the husband
(who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the
accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible as an excited
utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 211

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1517 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant.
The plaintiff was unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in
an ambulance.  

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's
husband if he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two
hours ago by a driver who went right through the intersection without looking."  

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it relates an opinion.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
D: Yes, as an excited utterance.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. An out-of-court statement is not inadmissible simply because it contains an opinion. Statements
of opinion by out-of-court declarants may be admitted if they qualify under a hearsay exception and otherwise
satisfy the rules governing opinion testimony of in-court witnesses. This statement, however, is hearsay not
within any exception and is inadmissible.  

B is correct. The statement is offered to prove liability for the accident. As such, it is not a statement made for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is
very unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of
excitement between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is
not admissible as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The husband's statement is making an accusation of fault for the accident. Such a statement is
not pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment of the plaintiff, as is required by the hearsay exception. No other
hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.  

D is incorrect. In order for this statement to be admissible as an excited utterance, the declarant must have
been under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the event and the time of the statement.
Here, the husband made the statement two hours after the accident, so it is very unlikely that the husband
(who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the
accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible as an excited
utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 212

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1517 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant.
The plaintiff was unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in
an ambulance.  

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's
husband if he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two
hours ago by a driver who went right through the intersection without looking."  

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it relates an opinion.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
D: Yes, as an excited utterance.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. An out-of-court statement is not inadmissible simply because it contains an opinion. Statements
of opinion by out-of-court declarants may be admitted if they qualify under a hearsay exception and otherwise
satisfy the rules governing opinion testimony of in-court witnesses. This statement, however, is hearsay not
within any exception and is inadmissible.  

B is correct. The statement is offered to prove liability for the accident. As such, it is not a statement made for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is
very unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of
excitement between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is
not admissible as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The husband's statement is making an accusation of fault for the accident. Such a statement is
not pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment of the plaintiff, as is required by the hearsay exception. No other
hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.  

D is incorrect. In order for this statement to be admissible as an excited utterance, the declarant must have
been under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the event and the time of the statement.
Here, the husband made the statement two hours after the accident, so it is very unlikely that the husband
(who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the
accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible as an excited
utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 213

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1517 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant, alleging that she was run over by a speeding car driven by the defendant.
The plaintiff was unconscious after her injury and, accompanied by her husband, was brought to the hospital in
an ambulance.  

At trial, the plaintiff calls an emergency room physician to testify that when the physician asked the plaintiff's
husband if he knew what had happened, the husband, who was upset, replied, "I saw my wife get run over two
hours ago by a driver who went right through the intersection without looking."  

Is the physician's testimony about the husband's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it relates an opinion.
B: No, because it is hearsay not within any exception.
C: Yes, as a statement made for purposes of diagnosis or treatment.
D: Yes, as an excited utterance.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. An out-of-court statement is not inadmissible simply because it contains an opinion. Statements
of opinion by out-of-court declarants may be admitted if they qualify under a hearsay exception and otherwise
satisfy the rules governing opinion testimony of in-court witnesses. This statement, however, is hearsay not
within any exception and is inadmissible.  

B is correct. The statement is offered to prove liability for the accident. As such, it is not a statement made for
purposes of diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, the statement was made two hours after the accident, so it is
very unlikely that the husband (who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of
excitement between the time of the accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is
not admissible as an excited utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies.  

C is incorrect. The husband's statement is making an accusation of fault for the accident. Such a statement is
not pertinent to the diagnosis or treatment of the plaintiff, as is required by the hearsay exception. No other
hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.  

D is incorrect. In order for this statement to be admissible as an excited utterance, the declarant must have
been under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the event and the time of the statement.
Here, the husband made the statement two hours after the accident, so it is very unlikely that the husband
(who was not himself an accident victim) was under a continuous state of excitement between the time of the
accident and the time he made the statement. Therefore, the statement is not admissible as an excited
utterance, and no other hearsay exception applies, so the statement is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 214

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1529 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was
trying to feed a rat that was part of the defendant's caged-rat experiment at a science fair. At trial, the plaintiff
offers evidence that immediately after the incident the defendant said to her, "I'd like to give you this $100 bill,
because I feel so bad about this."  

Is the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.
B: No, because it was an offer of compromise.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression.
D: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The defendant's statement of contrition and offer of compensation clearly have a tendency to
prove that he is liable, and a tendency is all that is required for the evidence to be relevant under Rule 401.
The statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

B is incorrect. The statement would not be excluded under Rule 408, which excludes statements that are
made to settle a claim, because that rule applies only when the statement is made as a compromise to a
disputed claim. Here, at the time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at
fault. Therefore, there was no disputed claim, and the statement is admissible as the statement of a
party-opponent.  

C is incorrect. The exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions covers a statement describing
or explaining an event or condition made during or immediately after the event or condition. The defendant's
statement is just an expression of contrition and not an attempt to explain any event or condition. However, the
statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

D is correct. An out-of-court statement by a party that is relevant to his or her liability is admissible under the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party-opponent. One might think that the statement would be
excluded because of Rule 408, which excludes statements that are made to settle a claim. But that rule is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at fault. Therefore, there was no
disputed claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 215

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1529 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was
trying to feed a rat that was part of the defendant's caged-rat experiment at a science fair. At trial, the plaintiff
offers evidence that immediately after the incident the defendant said to her, "I'd like to give you this $100 bill,
because I feel so bad about this."  

Is the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.
B: No, because it was an offer of compromise.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression.
D: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The defendant's statement of contrition and offer of compensation clearly have a tendency to
prove that he is liable, and a tendency is all that is required for the evidence to be relevant under Rule 401.
The statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

B is incorrect. The statement would not be excluded under Rule 408, which excludes statements that are
made to settle a claim, because that rule applies only when the statement is made as a compromise to a
disputed claim. Here, at the time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at
fault. Therefore, there was no disputed claim, and the statement is admissible as the statement of a
party-opponent.  

C is incorrect. The exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions covers a statement describing
or explaining an event or condition made during or immediately after the event or condition. The defendant's
statement is just an expression of contrition and not an attempt to explain any event or condition. However, the
statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

D is correct. An out-of-court statement by a party that is relevant to his or her liability is admissible under the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party-opponent. One might think that the statement would be
excluded because of Rule 408, which excludes statements that are made to settle a claim. But that rule is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at fault. Therefore, there was no
disputed claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 216

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1529 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was
trying to feed a rat that was part of the defendant's caged-rat experiment at a science fair. At trial, the plaintiff
offers evidence that immediately after the incident the defendant said to her, "I'd like to give you this $100 bill,
because I feel so bad about this."  

Is the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.
B: No, because it was an offer of compromise.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression.
D: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The defendant's statement of contrition and offer of compensation clearly have a tendency to
prove that he is liable, and a tendency is all that is required for the evidence to be relevant under Rule 401.
The statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

B is incorrect. The statement would not be excluded under Rule 408, which excludes statements that are
made to settle a claim, because that rule applies only when the statement is made as a compromise to a
disputed claim. Here, at the time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at
fault. Therefore, there was no disputed claim, and the statement is admissible as the statement of a
party-opponent.  

C is incorrect. The exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions covers a statement describing
or explaining an event or condition made during or immediately after the event or condition. The defendant's
statement is just an expression of contrition and not an attempt to explain any event or condition. However, the
statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

D is correct. An out-of-court statement by a party that is relevant to his or her liability is admissible under the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party-opponent. One might think that the statement would be
excluded because of Rule 408, which excludes statements that are made to settle a claim. But that rule is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at fault. Therefore, there was no
disputed claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 217

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1529 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was
trying to feed a rat that was part of the defendant's caged-rat experiment at a science fair. At trial, the plaintiff
offers evidence that immediately after the incident the defendant said to her, "I'd like to give you this $100 bill,
because I feel so bad about this."  

Is the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.
B: No, because it was an offer of compromise.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression.
D: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The defendant's statement of contrition and offer of compensation clearly have a tendency to
prove that he is liable, and a tendency is all that is required for the evidence to be relevant under Rule 401.
The statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

B is incorrect. The statement would not be excluded under Rule 408, which excludes statements that are
made to settle a claim, because that rule applies only when the statement is made as a compromise to a
disputed claim. Here, at the time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at
fault. Therefore, there was no disputed claim, and the statement is admissible as the statement of a
party-opponent.  

C is incorrect. The exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions covers a statement describing
or explaining an event or condition made during or immediately after the event or condition. The defendant's
statement is just an expression of contrition and not an attempt to explain any event or condition. However, the
statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

D is correct. An out-of-court statement by a party that is relevant to his or her liability is admissible under the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party-opponent. One might think that the statement would be
excluded because of Rule 408, which excludes statements that are made to settle a claim. But that rule is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at fault. Therefore, there was no
disputed claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 218

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1529 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has sued a defendant for personal injuries the plaintiff suffered when she was bitten as she was
trying to feed a rat that was part of the defendant's caged-rat experiment at a science fair. At trial, the plaintiff
offers evidence that immediately after the incident the defendant said to her, "I'd like to give you this $100 bill,
because I feel so bad about this."  

Is the defendant's statement admissible? 

A: No, because it is not relevant to the issue of liability.
B: No, because it was an offer of compromise.
C: Yes, as a present sense impression.
D: Yes, as the statement of a party-opponent.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The defendant's statement of contrition and offer of compensation clearly have a tendency to
prove that he is liable, and a tendency is all that is required for the evidence to be relevant under Rule 401.
The statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

B is incorrect. The statement would not be excluded under Rule 408, which excludes statements that are
made to settle a claim, because that rule applies only when the statement is made as a compromise to a
disputed claim. Here, at the time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at
fault. Therefore, there was no disputed claim, and the statement is admissible as the statement of a
party-opponent.  

C is incorrect. The exception to the hearsay rule for present sense impressions covers a statement describing
or explaining an event or condition made during or immediately after the event or condition. The defendant's
statement is just an expression of contrition and not an attempt to explain any event or condition. However, the
statement is admissible as the statement of a party-opponent.  

D is correct. An out-of-court statement by a party that is relevant to his or her liability is admissible under the
exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party-opponent. One might think that the statement would be
excluded because of Rule 408, which excludes statements that are made to settle a claim. But that rule is
inapplicable, because it applies only when the statement is made to compromise a disputed claim. Here, at the
time the defendant made the statement, he was not contesting that he was at fault. Therefore, there was no
disputed claim.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 219

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1537 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was
hit with a lead pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has
testified that the injuries to the victim's forearms appear to have been defensive wounds. The victim has
testified that he cannot remember who attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he
remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley, and that he told the passerby that the defendant had
hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant objects to this proposed testimony,
arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity of the perpetrator.  

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible? 

A: No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal
knowledge of the perpetrator's identity.
B: No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively
cross-examined.
C: Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal
knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The standard for personal knowledge under Rule 602 is whether a reasonable juror could find
that the witness is speaking on the basis of personal knowledge. This standard is referred to as "prima facie"
proof and is significantly easier to satisfy than "more likely than not." B is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court
held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to cross-examination within the meaning of
the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness lacks all memory of the prior identification. C
is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to
cross-examination within the meaning of the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness
lacks all memory of the prior identification. As to personal knowledge, the evidence of defensive wounds is
more than sufficient to persuade a reasonable juror that the victim saw his attacker. D is incorrect. The rule
against hearsay applies to any out-of-court statement admitted for its truth, including earlier statements of trial
witnesses. In this case, however, there is a hearsay exception for prior identifications when the declarant is
testifying and subject to cross-examination.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 220

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1537 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was
hit with a lead pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has
testified that the injuries to the victim's forearms appear to have been defensive wounds. The victim has
testified that he cannot remember who attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he
remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley, and that he told the passerby that the defendant had
hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant objects to this proposed testimony,
arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity of the perpetrator.  

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible? 

A: No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal
knowledge of the perpetrator's identity.
B: No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively
cross-examined.
C: Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal
knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The standard for personal knowledge under Rule 602 is whether a reasonable juror could find
that the witness is speaking on the basis of personal knowledge. This standard is referred to as "prima facie"
proof and is significantly easier to satisfy than "more likely than not." B is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court
held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to cross-examination within the meaning of
the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness lacks all memory of the prior identification. C
is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to
cross-examination within the meaning of the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness
lacks all memory of the prior identification. As to personal knowledge, the evidence of defensive wounds is
more than sufficient to persuade a reasonable juror that the victim saw his attacker. D is incorrect. The rule
against hearsay applies to any out-of-court statement admitted for its truth, including earlier statements of trial
witnesses. In this case, however, there is a hearsay exception for prior identifications when the declarant is
testifying and subject to cross-examination.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 221

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1537 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was
hit with a lead pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has
testified that the injuries to the victim's forearms appear to have been defensive wounds. The victim has
testified that he cannot remember who attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he
remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley, and that he told the passerby that the defendant had
hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant objects to this proposed testimony,
arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity of the perpetrator.  

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible? 

A: No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal
knowledge of the perpetrator's identity.
B: No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively
cross-examined.
C: Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal
knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The standard for personal knowledge under Rule 602 is whether a reasonable juror could find
that the witness is speaking on the basis of personal knowledge. This standard is referred to as "prima facie"
proof and is significantly easier to satisfy than "more likely than not." B is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court
held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to cross-examination within the meaning of
the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness lacks all memory of the prior identification. C
is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to
cross-examination within the meaning of the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness
lacks all memory of the prior identification. As to personal knowledge, the evidence of defensive wounds is
more than sufficient to persuade a reasonable juror that the victim saw his attacker. D is incorrect. The rule
against hearsay applies to any out-of-court statement admitted for its truth, including earlier statements of trial
witnesses. In this case, however, there is a hearsay exception for prior identifications when the declarant is
testifying and subject to cross-examination.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 222

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1537 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with aggravated assault. The physical evidence at trial has shown that the victim was
hit with a lead pipe in the back of the head and on the forearms and left in an alley. The medical examiner has
testified that the injuries to the victim's forearms appear to have been defensive wounds. The victim has
testified that he cannot remember who attacked him with the lead pipe. He would further testify that he
remembers only that a passerby found him in the alley, and that he told the passerby that the defendant had
hit him with the lead pipe; he then lost consciousness. The defendant objects to this proposed testimony,
arguing that it is hearsay and that the victim had no personal knowledge of the identity of the perpetrator.  

Is the victim's testimony concerning his previous statement to the passerby admissible? 

A: No, because the prosecutor has failed to show that it is more likely than not that the victim had personal
knowledge of the perpetrator's identity.
B: No, because the victim has no memory of the attack itself and therefore cannot be effectively
cross-examined.
C: Yes, because the victim is subject to cross-examination, and there is sufficient showing of personal
knowledge.
D: Yes, because it is the victim's own out-of-court statement.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The standard for personal knowledge under Rule 602 is whether a reasonable juror could find
that the witness is speaking on the basis of personal knowledge. This standard is referred to as "prima facie"
proof and is significantly easier to satisfy than "more likely than not." B is incorrect. The U.S. Supreme Court
held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to cross-examination within the meaning of
the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness lacks all memory of the prior identification. C
is correct. The U.S. Supreme Court held in United States v. Owens that a declarant-witness is subject to
cross-examination within the meaning of the hearsay exception for prior identifications even if the witness
lacks all memory of the prior identification. As to personal knowledge, the evidence of defensive wounds is
more than sufficient to persuade a reasonable juror that the victim saw his attacker. D is incorrect. The rule
against hearsay applies to any out-of-court statement admitted for its truth, including earlier statements of trial
witnesses. In this case, however, there is a hearsay exception for prior identifications when the declarant is
testifying and subject to cross-examination.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
Page 223

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1544 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a
soccer match.  

If the man sues the neighbor for personal injury damages, which of the following actions must the trial court
take if requested by the man? 

A: Prevent the neighbor's principal eyewitness from testifying, upon a showing that six years ago the witness
was convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.
B: Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct
examination of the expert.
C: Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.
D: Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A witness can never be excluded from testifying simply because there is impeachment evidence
that could be used against that witness. Under Rule 601, all witnesses are presumed to be competent. The
man can use this evidence to impeach the witness when the witness testifies.  

B is incorrect. The trial court is not required to prohibit a cross-examiner from asking questions unrelated to the
direct examination. Rule 611(b) states that the court "may allow inquiry into additional matters."  

C is correct. Rule 615 provides that if a party moves to exclude prospective witnesses before they testify, "the
court must order witnesses excluded so they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony."  

D is incorrect. Under Rule 612, the trial court has discretion to order a party to produce for the adversary a
writing used before trial to refresh the memory of a witness called by the party, but the court is not required to
do so.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 224

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1544 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a
soccer match.  

If the man sues the neighbor for personal injury damages, which of the following actions must the trial court
take if requested by the man? 

A: Prevent the neighbor's principal eyewitness from testifying, upon a showing that six years ago the witness
was convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.
B: Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct
examination of the expert.
C: Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.
D: Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A witness can never be excluded from testifying simply because there is impeachment evidence
that could be used against that witness. Under Rule 601, all witnesses are presumed to be competent. The
man can use this evidence to impeach the witness when the witness testifies.  

B is incorrect. The trial court is not required to prohibit a cross-examiner from asking questions unrelated to the
direct examination. Rule 611(b) states that the court "may allow inquiry into additional matters."  

C is correct. Rule 615 provides that if a party moves to exclude prospective witnesses before they testify, "the
court must order witnesses excluded so they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony."  

D is incorrect. Under Rule 612, the trial court has discretion to order a party to produce for the adversary a
writing used before trial to refresh the memory of a witness called by the party, but the court is not required to
do so.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 225

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1544 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a
soccer match.  

If the man sues the neighbor for personal injury damages, which of the following actions must the trial court
take if requested by the man? 

A: Prevent the neighbor's principal eyewitness from testifying, upon a showing that six years ago the witness
was convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.
B: Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct
examination of the expert.
C: Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.
D: Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A witness can never be excluded from testifying simply because there is impeachment evidence
that could be used against that witness. Under Rule 601, all witnesses are presumed to be competent. The
man can use this evidence to impeach the witness when the witness testifies.  

B is incorrect. The trial court is not required to prohibit a cross-examiner from asking questions unrelated to the
direct examination. Rule 611(b) states that the court "may allow inquiry into additional matters."  

C is correct. Rule 615 provides that if a party moves to exclude prospective witnesses before they testify, "the
court must order witnesses excluded so they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony."  

D is incorrect. Under Rule 612, the trial court has discretion to order a party to produce for the adversary a
writing used before trial to refresh the memory of a witness called by the party, but the court is not required to
do so.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 226

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1544 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A man suffered a broken jaw in a fight with a neighbor that took place when they were both spectators at a
soccer match.  

If the man sues the neighbor for personal injury damages, which of the following actions must the trial court
take if requested by the man? 

A: Prevent the neighbor's principal eyewitness from testifying, upon a showing that six years ago the witness
was convicted of perjury and the conviction has not been the subject of a pardon or annulment.
B: Refuse to let the neighbor cross-examine the man's medical expert on matters not covered on direct
examination of the expert.
C: Exclude nonparty eyewitnesses from the courtroom during the testimony of other witnesses.
D: Require the production of a writing used before trial to refresh a witness's memory.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. A witness can never be excluded from testifying simply because there is impeachment evidence
that could be used against that witness. Under Rule 601, all witnesses are presumed to be competent. The
man can use this evidence to impeach the witness when the witness testifies.  

B is incorrect. The trial court is not required to prohibit a cross-examiner from asking questions unrelated to the
direct examination. Rule 611(b) states that the court "may allow inquiry into additional matters."  

C is correct. Rule 615 provides that if a party moves to exclude prospective witnesses before they testify, "the
court must order witnesses excluded so they cannot hear other witnesses' testimony."  

D is incorrect. Under Rule 612, the trial court has discretion to order a party to produce for the adversary a
writing used before trial to refresh the memory of a witness called by the party, but the court is not required to
do so.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 227

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1550 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from
accurate sources establishing that the bank is a federally insured institution and that this fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. The prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.  

How should the court proceed? 

A: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it is required to accept the judicially noticed fact
as conclusive.
B: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.
C: The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a
criminal case.
D: The court must refuse to take judicial notice, because whether a bank is federally insured would not be
generally known within the court's jurisdiction.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In criminal cases, the trial judge may not instruct the jury to accept a judicially noticed fact as
conclusive. To do so would impermissibly limit the defendant's right to a jury trial. The court must take judicial
notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to indicate that the fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury that
it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

B is correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information
to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

C is incorrect. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary
information to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Here the facts indicate that the court
has been supplied with the necessary information. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

D is incorrect. Whether a bank is federally insured is a fact that would be generally known within the
jurisdiction. Even if it were not, however, under Rule 201(b) judicial notice must be taken if the indisputability of
a fact "can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot be questioned." The
facts here so provide. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury
that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 228

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1550 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from
accurate sources establishing that the bank is a federally insured institution and that this fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. The prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.  

How should the court proceed? 

A: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it is required to accept the judicially noticed fact
as conclusive.
B: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.
C: The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a
criminal case.
D: The court must refuse to take judicial notice, because whether a bank is federally insured would not be
generally known within the court's jurisdiction.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In criminal cases, the trial judge may not instruct the jury to accept a judicially noticed fact as
conclusive. To do so would impermissibly limit the defendant's right to a jury trial. The court must take judicial
notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to indicate that the fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury that
it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

B is correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information
to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

C is incorrect. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary
information to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Here the facts indicate that the court
has been supplied with the necessary information. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

D is incorrect. Whether a bank is federally insured is a fact that would be generally known within the
jurisdiction. Even if it were not, however, under Rule 201(b) judicial notice must be taken if the indisputability of
a fact "can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot be questioned." The
facts here so provide. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury
that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 229

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1550 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from
accurate sources establishing that the bank is a federally insured institution and that this fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. The prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.  

How should the court proceed? 

A: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it is required to accept the judicially noticed fact
as conclusive.
B: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.
C: The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a
criminal case.
D: The court must refuse to take judicial notice, because whether a bank is federally insured would not be
generally known within the court's jurisdiction.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In criminal cases, the trial judge may not instruct the jury to accept a judicially noticed fact as
conclusive. To do so would impermissibly limit the defendant's right to a jury trial. The court must take judicial
notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to indicate that the fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury that
it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

B is correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information
to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

C is incorrect. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary
information to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Here the facts indicate that the court
has been supplied with the necessary information. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

D is incorrect. Whether a bank is federally insured is a fact that would be generally known within the
jurisdiction. Even if it were not, however, under Rule 201(b) judicial notice must be taken if the indisputability of
a fact "can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot be questioned." The
facts here so provide. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury
that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 230

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1550 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from
accurate sources establishing that the bank is a federally insured institution and that this fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. The prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.  

How should the court proceed? 

A: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it is required to accept the judicially noticed fact
as conclusive.
B: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.
C: The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a
criminal case.
D: The court must refuse to take judicial notice, because whether a bank is federally insured would not be
generally known within the court's jurisdiction.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In criminal cases, the trial judge may not instruct the jury to accept a judicially noticed fact as
conclusive. To do so would impermissibly limit the defendant's right to a jury trial. The court must take judicial
notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to indicate that the fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury that
it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

B is correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information
to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

C is incorrect. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary
information to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Here the facts indicate that the court
has been supplied with the necessary information. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

D is incorrect. Whether a bank is federally insured is a fact that would be generally known within the
jurisdiction. Even if it were not, however, under Rule 201(b) judicial notice must be taken if the indisputability of
a fact "can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot be questioned." The
facts here so provide. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury
that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 231

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1550 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with robbing a bank. The prosecutor has supplied the court with information from
accurate sources establishing that the bank is a federally insured institution and that this fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. The prosecutor asks the court to take judicial notice of this fact. The defendant objects.  

How should the court proceed? 

A: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it is required to accept the judicially noticed fact
as conclusive.
B: The court must take judicial notice and instruct the jury that it may, but is not required to, accept the
judicially noticed fact as conclusive.
C: The court may refuse to take judicial notice, because judicial notice may not be taken of essential facts in a
criminal case.
D: The court must refuse to take judicial notice, because whether a bank is federally insured would not be
generally known within the court's jurisdiction.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In criminal cases, the trial judge may not instruct the jury to accept a judicially noticed fact as
conclusive. To do so would impermissibly limit the defendant's right to a jury trial. The court must take judicial
notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information to indicate that the fact is not subject to
reasonable dispute. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury that
it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

B is correct. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary information
to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

C is incorrect. The court must take judicial notice of a fact if the court is supplied with the necessary
information to indicate that the fact is not subject to reasonable dispute. Here the facts indicate that the court
has been supplied with the necessary information. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the
court must instruct the jury that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."  

D is incorrect. Whether a bank is federally insured is a fact that would be generally known within the
jurisdiction. Even if it were not, however, under Rule 201(b) judicial notice must be taken if the indisputability of
a fact "can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot be questioned." The
facts here so provide. However, Rule 201(f) provides that in a criminal case, "the court must instruct the jury
that it may or may not accept the noticed fact as conclusive."

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 232

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1551 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of
the policy. At issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death.
The decedent's primary care physician has testified at trial that the decedent had a routine checkup on
February 15. The physician then identifies a photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that
date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while."
The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.  

Should the court admit the photocopy? 

A: No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.
B: No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.
C: Yes, as a business record.
D: Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This answer refers to the best evidence rule. Under the best evidence rule, a copy of a
document is as admissible as the original unless a genuine question is raised about the authenticity of the
original or the circumstances make it unfair to admit the copy. No such question or circumstances are present
here. The photocopy should be admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

B is incorrect. Statements of medical history can be admitted under the hearsay exception in Rule 803(4) if
they are pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, regardless of whether the statements relate to past or present
symptoms. The decedent's statement clearly qualifies under this hearsay exception.  

C is incorrect. For a recorded statement to be admissible as a business record under Rule 803(6), the
business record must be kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity and it must be a regular practice
of the business to make the record. Here, the record was made by the decedent, not by the physician, and
there is no indication that the decedent regularly prepared such records. However, the photocopy should be
admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

D is correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and
treatment, and it is clearly pertinent to the physician's diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, it is admissible
under Rule 803(4).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 233

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1551 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of
the policy. At issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death.
The decedent's primary care physician has testified at trial that the decedent had a routine checkup on
February 15. The physician then identifies a photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that
date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while."
The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.  

Should the court admit the photocopy? 

A: No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.
B: No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.
C: Yes, as a business record.
D: Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This answer refers to the best evidence rule. Under the best evidence rule, a copy of a
document is as admissible as the original unless a genuine question is raised about the authenticity of the
original or the circumstances make it unfair to admit the copy. No such question or circumstances are present
here. The photocopy should be admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

B is incorrect. Statements of medical history can be admitted under the hearsay exception in Rule 803(4) if
they are pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, regardless of whether the statements relate to past or present
symptoms. The decedent's statement clearly qualifies under this hearsay exception.  

C is incorrect. For a recorded statement to be admissible as a business record under Rule 803(6), the
business record must be kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity and it must be a regular practice
of the business to make the record. Here, the record was made by the decedent, not by the physician, and
there is no indication that the decedent regularly prepared such records. However, the photocopy should be
admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

D is correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and
treatment, and it is clearly pertinent to the physician's diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, it is admissible
under Rule 803(4).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 234

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1551 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of
the policy. At issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death.
The decedent's primary care physician has testified at trial that the decedent had a routine checkup on
February 15. The physician then identifies a photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that
date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while."
The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.  

Should the court admit the photocopy? 

A: No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.
B: No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.
C: Yes, as a business record.
D: Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This answer refers to the best evidence rule. Under the best evidence rule, a copy of a
document is as admissible as the original unless a genuine question is raised about the authenticity of the
original or the circumstances make it unfair to admit the copy. No such question or circumstances are present
here. The photocopy should be admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

B is incorrect. Statements of medical history can be admitted under the hearsay exception in Rule 803(4) if
they are pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, regardless of whether the statements relate to past or present
symptoms. The decedent's statement clearly qualifies under this hearsay exception.  

C is incorrect. For a recorded statement to be admissible as a business record under Rule 803(6), the
business record must be kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity and it must be a regular practice
of the business to make the record. Here, the record was made by the decedent, not by the physician, and
there is no indication that the decedent regularly prepared such records. However, the photocopy should be
admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

D is correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and
treatment, and it is clearly pertinent to the physician's diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, it is admissible
under Rule 803(4).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 235

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1551 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of
the policy. At issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death.
The decedent's primary care physician has testified at trial that the decedent had a routine checkup on
February 15. The physician then identifies a photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that
date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while."
The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.  

Should the court admit the photocopy? 

A: No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.
B: No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.
C: Yes, as a business record.
D: Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This answer refers to the best evidence rule. Under the best evidence rule, a copy of a
document is as admissible as the original unless a genuine question is raised about the authenticity of the
original or the circumstances make it unfair to admit the copy. No such question or circumstances are present
here. The photocopy should be admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

B is incorrect. Statements of medical history can be admitted under the hearsay exception in Rule 803(4) if
they are pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, regardless of whether the statements relate to past or present
symptoms. The decedent's statement clearly qualifies under this hearsay exception.  

C is incorrect. For a recorded statement to be admissible as a business record under Rule 803(6), the
business record must be kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity and it must be a regular practice
of the business to make the record. Here, the record was made by the decedent, not by the physician, and
there is no indication that the decedent regularly prepared such records. However, the photocopy should be
admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

D is correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and
treatment, and it is clearly pertinent to the physician's diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, it is admissible
under Rule 803(4).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 236

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1551 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

The beneficiary of a decedent's life insurance policy has sued the life insurance company for the proceeds of
the policy. At issue is the date when the decedent first experienced the heart problems that led to his death.
The decedent's primary care physician has testified at trial that the decedent had a routine checkup on
February 15. The physician then identifies a photocopy of a questionnaire completed by the decedent on that
date in which the decedent wrote: "Yesterday afternoon I broke into a big sweat and my chest hurt for a while."
The beneficiary now offers the photocopy in evidence.  

Should the court admit the photocopy? 

A: No, because the original questionnaire has not been shown to be unavailable.
B: No, because the statement related to past rather than present symptoms.
C: Yes, as a business record.
D: Yes, as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. This answer refers to the best evidence rule. Under the best evidence rule, a copy of a
document is as admissible as the original unless a genuine question is raised about the authenticity of the
original or the circumstances make it unfair to admit the copy. No such question or circumstances are present
here. The photocopy should be admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

B is incorrect. Statements of medical history can be admitted under the hearsay exception in Rule 803(4) if
they are pertinent to diagnosis or treatment, regardless of whether the statements relate to past or present
symptoms. The decedent's statement clearly qualifies under this hearsay exception.  

C is incorrect. For a recorded statement to be admissible as a business record under Rule 803(6), the
business record must be kept in the course of a regularly conducted activity and it must be a regular practice
of the business to make the record. Here, the record was made by the decedent, not by the physician, and
there is no indication that the decedent regularly prepared such records. However, the photocopy should be
admitted as a statement for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment.  

D is correct. The decedent's statement of his medical history was made for the purpose of diagnosis and
treatment, and it is clearly pertinent to the physician's diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, it is admissible
under Rule 803(4).

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 237

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1558 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has
called a witness who has testified that the defendant has a reputation for honesty. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor seeks to ask the witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for
embezzlement?"  

Should the court permit the question? 

A: No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.
B: No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.
C: Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.
D: Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more
likely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. When a defendant calls a character witness, the prosecutor is permitted to test the character
witness's knowledge of the defendant. The fact that the defendant has not put his character at issue is
irrelevant.  

B is incorrect. For purposes of testing the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation for honesty, the
bad act need not have resulted in a conviction. An arrest is sufficient to have an impact on the community's
view of the defendant's honesty.  

C is correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the
right to test the basis and adequacy of that knowledge, as well as the nature of the community itself. If the
witness answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very
knowledgeable about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a
negative effect on that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference
could be raised about the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.  

D is incorrect. The prosecutor is not allowed to use a bad act to show that the defendant has a propensity to
commit a similar bad act. Rule 404 limits the use of character evidence to prove conduct in accordance with a
character trait.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 238

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1558 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has
called a witness who has testified that the defendant has a reputation for honesty. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor seeks to ask the witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for
embezzlement?"  

Should the court permit the question? 

A: No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.
B: No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.
C: Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.
D: Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more
likely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. When a defendant calls a character witness, the prosecutor is permitted to test the character
witness's knowledge of the defendant. The fact that the defendant has not put his character at issue is
irrelevant.  

B is incorrect. For purposes of testing the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation for honesty, the
bad act need not have resulted in a conviction. An arrest is sufficient to have an impact on the community's
view of the defendant's honesty.  

C is correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the
right to test the basis and adequacy of that knowledge, as well as the nature of the community itself. If the
witness answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very
knowledgeable about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a
negative effect on that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference
could be raised about the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.  

D is incorrect. The prosecutor is not allowed to use a bad act to show that the defendant has a propensity to
commit a similar bad act. Rule 404 limits the use of character evidence to prove conduct in accordance with a
character trait.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 239

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1558 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has
called a witness who has testified that the defendant has a reputation for honesty. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor seeks to ask the witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for
embezzlement?"  

Should the court permit the question? 

A: No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.
B: No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.
C: Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.
D: Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more
likely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. When a defendant calls a character witness, the prosecutor is permitted to test the character
witness's knowledge of the defendant. The fact that the defendant has not put his character at issue is
irrelevant.  

B is incorrect. For purposes of testing the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation for honesty, the
bad act need not have resulted in a conviction. An arrest is sufficient to have an impact on the community's
view of the defendant's honesty.  

C is correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the
right to test the basis and adequacy of that knowledge, as well as the nature of the community itself. If the
witness answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very
knowledgeable about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a
negative effect on that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference
could be raised about the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.  

D is incorrect. The prosecutor is not allowed to use a bad act to show that the defendant has a propensity to
commit a similar bad act. Rule 404 limits the use of character evidence to prove conduct in accordance with a
character trait.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 240

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1558 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has
called a witness who has testified that the defendant has a reputation for honesty. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor seeks to ask the witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for
embezzlement?"  

Should the court permit the question? 

A: No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.
B: No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.
C: Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.
D: Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more
likely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. When a defendant calls a character witness, the prosecutor is permitted to test the character
witness's knowledge of the defendant. The fact that the defendant has not put his character at issue is
irrelevant.  

B is incorrect. For purposes of testing the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation for honesty, the
bad act need not have resulted in a conviction. An arrest is sufficient to have an impact on the community's
view of the defendant's honesty.  

C is correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the
right to test the basis and adequacy of that knowledge, as well as the nature of the community itself. If the
witness answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very
knowledgeable about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a
negative effect on that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference
could be raised about the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.  

D is incorrect. The prosecutor is not allowed to use a bad act to show that the defendant has a propensity to
commit a similar bad act. Rule 404 limits the use of character evidence to prove conduct in accordance with a
character trait.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 241

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1558 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A defendant is charged with mail fraud. At trial, the defendant has not taken the witness stand, but he has
called a witness who has testified that the defendant has a reputation for honesty. On cross-examination, the
prosecutor seeks to ask the witness, "Didn't you hear that two years ago the defendant was arrested for
embezzlement?"  

Should the court permit the question? 

A: No, because the defendant has not testified and therefore has not put his character at issue.
B: No, because the incident was an arrest, not a conviction.
C: Yes, because it seeks to impeach the credibility of the witness.
D: Yes, because the earlier arrest for a crime of dishonesty makes the defendant's guilt of the mail fraud more
likely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. When a defendant calls a character witness, the prosecutor is permitted to test the character
witness's knowledge of the defendant. The fact that the defendant has not put his character at issue is
irrelevant.  

B is incorrect. For purposes of testing the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation for honesty, the
bad act need not have resulted in a conviction. An arrest is sufficient to have an impact on the community's
view of the defendant's honesty.  

C is correct. The witness has testified that she knows about the defendant's reputation. The prosecutor has the
right to test the basis and adequacy of that knowledge, as well as the nature of the community itself. If the
witness answers that she had not heard about the arrest, that admission could indicate that she is not very
knowledgeable about the defendant's reputation in the community, because such an arrest would likely have a
negative effect on that reputation. If the witness says that she had heard about the arrest, a negative inference
could be raised about the community itself and its view of what it is to be an honest person.  

D is incorrect. The prosecutor is not allowed to use a bad act to show that the defendant has a propensity to
commit a similar bad act. Rule 404 limits the use of character evidence to prove conduct in accordance with a
character trait.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 242

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1565 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a woman's trial for bank robbery, the prosecutor has called a private security guard for the bank who has
testified, without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and
said, "Come quickly! My sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the
brother later told the witness, "I got my sister into trouble by telling a security guard that she was robbing the
bank, but now I realize I was mistaken." The brother is unavailable to testify.  

Is the witness's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.
B: No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.
C: Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.
D: Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. What is being offered here is an inconsistent statement of a hearsay declarant. The goal is to
impeach that declarant's credibility. The brother's original statement would have been admitted as an excited
utterance under the Rule 803(2) hearsay exception. While it is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a
prior inconsistent statement must be given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, that opportunity is
not available when a hearsay declarant is not produced at trial. Rule 806 provides that the ordinary
requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being
impeached with prior inconsistent statements.  

B is incorrect. A prosecutor has no right to confrontation; only a criminal defendant has that right. In any case,
here it is the prosecutor who offered the statement that the brother made at the time of the crime, so the
prosecutor cannot argue a lack of opportunity to confront the brother.  

C is incorrect. The statement later made by the brother was an out-of-court statement, and if offered for its
truth, it is hearsay. There is no applicable hearsay exception.  

D is correct. It is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a prior inconsistent statement must be given an
opportunity to explain or deny the statement. That is not possible, however, when a hearsay declarant is not
produced at trial. Therefore Rule 806 provides that the ordinary requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or
deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being impeached with prior inconsistent statements. The
inconsistent statement is probative of the brother's credibility, and Rule 806 permits such impeachment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 243

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1565 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a woman's trial for bank robbery, the prosecutor has called a private security guard for the bank who has
testified, without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and
said, "Come quickly! My sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the
brother later told the witness, "I got my sister into trouble by telling a security guard that she was robbing the
bank, but now I realize I was mistaken." The brother is unavailable to testify.  

Is the witness's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.
B: No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.
C: Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.
D: Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. What is being offered here is an inconsistent statement of a hearsay declarant. The goal is to
impeach that declarant's credibility. The brother's original statement would have been admitted as an excited
utterance under the Rule 803(2) hearsay exception. While it is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a
prior inconsistent statement must be given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, that opportunity is
not available when a hearsay declarant is not produced at trial. Rule 806 provides that the ordinary
requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being
impeached with prior inconsistent statements.  

B is incorrect. A prosecutor has no right to confrontation; only a criminal defendant has that right. In any case,
here it is the prosecutor who offered the statement that the brother made at the time of the crime, so the
prosecutor cannot argue a lack of opportunity to confront the brother.  

C is incorrect. The statement later made by the brother was an out-of-court statement, and if offered for its
truth, it is hearsay. There is no applicable hearsay exception.  

D is correct. It is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a prior inconsistent statement must be given an
opportunity to explain or deny the statement. That is not possible, however, when a hearsay declarant is not
produced at trial. Therefore Rule 806 provides that the ordinary requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or
deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being impeached with prior inconsistent statements. The
inconsistent statement is probative of the brother's credibility, and Rule 806 permits such impeachment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 244

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1565 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a woman's trial for bank robbery, the prosecutor has called a private security guard for the bank who has
testified, without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and
said, "Come quickly! My sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the
brother later told the witness, "I got my sister into trouble by telling a security guard that she was robbing the
bank, but now I realize I was mistaken." The brother is unavailable to testify.  

Is the witness's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.
B: No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.
C: Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.
D: Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. What is being offered here is an inconsistent statement of a hearsay declarant. The goal is to
impeach that declarant's credibility. The brother's original statement would have been admitted as an excited
utterance under the Rule 803(2) hearsay exception. While it is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a
prior inconsistent statement must be given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, that opportunity is
not available when a hearsay declarant is not produced at trial. Rule 806 provides that the ordinary
requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being
impeached with prior inconsistent statements.  

B is incorrect. A prosecutor has no right to confrontation; only a criminal defendant has that right. In any case,
here it is the prosecutor who offered the statement that the brother made at the time of the crime, so the
prosecutor cannot argue a lack of opportunity to confront the brother.  

C is incorrect. The statement later made by the brother was an out-of-court statement, and if offered for its
truth, it is hearsay. There is no applicable hearsay exception.  

D is correct. It is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a prior inconsistent statement must be given an
opportunity to explain or deny the statement. That is not possible, however, when a hearsay declarant is not
produced at trial. Therefore Rule 806 provides that the ordinary requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or
deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being impeached with prior inconsistent statements. The
inconsistent statement is probative of the brother's credibility, and Rule 806 permits such impeachment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 245

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1565 - Evidence - Hearsay and Circumstances of Its Admissibility

 The question was: 

At a woman's trial for bank robbery, the prosecutor has called a private security guard for the bank who has
testified, without objection, that while he was on a coffee break, the woman's brother rushed up to him and
said, "Come quickly! My sister is robbing the bank!" The woman now seeks to call a witness to testify that the
brother later told the witness, "I got my sister into trouble by telling a security guard that she was robbing the
bank, but now I realize I was mistaken." The brother is unavailable to testify.  

Is the witness's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the brother will be afforded no opportunity to explain or deny the later statement.
B: No, because the prosecutor will be afforded no opportunity to confront the brother.
C: Yes, because it is substantive proof that the woman did not rob the bank.
D: Yes, but only as an inconsistent statement to impeach the brother's credibility.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. What is being offered here is an inconsistent statement of a hearsay declarant. The goal is to
impeach that declarant's credibility. The brother's original statement would have been admitted as an excited
utterance under the Rule 803(2) hearsay exception. While it is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a
prior inconsistent statement must be given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement, that opportunity is
not available when a hearsay declarant is not produced at trial. Rule 806 provides that the ordinary
requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being
impeached with prior inconsistent statements.  

B is incorrect. A prosecutor has no right to confrontation; only a criminal defendant has that right. In any case,
here it is the prosecutor who offered the statement that the brother made at the time of the crime, so the
prosecutor cannot argue a lack of opportunity to confront the brother.  

C is incorrect. The statement later made by the brother was an out-of-court statement, and if offered for its
truth, it is hearsay. There is no applicable hearsay exception.  

D is correct. It is ordinarily true that a witness impeached with a prior inconsistent statement must be given an
opportunity to explain or deny the statement. That is not possible, however, when a hearsay declarant is not
produced at trial. Therefore Rule 806 provides that the ordinary requirement of a "fair opportunity to explain or
deny" is not applicable to hearsay declarants who are being impeached with prior inconsistent statements. The
inconsistent statement is probative of the brother's credibility, and Rule 806 permits such impeachment.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 246

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1572 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance
company, the insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the
nonpayment of her premium. The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.  

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope
containing the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified
that every afternoon at closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance
company later called its mail clerk to testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the
woman's premium payment.  

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.  

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict? 

A: For the insurance company, because neither the woman nor her secretary has any personal knowledge
that the envelope was mailed.
B: For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial
evidence.
C: For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was
received by the addressee.
D: For neither the woman nor the insurance company, because under these circumstances the jury is
responsible for determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Under Rule 301, the rule on presumptions, the woman has presented sufficient evidence that
the envelope containing the premium payment was mailed. The rule does not require that the woman have
personal knowledge that the envelope reached the post office. The insurance company then has the burden of
producing evidence to rebut the presumption that the envelope was received. Because the insurance company
has produced such evidence, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to
determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

B is incorrect. Under Rule 301, once the woman provides evidence that the envelope containing the premium
payment was mailed, the insurance company has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to rebut the
presumption that the envelope was received. That does not mean, however, that if the insurance company
does provide such evidence it is entitled to a directed verdict. Instead, the presumption is taken out of the case
and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the woman's evidence has triggered the presumption that the envelope containing
the premium payment was received. But under Rule 301, the insurance company then has the burden of
producing enough evidence to rebut the presumption. Here the insurance company has done so.
Consequently, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the
insurance company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for the
woman.  

D is correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was
received. The insurance company has presented sufficient evidence to rebut that presumption. Consequently,
the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance
company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for either the woman or
the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 247

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1572 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance
company, the insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the
nonpayment of her premium. The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.  

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope
containing the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified
that every afternoon at closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance
company later called its mail clerk to testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the
woman's premium payment.  

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.  

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict? 

A: For the insurance company, because neither the woman nor her secretary has any personal knowledge
that the envelope was mailed.
B: For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial
evidence.
C: For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was
received by the addressee.
D: For neither the woman nor the insurance company, because under these circumstances the jury is
responsible for determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Under Rule 301, the rule on presumptions, the woman has presented sufficient evidence that
the envelope containing the premium payment was mailed. The rule does not require that the woman have
personal knowledge that the envelope reached the post office. The insurance company then has the burden of
producing evidence to rebut the presumption that the envelope was received. Because the insurance company
has produced such evidence, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to
determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

B is incorrect. Under Rule 301, once the woman provides evidence that the envelope containing the premium
payment was mailed, the insurance company has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to rebut the
presumption that the envelope was received. That does not mean, however, that if the insurance company
does provide such evidence it is entitled to a directed verdict. Instead, the presumption is taken out of the case
and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the woman's evidence has triggered the presumption that the envelope containing
the premium payment was received. But under Rule 301, the insurance company then has the burden of
producing enough evidence to rebut the presumption. Here the insurance company has done so.
Consequently, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the
insurance company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for the
woman.  

D is correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was
received. The insurance company has presented sufficient evidence to rebut that presumption. Consequently,
the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance
company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for either the woman or
the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 248

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1572 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance
company, the insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the
nonpayment of her premium. The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.  

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope
containing the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified
that every afternoon at closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance
company later called its mail clerk to testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the
woman's premium payment.  

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.  

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict? 

A: For the insurance company, because neither the woman nor her secretary has any personal knowledge
that the envelope was mailed.
B: For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial
evidence.
C: For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was
received by the addressee.
D: For neither the woman nor the insurance company, because under these circumstances the jury is
responsible for determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Under Rule 301, the rule on presumptions, the woman has presented sufficient evidence that
the envelope containing the premium payment was mailed. The rule does not require that the woman have
personal knowledge that the envelope reached the post office. The insurance company then has the burden of
producing evidence to rebut the presumption that the envelope was received. Because the insurance company
has produced such evidence, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to
determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

B is incorrect. Under Rule 301, once the woman provides evidence that the envelope containing the premium
payment was mailed, the insurance company has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to rebut the
presumption that the envelope was received. That does not mean, however, that if the insurance company
does provide such evidence it is entitled to a directed verdict. Instead, the presumption is taken out of the case
and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the woman's evidence has triggered the presumption that the envelope containing
the premium payment was received. But under Rule 301, the insurance company then has the burden of
producing enough evidence to rebut the presumption. Here the insurance company has done so.
Consequently, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the
insurance company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for the
woman.  

D is correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was
received. The insurance company has presented sufficient evidence to rebut that presumption. Consequently,
the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance
company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for either the woman or
the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 249

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1572 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance
company, the insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the
nonpayment of her premium. The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.  

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope
containing the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified
that every afternoon at closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance
company later called its mail clerk to testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the
woman's premium payment.  

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.  

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict? 

A: For the insurance company, because neither the woman nor her secretary has any personal knowledge
that the envelope was mailed.
B: For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial
evidence.
C: For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was
received by the addressee.
D: For neither the woman nor the insurance company, because under these circumstances the jury is
responsible for determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Under Rule 301, the rule on presumptions, the woman has presented sufficient evidence that
the envelope containing the premium payment was mailed. The rule does not require that the woman have
personal knowledge that the envelope reached the post office. The insurance company then has the burden of
producing evidence to rebut the presumption that the envelope was received. Because the insurance company
has produced such evidence, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to
determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

B is incorrect. Under Rule 301, once the woman provides evidence that the envelope containing the premium
payment was mailed, the insurance company has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to rebut the
presumption that the envelope was received. That does not mean, however, that if the insurance company
does provide such evidence it is entitled to a directed verdict. Instead, the presumption is taken out of the case
and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the woman's evidence has triggered the presumption that the envelope containing
the premium payment was received. But under Rule 301, the insurance company then has the burden of
producing enough evidence to rebut the presumption. Here the insurance company has done so.
Consequently, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the
insurance company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for the
woman.  

D is correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was
received. The insurance company has presented sufficient evidence to rebut that presumption. Consequently,
the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance
company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for either the woman or
the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 250

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1572 - Evidence - Presentation of Evidence

 The question was: 

A woman's car was set on fire by vandals. When she submitted a claim of loss for the car to her insurance
company, the insurance company refused to pay, asserting that the woman's policy had lapsed due to the
nonpayment of her premium. The woman sued the insurance company for breach of contract.  

At trial, the woman testified that she had, in a timely manner, placed a stamped, properly addressed envelope
containing the premium payment in the outgoing mail bin at her office. The woman's secretary then testified
that every afternoon at closing time he takes all outgoing mail in the bin to the post office. The insurance
company later called its mail clerk to testify that he opens all incoming mail and that he did not receive the
woman's premium payment.  

The woman and the insurance company have both moved for a directed verdict.  

For which party, if either, should the court direct a verdict? 

A: For the insurance company, because neither the woman nor her secretary has any personal knowledge
that the envelope was mailed.
B: For the insurance company, because the mail clerk's direct testimony negates the woman's circumstantial
evidence.
C: For the woman, because there is a presumption that an envelope properly addressed and stamped was
received by the addressee.
D: For neither the woman nor the insurance company, because under these circumstances the jury is
responsible for determining whether the insurance company received the payment.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Under Rule 301, the rule on presumptions, the woman has presented sufficient evidence that
the envelope containing the premium payment was mailed. The rule does not require that the woman have
personal knowledge that the envelope reached the post office. The insurance company then has the burden of
producing evidence to rebut the presumption that the envelope was received. Because the insurance company
has produced such evidence, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to
determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

B is incorrect. Under Rule 301, once the woman provides evidence that the envelope containing the premium
payment was mailed, the insurance company has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to rebut the
presumption that the envelope was received. That does not mean, however, that if the insurance company
does provide such evidence it is entitled to a directed verdict. Instead, the presumption is taken out of the case
and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance company received the payment.  

C is incorrect. It is true that the woman's evidence has triggered the presumption that the envelope containing
the premium payment was received. But under Rule 301, the insurance company then has the burden of
producing enough evidence to rebut the presumption. Here the insurance company has done so.
Consequently, the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the
insurance company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for the
woman.  

D is correct. The woman has presented sufficient evidence to trigger the presumption that her payment was
received. The insurance company has presented sufficient evidence to rebut that presumption. Consequently,
the presumption is taken out of the case and it is up to the fact finder to determine whether the insurance
company received the payment. Therefore, it would be error to grant a directed verdict for either the woman or
the insurance company.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 251

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1576 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself
without the defendant's knowledge. On cross-examination, the prosecutor asks the wife, "Isn't it true that you
have fled your home several times in fear of your husband?"  

Is this question proper?  

A: No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.
B: No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.
C: Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying
against him.
D: Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Leading questions are generally permitted on cross-examination, and the question is proper
because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

B is incorrect. This answer applies the wrong balancing test. Under Rule 403, evidence that is probative is
admissible unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of unfair prejudice. That test favors
admitting probative evidence. It is not the case, therefore, that the probative value must outweigh the
prejudicial effect for the evidence to be admissible. The question is proper because it explores the wife's
possible motive for testifying falsely.  

C is incorrect. The defendant does not have a privilege to prevent his wife from testifying against him. The
privilege against adverse spousal testimony is held by the wife, as the witness, not by the defendant. The
question is proper, however, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

D is correct. A cross-examiner is entitled to question in such a way as to raise inferences about the motive of a
witness to testify falsely. Here, the question raises an inference that the wife is in fear of her husband and is
therefore taking the blame for her husband's crime.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 252

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1576 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself
without the defendant's knowledge. On cross-examination, the prosecutor asks the wife, "Isn't it true that you
have fled your home several times in fear of your husband?"  

Is this question proper?  

A: No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.
B: No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.
C: Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying
against him.
D: Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Leading questions are generally permitted on cross-examination, and the question is proper
because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

B is incorrect. This answer applies the wrong balancing test. Under Rule 403, evidence that is probative is
admissible unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of unfair prejudice. That test favors
admitting probative evidence. It is not the case, therefore, that the probative value must outweigh the
prejudicial effect for the evidence to be admissible. The question is proper because it explores the wife's
possible motive for testifying falsely.  

C is incorrect. The defendant does not have a privilege to prevent his wife from testifying against him. The
privilege against adverse spousal testimony is held by the wife, as the witness, not by the defendant. The
question is proper, however, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

D is correct. A cross-examiner is entitled to question in such a way as to raise inferences about the motive of a
witness to testify falsely. Here, the question raises an inference that the wife is in fear of her husband and is
therefore taking the blame for her husband's crime.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 253

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1576 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself
without the defendant's knowledge. On cross-examination, the prosecutor asks the wife, "Isn't it true that you
have fled your home several times in fear of your husband?"  

Is this question proper?  

A: No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.
B: No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.
C: Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying
against him.
D: Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Leading questions are generally permitted on cross-examination, and the question is proper
because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

B is incorrect. This answer applies the wrong balancing test. Under Rule 403, evidence that is probative is
admissible unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of unfair prejudice. That test favors
admitting probative evidence. It is not the case, therefore, that the probative value must outweigh the
prejudicial effect for the evidence to be admissible. The question is proper because it explores the wife's
possible motive for testifying falsely.  

C is incorrect. The defendant does not have a privilege to prevent his wife from testifying against him. The
privilege against adverse spousal testimony is held by the wife, as the witness, not by the defendant. The
question is proper, however, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

D is correct. A cross-examiner is entitled to question in such a way as to raise inferences about the motive of a
witness to testify falsely. Here, the question raises an inference that the wife is in fear of her husband and is
therefore taking the blame for her husband's crime.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 254

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1576 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

At a defendant's trial for mail fraud, the defendant calls his wife to testify that she committed the fraud herself
without the defendant's knowledge. On cross-examination, the prosecutor asks the wife, "Isn't it true that you
have fled your home several times in fear of your husband?"  

Is this question proper?  

A: No, because it is leading a witness not shown to be hostile.
B: No, because its probative value is outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice to the defendant.
C: Yes, because by calling his wife, the defendant has waived his privilege to prevent her from testifying
against him.
D: Yes, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. Leading questions are generally permitted on cross-examination, and the question is proper
because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

B is incorrect. This answer applies the wrong balancing test. Under Rule 403, evidence that is probative is
admissible unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of unfair prejudice. That test favors
admitting probative evidence. It is not the case, therefore, that the probative value must outweigh the
prejudicial effect for the evidence to be admissible. The question is proper because it explores the wife's
possible motive for testifying falsely.  

C is incorrect. The defendant does not have a privilege to prevent his wife from testifying against him. The
privilege against adverse spousal testimony is held by the wife, as the witness, not by the defendant. The
question is proper, however, because it explores the wife's possible motive for testifying falsely.  

D is correct. A cross-examiner is entitled to question in such a way as to raise inferences about the motive of a
witness to testify falsely. Here, the question raises an inference that the wife is in fear of her husband and is
therefore taking the blame for her husband's crime.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 255

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver.
The insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and
therefore excluded from the policy's coverage.  

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which
she was injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating
psychiatrist to give his opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the
time of the crash.  

Should the court admit the witness's opinion? 

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do
so, the testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness
is offering to testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.  

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no
absolute bar to such testimony in a civil case such as this.  

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or
data."  

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for
qualification of an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 256

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver.
The insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and
therefore excluded from the policy's coverage.  

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which
she was injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating
psychiatrist to give his opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the
time of the crash.  

Should the court admit the witness's opinion? 

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do
so, the testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness
is offering to testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.  

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no
absolute bar to such testimony in a civil case such as this.  

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or
data."  

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for
qualification of an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 257

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver.
The insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and
therefore excluded from the policy's coverage.  

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which
she was injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating
psychiatrist to give his opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the
time of the crash.  

Should the court admit the witness's opinion? 

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do
so, the testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness
is offering to testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.  

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no
absolute bar to such testimony in a civil case such as this.  

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or
data."  

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for
qualification of an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 258

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver.
The insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and
therefore excluded from the policy's coverage.  

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which
she was injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating
psychiatrist to give his opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the
time of the crash.  

Should the court admit the witness's opinion? 

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do
so, the testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness
is offering to testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.  

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no
absolute bar to such testimony in a civil case such as this.  

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or
data."  

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for
qualification of an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 259

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1583 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A driver sued her insurance company on an accident insurance policy covering personal injuries to the driver.
The insurance company defended on the ground that the driver's injuries were intentionally self-inflicted and
therefore excluded from the policy's coverage.  

The driver testified at trial that she had inflicted the injuries, as her negligence had caused the crash in which
she was injured, but that she had not done so intentionally. She then called as a witness her treating
psychiatrist to give his opinion that the driver had been mentally unbalanced, but not self-destructive, at the
time of the crash.  

Should the court admit the witness's opinion? 

A: No, because it is a statement about the driver's credibility.
B: No, because it is an opinion about a mental state that constitutes an element of the defense.
C: No, because the witness did not first state the basis for his opinion.
D: Yes, because it is a helpful opinion by a qualified expert.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. The witness is not offering to testify that the driver is telling the truth. (If the witness were to do
so, the testimony would be inadmissible, because credibility is a question for the jury to assess.) The witness
is offering to testify only to the driver's pertinent mental state, which is permissible in a civil case such as this.  

B is incorrect. Rule 704(b), which prohibits an expert from testifying that a criminal defendant had or did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crime charged, is applicable to criminal cases only. There is no
absolute bar to such testimony in a civil case such as this.  

C is incorrect. Under Rule 705, an expert may state an opinion "without first testifying to the underlying facts or
data."  

D is correct. The witness's opinion helps the jury understand a relevant mental state. The standard for
qualification of an expert is not high; a psychiatrist is qualified to testify to a person's mental state.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 260

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1592 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle
that the plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims
that a design defect in the vehicle caused it to roll over. The defendant claims that the cause of the accident
was the decedent's driving at excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given
contradictory estimates about the vehicle's speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the
decedent was killed instantly.  

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit? 

A: A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility
vehicle of the same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a
dry test track at the top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.
B: A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes
footage of accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.
C: Evidence offered by the defendant that the decedent had received two citations for speeding in the previous
three years.
D: Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical
expert explain to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In order for product demonstrations to be admissible under Rule 403 to prove how an accident
happened, the conditions must be substantially similar to the conditions at the time in question. This test was
conducted on a dry track with a professional driver. Even if the court admits this evidence in its discretion, the
question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to admit. This evidence is not it.  

B is incorrect. This evidence is not very probative, because it shows sport-utility vehicles in general, not
necessarily the model used by the decedent, and there is no indication that the conditions in the accident
scenes were in any way similar to the conditions in question. Under Rule 403, the probative value of this
evidence is likely to be substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect and risk of jury confusion. Even if the
court admits this evidence in its discretion, the question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to
admit. This evidence is not it.  

C is incorrect. This evidence would not be admissible, because it is attempting to show that the decedent had
a propensity to drive too fast, to create the inference that the decedent was driving too fast at the time in
question. Under Rule 404, proof of character in order to show conduct consistent with that character is
inadmissible in civil cases.  

D is correct. This evidence is most likely to be admitted. If these photographs are offered to illustrate the
expert's testimony, the jury can be instructed to use the evidence only for that purpose. Moreover, this
evidence is not as prejudicial or potentially confusing to the jury as the evidence in options (A) and (B), while
the evidence in option (C) is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 261

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1592 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle
that the plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims
that a design defect in the vehicle caused it to roll over. The defendant claims that the cause of the accident
was the decedent's driving at excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given
contradictory estimates about the vehicle's speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the
decedent was killed instantly.  

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit? 

A: A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility
vehicle of the same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a
dry test track at the top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.
B: A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes
footage of accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.
C: Evidence offered by the defendant that the decedent had received two citations for speeding in the previous
three years.
D: Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical
expert explain to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In order for product demonstrations to be admissible under Rule 403 to prove how an accident
happened, the conditions must be substantially similar to the conditions at the time in question. This test was
conducted on a dry track with a professional driver. Even if the court admits this evidence in its discretion, the
question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to admit. This evidence is not it.  

B is incorrect. This evidence is not very probative, because it shows sport-utility vehicles in general, not
necessarily the model used by the decedent, and there is no indication that the conditions in the accident
scenes were in any way similar to the conditions in question. Under Rule 403, the probative value of this
evidence is likely to be substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect and risk of jury confusion. Even if the
court admits this evidence in its discretion, the question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to
admit. This evidence is not it.  

C is incorrect. This evidence would not be admissible, because it is attempting to show that the decedent had
a propensity to drive too fast, to create the inference that the decedent was driving too fast at the time in
question. Under Rule 404, proof of character in order to show conduct consistent with that character is
inadmissible in civil cases.  

D is correct. This evidence is most likely to be admitted. If these photographs are offered to illustrate the
expert's testimony, the jury can be instructed to use the evidence only for that purpose. Moreover, this
evidence is not as prejudicial or potentially confusing to the jury as the evidence in options (A) and (B), while
the evidence in option (C) is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 262

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1592 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle
that the plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims
that a design defect in the vehicle caused it to roll over. The defendant claims that the cause of the accident
was the decedent's driving at excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given
contradictory estimates about the vehicle's speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the
decedent was killed instantly.  

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit? 

A: A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility
vehicle of the same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a
dry test track at the top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.
B: A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes
footage of accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.
C: Evidence offered by the defendant that the decedent had received two citations for speeding in the previous
three years.
D: Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical
expert explain to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In order for product demonstrations to be admissible under Rule 403 to prove how an accident
happened, the conditions must be substantially similar to the conditions at the time in question. This test was
conducted on a dry track with a professional driver. Even if the court admits this evidence in its discretion, the
question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to admit. This evidence is not it.  

B is incorrect. This evidence is not very probative, because it shows sport-utility vehicles in general, not
necessarily the model used by the decedent, and there is no indication that the conditions in the accident
scenes were in any way similar to the conditions in question. Under Rule 403, the probative value of this
evidence is likely to be substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect and risk of jury confusion. Even if the
court admits this evidence in its discretion, the question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to
admit. This evidence is not it.  

C is incorrect. This evidence would not be admissible, because it is attempting to show that the decedent had
a propensity to drive too fast, to create the inference that the decedent was driving too fast at the time in
question. Under Rule 404, proof of character in order to show conduct consistent with that character is
inadmissible in civil cases.  

D is correct. This evidence is most likely to be admitted. If these photographs are offered to illustrate the
expert's testimony, the jury can be instructed to use the evidence only for that purpose. Moreover, this
evidence is not as prejudicial or potentially confusing to the jury as the evidence in options (A) and (B), while
the evidence in option (C) is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 263

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1592 - Evidence - Relevancy and Excluding Relevant Evidence

 The question was: 

A plaintiff has brought a products liability action against a defendant, the manufacturer of a sport-utility vehicle
that the plaintiff's decedent was driving when she was fatally injured in a rollover accident. The plaintiff claims
that a design defect in the vehicle caused it to roll over. The defendant claims that the cause of the accident
was the decedent's driving at excessive speed during an ice storm. Eyewitnesses to the accident have given
contradictory estimates about the vehicle's speed just before the rollover. It is also disputed whether the
decedent was killed instantly.  

Which of the following items of offered evidence is the court most likely to admit? 

A: A videotape offered by the defendant of a test conducted by the defendant showing that a sport-utility
vehicle of the same model the decedent was driving did not roll over when driven by a professional driver on a
dry test track at the top speed testified to by the eyewitnesses.
B: A videotape offered by the plaintiff of a television news program about sport-utility vehicles that includes
footage of accident scenes in which the vehicles had rolled over.
C: Evidence offered by the defendant that the decedent had received two citations for speeding in the previous
three years.
D: Photographs taken at the accident scene and during the autopsy that would help the plaintiff's medical
expert explain to the jury why she concluded that the decedent did not die instantly.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is incorrect. In order for product demonstrations to be admissible under Rule 403 to prove how an accident
happened, the conditions must be substantially similar to the conditions at the time in question. This test was
conducted on a dry track with a professional driver. Even if the court admits this evidence in its discretion, the
question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to admit. This evidence is not it.  

B is incorrect. This evidence is not very probative, because it shows sport-utility vehicles in general, not
necessarily the model used by the decedent, and there is no indication that the conditions in the accident
scenes were in any way similar to the conditions in question. Under Rule 403, the probative value of this
evidence is likely to be substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect and risk of jury confusion. Even if the
court admits this evidence in its discretion, the question calls for the evidence that the court is most likely to
admit. This evidence is not it.  

C is incorrect. This evidence would not be admissible, because it is attempting to show that the decedent had
a propensity to drive too fast, to create the inference that the decedent was driving too fast at the time in
question. Under Rule 404, proof of character in order to show conduct consistent with that character is
inadmissible in civil cases.  

D is correct. This evidence is most likely to be admitted. If these photographs are offered to illustrate the
expert's testimony, the jury can be instructed to use the evidence only for that purpose. Moreover, this
evidence is not as prejudicial or potentially confusing to the jury as the evidence in options (A) and (B), while
the evidence in option (C) is inadmissible.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 264

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1596 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered
to give the prosecutor information about facts that would strengthen the prosecutor's case against the
defendant in exchange for leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly
thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.  

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the
information that the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.  

Is the attorney's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
B: No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.
C: Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.
D: Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime
would be a statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications.  

B is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information, and it makes no difference who initiated the plea discussion. The
question is whether the codefendant waived the privilege by offering information to the prosecutor, which she
did not. Because the codefendant did not actually disclose any confidential communications to the prosecutor,
there was no waiver.  

C is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications, and whether she intended to
disclose the information is irrelevant.  

D is incorrect. A declaration against interest is one that tends to expose the declarant to criminal liability. Any
statement to the attorney could not have subjected the codefendant to a risk of criminal liability, because the
statement was privileged.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 265

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1596 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered
to give the prosecutor information about facts that would strengthen the prosecutor's case against the
defendant in exchange for leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly
thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.  

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the
information that the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.  

Is the attorney's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
B: No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.
C: Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.
D: Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime
would be a statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications.  

B is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information, and it makes no difference who initiated the plea discussion. The
question is whether the codefendant waived the privilege by offering information to the prosecutor, which she
did not. Because the codefendant did not actually disclose any confidential communications to the prosecutor,
there was no waiver.  

C is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications, and whether she intended to
disclose the information is irrelevant.  

D is incorrect. A declaration against interest is one that tends to expose the declarant to criminal liability. Any
statement to the attorney could not have subjected the codefendant to a risk of criminal liability, because the
statement was privileged.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 266

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1596 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered
to give the prosecutor information about facts that would strengthen the prosecutor's case against the
defendant in exchange for leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly
thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.  

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the
information that the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.  

Is the attorney's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
B: No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.
C: Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.
D: Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime
would be a statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications.  

B is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information, and it makes no difference who initiated the plea discussion. The
question is whether the codefendant waived the privilege by offering information to the prosecutor, which she
did not. Because the codefendant did not actually disclose any confidential communications to the prosecutor,
there was no waiver.  

C is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications, and whether she intended to
disclose the information is irrelevant.  

D is incorrect. A declaration against interest is one that tends to expose the declarant to criminal liability. Any
statement to the attorney could not have subjected the codefendant to a risk of criminal liability, because the
statement was privileged.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

© Copyright 2003 - 2014 AdaptiGroup LLC.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 267

Past Question Review

Clark Ovruchesky

Question 1596 - Evidence - Privileges and Other Policy Exclusions

 The question was: 

At the start of the trial of a defendant and a codefendant for robbery, the codefendant and her attorney offered
to give the prosecutor information about facts that would strengthen the prosecutor's case against the
defendant in exchange for leniency toward the codefendant. The prosecutor refused the offer. Shortly
thereafter, the codefendant committed suicide.  

During the defendant's trial, the prosecutor called the codefendant's attorney and asked him to relate the
information that the codefendant had revealed to the attorney.  

Is the attorney's testimony admissible? 

A: No, because the codefendant's communications are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
B: No, because the plea discussion was initiated by the codefendant rather than by the prosecutor.
C: Yes, because the codefendant intended to disclose the information.
D: Yes, because the information the codefendant gave to her attorney revealing her knowledge of the crime
would be a statement against the codefendant's penal interest.

The explanation for the answer is:

A is correct. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications.  

B is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information, and it makes no difference who initiated the plea discussion. The
question is whether the codefendant waived the privilege by offering information to the prosecutor, which she
did not. Because the codefendant did not actually disclose any confidential communications to the prosecutor,
there was no waiver.  

C is incorrect. The prosecutor is asking for confidential communications between the codefendant and her
attorney, which is privileged information. If the codefendant had actually provided information to the
prosecutor, the privilege would have been waived as to any communications previously made to her attorney.
However, the codefendant did not disclose any confidential communications, and whether she intended to
disclose the information is irrelevant.  

D is incorrect. A declaration against interest is one that tends to expose the declarant to criminal liability. Any
statement to the attorney could not have subjected the codefendant to a risk of criminal liability, because the
statement was privileged.