QUESTIONS
_____________________________
TORTS

TORTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Numbers refer to Question Numbers

I. The intentional torts

    A. Basis of liability 124, 128

        1. Assault and battery 11, 14, 39, 60, 79, 100, 119, 155

        2. False imprisonment 8, 74, 107, 123

        3. Trespass to land 28, 39, 55, 96, 99, 100, 110, 115, 171, 188

        4. Trespass to chattels and conversion 48, 58, 61, 153, 169

        5. Intentional infliction of mental distress 89, 96, 124, 138, 189

    B. Privileges and defenses 25, 39, 55, 60, 61, 66, 77, 79, 100, 119, 153,

188, 191

II. Strict liability

    A. Basis of liability 128

        1. Defective products 1, 4, 10, 16, 18, 19, 20, 27, 30, 34, 38, 41, 43,
50, 53, 59, 63, 76, 87, 90, 95, 103, 106, 110, 121, 131, 135, 137, 139,
141, 142, 152, 155, 158, 165, 176, 181, 184, 190

        2. Abnormally dangerous things and activities 22, 23, 28, 69, 115, 128,

132, 145, 171

890

        3. Animals 15, 18, 40, 56, 120, 141

    B. Defenses 16, 38, 41, 69, 139

III. The negligence action 7, 21, 25, 30, 35, 38, 43, 51, 63, 77, 78, 86,
136, 140, 143, 147, 155, 159, 162, 164, 166, 169, 188, 191, 192

    A. Risk and duty 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 19, 20, 21, 32, 35, 43, 44, 46, 49, 54,
59, 60, 62, 77, 78, 81, 86, 94, 104, 105, 108, 111, 120, 121, 124, 125,
128, 130, 132, 135, 136, 142, 143, 149, 151, 152, 154, 159, 162, 164,
166, 175, 176, 178, 180, 184, 190, 191, 192

    B. Standard of conduct

        1. General 1, 19, 20, 21, 22, 31, 32, 35, 46, 54, 56, 59, 60, 62, 72, 76,
77, 78, 81, 82, 83, 90, 93, 94, 95, 105, 110, 115, 121, 125, 128, 130,
134, 135, 136, 140, 142, 143, 151, 152, 154, 158, 159, 160, 166, 169,
171, 176, 178, 180, 183, 184, 187, 188, 190, 191, 192

        2. Statutory 4, 25, 37, 65, 85, 111, 120, 131, 134, 166, 175, 181, 183

        3. Special classes of persons 18, 62, 65, 77, 82, 83, 84, 90, 121, 126,

130, 140, 141, 154, 158, 160, 161, 166, 176, 180, 187, 190, 191

    C. Proof of fault, including res ipsa loquitur 1, 40, 63, 83, 86, 121, 126,

132, 135, 137, 155, 160, 162, 176, 184, 187, 190, 192

    D. Causation

        1. Cause in fact 1, 5, 21, 22, 23, 25, 43, 51, 62, 64, 78, 81, 91, 108,
110, 111, 115, 129, 131, 135, 143, 154, 156, 159, 171, 174, 179, 181,
184

        2. Legal or proximate cause 5, 6, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 35, 43, 44, 49, 51,
54, 59, 64, 62, 72, 78, 81, 86, 91, 108, 110, 111, 121, 125, 129, 131, 132,
133, 143, 149, 151, 152, 156, 159, 162, 169, 176, 178, 179, 181, 182,
190

        3. Multiple actors 5, 6, 13, 21, 24, 25, 26, 35, 43, 49, 51, 54, 59, 63,

72, 81, 108, 110, 111, 125, 129, 131, 133, 143, 149, 151, 152, 155, 156,
174, 175, 178, 179, 181, 182

891

    E. Apportionment of liability, including contribution and indemnity 6,
16, 42, 43, 52, 104, 112, 116, 117, 127, 139, 147, 150, 168, 172, 173

    F. Special problem areas

        1. Owners and occupiers of land 2, 54, 60, 62, 70, 77, 78, 86, 93, 94,

105, 121, 125, 151, 154, 159, 162, 176, 178, 190, 191

        2. Mental distress 16, 83, 115, 139, 160, 171, 187

    G. Liability for acts of others 42, 84, 113, 133, 161, 169, 182

        1. Vicarious liability and agency 13, 20, 21, 30, 31, 43, 95, 113, 116,

133, 142, 143, 173, 175, 182

        2. Joint enterprise 13, 20, 43, 83, 142, 160, 187

        3. Independent contractors and non-delegable duties 31, 121, 133, 176,

182, 190

    H. Defenses 25, 49, 112, 127, 130, 149, 168, 180

        1. Assumption of risk 16, 25, 46, 56, 62, 63, 93, 105, 106, 113, 115,

130, 134, 139, 154, 155, 169, 171, 180, 183

        2. Contributory fault and last clear chance 1, 17, 25, 35, 37, 38, 59, 70,
78, 84, 105, 125, 127, 130, 133, 135, 152, 159, 161, 169, 178, 180, 182,
184

        3. Comparative negligence 1, 25, 41, 52, 93, 112, 116, 118, 127, 135,

150, 168, 173, 184

IV. Nuisance: public and private 40, 47, 79, 96, 102, 115, 134, 148, 171,

183

V. Defamation

    A. Basis of liability 9, 33, 45, 67, 75, 109, 144, 157, 167, 177, 186

    B. Common-law privileges and defenses 33, 109, 144

    C. Constitutional limitations 75, 109, 157, 186

892

VI. Privacy

    A. Basis of liability 29, 73, 96, 97, 114, 115, 170, 171

    B. Common-law privileges and defenses 29, 97, 114, 170

    C. Constitutional limitations 29, 97, 114, 170

VII. Misrepresentation 16, 24, 36, 41, 68, 88, 139, 146, 163

    A. Deceit 3, 36, 101, 146

    B. Negligent misrepresentation 12, 101

TORTS QUESTIONS

1. The manufacturer made a product that was sold over the counter for the
treatment of dandruff and dry scalp conditions. A doctor purchased a
bottle at a drugstore. A statement on the label read, “This product will
not harm normal scalp or hair.” The doctor used the product as
directed. Because of a rare scalp condition making him allergic to one
of the ingredients, the product irritated his scalp, causing him much
pain and discomfort. In an action for negligence by the doctor against
the manufacturer, which of the following additional facts or inferences,
if it was the only one true, would be most effective in the
manufacturer's defense?

(A) The doctor did not read the statement on the label.

(B) The reasonable person in the manufacturer's position would not
have foreseen that the product would injure persons with the
doctor's allergy.

(C) The product was manufactured for the manufacturer by another

company.

(D) The manufacturer was unaware that an allergy existed like that

suffered by the doctor.

2. The defendant lived in a neighborhood in which the incidence of

violent crime had been increasing. The plaintiff and the defendant were
having tea together in the defendant's kitchen when there was a knock at
the door of the defendant's home. Although the door was equipped with
a peephole that would have enabled the defendant to see who was

893

outside before opening, the defendant opened the door without looking.
As soon as the door was opened, an armed robber entered with a gun.
The robber struck the plaintiff several times with the barrel of his
pistol before robbing her of her money and leaving. The plaintiff
subsequently asserted a negligence claim against the defendant for
injuries resulting from the attack, alleging that it was negligent for the
defendant to open the door without looking to see who was there.

Which of the following additional facts, if it was the only one true,
would be most helpful to the plaintiff's claim against the defendant?

(A) The defendant was aware of the high incidence of crime in the

neighborhood.

(B) The plaintiff was aware of the high incidence of crime in the

neighborhood.

(C) The defendant had invited the plaintiff for tea because she hoped to

sell the plaintiff her used living room furniture.

(D) One of the defendant's neighbors had been robbed and attacked by

the robber in a similar manner the previous day.

3. A farmer advertised his farm for sale. A developer had been secretly

advised by a friend in the state highway department that a major
highway would soon be built adjacent to the farmer's land. Knowing
that this would increase the value of the property, the developer
contacted the farmer and offered to purchase the farm. The developer
said that she would be willing to pay the fair market value as
determined by any licensed real estate appraiser selected by the
farmer. The farmer hired a licensed real estate appraiser who
determined the fair market value to be $400,000. The developer
purchased the land, paying that price. Under state law, the developer
was required to tell the farmer about the new road, but she failed to do
so.

Three weeks after the closing of title, the state announced plans to
build a highway adjacent to the land. This announcement increased the
value of the land to $4,000,000. If the farmer institutes an action for
misrepresentation against the developer, the court should find for

(A) the developer, because the farmer knew her to be a real estate

investor.

894

(B) the developer, because she allowed the farmer's appraiser to

determine the fair market value of the land.

(C) the farmer, because the developer's failure to disclose the coming

of the highway was a breach of a fiduciary obligation.

(D) the farmer, because the developer had an obligation to disclose that

the state would be building a highway adjacent to the land.

4. A woman was injured when a robber shot her with a pistol

manufactured by the gun maker. She asserted a claim against the gun
maker, alleging that the pistol with which she had been shot was meant
to be sold for a price under $50. Which of the following arguments is
most likely to lead to a judgment for the woman?

(A) The gun maker is vicariously liable for battery, since it was

foreseeable that a purchaser of the pistol would shoot another
person with it.

(B) The gun maker breached an implied warranty that the gun was

merchantable, since a pistol that is meant to be sold for under $50
is unfit for ordinary use.

(C) The gun maker is liable for negligence, since the criminal law is

designed to protect persons like the woman from becoming the
victims of robbers.

(D) The gun maker is liable for negligence, since the low selling price

of the pistol made it foreseeable that it would be used in
connection with a crime.

5. A man was already intoxicated when he entered the bartender's tavern.
At first, the bartender refused to serve him any more alcohol. The man
insisted, however, and at his insistence, the bartender served him more
drinks. When the man left the bar, he was unable to start his car. He
asked a dentist, who was driving by, to assist him. The dentist, who
realized that the man was drunk, determined that the man's battery was
weak and started the man's car by connecting a cable to her own
battery. Later, while driving, the man struck a pedestrian who was
walking across the street.

The pedestrian asserted a claim for his personal injuries against the
dentist. Which one of the following facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would provide the dentist with the most effective
defense?

895

(A) The state had a statute making a barkeeper liable for damage done
by a person who purchased alcohol from the barkeeper after
already being intoxicated.

(B) The dentist was in the business of rendering road service to

motorists having trouble with their cars.

(C) The man drove 200 miles before striking the pedestrian.

(D) The man would not have struck the pedestrian if he had not been

intoxicated.

6. The driver was driving at an unreasonably fast rate of speed when, as a

result, he collided with a hunter's car that was standing unattended
against the curb. The impact caused a loaded rifle that the hunter had
left in the back seat of the car to fire. The bullet went through the car
window and traveled four blocks before striking a painter, who was
leaving a paint factory after work. Although the painter had lost the
sight in his left eye in an accident that occurred when he was a child,
he was employed by the paint factory as a color coordinator. As a
result of his being struck by the bullet from the hunter's rifle, the painter
lost the sight in his right eye. This rendered him totally blind, causing
him to lose his job. The painter subsequently asserted a negligence
claim against the driver, alleging permanent loss of earning capacity in
addition to other items of damage.

Which of the following is the driver's most effective argument in
defense against the painter's claim for permanent loss of earning
capacity?

(A) The painter was a super-sensitive plaintiff, since he was already

blind in one eye.

(B) The hunter acted unreasonably by leaving a loaded rifle in the back

seat of his car.

(C) The painter was outside the foreseeable zone of danger.

(D) The reasonable person would not have expected that the driver's

conduct would cause any person to be rendered blind.

7. A burglar broke into the grocer's grocery store in the middle of the
night. After stealing all the money that was in the cash register, she
blew open the door of the safe with nitroglycerin and stole its contents
as well. Then, as she was leaving, she stole a six-pack of beer.

896

Because of poor quality control at the brewery, the beer contained a
toxic ingredient. Later that night, the burglar drank the beer and was
made seriously ill by the toxic ingredient that it contained. In an action
by the burglar against the brewery, the court will most likely find for

(A) the burglar, because her injury was proximately caused by the

negligence of the brewery.

(B) the burglar, since the brewery breached an express warranty.

(C) the brewery, since the burglar does not come into court with “clean

hands.”

(D) the brewery, because the burglar's theft of the beer will be regarded

as unforeseeable.

8. A movie studio was filming part of a motion picture at a large

residential apartment building with the permission of the building
owner. To avoid interference by curious onlookers, the movie studio's
security agents set up a command post in the lobby of the building. No
persons were allowed to enter the building without identifying
themselves and explaining their reasons for being there. A fisherman,
who lived in an apartment in the building, was returning from a fishing
trip late one night. Unaware of the movie studio's activities, he was
stopped by the movie studio employees as he attempted to enter.
Because he was not carrying identification, the fisherman was unable
to establish his identity. For this reason, the employees refused to
allow him to enter. After trying unsuccessfully to convince them that he
lived there, the fisherman stayed with his sister, who lived a block
away. The following morning, he contacted the building owner, who
spoke to the movie studio officials and arranged to have them allow the
fisherman to enter.

If the fisherman asserts a claim against the movie studio for false
imprisonment, which of the following would be the movie studio's
most effective argument in defense?

(A) The movie studio employees did not know that the fisherman was

entitled to enter the building.

(B) The conduct of the movie studio employees was not unreasonable.

(C) The fisherman was not imprisoned.

(D) The fisherman sustained no damage as a result of the conduct of the

897

movie studio employees.

9. A handyman, who owned an appliance repair shop, was at a cocktail

party when he saw one of his competitors. When the handyman
suggested that they work together, the competitor responded, “I
wouldn't go into business with you because you're the most
incompetent person I've ever known.” A customer of the handyman's
overheard the conversation. As a result, the following day the customer
cancelled a contract that he had with the handyman.

If the handyman asserts a claim against the competitor for defamation,
the handyman will be successful if

(A) the competitor knew or should have known that the statement was

defamatory when he made it.

(B) the competitor knew or should have known that the statement was

false when he made it.

(C) the competitor knew or should have known that the statement would

be overheard when he made it.

(D) the competitor knew or should have known that harm would result

from the statement.

10. A farmer agreed to deliver all of her wheat to a bread company to be

used by that company in the production of bread for sale to the general
public. While harvesting the crop, she realized that a blade on her
harvesting machine was broken and that fine slivers of metal were
becoming mixed with the wheat. She said nothing about this when she
delivered the wheat to the bread company since she knew that the
bread company ordinarily cleaned its wheat before using it. The
harvesting machine had been manufactured and sold by a tractor
company.

The bread company used the wheat that it purchased from the farmer to
manufacture a loaf of bread that it sold to a deli owner who operated a
sandwich shop. The deli owner used the bread to make a sandwich.
Because the bread contained slivers of the blade from the farmer's
harvesting machine, a bike messenger lacerated the lining of his throat
when he swallowed a bite of the sandwich.

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most helpful to the farmer in defense against

898

an action brought by the bike messenger on a theory of strict liability
in tort?

(A) If the bread company acted reasonably, the slivers of metal would
have been removed from the wheat before it was baked into bread.

(B) The sandwich that contained the slivers of metal had been

purchased by one of the bike messenger's coworkers, who gave it
to the bike messenger after changing his mind about eating it.

(C) The bread company made substantial changes to the wheat.

(D) The blade on the farmer's harvesting machine was defective when

she purchased it from the tractor company.

11. The plaintiff and the defendant were drinking at the same bar when the
plaintiff began insulting the defendant by calling him names that were
ethnically offensive. When they started to argue with each other, the
bartender asked them both to leave. The plaintiff got into his car and
drove away. Angry, the defendant began chasing him in his own car.
When he caught up with the plaintiff, the defendant began passing the
plaintiff's car on the left. As he did so, he swerved his car toward the
plaintiff's for the purpose of frightening the plaintiff. The plaintiff did
not know that the car swerving toward him was the defendant's, but he
became frightened that it would hit him and steered away from it,
striking a fire hydrant and sustaining injury.

If the plaintiff institutes an action against the defendant, a court should
hold the defendant liable for

(A) battery only.

(B) assault only.

(C) both battery and assault.

(D) neither battery nor assault.

12. The buyer was interested in purchasing the seller's house. Because the
buyer knew that some of the houses in the area were infested with
termites, he asked the seller whether there were any termites in his
house. The seller said that there were none, believing this statement to
be true. The buyer purchased the house from the seller and moved into
it. Three months later, the buyer discovered that the framework of the
house had been damaged by termites, and that the termites had been
damaging the framework for several years. He subsequently asserted a

899

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

claim against the seller on a theory of negligent misrepresentation.

Which of the following is the seller's most effective argument in
defense against the buyer's claim?

(A) The seller did not know that there were termites in the house.

(B) The seller had no duty to tell the buyer whether there were termites

in the house.

(C) The seller's statement that there were no termites in the house was

an expression of opinion.

(D) The seller's belief that there were no termites in the house was

reasonable.

13. The plaintiff purchased a box labeled “Generic Breakfast Cereal” from
a supermarket. While he was eating it, he broke a tooth on a stone that
the product contained. The product sold by the supermarket and
labeled “Generic Breakfast Cereal” is furnished by three different
manufacturers. Each sells an approximately equal quantity to the
supermarket. In addition, all package their product in identical
wrappers, so that it is impossible to tell which of them furnished any
given box of breakfast cereal. Although the companies compete with
each other, at the supermarket's request, they worked together to design
the product wrapper.

If the plaintiff is successful in an action for damages against the
supermarket, it will probably be because

(A) the supermarket and manufacturers were involved in a concerted

action in the manufacture and marketing of the product.

(B) the supermarket and manufacturers established standards on an
industry-wide basis, which standards made identification of the
product's manufacturer impossible.

(C) the negligence of any of the three manufacturers resulted in harm to
the plaintiff under circumstances such that it was impossible to tell
which of them caused the harm, and the supermarket is vicariously
liable for that negligence.

(D) any of the three manufacturers manufactured a defective product,
and the supermarket sold that product while it was in a defective
condition.

900

14. A young girl planned to spend an entire weekend camping alone in the
woods. A kidnapper, who knew about the girl's plan, phoned the girl's
mother the day after the girl left home. The kidnapper said, “We have
your daughter. We've already beaten her up once, just to hear her
scream. Next time, we might kill her.” The kidnapper instructed the
girl's mother to deliver a cash ransom to a specified location within
one hour. Since there was no way to locate the girl's campsite in the
woods, the girl's mother could not find out whether the kidnapper was
telling the truth. Horrified that her daughter might be beaten and injured
or killed, she delivered the ransom as instructed. She remained in a
hysterical state until the girl returned from her camping trip and the
girl's mother realized that the ransom demand had been a hoax. The
girl's mother, who already suffered from a heart ailment, had a heart
attack the day after the girl's return.

If the girl's mother asserts a claim against the kidnapper for assault, the
court should find for

(A) the girl's mother, because the kidnapper was aware that his conduct

would frighten her.

(B) the girl's mother, because the court will transfer the kidnapper's

intent.

(C) the kidnapper, because the girl's mother did not perceive injury

being inflicted upon the girl.

(D) the kidnapper, because the girl's mother had no reason to expect to

be touched by the kidnapper.

15. An actor owned a leopard, which the actor had trained and which had
appeared with him in motion pictures. The leopard had always been
tame and gentle, even when young. When the actor retired, the leopard
was old, almost blind, somewhat slow-moving, and the size of a large
dog. The actor brought the animal to live with him, keeping it in the
fenced yard alongside his house. A young girl delivered newspapers to
the actor. One day, she came to the actor's home to collect for the past
week's deliveries. Since she knew the leopard, the girl opened the gate
and called the animal so that she could pet him. The leopard bounded
toward the place from which the sound had come, but because he was
almost blind, he bumped into the girl. The girl fell to the ground,
fracturing her ankle.

901

If the girl asserts a claim against the actor on a theory of strict liability,
the court should find for

(A) the actor, because the injury did not result from a trait that made it

dangerous to keep a leopard.

(B) the actor, because the leopard was not a wild animal.

(C) the girl, because it was unreasonable for the actor to keep the

leopard in his yard.

(D) the girl, because the actor should have anticipated that a child

would attempt to pet the leopard.

16. While the plaintiff was visiting her daughter, the two of them decided
to go swimming at a nearby public pool. Since she had not brought a
bathing suit along on her visit, the plaintiff went to a department store
to purchase one. While looking at the suits on the bargain counter, she
found one that had been manufactured by the defendant. The package
that contained it bore a label that read, “Disposable Bathing Suit. This
garment is made completely from recycled paper. Although it is strong
enough to be worn several times and is even washable, it's inexpensive
enough to be thrown away after one use. Buy several, and take them
with you on trips to the beach.” The plaintiff bought the bathing suit and
wore it at the public swimming pool. After swimming for a few
minutes, the wet paper bathing suit suddenly dissolved and fell from
her in shreds, leaving her completely naked.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damages
resulting from her embarrassment, the defendant's best argument in
defense is that

(A) the defendant made no representations to the plaintiff.

(B) the plaintiff sustained no physical injury or symptoms.

(C) the plaintiff purchased the suit from the department store.

(D) the defendant acted reasonably in manufacturing and labeling the

bathing suit.

17. A mother needed butter for the cookies that she was baking, so she

asked her seven-year-old son to go to the store. Because traffic was
sometimes heavy, the boy was not usually permitted to ride his bicycle
on the roadway there. The mother needed the butter right away,
however, so she told him that he could ride in the roadway if he was

902

sure to stay on the left side. A driver was driving his car when he was
momentarily blinded by the sun. He did not see the boy, who was
riding toward him in the roadway, and struck him, causing the boy to
sustain serious injuries. The boy subsequently asserted a claim for
negligence against the driver. The driver raised a defense based on
contributory negligence. In a jurisdiction that applies the all-or-nothing
rule of contributory negligence, the driver's defense will succeed only
if

(A) the boy acted unreasonably.

(B) the mother acted unreasonably.

(C) either the mother or the boy acted unreasonably.

(D) both the mother and the boy acted unreasonably.

18. A company manufactured a leash for training dogs. The leash had been

submitted to all reasonable tests and inspections before being
marketed. A professional dog trainer was working with a dog in her
unfenced front yard and was using a brand new leash. The dog was of
average size and strength. A walker was walking past the yard when
the dog began to snarl and lunge at him. When the trainer yanked on the
leash, it suddenly broke, freeing the dog. The dog sprang forward,
biting the walker.

If the walker asserts a claim against the company alleging that the
leash used by the trainer was defective, the court should find for

(A) the company, because the walker was not a purchaser or consumer

of the product.

(B) the company, because the leash had been submitted to all
reasonable tests and inspections before being marketed.

(C) the walker, because the dog was a dog of average size and strength.

(D) the walker, because it was foreseeable that the leash would

eventually weaken and break when used as it was meant to be used.

19. On a boy's first birthday, his aunt bought him a rag doll as a gift. The
toy was made of plush material, with buttons sewn on for eyes. While
playing with the toy, the boy pulled one of the buttons off, put it in his
mouth, and choked to death on it. The boy's father commenced an
action against the aunt under the state's wrongful death statute.

903

If the father is successful in his action against the aunt, it will probably
be because

(A) the aunt was negligent in giving the rag doll to the boy.

(B) the rag doll was unfit for ordinary use.

(C) the rag doll was defective when the aunt gave it to the boy.

(D) the rag doll was unreasonably dangerous when the aunt gave it to

the boy.

20. Because the plaintiff had a headache, he took two headache tablets

from a bottle that had been purchased by his wife at the grocery store.
The tablets had been manufactured by the company, which sold them to
the grocery store in sealed bottles for resale. Because of a toxic
ingredient that the tablets contained, the plaintiff became ill as a result
of taking them.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim based on negligence against the grocery
store for his damages, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the company's negligence is imputed to the

grocery store.

(B) the plaintiff, because a retailer has an absolute duty to provide safe

products.

(C) the grocery store, because the bottle containing the tablets was

sealed when the grocery store received it.

(D) the grocery store, because the tablets had been purchased by the

plaintiff's wife.

21. A driver was looking for an address as he drove down the street and
was not watching the road in front of him. As a result, he did not see
the pedestrian crossing the street in front of him and struck her with his
car, knocking her down. The driver immediately got out of his car to
help the pedestrian. When he saw that she was unconscious, he became
afraid to move her, and he left her in the roadway while he ran to a
nearby phone. While the driver was gone, a taxi driver drove down the
same street. Because he was intoxicated by the drug PCP, the taxi
driver did not see the pedestrian in the roadway and drove over her,
fracturing her leg.

If the pedestrian brings an action against the taxi driver for damages

904

resulting from her fractured leg, the taxi driver's liability will most
probably turn on whether it was foreseeable that

(A) the driver would drive negligently and would leave the pedestrian

lying in the roadway after striking her.

(B) a person struck by an automobile would be involved in a second

accident within a short period of time.

(C) a person would be in the roadway.

(D) the taxi driver would drive while intoxicated by the drug PCP.

22. The power company operated a nuclear power plant on the seashore
just outside the city and sold electricity generated by its operations to
city residents. To cool its equipment, the power company drew water
from the ocean and piped it through portions of its plant. Because this
operation made the water highly radioactive, the power company
stored used water in a series of large concrete holding ponds. The
water stored in this fashion was subjected to a series of procedures
designed to “neutralize” it by removing the radioactivity before it was
returned to the ocean. Because of an earthquake, one of the concrete
holding ponds cracked, permitting several million gallons of
neutralized water to escape. Although the escaping water was not
radioactive, it caused substantial damage to the fields of a farmer as it
passed over them.

If the farmer asserts a claim against the power company for damage to
his realty, the court should find for

(A) the farmer, because operating a nuclear power plant is an

abnormally dangerous activity.

(B) the farmer, because water is a substance that is likely to do great

harm if it should escape from captivity.

(C) the farmer, because it was unreasonable to operate a nuclear power

plant in an area where an earthquake could occur.

(D) the power company, because the damage resulted from an Act of

God.

23. The company was a manufacturer of explosives. Its warehouse, which
contained large quantities of explosives, was located a short distance
from the town. A group of political extremists were planning to set off
a series of bombs in public places in the town. Several members broke

905

into the company's warehouse for the purpose of stealing explosives to
use in making bombs. Their entry set off an alarm that brought the
police. Rather than surrender to the police, the terrorists committed
suicide by detonating the explosives that they had stolen. The blast
caused the entire warehouse to explode. A house located a half mile
away was damaged by the explosion.

If the homeowner asserts a claim for damages against the company on
the ground that storing explosives was an abnormally dangerous
activity, which of the following would be the company's most effective
argument in defense?

(A) The explosion did not result from unreasonable conduct by the

company.

(B) The damage did not result from a physical invasion of the

homeowner's realty by any tangible object in the control of the
company.

(C) The conduct of the terrorists was an intervening cause of harm.

(D) It was not foreseeable that terrorists would deliberately detonate

explosives in the warehouse.

24. The seller kept an antique hay wagon in front of her house as a yard
ornament. On several occasions, she offered to sell the hay wagon to
her neighbor, the buyer, for $500. Although the buyer admired it, he had
always been unwilling to pay the seller's price. After reading a
magazine article about the increasing popularity of farm antiques, the
buyer concluded that the value of the seller's hay wagon was likely to
increase, and that it would therefore be a good investment. One day he
approached her, saying, “If you're still interested in selling that hay
wagon, I'll pay $500.” The seller was surprised that he had changed
his mind, but did not ask him why because she was afraid that he
would change it back again. Instead, she said, “I'll take your offer,” and
sold him the wagon. Two months later, an antique dealer who saw the
wagon in the buyer's yard bought it from him for $2,000.

If the seller asserts a misrepresentation claim against the buyer, the
court should find for

(A) the seller, because the buyer knew more about the value of antique

hay wagons than the seller did.

906

(B) the seller, because the buyer purchased the hay wagon for the

undisclosed purpose of profiting from his investment.

(C) the buyer, because he was not required to disclose his purpose in

purchasing the hay wagon.

(D) the buyer, because the seller was initially satisfied with the price

that the buyer paid her for the hay wagon.

25. A state statute provides that no person shall transport passengers for

hire in an airplane unless that person shall be licensed as a commercial
airplane pilot. A pilot owned a small private airplane but did not have
a commercial pilot's license. A businessman offered the pilot $200 to
fly him to a distant city in the pilot's plane. The pilot agreed, after
informing the businessman that he did not have a commercial pilot's
license as required by law. While they were flying over another city,
the pilot realized that he had miscalculated the amount of fuel that he
needed for the trip. As a result, he was forced to land at the other city's
airport. After landing and while waiting to be refueled, the pilot's
plane was struck by a plane that was being negligently operated by
another pilot. The first pilot and the businessman were both injured in
the collision. The jurisdiction applies the all-or-nothing rule of
contributory negligence.

The businessman asserted a claim against the first pilot, alleging that
the first pilot was negligent in miscalculating the quantity of fuel
needed to make the trip. Which of the following arguments would be
the first pilot's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The businessman assumed the risk, because he knew that the first

pilot did not have a commercial pilot's license.

(B) The businessman was contributorily negligent in accepting a ride

with the first pilot, whom he knew to be unlicensed.

(C) The first pilot's miscalculation was not a legal cause of the injury
sustained by the businessman, because the first pilot's plane was
safely on the ground when struck by the plane operated by the
second pilot.

(D) The first pilot's miscalculation was not a factual cause of the injury
sustained by the businessman, because the harm would not have
occurred if the second pilot had not been negligent.

26. A manufacturer made a colorless alcohol used by physicians for

907

cleaning the skin of patients before administering injections. Another of
its products was a red liquid for cleaning glass microscope slides used
in medical and research laboratories.

Because the slide cleaner contained a strong solvent that was
damaging to human skin, the label normally affixed to bottles in which
it was sold contained language advising users to wear rubber gloves
while handling the product.

As a result of an oversight at the company's plant, skin cleaner labels
were erroneously placed on several bottles of slide cleaner. One of
the mislabeled bottles was delivered to a doctor's office. In giving an
injection to a patient, the doctor used the slide cleaner, believing it to
be the skin cleaner. As a result, the patient sustained damage to his
skin.

In a negligence action by the patient against the manufacturer, if one of
the following facts or inferences were true, which would provide the
manufacturer with its strongest argument in defense?

(A) It was unforeseeable that a doctor with the doctor's training and

experience would mistake the chemicals, since they were two
different colors.

(B) If the doctor had been acting reasonably, she would have realized

that the product that she was using was not the skin cleaner, since it
was red instead of colorless.

(C) The doctor's failure to notice that the product that she was using

was red, and therefore was not the skin cleaner, amounted to gross
negligence.

(D) The doctor's conduct was an intervening cause of the patient's

injury.

27. Which of the following persons is most likely to recover in an action

against the manufacturer of a hypodermic needle?

(A) A doctor's child, who found the needle in the doctor's medical bag
and was injured when a defect caused it to break while the child
was playing with it.

(B) A doctor's patient, who was injured when a defect caused the
needle to break while the doctor was injecting him with it.

908

(C) A dentist, who lost profits when she was unable to inject a patient

with the needle because a defect caused it to break.

(D) A narcotics addict, who contracted hepatitis because the needle

was infected with the microbe that caused that disease.

28. A crop duster sprayed insecticides onto growing crops from an

airplane that she flew within 15 feet of the ground. In locating the
fields of her customers, she used a map that the county published for
that purpose and that identified every parcel of real estate in the area
by a parcel number. A farmer hired the crop duster to spray his fields
with insecticide. The farmer knew that his farm was identified on the
county map as parcel 612, but by mistake he told the crop duster that it
was parcel 621. As a result, the crop duster sprayed the farm that the
county map identified as parcel 621. That farm belonged to a gardener,
who had contracted to grow his crop without chemical insecticides and
to sell it to an organic produce distributor. As a result of the crop
duster's spraying, the gardener was unable to fulfill his contract and
sustained serious economic losses.

If the gardener asserts a claim against the crop duster for damages
resulting from trespass to land, the court should find for

(A) the gardener, because crop dusting is an abnormally dangerous

activity.

(B) the gardener, because the crop duster intentionally flew through the

airspace above his land.

(C) the crop duster, because she reasonably believed that the farm that

she was spraying belonged to the farmer.

(D) the crop duster, because there was no damage to the gardener's

land.

29. A state senator was chair of a committee looking into accusations of
corruption in the governor's office. Because reports of committee
agents were beginning to indicate that there was a sound basis for the
accusations, the senator kept them locked in her office safe to prevent
them from becoming public knowledge before the investigation could
be completed. A reporter broke into the senator's office, picked the
lock on her safe, and photographed the documents that it contained. The
following day, realizing that the security of the documents had been
compromised, the senator conducted a press conference in which she

909

made their contents known. Before she had completed the conference,
however, newspapers containing the reporter's story about the papers
in the senator's safe were being sold.

If the senator instituted an action against the reporter for invasion of
privacy, the court should find for

(A) the reporter, since the documents in the senator's safe were

newsworthy.

(B) the reporter, since he was protected by the First Amendment to the

United States Constitution.

(C) the reporter, since the senator made the documents a matter of

public record at the press conference.

(D) the senator, since the reporter entered her office without her

permission and broke into her safe.

30. A boy, who was 11 years of age, was playing with the plaintiff, who

was 10 years of age. While they were playing together, the boy offered
to show the plaintiff his new air rifle. The air rifle was manufactured
by a local company. The boy purchased it from the defendant with
money that he earned by mowing the lawns of several of his neighbors.
While demonstrating the air rifle to the plaintiff, the boy accidentally
shot him with it, severely injuring the plaintiff's eye. The plaintiff
subsequently asserted a negligence claim against the defendant.

If the plaintiff is successful in his claim against the defendant, it will
be because a jury finds that

(A) any negligence by the company in the design of the air rifle should

be imputed to the defendant.

(B) the air rifle was defectively designed.

(C) the air rifle was defectively manufactured.

(D) it was unreasonable for the defendant to sell the air rifle to the boy.

31. A car dealer used a mechanic for all of his auto repairs. He used the
mechanic because he was cheap, although the car dealer sometimes
had to send cars back for repairs three or four times until the mechanic
got it right. One of the car dealer's cars had a leaking carburetor, which
the car dealer knew made it unsafe to drive. He had it repaired by the
mechanic and then rented the car to the plaintiff. One hour later, while

910

the plaintiff was driving the car, the carburetor began leaking again. As
a result, the car exploded, injuring the plaintiff.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the car dealer, the plaintiff's most
effective argument in support of her claim would be that

(A) the car dealer is vicariously liable for the negligence of his

employee.

(B) the duty to maintain a safe car was non-delegable.

(C) the mechanic was an independent contractor.

(D) it was unreasonable for the car dealer to hire the mechanic to

repair the car.

32. Which statement most correctly completes the following sentence? A

retailer owes its customers

(A) no duty to inspect products furnished by reputable manufacturers.

(B) a duty to inspect the packages of all products sold, but no duty to

inspect the contents of those packages.

(C) a duty to inspect only those products that are furnished by

manufacturers whose products are not well known to the retailer.

(D) a duty to make a reasonable inspection of all products that are sold

by that retailer.

33. After an employee's resignation, the employer wrote him a letter in
which he said, “You were never any good as a mechanic, and in
addition, you were the most dishonest employee this company ever
had.” These statements were false. The employee's mother, who lived
with the employee and frequently opened his mail, read the letter as
soon as it arrived. In an action by the employee against the employer
for defamation, a court should find for

(A) the employee, because the employer's statements were published to

the employee's mother.

(B) the employee, only if the employer had reason to know that

someone other than the employee would open and read the letter.

(C) the employer, because the statements contained in the letter were

communicated only to the employee.

(D) the employer, because of the employer's privilege.

911

34. A pilot was injured when the helicopter that he was flying ran out of
fuel and fell from the air. The day after the pilot purchased the
helicopter, he noticed that the fuel gauge gave incorrect readings. He
complained to an officer of the helicopter maker, who told him to have
it fixed and to send the helicopter maker the bill. A week before the
accident, the pilot hired an independent mechanic to repair the fuel
gauge. The mechanic worked on the gauge but failed to repair it
properly. The day before the accident, the pilot's partner flew the
helicopter, using most of the fuel in the tank. Although the pilot's
partner noticed that the fuel gauge continued to indicate that the tank
was full, he neither mentioned it to the pilot nor replaced the fuel in the
tank. On the day of the accident, the fuel gauge indicated that the tank
was full, although it was actually almost empty.

If the pilot wishes to assert a claim for damages on a theory of strict
liability in tort, he is most likely to recover against

(A) the helicopter maker only.

(B) the helicopter maker and the pilot's partner only.

(C) the helicopter maker and the mechanic only.

(D) the helicopter maker, the pilot's partner, and the mechanic.

35. A gravel pit owner was aware of the fact that neighborhood children
used a steep slope on his realty for sledding during the snow season,
and he feared that one of the children would be injured by sledding
onto the public road adjacent to the property. Although he could have
prevented this from happening by erecting a small fence at a cost of
under $200, the gravel pit owner was unwilling to expend that sum.
Instead, he posted a sign that read, “No Sledding, Keep Out.” Three
weeks later, an eight-year-old boy was sledding down the hill on the
gravel pit owner's property when his sled coasted onto the adjacent
public road. The boy sustained serious injuries when he was struck by
a car.

If the boy asserts a negligence claim against the gravel pit owner, the
court should find for

(A) the boy, because danger invites rescue.

(B) the boy, if the gravel pit owner's failure to erect a fence to prevent

the accident was unreasonable.

912

(C) the gravel pit owner, because the car driver had the last clear

chance to avoid injuring the boy.

(D) the gravel pit owner, if the car driver's conduct was an intervening

cause of harm.

36. The seller knew that his car's engine was cracked. Because he wanted
to sell the car, he filled the crack with putty and painted it so that the
crack would not show. Then he brought the car to the buyer, a used car
dealer, and offered to sell it for $1,000 cash. The buyer placed the car
on a lift so that he could inspect it from underneath. He noticed the
filled crack but thought that he would be able to resell the car in spite
of it. The buyer offered $500, which the seller accepted. The next day,
the buyer was showing the car to a customer when the crack caused the
engine to explode, necessitating $500 in repairs and injuring the
customer.

If the buyer institutes an action against the seller for misrepresentation,
which of the following would be the seller's most effective argument
in defense?

(A) The seller made no representation concerning the engine.

(B) The buyer did not rely on the seller's representations concerning the

engine.

(C) The buyer was not justified in relying on the seller's representations

concerning the engine.

(D) The buyer did not sustain damage.

37. A driver stepped on his brake pedal. Because the brakes were not
working properly, he could not stop, and he continued into an
intersection. A second driver saw the first driver go through the red
light. Because the light was green in his favor, however, the second
driver did not stop; he continued into the intersection, believing that he
could avoid striking the first driver by steering around him. The two
vehicles collided in the intersection. The jurisdiction has a statute that
prohibits entering an intersection against a red traffic signal light and
another statute that adopts the all-or-nothing rule of contributory
negligence.

In an action by the second driver against the first driver, the court
should find for

913

(A) the first driver, since the second driver had the last clear chance to

avoid the accident.

(B) the first driver, because it was unreasonable for the second driver

to enter the intersection when he did.

(C) the second driver, because the first driver's violation of statute was

a substantial factor in producing the damage.

(D) the second driver, since the first driver's conduct was negligence

per se.

38. A store owner wrote on a refrigerator “AS IS — $25.” A customer
bought the refrigerator. As she was loading it onto the customer's
pickup truck, the store owner said, “I hope you know that this
refrigerator doesn't work.” The customer said that he did. When the
customer got the refrigerator home, he plugged it in and received a
severe electrical shock while attempting to open its door.

In an action by the customer against the store owner for damages
resulting from his injury, the court will probably find for

(A) the customer, because it was unreasonable for the store owner to
sell the refrigerator without warning him about the wiring defect.

(B) the customer, since the refrigerator was unfit for ordinary use.

(C) the store owner, since the customer purchased the refrigerator “AS

IS.”

(D) the store owner, because the customer had the “last clear chance”

to avoid being injured.

39. The plaintiff was hunting on the defendant's land. The defendant told
the plaintiff to leave, but the plaintiff refused to do so. The defendant
then placed his hand on the plaintiff's chest and pushed him gently
backward, repeating his demand that the plaintiff leave. The plaintiff
shoved the defendant away from him and pointed his shotgun at the
defendant. The defendant immediately drew a pistol and fired at the
plaintiff, striking him in the arm and causing him to drop his shotgun.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for battery, the
court should find for

(A) the defendant, because he fired at the plaintiff to defend his realty

against a trespass.

914

(B) the defendant, because he fired at the plaintiff to defend himself

against the plaintiff's threat with the shotgun.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant struck the first blow.

(D) the plaintiff, because the defendant did not use force against him

until his entry onto the realty was complete.

40. A man kept a wildcat he had tamed as a pet. His neighbor was walking
past the man's house when the wildcat tore through a window screen,
jumped into the street, and attacked the neighbor, seriously injuring
him. The neighbor subsequently asserted a claim against the man for
his damages.

If the neighbor is successful in his claim against the man, it will
probably be because

(A) the neighbor's damages resulted from the man's keeping a wild

animal.

(B) it was foreseeable that the wildcat would do something

unforeseeable.

(C) the thing speaks for itself (res ipsa loquitur).

(D) the man's keeping the wildcat amounted to a private nuisance.

41. A company manufactured a safety helmet in hopes of selling it to the
military for general utility purposes, but it was unsuccessful in doing
so. Instead, it sold the helmets to the general public. The helmets were
packaged in boxes that showed pictures of three persons wearing the
helmet: one riding a horse, one riding a motorcycle, and one doing
construction work. A motorcyclist found a helmet that someone had
discarded in its original box. He wore it the next day while riding his
motorcycle and sustained a severe head injury when he fell.

The motorcyclist asserted a claim against the company for his injuries
in a jurisdiction that has adopted a rule of “pure comparative
negligence.” At the trial, the motorcyclist proved that the helmet was
not suitable for use as a motorcycle helmet, and that if it had been, he
would not have sustained injury.

The court should find for

(A) the company, because the motorcyclist found the helmet.

915

(B) the company, if the helmets were not designed or intended for use

as motorcycle helmets.

(C) the motorcyclist, unless his fall from the motorcycle resulted from

his own unreasonable conduct.

(D) the motorcyclist, because the box in which the helmet was sold

contained a picture of a person wearing the helmet while riding a
motorcycle.

42. When the owner brought his car to the mechanic's shop for repairs, the
mechanic told him that he would test-drive the car after repairing it.
While the mechanic was test-driving the car, he struck a pedestrian. A
statute in the jurisdiction provides that “The owner of any motor
vehicle operated on the roads of this state shall be vicariously liable
for the negligence of any person operating said motor vehicle with said
owner's permission.” The pedestrian instituted an action against the
owner and the mechanic and obtained a judgment against both of them
for $10,000.

If the owner pays the judgment in full, which of the following is
correct regarding the owner's rights against the mechanic?

(A) The owner may recover $10,000 from the mechanic.

(B) The owner may recover $5,000 from the mechanic.

(C) The owner may recover $7,500 from the mechanic.

(D) The owner may not recover from the mechanic.

43. A breeder of exotic birds preferred to mix feed for his birds according
to his own formula instead of using commercially available mixes. For
this purpose, he purchased a sealed 50-pound package of seeds from
the dealer, who was in the business of selling supplies for bird and
livestock breeders. The dealer had bought the sealed package from the
wholesaler, a wholesaler of seed and grain. Because of negligence at
the wholesaler's plant, the seeds in the package were poisonous. The
breeder fed the seeds to several of his birds, which died as a result.

If the breeder brings an action in strict liability against the wholesaler
for the value of the birds that died, a court is most likely to find for

(A) the breeder, because the poisonous nature of the seeds was a

defect.

916

(B) the breeder, because it was reasonable for the dealer to resell the

seeds without inspection.

(C) the wholesaler, since the wholesaler had no contractual

relationship with the breeder.

(D) the wholesaler, because the breeder will be unable to recover

damages from the dealer.

44. Although he had been warned that swimming within one hour after

eating was likely to cause a cramp, a swimmer went swimming in the
lake immediately after lunch. He had been swimming for a few minutes
when he developed severe cramps. Finding himself unable to swim any
further, he began calling for help. The swimmer's cries attracted the
attention of a rescuer, who happened to be walking near the lake. The
rescuer jumped into the water, swam to the swimmer's side, and,
grabbing the swimmer by the hair, towed him to safety. In getting out of
the lake, however, the rescuer cut his leg on a fragment of glass that
was embedded in the lake bottom.

If the rescuer asserts an action against the swimmer for personal
injuries, the court should find for

(A) the rescuer, because it was negligent for the swimmer to swim so

soon after eating.

(B) the rescuer, because his injury occurred while he was attempting to

rescue the swimmer.

(C) the swimmer, because danger invites rescue.

(D) the swimmer, because the glass fragment is an intervening cause of

the rescuer's injury.

45. The company was a manufacturer of computer hardware. The

defendant was a retailer who purchased products from the company. At
an industrial convention, the defendant told the company that he heard
that their mutual friend, the plaintiff, was about to go into personal
bankruptcy. The company did not believe what the defendant was
telling him and resolved to mention it to the plaintiff as soon as the
opportunity presented itself. The following day, the plaintiff called the
company to discuss computer hardware. The company told the plaintiff
what the defendant had said at the party. The plaintiff laughed, assured
the company that he was in excellent financial condition, and they both
laughed at the rumor.

917

If the plaintiff asserts a defamation claim against the defendant, which
of the following would be the defendant's most effective argument in
defense?

(A) The plaintiff did not experience mental suffering.

(B) The plaintiff did not sustain damage to his reputation as a result of

the statement.

(C) The defendant was only repeating what he had heard.

(D) The defendant did not publish any statement about the plaintiff.

46. The plaintiff was employed as an insulation installer by various

builders and general contractors for a period of 35 years. During that
time, he was repeatedly exposed to an insulating material manufactured
by the defendant. Last year, it was discovered for the first time that
exposure to the material is a cause of cancer and that the plaintiff had
contracted cancer as a result of his contact with the product.

In a jurisdiction that applies the all-or-nothing rule of contributory
negligence, if the plaintiff asserts a negligence claim against the
defendant for damages resulting from the plaintiff's exposure to the
material, the defendant's most effective defense would be based on the
argument that

(A) the plaintiff assumed the risk.

(B) the defendant did not know that contact with the material would

result in cancer.

(C) the reasonable person in the defendant's situation would not have
anticipated that exposure to the material would result in cancer.

(D) the plaintiff's only remedy is that created by workers' compensation

statutes.

47. A gardener's flower and plant shop was located across the street from
a factory, in a building that the gardener rented from a landlord. Gases
from the factory caused some of the potted plants that the gardener had
for sale in his shop to die. One of the gardener's employees suffered
from allergies. As a result, he found the gases so irritating to his eyes
that he was unable to continue working at the gardener's shop and had
to quit his job. Who may successfully assert a private nuisance claim
against the factory?

918

(A) The landlord only.

(B) The landlord and the gardener only.

(C) The gardener and the employee only.

(D) The landlord, the gardener, and the employee.

48. When the defendant entered a restaurant for lunch, she hung her coat on
the coatrack. When she was leaving, she removed from the rack a coat
that looked like hers, but which actually belonged to the plaintiff. At
the time she took it, the defendant believed it to be her coat, but when
she had driven two miles from the restaurant, she realized that it was
not hers. She turned around and was driving back to the restaurant
when she was involved in an automobile accident. The accident
occurred because the defendant was not paying close attention to her
driving. The plaintiff's coat was completely destroyed in the accident.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for trespass to
chattel, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the coat was completely destroyed after the

defendant took it.

(B) the plaintiff, because the automobile accident in which the coat was

destroyed was the defendant's fault.

(C) the defendant, because she believed the coat to be her own when

she took it.

(D) the defendant, because she was making a reasonable effort to return

the coat when it was destroyed.

49. A trucker was eating cherry pie in a restaurant when a cherry pit

contained in the pie stuck in his throat. Unable to breathe, the trucker
began choking. A doctor, who was eating in the restaurant, ran to the
trucker's aid and performed an operation known as an emergency
tracheotomy. She did this by cutting the skin of the trucker's throat with
a pocket knife and creating an opening in his windpipe through which
the trucker was able to breathe. Then, at the doctor's direction, the
trucker walked across the street to a hospital so that the opening that
the doctor created could be cleaned and bandaged. Because hospital
employees negligently failed to enter the trucker's name in the
emergency room register, he sat in the emergency room for six hours
without further attention. At that time, an earthquake caused a portion

919

of the hospital's structure to fall, striking the trucker in the head and
fracturing his skull. The state had a “Good Samaritan” statute. An
earthquake had never occurred in the state before.

In an action by the trucker against the hospital for damages resulting
from his fractured skull, the court is most likely to find for

(A) the hospital, due to the “Good Samaritan” statute.

(B) the hospital, because the doctor's conduct was unforeseeable.

(C) the hospital, because it was unforeseeable that the trucker would be

injured by an earthquake if left waiting for six hours.

(D) the trucker, since a hospital owes its patients a duty to protect them

against natural disasters.

50. A homeowner went to a garden supply store to purchase fertilizer for
the apple trees that grew in his backyard. Since he did not know what
brand was best for his purposes, he asked the store's owner to
recommend a fertilizer that was especially good for apple trees. The
store owner suggested a product that he said was good for all fruit
trees. The homeowner purchased the product and applied it as the label
directed. While doing so, he got some of the product on his hands.
Because of an allergy that he had, the product irritated his skin, causing
him considerable pain and disabling him for a period of time.

In an action by the homeowner against the store owner for damages
resulting from breach of warranty, which of the following comments is
most correct?

(A) There was no implied warranty that the product was fit for the

homeowner's particular purpose because his purpose was the same
as the product's ordinary use.

(B) There was no implied warranty of merchantability since the
homeowner relied on the store owner's recommendation in
purchasing the product.

(C) There was neither an implied warranty that the product was fit for a
particular purpose nor an implied warranty of merchantability.

(D) There was an implied warranty that the product was fit for the

homeowner's particular use and there was an implied warranty of
merchantability.

920

51. The defendant is a supplier of telephone service to the city. Many of
the wooden poles from which the defendant's wires are strung have
been standing for more than 40 years and are in a rotted condition. A
driver lost control of his automobile because he was driving while
intoxicated, and he collided with one of the defendant's rotten poles.
As a result of the collision, the pole fell over, striking a parked car and
injuring the plaintiff, who was sitting in it. The force of the collision
would have caused even a reasonably good pole to fall.

In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the court should find
for

(A) the plaintiff, because it was unreasonable for the defendant to

permit its poles to become rotten.

(B) the plaintiff, since it was foreseeable that if a pole fell, it would

injure a person sitting in a parked car.

(C) the defendant, since the driver's conduct either amounted to gross

negligence or was criminal.

(D) the defendant, because the force of the collision would have caused

even a reasonably good pole to fall.

52. A truck and a car collided in an intersection. The drivers asserted

negligence claims against each other for damage to their vehicles. In
answer to specific questions posed by the court, the jury found that the
accident was 60 percent the fault of the truck driver and 40 percent the
fault of the car driver. In addition, the jury found that damage to the
truck amounted to $1,000 and that damage to the car amounted to
$10,000.

The jurisdiction had a statute that provided that “In any negligence
action, a plaintiff's recovery shall not be barred by that plaintiff's fault,
but the recovery of said plaintiff shall be diminished in proportion to
that plaintiff's fault.” Which of the following correctly states the sum to
which the car driver is entitled?

(A) $6,000 ($10,000 less 40 percent).

(B) $4,000 ($10,000 less 60 percent).

(C) $10,000.

(D) 0.

921

53. A boy, who was 11 years old, received a sled manufactured by the sled
company from his uncle as a Christmas present. Since he already had a
better sled, the boy sold the sled to his neighbor, the plaintiff. The
plaintiff was riding the sled down a snow-covered hill when one of the
bolts that held it together broke, causing the sled to overturn and injure
the plaintiff severely. The bolt broke because of a crack that existed
when the sled left the sled factory but which was too minute to be
discovered by reasonable inspection. If the plaintiff brings an action
against the sled company, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the cracked bolt was a defect.

(B) the plaintiff, because the boy did not use the sled before selling it to

the plaintiff.

(C) the sled company, since the sale by the boy was outside the regular

course of business.

(D) the sled company, because the crack was too minute to be

discovered upon reasonable inspection.

54. The landlord was the owner of a four-story office building. The entire
second floor of the building was leased to an attorney, and the other
floors were divided into offices and leased to various other tenants.
The attorney was riding in the building elevator when it suddenly and
without warning plunged swiftly downward, shaking the attorney up
severely. The lease required the landlord to keep the elevator in good
repair. Minutes later, the attorney led one of his clients to the elevator.
When they were riding in the elevator to the attorney's office the
elevator suddenly plunged swiftly downward, stopping short when it
reached the bottom of the elevator shaft. The client was severely
injured in the fall.

The client asserted a negligence claim against the attorney for damages
resulting from the elevator accident. The court should find for

(A) the client, because the attorney knew or should have known that the

elevator might not be working properly.

(B) the client, because the entire second floor had been leased to the

attorney.

(C) the attorney, because the lease required the landlord to keep the

elevator in good repair.

922

(D) the attorney, because he was only a tenant in the building.

55. A trucker was driving a truckload of gravel over a highway in a rural
part of the state when, through no fault of her own, one of the tires on
her truck blew out, causing the truck to go out of control. The truck
overturned, spilling the gravel onto the land of the landowner, which
was adjacent to the road. The trucker, who was unhurt, returned later
with another truck and a tractor equipped with a power shovel. Using
the power shovel, the trucker scooped up the spilled gravel and loaded
it onto the other truck.

If the landowner asserts a claim against the trucker for trespass to
land, the court should award the landowner a judgment for

(A) nominal damages only.

(B) all damages resulting from the spilling of gravel onto the

landowner's land.

(C) only the damages caused by the trucker's removal of the gravel from

the landowner's land.

(D) no damages.

56. A horseman owned and bred horses and was an excellent rider. He
purchased a horse he had heard was wild and dangerous because he
hoped that he would be able to “break” or train him. Each time the
horseman attempted to approach the horse, however, it reared and
kicked at him. Finally, the horseman hired a professional horse trainer
to break the horse. After explaining that the horse had repeatedly
attacked him, the horseman showed the trainer to the corral. While the
horseman stood outside watching, the trainer entered the corral,
holding out his hand and making soft murmuring noises to attract the
horse's attention. When the horse saw the trainer, the horse kicked him,
fracturing the trainer's leg.

If the trainer asserts a claim for damages against the horseman, the
court should find for

(A) the trainer, since the horseman knew that the horse had a propensity

to attack human beings.

(B) the trainer, since the horse was a wild animal.

(C) the trainer, since the horseman acted unreasonably in permitting the

923

trainer to enter the corral under the circumstances.

(D) the horseman, since the trainer knew that the horse was dangerous

when he entered the corral.

57. A man bought a used car from the car dealer. Although the car dealer
assured the man that he believed the car to be in good condition, the
contract of sale signed by both the man and the car dealer contained the
phrase “This Vehicle Sold AS IS” in large black letters. The man was
driving the car the following day when the steering jammed, causing
the car to collide with a power pole. The man's wife, who was sitting
beside him in the car, was injured in the crash.

If the wife asserts a claim for damages against the car dealer on the
grounds that the car dealer breached the implied warranty of
merchantability, the court should find for

(A) the car dealer, because the contract of sale contained the phrase,

“This Vehicle Sold AS IS.”

(B) the car dealer, because he did not enter into any contractual

relationship with the wife.

(C) the wife, because the vehicle was unfit for ordinary use.

(D) the wife, because the car dealer said that he believed the car to be

in good condition.

58. The plaintiff brought her car to the defendant, a used car dealer, asking
him to sell it for her. The defendant said that he would attempt to do so
on consignment, at a commission consisting of 20 percent of the sale
price. The plaintiff said that the terms were acceptable to her, but that
because she had recently spent $800 for a custom two-tone, black-and-
silver paint job, she wanted the car kept out of the sun. The defendant
agreed, and the plaintiff left the car with him.

The defendant left the car in the sun, which caused its paint to fade.
Believing that a new paint job would make the car easier to sell, the
defendant had it painted red without consulting the plaintiff. Before it
was repainted, the defendant drove the plaintiff's car 4,000 miles on
his own personal business. After it was painted, the defendant's
customers drove it an additional 1,000 miles while deciding whether
to purchase it. Although the value of the plaintiff's car did not change
while it was in the defendant's possession, the defendant was unable to

924

sell the car. The plaintiff subsequently asserted a conversion claim
against the defendant.

If the plaintiff is successful in her conversion action, the most she will
be entitled to recover is

(A) the value that the car had at the time the plaintiff delivered it to the

defendant.

(B) the cost of restoring its paint to the condition that existed at the time

she delivered it to the defendant.

(C) the reasonable value of the car's use for 4,000 miles.

(D) nothing.

59. A company made a strong insecticide. The container bore a label that
read: “For killing termites. Caution: This product is intended for use
by professional exterminators only. Unauthorized use by any other
persons may be dangerous.” The shop owner placed the container on a
shelf in his shop, where it was discovered by an independent
contractor who the shop owner periodically hired to clean his shop.
Since the cleaner thought there were termites in his house, he opened
the container and poured some of it into a plastic bag that he then
brought home. The next day, the cleaner's three-year-old daughter found
the plastic bag and ate some of the insecticide, becoming seriously ill
as a result. A statute in the jurisdiction adopted the all-or-nothing rule
of contributory negligence.

In a negligence action by the girl against the company, the company's
most effective argument in defense would be that

(A) the cleaner was contributorily negligent.

(B) the shop owner's conduct was an intervening cause of harm.

(C) the cleaner's conduct was an intervening cause of harm.

(D) the company did not act unreasonably.

60. A warehouse owner was the owner of a warehouse that was usually
unattended at night. As a result, burglars had broken in on several
occasions and had stolen valuable merchandise from the warehouse.
The warehouse owner looked into the possibility of hiring a security
guard but decided that it would be too expensive. Instead, he installed
an explosive device in the doorway, rigging it to explode if anyone

925

opened the door without first inserting a key in a specially constructed
slot. A burglar was attempting to break into the warehouse owner's
warehouse for the purpose of stealing when the explosive device
detonated while he was trying to open the door. The burglar was
seriously injured in the explosion.

If the burglar is successful in an action against the warehouse owner, it
will 
most probably be because the court finds that

(A) it was negligent for the warehouse owner to install the explosive

device, since it was foreseeable that a person entering on
legitimate business might be injured by it.

(B) the warehouse owner used excessive force to defend his property,
since the explosive device was liable to inflict serious or deadly
injury.

(C) the use of a mechanical device is not permitted in defense of

property.

(D) the explosive device was just as likely to injure an innocent

bystander as a thief.

61. After living together for several months, a man and his girlfriend began
to argue frequently. The following Saturday, the girlfriend took all the
man's possessions, including his television set, which was valued at
$600, to a swap meet in hopes of selling them. At the swap meet, she
put up a sign that said, “Moving. Everything Must Be Sold Today.”

A neighbor was browsing at the swap meet when she saw the
television set at the girlfriend's booth. She asked whether it was in
good condition, and when the girlfriend said that it was, she asked the
price. The girlfriend said, “$50.” The neighbor immediately handed
the girlfriend the cash, placed the television in her station wagon, and
hurried home.

In an action by the man against the neighbor for conversion, a court
should find for

(A) the man, since the neighbor desired to make the television her own,

and did so.

(B) the man, since the price of $50 should have made the neighbor

926

aware that there was something suspicious about the sale.

(C) the neighbor, since it was reasonable for her to believe that the
girlfriend owned the television set and that the price was low
because the girlfriend needed to sell it in a hurry.

(D) the neighbor, since the television was not in the man's possession

when she acquired it.

62. The plaintiff and the defendant lived on the same street and worked in
the same office, so they formed a car pool, each driving his own car on
alternate days. One day while the defendant was driving, the car in
front of his stopped suddenly and without warning. Since the defendant
had taken his eyes off the road for a moment to look at the plaintiff, he
was unable to stop in time and collided with the rear of the stopped
car. The plaintiff was injured as a result of the collision.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “No person shall maintain an
action for damages resulting from negligence in the operation or
ownership of an automobile if said person was a guest in said
automobile at the time said damages allegedly occurred.” In an action
by the plaintiff against the defendant for damages resulting from his
injuries, which of the following arguments is most likely to result in a
judgment for the plaintiff?

(A) The fact that most drivers have insurance makes the statute

obsolete.

(B) The plaintiff was not a guest, since his driving on alternate days

was consideration for the ride.

(C) The defendant's conduct was reckless and therefore constituted
aggravated negligence, a lawsuit that is not prohibited by the
statute.

(D) Enforcement of the statute will leave the plaintiff without a remedy.

63. The company is the manufacturer of a device that was designed for use
by professional rescuers in removing accident victims who have
become pinned in automobiles.

A fire department purchased the device from a firefighter supply store.
Subsequently, the fire department was called to the scene of an
accident in which a woman was trapped in her car. The fire chief
directed a volunteer firefighter to use the device to free the woman

927

from her car, although he knew that the volunteer firefighter had not
been trained in its use and had never heard of it before.

Due to a crack caused by a manufacturing defect, the device operated
improperly, injuring the volunteer firefighter. If the volunteer
firefighter institutes an action against the company, the company's most
effective argument in defense would be that

(A) it had acted reasonably in its marketing and sale of the device.

(B) the firefighter supply store substantially changed the device before

selling it to the fire department.

(C) the volunteer firefighter assumed the risk, since he attempted to use

the device without proper training.

(D) the volunteer firefighter's attempt to use the machine without

training was an independent intervening cause of harm that broke
the chain of proximate causation.

64. As a result of her neighbor's negligence, a baker's shoulder and eye

were both injured. The baker went immediately to her eye doctor. The
eye doctor treated the injury to the baker's eye but suggested that she
see an orthopedist for treatment of her shoulder. The following day, the
baker visited an orthopedist, who treated the baker's shoulder.

Because of negligent treatment by the eye doctor, the baker's nose
became infected, and because of negligent treatment by the
orthopedist, she lost the use of her elbow.

In an action by the baker against the eye doctor, a court is most likely
to hold the eye doctor liable for

(A) nothing, since all the injuries were caused by the negligence of the

neighbor.

(B) the injury to the baker's nose, since it is the only one of her injuries

that was caused by his negligence.

(C) the injury to the baker's nose and the injury to the baker's elbow,

since both were caused by his negligence.

(D) the injuries to the baker's nose, shoulder, and elbow, since all were

caused by his negligence.

65. After taking and failing the state bar exam on 12 different occasions, an

928

attorney decided to practice law without a license. Moving to a small
town, he hung out a shingle that proclaimed him to be an attorney and
ran advertisements in the local newspaper referring to himself as an
attorney. Having seen one of the advertisements, a client retained the
attorney to defend him against a charge of driving while intoxicated.
The attorney attempted to negotiate a plea to a lesser charge, but
because he was unable to do so, a trial was held. The attorney
appeared on behalf of the client, but the client was convicted. During
the course of the trial, the district attorney became suspicious of the
attorney's credentials because he did not defend his client in the way a
reasonable attorney would have done. Following an investigation that
the district attorney instituted, the attorney was charged with violation
of a state law that made it a crime to practice law without a license. He
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months in jail.

If the client brings an action against the 
attorney for negligence in the way the attorney handled his defense, a
court should find for

(A) the client, because the attorney failed to defend him the way a

reasonable attorney would have done.

(B) the client, since it was unreasonable for the attorney to practice law

without a license.

(C) the client, since the law that prohibited practicing law without a

license was designed to keep unqualified persons from practicing
law.

(D) the attorney, since not even a licensed attorney guarantees results.

66. The plaintiff was attending a nightclub at which a hypnotist was
performing. Before the show began, a request was made for a
volunteer to assist the hypnotist with his act, and the plaintiff
volunteered. She was taken backstage to the hypnotist's dressing room,
where she and the hypnotist had a conversation. Following their
conversation, the plaintiff agreed to participate in the hypnotist's show.
During the course of the performance, the hypnotist attempted to
hypnotize the plaintiff on stage. He then touched her skin with an
electric cattle prod (a device that produces an electric shock and is
used for handling stubborn cattle), causing her great pain and
discomfort.

929

The plaintiff subsequently instituted an action against the hypnotist. In
it, she alleged that he committed various intentional torts against her
by touching her with the cattle prod. If one of the following facts were
established at the trial, which one would be most helpful to the
plaintiff in responding to the hypnotist's defense of consent?

(A) During the conversation in the hypnotist's dressing room, the
hypnotist stated that he was going to attempt to hypnotize the
plaintiff on stage, he was usually successful in hypnotizing
volunteers, and if he was successful, the cattle prod would cause
her no discomfort.

(B) During the conversation in the hypnotist's dressing room, the

hypnotist promised to pay her $100 for participating in the show;
he never did pay her; and, in fact, when he promised that he would
pay her, he did not intend to do so.

(C) During the conversation in the hypnotist's dressing room, the
hypnotist stated that the electric cattle prod produced a mild
electric shock that would cause no real discomfort, when he knew
that this was not true.

(D) When the plaintiff consented to participating in the hypnotist's act,

she did not know that contact with the electric cattle prod would
result in great pain and discomfort.

67. A professor publicly stated her opposition to the consumption of

alcohol. As a result, she is much in demand as a lecturer on the evils of
intoxication. One of her slogans is, “When you drink, make it fruit
juice.” The company, a producer of packaged apple juice, invited the
professor to participate in a promotional apple-juice-drinking contest
that it was holding. The professor, who succeeded in drinking one and
one-half quarts of chilled apple juice without stopping for a breath,
was declared the winner.

The student newspaper ran a photo of the professor holding the
winner's trophy over a caption that read, “Prof. drinks them all under
the table, winning first prize at the company's drinking contest.” A
story that described the fruit-juice drinking contest in detail appeared
on the same page as the photo but some distance from it. The day after
the photo and story appeared, an organization that had hired the
professor to lecture on the evils of alcohol canceled its contract with
the professor because, after seeing the photo and caption in the

930

newspaper, some members believed that the professor was a drinker
of alcohol.

If the professor sues the newspaper for defamation, the court should
instruct the jury that the statements made by the newspaper in the photo
and caption were not defamatory if

(A) the reasonable person would have read the story.

(B) the organization members who saw the photo and caption did not

read the story.

(C) a substantial group of respectable persons would have read the

story.

(D) the reasonable person would not have read the story.

68. An athlete appeared in a television commercial. While films of his

medal-winning performances showed in the background, the athlete ate
a candy bar. He said that he had been eating candy bars for energy ever
since he was a child. He ended the commercial by smiling and saying,
“Who knows? Maybe candy bars gave me the power to win.”

The plaintiff purchased a case of 24 candy bars after seeing the
commercial several times on television. After tasting one, however, he
found he did not like the flavor. If the plaintiff brings an action against
the athlete for misrepresentation, which of the following arguments
will be most helpful in the athlete's defense?

(A) The athlete is not in the business of selling candy bars.

(B) The script for the commercial was not written by the athlete.

(C) The plaintiff was not in privity with the athlete.

(D) The plaintiff has not sustained damage as the result of a false

assertion by the athlete.

69. A demolition contractor was hired by a builder to demolish a building
located a half-mile from a horse breeder's farm. The demolition
contractor was using dynamite for that purpose. The breeder called the
contractor and warned him that sounds from the explosions were
scaring his horses. The day after the breeder called, sounds of the
explosions so frightened one of the breeder's horses that the horse tried
to jump over a fence, injuring herself in the process.

931

If the breeder institutes an action against the demolition contractor on a
strict liability theory, which of the following would be the demolition
contractor's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The breeder's farm was not within the foreseeable zone of danger.

(B) The possibility that noise will frighten animals is not one of the

risks that makes blasting an ultra-hazardous activity.

(C) The demolition contractor used reasonable care in setting off the

blast.

(D) The demolition contractor was working under contract to the

builder.

70. The landlord was the owner of a small office building. Her own office
was located on the ground floor of the building, the second floor was
leased to a company, and the third and fourth floors were divided into
smaller offices that were rented to various tenants on a month-to-month
basis. Although the building was equipped with an elevator, occupants
of the building frequently used a stairway over which the landlord
retained control. One day, while one of the company's employees was
walking down the stairs from the second floor, she cut her hand on a
jagged part of the handrail that ran alongside the stairs. She
commenced an action against the landlord, alleging that the handrail
was jagged because of negligence by the landlord.

Which of the following is an accurate statement about the case of the
injured employee vs. the landlord?

(A) The company's employee was an invitee since she was an

employee of one of the landlord's tenants.

(B) The company's employee was contributorily (or comparatively)
negligent if the reasonable person in her situation would have
noticed the jagged condition of the handrail and would have
avoided being injured by it.

(C) The company's employee was an invitee, and she was

contributorily (or comparatively) negligent if the reasonable person
in her situation would have noticed the jagged condition of the
handrail and would have avoided being injured by it.

(D) The company's employee was neither an invitee nor was she

contributorily (or comparatively) negligent.

932

71. A building inspector was employed by the city to conduct periodic
inspections of business premises located in a territory to which she
was assigned. The instruction manual that the city furnished to its
inspectors contained instructions on testing draperies for fire-retardant
properties. In large boldface letters, the manual stated, “NEVER
EXPOSE DRAPERIES TO FLAME WHILE THEY ARE HANGING
IN PLACE.”

One of the businesses in the building inspector's territory was a
nightclub. On one of her inspections of the nightclub, the building
inspector asked the manager of the business whether the window
draperies were fire-retardant as required by the city's building code.
The manager responded that they were. Although the building
inspector was familiar with the instructions in the manual, she was in a
hurry. Taking a cigarette lighter from her pocket, she held its flame
under one of the draperies where it was hanging. The drapery caught
fire, which spread, completely destroying the building. A passerby
was injured in the fire.

If the passerby brings an action for damages against the city on a
theory of respondeat superior, the passerby will

(A) lose, since the building inspector was acting in violation of

specific instructions from her employer.

(B) lose, since the building inspector's duties involve the exercise of

unsupervised discretion.

(C) win, because the building inspector was negligent.

(D) win, whether or not the building inspector was negligent.

72. A statute provides that every motor vehicle must be equipped with an
ignition lock, and that it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to park
a motor vehicle without locking it and removing the ignition key. The
statute was enacted after many accidents involving stolen cars. The
defendant left his car parked on a public street with the ignition key in
it, in violation of the statute. A small monkey that had escaped from a
nearby circus got in the car, managed to turn the key, and drove the car
down the street before hitting the plaintiff. If the plaintiff sues the
defendant, the plaintiff will:

(A) win, because it was unreasonable for the defendant to leave his

keys in the ignition.

933

(B) win, because the statute was designed to prevent accidents

involving stolen cars.

(C) lose, because the intervention of the monkey was likely

unforeseeable.

(D) lose, because the intervention of the monkey was likely

foreseeable.

73. The state governor was attending a major league baseball game when a
member of the home team hit a home run. The governor jumped to his
feet and cheered loudly, along with the rest of the crowd. A freelance
photographer took his picture while he was cheering. When the
photograph was developed, the photographer had it imprinted on
targets. With toy plastic darts, the photographer marketed and sold
several thousand. The governor sued the photographer for invasion of
privacy.

On which of the following theories is the governor most likely to be
successful in his action against the photographer?

(A) Appropriation of identity.

(B) Public disclosure.

(C) Intrusion.

(D) False light.

74. A professor was disturbed by the fact that students frequently left the
room during her lectures, so she instructed her teaching assistant to
lock the door of her classroom 10 minutes after the class began and not
to unlock it again until 10 minutes before the class was scheduled to
end. On Thursday, a student attended the professor's four o'clock class.
By five minutes past four, the student was sound asleep in his seat. At
ten minutes past four, the teaching assistant locked the classroom door
as instructed by the professor, unlocking it at ten minutes to five. When
the class ended at five, the student, who had slept through the class,
was awakened by a classmate and left the room. The classroom had
been painted the previous day with a paint to which the student was
allergic, although neither the professor, the teaching assistant, nor the
student knew about it. As a result of his exposure to the paint in the
room, the student developed allergic symptoms later that day that
required hospitalization.

934

If the student institutes an action for false imprisonment against the
professor, who will win?

(A) The student, because his illness resulted from the professor's

intentional confinement of him.

(B) The student, since a professor owes her students a duty to refrain
from exposing them to unreasonable risks of foreseeable harm.

(C) The professor, since she did not know with substantial certainty that

harm would result from locking the door.

(D) The professor, since she did not confine the student against his will.

75. The Lovers of God is a small religious sect. During the 19th century,
they were prosecuted for engaging in religious rituals that involved
public nudity and group sex. Some non-members of the sect continue to
associate it with illicit sex and continue to call its members “Makers,”
a term coined by 19th-century journalists who campaigned against the
sect.

A minister ordained in the Church of Love, a religious organization
that is not associated in any way with the Lovers, spoke at a local
meeting. The following day, a local daily newspaper printed an article
about the meeting. The article referred to the minister as “a minister of
the Church of Love, better known as the Makers (Lovers of God).”
The minister sued the newspaper, alleging that the reference to him as
a minister of “the Makers (Lovers of God)” was defamatory.

In his lawsuit, the minister must prove that the newspaper

(A) knew, or that the reasonable publisher would have known, that the

minister was not affiliated with the Lovers of God.

(B) entertained serious doubts about whether or not the minister was

affiliated with the Lovers of God.

(C) knew that “the Makers (Lovers of God)” were associated with

shame or disgrace in the minds of some readers.

(D) made the statement, but the minister is not required to prove fault

since the minister is not a public person.

76. The defendant owned a small hardware store. One of the products he
sold were circular saws made by a local manufacturer. The defendant
sold the saws in their original boxes. One day, the defendant sold the

935

plaintiff a saw. Two years later, the plaintiff hurt herself badly when
the blade detached from the saw and cut her in the face. The blade
broke free after delivery to the plaintiff and was due to poor design by
the manufacturing company. There was no research available that
would have indicated to the defendant that there was a risk of such
injury or that the product was badly designed. The plaintiff sued the
defendant for her injuries. Assuming the saw design constituted a
dangerous defect, the court should find

(A) in favor of the defendant, because there was no indication the

defendant behaved negligently.

(B) in favor of the defendant, because there was no way the defendant
could have discovered the risk of such breakage before selling the
product to the plaintiff.

(C) in favor of the plaintiff, because the defendant sold the saw.

(D) in favor of the plaintiff, because selling the defective saws was

unreasonable.

77. A driver was driving her automobile in the rain on a curvy road known

for numerous accidents when she rounded a bend and saw a cow
standing directly in her path. She immediately jammed on her brakes
and pulled the steering wheel to the right in an attempt to avoid striking
the cow. As a result, she lost control of her car, which skidded off the
road and into the homeowner's yard. The homeowner, who was in the
process of installing an automatic watering system, had dug a trench
across the yard for pipes. When the wheels of the driver's car hit the
trench, the car stopped abruptly, throwing the driver forward into the
windshield and causing her to be injured.

In an action by the driver against the homeowner for negligence, will a
court decide 
that the homeowner owed the driver a duty of reasonable care?

(A) Yes, because it was foreseeable that persons driving on the road

might lose control of their vehicles and skid into the homeowner's
yard.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner knew that drivers used the

neighboring road.

(C) No, because it was not unreasonable for the homeowner to dig a

trench on his own land.

936

(D) No, because the driver was a trespasser.

78. A carpenter who was building a house on his own property had posted
a sign that said, “No Trespassing.” While he was working, he threw his
hammer off the roof. The hammer hit a truck driver who was walking
across the property because he mistakenly thought he was supposed to
deliver a load of wood to the carpenter. Even though he saw the
hammer hit, the carpenter failed to call for help. A passerby called an
ambulance, and after the ambulance picked up the truck driver, the
ambulance had an accident resulting in the truck driver's death.

The representative of the truck driver's estate instituted an appropriate
action against the carpenter, alleging that the carpenter's failure to call
for medical assistance after he saw the hammer strike the truck driver
was negligence. Which of the following comments is most accurate
regarding that allegation?

(A) The carpenter owed the truck driver no duty to call for help if the

truck driver was a trespasser.

(B) The truck driver's estate is entitled to punitive (exemplary)

damages if the carpenter was substantially certain that there was a
possibility of harm resulting from his failure to act.

(C) The carpenter's failure to call for medical aid was not a factual

cause of harm to the truck driver since someone did call a moment
later.

(D) the truck driver was an invitee since he was a user of the public

street who had entered upon adjacent private land.

79. The company had been operating a soap factory in the county for 50
years. When the factory was first opened, the nearest residential
settlement was the town, six miles away. Because the factory has been
in existence for 50 years, county zoning ordinances were drafted to
allow its continued operation. In the past 50 years, however, the town
has expanded in size. Now the edge of town is only a quarter of a mile
from the company's factory. On days when the wind is blowing from
the direction of the factory, residents of the town are annoyed by the
noxious odor emanating from the factory chimneys. A homeowner, who
moved to the town three years ago, has asked the town attorney to seek
an injunction to prohibit the company from emitting foul odors, but the
town attorney has refused.

937

If the homeowner sues the company for damages resulting from the
odors on a theory of public nuisance, which of the following will be
the company's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The company's operation preceded the growth of the town.

(B) The homeowner came to the nuisance.

(C) The homeowner's damages are no different from those of other

residents of the town.

(D) A lawful activity cannot constitute a public nuisance.

80. The defendant and the plaintiff had been friends for years and worked
in the same office. Ever since they were children, they had enjoyed
playing practical jokes on each other. One day, planning to have some
fun with the plaintiff, the defendant bought a large rubber spider from a
toy store. Knowing that the plaintiff was terrified of spiders, the
defendant came into work early and placed the toy spider in the top
drawer of the plaintiff's desk. Later, when the plaintiff arrived at work,
he opened his top drawer and saw the rubber spider. Believing it to be
real and terrified that it would bite him, the plaintiff screamed in fear,
fainted, and fell to the floor. As he fell, he struck his head on the corner
of his desk, sustaining a serious fracture of the skull.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim for assault against the defendant for the
injury that he sustained in the fall, which of the following arguments
would be most effective in the defendant's defense?

(A) The plaintiff's fear of being bitten by a spider was not apprehension

of a battery.

(B) The reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would not have

become apprehensive at the sight of a spider.

(C) The plaintiff impliedly consented to the prank by engaging in a

course of practical joking with the defendant.

(D) The defendant was not substantially certain that the plaintiff would

be injured as a result of the joke.

81. The plaintiff commenced an action against the defendant, and proved

the following:

The defendant and his friend were both slingshot enthusiasts known for
the accuracy of their aim. Without consulting the other, each went

938

independently to the woods outside of town to practice his or her skill.
Since not many people frequented the area, the defendant and his
friend were both somewhat casual about their targets, each shooting at
anything that moved without properly checking to make sure of what
they were shooting at. The plaintiff, who had gone to the woods to
read in solitude, was struck by a steel ball shot from one of the
slingshots. Since the defendant and his friend were using the same kind
of ammunition, it is impossible to determine which of them fired the
ball that struck the plaintiff, but it is certain that one of them did.

If the court finds for the defendant, it will probably be for which one
of the following reasons?

(A) The defendant did not owe the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care

since not many people frequented the area.

(B) There is no evidence that the defendant acted unreasonably.

(C) The evidence does not establish that the defendant's conduct was a

factual cause of the injury.

(D) Even if the defendant's conduct was a factual cause of the injury, it
is impossible to tell whether it was a legal cause of the injury.

82. Statutes in the state provide that persons under the age of 20 years are
incompetent to enter into contracts, may not marry without the written
consent of their parents, may not lawfully purchase alcoholic
beverages, and are subject to local curfew regulations. A 19-year-old
girl was fishing for pleasure from a pier in the state when she
accidentally struck a fisherman in the eye with a fishhook on the end of
her line. The fisherman commenced a negligence action against the girl.
The trial court should find that the girl was negligent because

(A) she failed to act like a reasonable 19-year-old with her experience

and intelligence.

(B) fishing is an adult activity.

(C) at 19 she is old enough to be treated as an adult by the law of torts.

(D) the risk of injury caused by her use of the fishhook outweighs the

utility of fishing for pleasure.

83. A company manufactured several kinds of cooked-fruit desserts.

A man bought one of the company's desserts at a grocery store, opened

939

the package and began eating the contents with a spoon. After
consuming more than half of the product, the man noticed parts of a
rat's tail mixed with the cooked fruit.

If the man asserts a claim against the company on the theory of strict
liability in tort, which of the following would be the man's most
effective argument?

(A) The presence of a rat's tail was a defect that made the product

unreasonably dangerous.

(B) The man was in horizontal privity with the grocery store, and there

is no need for vertical privity.

(C) The labeling and packaging implied a promise that the contents of

the package purchased by the man were fit for human consumption.

(D) The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur applies, since the product was

sold in a sealed package.

84. A driver swerved to avoid a car and hit a boy walking along the road.
The boy's mother had told the boy that she did not want him riding his
bicycle on the road because it was a heavily travelled roadway with
no sidewalks. She gave him permission, however, to walk his bicycle
carefully along the road shoulder.

The jurisdiction applies the all-or-nothing rule of contributory
negligence.

If the boy's mother asserts a negligence claim against the driver for the
medical bills that she incurred as a result of the boy's injury, which of
the following may the driver assert in defense?

(A) The accident resulted from the boy's negligence.

(B) The accident resulted from the boy's mother's negligence.

(C) The accident resulted from both the boy's and his mother's

negligence.

(D) The driver cannot claim that either the boy or his mother was

negligent.

85. The defendant was towing a small travel-trailer with his automobile
when the hitch that attached the trailer to the car broke, causing the
trailer to collide with the vehicle of the plaintiff, which was parked at

940

the curb. A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “No person shall
operate a motor vehicle or trailer on the roads of this state unless said
motor vehicle or trailer is covered by a valid policy of liability
insurance.” The defendant was in violation of that statute in that he
knew that his trailer was not covered by a valid policy of liability
insurance at the time of the accident. Is his violation of statute relevant
to the issue of negligence in an action brought against him by the
plaintiff?

(A) Yes, because the statute was designed to protect the victims of

automobile and trailer accidents.

(B) Yes, because the reasonable person does not knowingly violate a

statute.

(C) No, because the law encourages the purchase of automobile

insurance and therefore absolutely prohibits disclosure to the jury
about whether or not a defendant was insured.

(D) No, because compliance with the statute does not prevent

automobile or trailer accidents.

86. One night, police officers received a message that a burglary was in

progress at a grocery store. In the ensuing attempt to make an arrest, the
officers knocked over several stacks of merchandise, including cases
of bottled soda-pop manufactured by the company. This caused minute
cracks in all the bottles. A woman purchased one of the bottles but did
not notice the minute crack in it.

That evening, the woman was placing the bottle on the dinner table
when the bottle exploded. The woman was cut by flying glass.

In an action by the woman against the company, may she successfully
rely on the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur?

(A) Yes, because it applies in exploding bottle cases.

(B) Yes, because the company was in exclusive control of the bottling

process.

(C) No, because the bottles were knocked over by the officers.

(D) No, because the bottles were not in the company's possession at the

time the woman's injury occurred.

87. A contractor did some renovations on a customer's apartment. In order

941

to put in a new window, the contractor used a glue made by a local
manufacturer. Due to a design defect, the glue released highly toxic
fumes that floated into a neighbor's apartment and caused severe lung
injuries. The neighbor can recover

(A) in strict liability against the contractor.

(B) in strict liability against the manufacturer.

(C) in strict liability against the contractor or manufacturer.

(D) in negligence only.

88. One day, while a well-known collector was visiting the dealer's art
gallery, the dealer showed him a new painting that she had received
that day.

“The artist didn't sign it,” the dealer said. “But I'm sure it was painted
by Degas. That would make it worth at least $250,000.”

The collector answered, “It's by Degas, all right. It's worth every cent
you're asking. But I already have several paintings by Degas in my
collection, and I don't need another.”

The buyer, who was browsing in the dealer's gallery, overheard the
conversation between the collector and the dealer. The buyer knew
very little about art. Because he knew that the collector and the dealer
were art experts, he believed what he heard them saying. After the
collector left the gallery, the buyer purchased the painting for
$225,000. The buyer subsequently learned that it had not been painted
by Degas and was worth only $600.

If the buyer asserts a tort claim for misrepresentation against the
dealer, which of the following would be the dealer's most effective
argument in defense?

(A) A statement of opinion cannot be construed as a misrepresentation,

since there is no such thing as a false idea.

(B) The buyer did not sustain damage as a result of his reliance on a

statement by the dealer.

(C) The dealer did not know that the buyer would rely on the statements

that she made to the collector.

(D) The value of any work of art is a matter of opinion.

942

89. As a joke, the defendant knocked on the plaintiff's door wearing a

police officer's uniform that he had rented from a costume shop. When
the plaintiff came to the door, the defendant told her that her husband
had just been killed in a highway accident, and that she would have to
come with him to claim the body. The plaintiff, who recognized the
defendant and knew that he was not a police officer, slammed the door
in his face and told him to leave her alone. She was outraged at his
attempt to play such a joke on her, but she sustained no physical or
mental injury.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the defendant's conduct exceeded all bounds

normally tolerated by decent society.

(B) the plaintiff, because the defendant's conduct was calculated to

cause severe mental suffering.

(C) the defendant, because his intention was merely to play a joke on

the plaintiff.

(D) the defendant, because the plaintiff sustained no physical or mental

injury as a result of the defendant's conduct.

90. Which of the following most correctly states the duty owed to
customers by a druggist who dispenses prescription drugs?

(A) To know all the harmful side effects of the drugs being dispensed.

(B) To warn of all the harmful side effects of the drugs being dispensed.

(C) To sell only those drugs that are not defective.

(D) To make whatever inspection of the drugs is reasonable before

dispensing them.

91. A plaintiff asserted a claim for damages against a man and his friend.

The man and his friend had been trying to see who could hit a golf ball
farthest. The plaintiff succeeded in proving that a golf ball that struck
him had been driven by one of them, but he was unable to show which
one. The court found that both the man and his friend had acted
negligently, and that they were involved in a concert of action.

Which of the following statements is most correct about the
relationship of the parties?

943

(A) Either the man or his friend may avoid liability by proving that his

ball was not the one that struck the plaintiff.

(B) Neither the man's nor his friend's conduct was a factual cause of
harm because each one's conduct was a substantial factor in
producing the plaintiff's injury.

(C) The man's conduct and his friend's conduct were legal causes of

harm, but neither was a factual cause of harm.

(D) The man and his friend may each be held vicariously liable for the

other's conduct.

92. A cancer patient was given a drug that caused her to have an allergic

reaction that blinded her in one eye. The patient subsequently retained
an attorney to commence a malpractice action against the doctor for the
damages that resulted from her allergic reaction. Although the statute of
limitations on such an action fixed a period of one year, more than one
year passed before the attorney commenced an action against the
doctor. As a result, no such action could ever be brought. The patient
eventually sued the attorney, alleging that the attorney's failure to bring
the action on time was negligent.

Which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most effective as part of the attorney's
defense?

(A) The attorney had been admitted to the bar only three weeks before

being retained by the patient.

(B) The attorney honestly believed that the statutory period of

limitations for the commencement of medical malpractice actions
was two years.

(C) After discussing the case with the doctor's attorney, the attorney

came to the conclusion that the patient's case against the doctor was
weak.

(D) Cancer would have led to the patient's death within a few months if
left untreated, and the drug was the only drug available for its
treatment.

93. The defendant was an elderly man who lived in a house with a

swimming pool in the backyard. Although the defendant enjoyed
swimming in the pool, his age and physical infirmity made him unable

944

to clean or maintain the pool himself. Instead, he agreed to allow his
14-year-old neighbor, the plaintiff, to swim in the pool anytime she
wanted without notifying the defendant or asking his permission, in
exchange for the plaintiff's services in cleaning and maintaining the
pool.

On Friday morning, the plaintiff thoroughly cleaned the defendant's
pool. Later that day, the defendant drained all the water from the pool
and did not refill it. Saturday morning, the plaintiff woke up early and
decided to go swimming in the defendant's pool. She put on her
bathing suit and went into the defendant's yard, running onto the diving
board of his swimming pool and diving in without looking first. The
plaintiff was severely injured when she fell to the concrete bottom of
the empty swimming pool.

If the plaintiff asserts a negligence claim for her injuries against the
defendant in a jurisdiction that has a pure comparative negligence
statute, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the pool constituted an attractive nuisance.

(B) the defendant, because the plaintiff was a trespasser.

(C) the plaintiff, because it was unreasonable for the defendant to drain

the pool without warning her.

(D) the defendant, because a reasonable person in the plaintiff's
position would have known the risk of diving into an empty
swimming pool.

94. A playground was directly adjacent to a company's property, separated
from it by a 6-foot wire mesh fence. The company officials were
aware that a large gaping hole in this fence had existed for
approximately one year, and that children frequently crept through the
hole to play on the company's property.

One morning, the plaintiff, a 12-year-old student, entered the
company's property through the hole in the fence. The plaintiff began
climbing spikes that had been driven into a pole. When she reached a
wooden platform located 12 feet aboveground, she put her head
through the hole in its center to see what was above it. Her head came
into contact with a high-voltage wire that had been strung over the
platform, causing her to sustain serious injuries.

945

In a negligence action by the plaintiff against the company, which one
of the following additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one
true, would provide the company with its most effective argument in
defense?

(A) The plaintiff entered the premises without the company's

permission.

(B) To the company's knowledge, no child had ever before attempted to

climb the pole.

(C) The plaintiff was old enough to comprehend the dangers associated

with an attempt to climb the pole.

(D) The fence that separated the company's property from the

schoolyard was located completely on realty occupied by the
school.

95. Several cases of explosives made by a company were shipped to a
buyer in another state to be stored in a warehouse pending delivery.
While the explosives were there, the warehouse facility was struck by
lightning, causing the explosives to explode. The cases containing the
explosives did not bear any description of their contents. If the
warehouse employees knew that the cases contained explosives, they
would have stored them in a way that would have prevented the
explosion. A homeowner who sustained property damage as a result of
the explosion has asserted a claim against the company.

Which of the following facts or inferences, if it were the only one true,
would provide the company with its most effective argument in
defense?

(A) The company did not do anything unreasonable or irresponsible in

manufacturing, packaging, or labeling its product.

(B) When the company shipped the cases of explosives, they had been
properly labeled with firmly affixed labels identifying their
contents, but the labels had somehow come off in transit.

(C) The company had assigned an employee to make sure that all cases
of explosives shipped by the company were properly labeled, but
the employee had forgotten to inspect this shipment.

(D) The storage of explosives by the warehouse was an ultra-hazardous

activity.

946

96. A restaurant opened on the edge of a college bar area, which abutted a
residential neighborhood. The restaurant had a walk-up window where
people could purchase food and drinks without going inside. The
restaurant and window were open until 4 A.M. every night. College
students soon started to congregate in front of the restaurant. On many
nights, the students were loud, and some even engaged in the use of
illegal drugs or drank alcohol underage. The plaintiff, who lived in a
house next to the new restaurant, complained and told the restaurant it
was bringing down his property value. He demanded that the restaurant
close at 11 P.M., like many other restaurants in the area. The restaurant
refused.

If the plaintiff chooses to sue, which of the following legal theories
would be most likely to result in a judgment for the plaintiff?

(A) Invasion of privacy.

(B) Intentional infliction of emotional distress.

(C) Trespass to land.

(D) Private nuisance.

97. During a comedian's long career in the entertainment business, the

comedian's trademark was always a cigar that he clenched between his
teeth or held in his hand while delivering his jokes. As part of an
interview on a television show, the interviewer asked the comedian
whether he really smoked cigars. The comedian replied, “Sure. I
always smoke these cigars. They're the best cigars made.”

The following day, the manufacturer of the cigars placed several
advertisements in newspapers. All the advertisements said, “Jimmy
Stoker the Famous Comedian says our cigars are the best cigars made.
He always smokes them, and you should too.”

If the comedian asserts a claim against the cigar company for invasion
of privacy by misappropriation of identity, the court should find for

(A) the cigar company, because the comedian had in fact made the

statement that appeared in the advertisement.

(B) the cigar company, because the advertisement constituted a
constitutionally protected form of commercial expression.

(C) the comedian, because when he made the statement on the

947

television show, it was unforeseeable that the cigar company
would use it in its advertising.

(D) the comedian, because the cigar company used his name to sell its

product without his permission.

98. The defendant grew fruit trees on her farm outside the village. In

addition, she operated a fruit store in the village. Every day during the
harvest season, in a trailer that she towed with her pickup truck, she
hauled fresh fruit from her orchards to her store. One day, as she was
towing the trailer filled with fruit up a hill on her way to the village,
the hitch that fastened the trailer to the pickup truck failed, permitting
the trailer to break loose and roll down the hill, striking and damaging
the home of the plaintiff. Subsequent investigation revealed that the
hitch failed because one of its parts was made of defective steel.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damage to his
house, the court's decision is most likely to turn on whether

(A) the defendant acted reasonably.

(B) the hitch was defective in manufacture or in design.

(C) the defendant was a merchant.

(D) the plaintiff could have foreseen the damage.

99. The pilot was a helicopter pilot employed by a radio station as a

traffic reporter. One day, while flying in his helicopter, he hovered
over the home of a woman. Using powerful binoculars, he looked into
her window to watch her while she was exercising in the nude. If the
woman institutes an action against him, which of the following facts or
inferences must she establish to make out a prima facie case of
trespass to land?

(A) The altitude at which the pilot hovered over her house.

(B) Damage to her land, or to her right to enjoy it, that resulted from the

pilot's conduct.

(C) That she had a reasonable expectation of privacy while exercising

nude in her own home.

(D) That she was in lawful possession of the premises at the time that

the pilot hovered over her house.

100. When a woman discovered that her car had been stolen, she reported

948

the theft to the police. Then, while she was walking home from the
police station, she saw her car in a homeowner's driveway, where the
person who stole it had abandoned it after using it in a bank robbery.
When she began walking toward the automobile, the homeowner ran
out of his house shouting, “Hey, you! Where do you think you're
going?” The woman explained that she was attempting to retrieve her
car, but the homeowner pushed her, saying, “Get off my land.” The
woman, who sustained no physical or mental injury as a result of the
homeowner's contact with her, got into her car and drove it away. The
woman subsequently commenced a battery action against the
homeowner. If, in response to the woman's claim, the homeowner
asserts the privilege to defend realty, the court should find for

(A) the homeowner, because the woman was not in hot pursuit of her

car when she entered the homeowner's realty.

(B) the homeowner, because the woman was not injured as a result of

his contact with her.

(C) the woman, because force is never permitted in defense of realty.

(D) the woman, because she was privileged to enter and retake her

automobile.

101. A husband's wife died when she jumped in front of a train owned by
the railroad. Two weeks later, a railroad employee contacted the
husband. The employee said that although the railroad was not legally
responsible for the wife's death, the railroad was willing to pay
$1,000 in full settlement of all claims arising from the wife's death.
When the husband said he wanted to speak with an attorney, the
employee told him that if an attorney got involved, the railroad would
not pay anything because the husband “had no legal claim.” The
husband doubted that the employee was telling the truth, so he
consulted with an attorney. The attorney didn't think the husband had a
claim and declined representation. Consequently, the husband accepted
the $1,000 and executed a general release. The husband then retained
another attorney and instituted a wrongful death action against the
railroad. The court dismissed, citing the release.

Which of the following additional facts must the husband prove to
establish a cause of action for misrepresentation against the employee?

(A) If the husband's wrongful death suit was not dismissed, it would
have resulted in a judgment for the husband in excess of $1,000.

949

(B) When the employee made the statements to the husband, the

employee knew or should have known that the statements were
false.

(C) The husband's wrongful death suit would have resulted in a

judgment for the husband in excess of $1,000, and the employee
knew or should have known the statements were false.

(D) The husband doesn't have to prove that his lawsuit would have
resulted in a judgment in excess of $1,000, or that the employee
knew or should have known his statements were false.

102. The company, a manufacturer of dog whistles, operated a factory for
that purpose. The whistles manufactured by the company issued a
sound so high-pitched that it could not be heard by human ears; only
dogs could hear it. For this reason, before leaving the assembly line,
each whistle was tested by a machine that blew air through it and
metered the sound that it made. After the company's factory had been in
operation for 15 years, a breeder moved onto the adjoining realty and
began operating a kennel. Two weeks after moving onto the realty, the
breeder discovered that the dogs in his kennel were being disturbed by
the testing of dog whistles in the company's factory. Although he told
the company about the problem, the company did not stop testing the
whistles. The breeder commenced a private nuisance action against it.
Which of the following would be the company's most effective
argument in defense against the breeder's claim?

(A) The operation of a dog-whistle factory is a lawful business.

(B) The breeder came to the nuisance.

(C) The company did not intend to cause harm to the breeder or to the

breeder's business.

(D) The breeder's damage resulted from the fact that the breeder was

making an unusually sensitive use of the land.

103. The plaintiff purchased a bottle of dishwashing detergent from the

defendant, a self-service supermarket. The plaintiff selected the
product from the defendant's shelves, carried it to a checkout counter,
and paid the cashier. The plaintiff then placed the bottle in a bag
furnished by the defendant and carried it home. The product purchased
by the plaintiff was manufactured by a local company. The product had
a label stating that it would not harm a user's skin. After using the

950

product for washing dishes, the plaintiff experienced a serious rash on
his hands and wrists as the result of an allergic reaction to a chemical
in the product.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for breach of
express warranty, a court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the label stated that the product would not

harm the skin of a user.

(B) the plaintiff, because the product was unfit for ordinary use.

(C) the defendant, because the plaintiff's injury resulted from reliance

on a statement that the company caused to be printed on the label of
its product.

(D) the defendant, because no employee of the defendant knew what
statements were contained on the company's detergent label.

104. The defendant bought a new sailboat, although he had never been on

one before. Although the defendant had not received any instruction at
all, and although he heard a weather report that warned of severe
storms, he decided to take the boat out for a test sail by himself. A few
minutes after he left the dock with his boat, the storm struck, causing
high and dangerous waves. Fearful that the defendant would be killed
at sea, the defendant's wife stood crying on the shore. The plaintiff, an
experienced sailor who knew the defendant and the defendant's wife,
heard the defendant's wife crying about her husband's predicament.
Without saying anything to the defendant's wife, the plaintiff went out
in his own boat to look for the defendant. The defendant returned
unhurt an hour later, but the plaintiff's boat capsized in the storm,
severely damaging his boat and causing the plaintiff to sustain injury.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for the damage that
he sustained, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because his damage resulted from the defendant's

failure to act reasonably.

(B) the plaintiff, because a rescuer is entitled to indemnity from the

person whom he or she was attempting to rescue.

(C) the defendant, because the plaintiff was an officious intermeddler.

(D) the defendant, because the defendant was unaware that the plaintiff

951

would attempt to rescue him.

105. The defendant was driving to visit her fiancé. Before she left, her

friend asked her to deliver a small package to someone. The package
contained a bottle of caustic chemicals. Because she was afraid that
the defendant would refuse to carry it if she knew its contents, the
friend wrapped the package in brown paper and did not tell the
defendant what was in it. The defendant placed the package in the
glove compartment of her car and began driving. Along the way, the
defendant saw the plaintiff hitchhiking by the side of the road. The
defendant offered the plaintiff a ride. While the plaintiff was sitting in
the front seat, the plaintiff opened the glove compartment and removed
the wet package. As soon as the caustic liquid touched the plaintiff's
hand, it burned his skin severely.

If the plaintiff commences a negligence action against the defendant in
a jurisdiction that has no automobile guest statute and that applies the
all-or-nothing rule of contributory negligence, which of the following
would be the defendant's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The plaintiff was a mere licensee and was entitled only to a
warning of those conditions that the defendant knew were
dangerous.

(B) The defendant could not have known or anticipated that the contents

of the package would cause harm to a passenger in her car.

(C) The plaintiff was contributorily negligent in touching the wet

package.

(D) The plaintiff assumed the risk of injury resulting from contact with

the wet package.

106. The plaintiff decided to have a rosebud tattooed on her shoulder.

While the defendant was tattooing the plaintiff's shoulder, the tattoo
needle broke off in the plaintiff's skin, injuring the plaintiff. If the
plaintiff asserts a strict liability claim against the defendant on the
ground that the tattoo needle that the defendant used was defective, the
defendant's most effective argument in defense would be that

(A) the defendant did not sell the needle to the plaintiff.

(B) the defendant was not the manufacturer of the needle and therefore

had no control over its quality.

952

(C) the plaintiff assumed the risk of injury.

(D) a tattoo needle is not an inherently dangerous product.

107. When a policeman saw a walker hurrying down the street in the early

morning darkness, he pulled his car over to the curb and ordered the
walker to stop and identify himself. The walker showed the policeman
his license, told him that he lived only a few blocks away, and
explained that he was just taking a walk. When the policeman told the
walker to get into the back of the patrol car, the walker asked whether
he was under arrest. The policeman replied, “No, but if you know
what's good for you, you'll get into the car and shut up while I decide
what to do with you.” The walker got into the car and sat quietly in the
backseat with the door open while the policeman called the walker's
description in to police headquarters over the radio. About 15 minutes
later, satisfied that the walker was not wanted for violating any law,
the policeman told him that he could go. When he was leaving the car,
the walker scraped his finger. If the walker asserts a claim against the
policeman for false imprisonment, the court should find for

(A) the policeman, because the rear door of the policeman's patrol car

remained open all the time that the walker sat in the car.

(B) the policeman, because the walker did not object to sitting in the

patrol car.

(C) the walker, because the language used by the policeman induced the

walker to obey the policeman's order.

(D) the walker, because he sustained damage as a result of his detention

by the policeman.

108. A driver hit a pole, causing a power failure. At the time of the power

failure, a patient was undergoing facial surgery in a hospital operating
room. The hospital's emergency generator went on automatically,
supplying enough electrical power to light the operating room dimly.
The doctor who was operating on the patient was able to complete the
surgery on the patient's face, but the operation left the patient with
permanent and disfiguring scars. If the power had not failed, the doctor
would have been able to prevent the scarring.

If the patient asserts a claim for negligence against the driver, which of
the following additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one
true, would provide the driver with his most effective defense?

953

(A) The reasonable surgeon in the doctor's position would not have

proceeded with the operation while the operating room was dimly
lit by the hospital's emergency generator.

(B) The reasonable person in the driver's position would not have
anticipated that hitting a pole would affect any person at the
hospital.

(C) The doctor was guilty of aggravated negligence in continuing to
operate on the patient under the circumstances then existing.

(D) The patient's scarring was caused by the conduct of the doctor.

109. The plaintiff and the defendant were sportswriters who wrote for
competing newspapers in the city. Because most of the plaintiff's
articles praised his home team, and most of the defendant's articles
praised his home team, a rivalry developed between the plaintiff and
the defendant. One of the defendant's recent columns contained the
following statement:

[Plaintiff]'s team can't play ball, and [plaintiff] can't write his way out
of  a  paper  bag.  The  only  thing  more  boring  than  reading  [plaintiff]'s
stuff is reading it while watching his team play.

If the plaintiff commences an action for defamation against the
defendant, which of the following would be the defendant's most
effective argument in defense?

(A) The plaintiff is a public figure.

(B) The statements made by the defendant were expressions of opinion.

(C) The defendant's occupation makes him a media defendant.

(D) The defendant's statements were privileged by the defense of

competition.

110. A manufacturer built and sold a machine to a steel mill. Two years

later, the steel mill sold the machine to a small computer parts startup.
The manufacturer discovered that a screw in the machine would wear
down and break within three years. It learned the startup had
purchased the machine, and offered to repair the defective screw for
$1,000, which was what it would cost the manufacturer to make the
repair. The startup did not want to spend that much money to fix the
machine. Six months later, the screw snapped and an employee was
injured.

954

The employee sued the manufacturer on a theory of strict liability.
During trial, the jury found the worn screw made the machine
defective when it was sold to the steel mill, the machine had not been
substantially changed since the first sale, and the defective screw was
the proximate cause of the employee's injury. The jury should find in
favor of

(A) the employee, because he was injured by the defective screw.

(B) the employee, because the manufacturer's demand for $1,000 was

unreasonable.

(C) the company, because the machine was removed from the stream of

commerce when the steel mill sold it.

(D) the company, because the startup's refusal to pay the cost of the

repair was unreasonable.

111. At 9 A.M., a man parked his car on a road in front of the play yard of the
elementary school. At the time that he parked the car, the man knew
that he was violating a statute that prohibited parking within two
blocks of any elementary school. At 10 A.M. on the same day, because
she was driving at an unreasonably fast rate of speed, a woman lost
control of her car and struck the man's parked vehicle. The impact
caused a passenger in the woman's car to be thrown against the
windshield, severely cutting her face and rendering her unconscious. If
the man's car had not been parked where it was, the woman would
have collided with a six-foot concrete wall that surrounded the school
play yard.

If the passenger asserts a negligence claim against the man, which of
the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one true,
would be most likely to lead to a judgment for the man?

(A) The statute that prohibited parking within two blocks of any
elementary school was designed to protect schoolchildren.

(B) The accident would not have occurred if the woman had not been

operating her vehicle in an unreasonable manner.

(C) If the woman's car had hit the concrete wall, the passenger would

have sustained injuries as serious as those sustained in the
collision with the man's car.

(D) The woman's unreasonable driving was an intervening cause of

955

harm.

112. A jury found that the plaintiff was damaged to the extent of $100,000.
The jury further found that the plaintiff's damage was caused 20
percent by the plaintiff's negligence, 40 percent by one defendant's
negligence, and 40 percent by another defendant's negligence. The
jurisdiction had a statute that read as follows:

In  a  negligence  action,  no  plaintiff  shall  be  barred  from  recovery
because  of  that  plaintiff's  contributory  negligence,  but  such  plaintiff's
recovery shall be diminished in proportion to plaintiff's own fault.

The court held that the two defendants were jointly and severally
liable for the plaintiff's damage and entered judgment for the plaintiff
consistent with the jury's verdict.

The first defendant became insolvent following the entry of judgment.
How much money is the plaintiff entitled to collect from the second
defendant?

(A) $100,000.

(B) $80,000 ($100,000 less 20 percent).

(C) $40,000 (40 percent of $100,000).

(D) None.

113. While the plaintiff was shopping at a sporting goods store owned by

the defendant, another customer assaulted the plaintiff with a baseball
bat. The plaintiff sued the defendant for his damages. The could should
find

(A) the defendant liable under the principle of vicarious liability.

(B) the defendant liable under the principle of general liability.

(C) the defendant liable under the principle of strict liability.

(D) the defendant not liable.

114. A magazine contained an article about the recent sale of an old house

that had once been owned by a United States President. The article
stated that the home had been purchased by the plaintiff for $950,000.
It described the plaintiff as a bank president earning a salary of
$100,000 per year and stated that she had purchased the home with
part of the $1 million fortune that she inherited from her mother.

956

Writers of the article had obtained information about the sale from
public records of the Office of the County Recorder. Information about
the plaintiff's employment and salary had been obtained from public
records of the state Department of Banks, and information about her
inheritance from public records of the state Probate Court. All
statements made in the article were accurate.

The plaintiff asserts a claim for invasion of privacy on the ground that
the article publicly disclosed facts about her salary and inheritance.
The court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because most members of the general public were

unfamiliar with records of the state Department of Banks and the
state Probate Court.

(B) the plaintiff, because there is no right to publish information

regarding the personal wealth of a person who is not a public
employee.

(C) the magazine, because liability cannot be imposed for publication

of the truth.

(D) the magazine, because the plaintiff's salary and inheritance were a

matter of public record.

115. A landowner lived in a cabin in the area. After a nearby factory began
using unbagged cement, cement dust from the factory's operation
continually settled on the cabin that the landowner occupied. Although
the dust did no physical harm to the cabin or to the landowner, the
landowner complained to officials of the factory that the dust annoyed
her. Because the factory received no other complaints from other area
residents, however, it continued using unbagged cement.

If the landowner wishes to assert a tort claim against the factory on
account of the cement dust that continually settles on the cabin, which
of the following would be her most effective theory?

(A) Invasion of privacy.

(B) Public nuisance.

(C) Trespass to land.

(D) Strict liability for engaging in an abnormally dangerous activity.

116. An employee was driving a pickup truck owned by the company when

957

he collided with an automobile owned and operated by a driver. A
passenger in the driver's car subsequently asserted a claim against the
company, the employee, and the driver for injuries sustained in the
accident. At trial, the jury fixed the amount of the passenger's damages
and found that the employee was 40 percent at fault, the driver was 60
percent at fault, and the passenger was not at fault. In issuing a
judgment for the passenger, the court held that the employee and the
driver were jointly and severally liable for the passenger's injuries
and that the company was vicariously liable for the employee's tort.
The jurisdiction had statutes that adopted pure comparative negligence
and recognized a right of contribution between joint tortfeasors.

In enforcing the judgment, what portion of her damages is the
passenger entitled to collect from the employee?

(A) 0 percent

(B) 40 percent

(C) 50 percent

(D) 100 percent

117. In a negligence action by the plaintiff against two defendants, the court
found that the plaintiff's injuries were proximately caused by the
combined negligence of the two defendants and that they were jointly
and severally liable to the plaintiff in the sum of $100,000. The court
also found that in producing the plaintiff's injury, the first defendant
was 40 percent at fault and the second defendant was 60 percent at
fault. The jurisdiction has a statute recognizing the right of contribution
between joint tortfeasors, and that contribution shall be based on
apportionment of fault.

After the entry of judgment, the plaintiff succeeded in collecting
$10,000 from the first defendant. Which of the following correctly
states the amount that the plaintiff is entitled to collect from the second
defendant?

(A) $50,000 (60 percent of $100,000 minus $10,000 already

collected).

(B) $60,000 (60 percent of $100,000).

(C) $90,000 ($100,000 minus $10,000 already collected).

958

(D) $100,000.

118. A plaintiff was in an auto accident with the defendant. After a jury

trial, the jury found that the plaintiff's damage was $100,000. The jury
also found the accident was 25 percent the fault of the defendant, and
75 percent the fault of the plaintiff. A statute in the relevant jurisdiction
imposes a system of pure comparative negligence.

Based on the jury's findings, the court should enter judgment for

(A) the defendant, because he was only 25 percent at fault.

(B) the plaintiff, in the amount of $25,000.

(C) the plaintiff, in the amount of $75,000.

(D) the plaintiff, in the amount of $100,000.

119. During the course of an argument about politics, the defendant slapped
the plaintiff in the face. Angry, the plaintiff pointed an unloaded pistol
at the defendant. The defendant immediately drew a knife and stabbed
the plaintiff with it, injuring him severely. The plaintiff subsequently
asserted a battery claim against the defendant. The only defense raised
by the defendant was self-defense.

In determining the defendant's liability to the plaintiff, the most
important issue that must be decided is whether

(A) the use of a knife by the defendant constituted deadly force.

(B) the defendant knew or should have known that he could safely and

easily retreat without sustaining harm.

(C) the defendant was the initial aggressor.

(D) the plaintiff knew that his pistol was unloaded.

120. The defendant kept an extremely tame lion as a pet. The lion had

worked in a circus for most of its life and had never attacked anyone in
all the years it was performing. Now, the lion was old, practically
blind, and had lost all of its teeth. Without any negligence by the
defendant, the lion escaped from the defendant's backyard and walked
to the plaintiff's home, which was over one mile away. Finding the
front door open and smelling some steak cooking, the lion walked
through the front door and into the plaintiff's kitchen. When the plaintiff
saw the lion she panicked and dropped a boiling pot of grease onto her

959

foot. She suffered severe burns as a result. The plaintiff sued the
defendant for damages. The court should find

(A) the defendant not liable because the lion had never shown any

propensity to harm a person.

(B) the defendant not liable because the defendant was not negligent.

(C) the defendant not liable because the injury was not the result of the

lion's dangerous propensities.

(D) the defendant liable for the plaintiff's injuries.

121. The owner of a supermarket purchased an automatic door-opener from

its manufacturer. The device included rubber step-plates that were to
be installed on the floor on both sides of the door. When a person
stepped on one of the step-plates, the machine was designed to swing
the door away from him or her.

The store owner hired a contractor to install the automatic door-
opener while the store was closed for the night. The contractor read
the instructions furnished by the manufacturer but disregarded the
warnings. When he finished installing the device, he did not test it by
stepping on one of the step-plates but advised the store's night manager
that the job was complete. The following morning when the store
opened, a customer was injured by the door.

The customer asserted a claim for his injuries against the store owner.
Which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most likely to result in a judgment for the
customer?

(A) The customer's injury resulted from a defect in the step-plate.

(B) The contractor was not negligent in his installation of the automatic

door-opener.

(C) A reasonable inspection by the store owner would have disclosed

that the door opened improperly.

(D) The customer made a purchase from the store owner before being

struck by the door.

122. The plaintiff, an adult, took his neighbor's seven-year-old son to see

the circus. During the show, many children left their seats to watch the
performance from the edge of the area on which it took place. The boy

960

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

did so with the plaintiff's permission. When the circus's trained lions
were performing, one of the animals got away from its enclosure and
struck the boy with its paw, injuring him. Horrified, the plaintiff ran
from his seat and chased the lion away from the boy. The plaintiff was
not touched by the lion but became highly nervous as a result of the
incident. The circus knew that the lions would often attack people. The
jurisdiction applied the doctrine of transferred intent.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim for battery against the circus, the court
should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the jurisdiction applies the doctrine of

transferred intent.

(B) the plaintiff, because the plaintiff experienced mental suffering as a

result of harmful contact inflicted upon the boy.

(C) the circus, because the plaintiff was not touched by the lion.

(D) the circus, because the circus knew that the lions would attack a

member of the audience when the circus exhibited them.

123. One weekend, while the plaintiff's son was visiting with her ex-

husband, a friend of the plaintiff's phoned her. The friend said that she
heard that the ex-husband was planning to remove the boy from the
state permanently.

Panicked, the plaintiff ran to the home of the ex-husband's father and
pounded on the door. When the ex-husband's father came to the door,
the plaintiff demanded, in a loud voice, that the ex-husband's father tell
her where her ex-husband and her son were. The ex-husband's father
knew that the ex-husband had taken the boy to the movies and would
soon be returning. Because the plaintiff's manner frightened him,
however, the ex-husband's father said that he had no idea where they
were or when they were coming back and refused to talk to the
plaintiff any further.

As a result, the plaintiff became highly upset. She visited her
physician, who prescribed a mild tranquilizer, but she remained
nervous until the ex-husband brought the boy to her home that evening.

The plaintiff asserted a claim against the ex-husband's father for false
imprisonment. The court should find for

961

(A) the ex-husband's father, because the plaintiff sustained no physical

injury as a result of the incident.

(B) the ex-husband's father, because he did not prevent the plaintiff

from leaving his home.

(C) the plaintiff, because she was legally entitled to custody of the boy.

(D) the plaintiff, because the ex-husband's father prevented her from

seeing or communicating with the boy.

124. The defendant's car struck and killed a boy, flinging the child and his

tricycle through the air.

The plaintiff was standing in her living room when she heard the
screech of the defendant's brakes. Glancing out through her window,
she saw the boy's bloody body fly through the air and land on her front
lawn. The plaintiff was so shocked by what she saw that she suffered a
heart attack and needed to be hospitalized for several weeks.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damages
resulting from mental distress that she experienced because of the
incident, which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if it
was the only one true, would be most likely to result in a judgment for
the plaintiff?

(A) The reasonable person would have expected someone to be in the
plaintiff's position and to experience mental suffering as a result of
the incident.

(B) The jurisdiction applies the doctrine of transferred intent.

(C) The jurisdiction applies the doctrine of transferred consequences.

(D) The reasonable person would regard the defendant's speed as

outrageous.

125. A homeowner hired a painter to paint the outside of the homeowner's

house. While doing so, the painter left his ladder unattended on the
front lawn.

Two days later, a government employee was walking across the
homeowner's lawn while delivering mail. On several occasions in the
past, the homeowner had asked her to use the sidewalk and not to walk
on his lawn. The homeowner saw the employee walking toward the

962

painter's ladder on his lawn but did not warn the employee because he
believed that she saw it. Although the lawn had recently been mowed
and the ladder was in plain view, the employee did not see the ladder
and tripped over it, injuring her knee.

The jurisdiction applies the all-or-nothing rule of contributory
negligence.

If the employee asserts a negligence claim against the homeowner for
damages resulting from her injury, which of the following would be
the homeowner's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The homeowner did not know with certainty that the employee

would be injured.

(B) The dangerous condition was created by the painter.

(C) The homeowner believed that the employee knew that the ladder

was there.

(D) A landowner owes no duty to government employees entering on

official business.

126. Six months after a doctor performed surgery on her, a patient was X-

rayed by another doctor. The X-ray disclosed a surgical instrument
inside the patient's chest. The first doctor was the only person who had
ever performed surgery on the patient. The patient subsequently
asserted a medical malpractice claim against the doctor, alleging that
the doctor had negligently left the surgical instrument inside her while
operating on her.

If an expert testifies that surgeons do not usually leave instruments
inside a patient's body unless they are acting unreasonably, may the
patient rely on res ipsa loquitur in her claim against the doctor?

(A) No, because the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur is not applicable to a

claim for professional malpractice.

(B) No, because a jury of laypersons is not competent to infer that a

physician was negligent.

(C) Yes, because a surgeon is under an absolute duty not to leave

instruments inside a patient's body.

(D) Yes, because the doctor was the only person who had ever

963

performed surgery on the patient.

127. The defendants were driving their vehicles in an unreasonable manner

when they collided. The collision caused the first driver's vehicle to
strike and injure a pedestrian who was crossing the street in the middle
of the block. The pedestrian was hospitalized as a result of the
accident, but he had hospitalization insurance that paid $10,000
toward his hospital bill.

The pedestrian subsequently asserted a claim against both defendants.
At the trial, in response to the judge's instructions, the jury found that
the pedestrian sustained damages of $100,000, and that the accident
resulted 40 percent from the negligence of the first driver, 40 percent
from the negligence of the second driver, and 20 percent from the
negligence of the pedestrian. The judge ruled that the defendants were
jointly and severally liable to the pedestrian and entered judgment in
accordance with the jury's verdict.

Which of the following statements correctly describes the amount that
the pedestrian is entitled to collect from the first driver in a
jurisdiction that has a pure comparative negligence statute?

(A) $100,000 reduced by 20 percent.

(B) $100,000 reduced by $10,000 and further reduced by 20 percent.

(C) 40 percent of $100,000.

(D) 40 percent of the amount derived by subtracting $10,000 from

$100,000.

128. The defendant, a power company, built a large nuclear power plant. It
did so with utmost care, and the plant went far beyond the safety
measures required by federal guidelines. The plant sat on the edge of a
small harbor that had a beach that was extremely popular for fishing.
The plaintiff went to the harbor every day to fish. Because the plaintiff
was also extremely proud of his dark tan, he fished with his shirt off,
surrounded by mirrors he placed in the sand so the sun reached all
sides of his body evenly. After three years, the plaintiff developed an
extremely rare form of cancer that was linked to radiation escaping
from the plant. The radiation leak was so small that it could not be
detected, and in fact was only discovered because the plaintiff became
sick. If the plaintiff had not fished surrounded by mirrors, it was
unlikely he would have gotten sick or that the leak would have been

964

discovered at all. The plaintiff sued the defendant for his injuries.
During trial, the defendant proved that it was not negligent in any way.
The jurisdiction used common law contributory negligence principles.
The court should rule in favor of

(A) the defendant, because the defendant was not negligent.

(B) the defendant, because the plaintiff's use of the mirrors was

contributory negligence.

(C) the defendant, because the leak was impossible to discover before

the plaintiff was injured.

(D) the plaintiff.

129. One evening in a tavern, a 17-year-old girl drank alcoholic beverages.
The girl then left and went to the tavern next door, where she drank
alcoholic beverages. The girl attempted to ride home on her
motorcycle. Because the girl was intoxicated, she struck and injured a
pedestrian. The pedestrian subsequently asserted claims against both
taverns under a state law that provides as follows: “If a minor under
the age of 20 years injures another while intoxicated, any person who
sold said minor the alcohol that resulted in said minor's intoxication
shall be liable to the injured person.”

The first tavern did not sell the girl enough alcohol to make the girl
intoxicated, and the alcohol that the second tavern sold the girl would
have made the girl intoxicated even if the first tavern had sold the girl
no alcohol at all. In determining the pedestrian's claim against the
second tavern, the court should find that

(A) the second tavern's conduct was not the cause of the girl's

intoxication because the first tavern's conduct was a substantial
factor in making the girl intoxicated.

(B) the second tavern is liable under the statute even if the second
tavern's conduct did not cause the girl to become intoxicated.

(C) the second tavern's conduct was a cause of the pedestrian's injury
because the girl would not have become intoxicated if the second
tavern did not sell the girl alcoholic beverages.

(D) the second tavern's conduct was a cause of the girl's intoxication
but was not a cause of the pedestrian's injury because the girl's
driving superseded it.

965

130. A contractor told the landowner that she did not think that one pillar

would provide sufficient support for the landowner's staircase. When
the landowner discussed the contractor's objection with the architect,
however, the architect insisted that one pillar would be sufficient. The
landowner told this to the contractor and convinced the contractor to
rely on the architect's plan.

The contractor completed the building as agreed and turned it over to
the landowner on April 1. Two weeks later, the landowner hired a
mover to move a piano onto the second floor of the house. While the
mover was carrying the piano up the staircase, the staircase collapsed,
causing the mover to sustain injury. If the staircase had been supported
by two columns, it would not have collapsed.

If the mover asserts a negligence claim against the contractor, the court
should declare that

(A) the contractor assumed the risk because she supported the stairway
with only one pillar even though she was aware of the danger of
doing so.

(B) the contractor is not liable because she had turned the building over

to the landowner prior to the accident.

(C) the contractor is not liable because it was reasonable for her to rely

on the architect's instructions in constructing the stairway.

(D) the contractor absolved herself of the risk by objecting to

supporting the stairway with only one pillar.

131. A man was obviously intoxicated when he entered a bartender's tavern

one night and ordered a drink of whiskey. A statute in the jurisdiction
prohibits serving alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person. The
bartender knew that the man was intoxicated, but because the man was
a good customer, the bartender opened a new bottle and poured him
some of it. After drinking the liquor, the man left the tavern and began
driving home.

Before the whiskey left the factory, an angry employee added a poison
to it that could not have been discovered by reasonable inspection.
While the man was driving in a reasonable manner, the poison caused
him to die. As a result, the man's car struck a pedestrian, injuring her.

966

If the pedestrian asserts a claim against the factory, the court should
find for

(A) the factory, because the employee deliberately poisoned the liquor

before it left the factory.

(B) the factory, because the pedestrian did not purchase or consume the

factory's product.

(C) the pedestrian, because the liquor contained poison when it left the

factory.

(D) the factory, because the poison could not have been detected by

reasonable inspection.

132. Pursuant to a contract with the federal government, a rocket company
manufactured and launched rockets used for placing communications
satellites into space. Shortly after the rocket company launched one of
its rockets, the rocket exploded in the air. It then crashed into a storage
building owned by a medical company that contained antibiotics with a
value of $180 million, totally destroying the building and its contents.
No one could determine the cause of the explosion. Although the rocket
company used reasonable care in all aspects of the manufacturing and
launching process, a few of the rocket company's rockets had exploded
in the past shortly after launch. Each time this happened, the rocket
involved was completely destroyed while in the air and caused no
damage on the ground.

If the medical company asserts a claim against the rocket company for
the loss of its building and contents, the court should find for

(A) the medical company, because the construction and launching of

rockets is an abnormally dangerous activity.

(B) the medical company, under the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur.

(C) the rocket company, because the reasonable person would not

expect antibiotics worth $180 million to be stored in one building.

(D) the rocket company, because none of the rocket company's rockets

caused any damage on the ground in the past.

133. Due to an error at its factory, a company sold an airline a belt truck

that did not have an acceleration suppressor.

Two months later, the airline went out of business and sold the belt

967

truck to a second airline. An independent contractor hired by the
second airline to maintain the second airline's equipment set the belt
idle above 15. Doing so can cause the truck to lurch forward unless it
is equipped with an acceleration suppressor. The company was aware
that people who maintain the trucks often set the idle above 15.
Subsequently, an employee of the second airline attempted to activate
the belt while standing beside the belt truck. She was injured when the
belt truck lurched forward and struck her.

The employee asserts a claim against the company on the ground that
the absence of an acceleration suppressor made the belt truck
defective. The court should find for

(A) the company, because the first airline was negligent in failing to

discover that the belt truck was not equipped with an acceleration
suppressor.

(B) the company, because if the contractor had acted reasonably in
setting the belt idle, the employee would not have been injured.

(C) the employee, because persons who maintain belt trucks frequently

set the belt idle above 15.

(D) the employee, because the negligence of the contractor is imputed

to the company.

134. A company operated a manufacturing plant just outside the town,

making an insecticide that was very important to the state's orange
crop. Breezes frequently carried fumes from the company's plant into
the town. Although the fumes did not violate state air pollution laws,
they caused many buildings in the town to need frequent repainting and
led many homeowners to complain about it to the company. The
company did nothing about it, however, because the cost of eliminating
the fumes was extremely high.

A homeowner, who owned a house in the town in which he resided
with his son, had to repaint his house several times because of the
fumes.

The homeowner asserted a private nuisance claim against the company
for the damage to his paint, asserting that the company was negligent in
failing to eliminate the fumes. Which of the following would be the
company's most effective argument in defense against the homeowner's

968

claim?

(A) The operation of the company's plant did not result in a physical

invasion of the homeowner's realty.

(B) The fumes affected others in substantially the same way as they

affected the homeowner.

(C) The company officials did not know that the fumes would affect the

paint of the homeowner's house.

(D) The cost of eliminating the fumes would have driven the company

out of business.

135. A company was the manufacturer of a product that was sold over the

counter for the treatment of dandruff and dry scalp conditions. The
plaintiff purchased a bottle at a local drugstore. A statement on the
label read, “This product will not harm normal scalp or hair.” The
plaintiff used the product as directed. Because of a scalp condition
making him allergic to one of the ingredients, the product irritated his
scalp, causing him much pain and discomfort.

In an action by the plaintiff against the company on the theory of strict
liability in tort, which of the following additional facts or inferences,
if it was the only one true, would be most helpful to the plaintiff's
case?

(A) Injuries of the kind sustained by the plaintiff do not ordinarily result
from the use of a product like this one unless the manufacturer was
negligent.

(B) Prior to the plaintiff's purchase of the product, an article regarding
the allergy from which he suffered had appeared in a widely read
journal of the hair-care industry.

(C) The ordinary consumer would not have expected the use of the

product to result in an irritation of the scalp of someone with the
plaintiff's allergy.

(D) At the time it manufactured the product purchased by the plaintiff,
the company was aware that its ingredients could irritate the scalp
of persons with allergies like the plaintiff's.

136. The city sidewalk in front of the defendant's business was often

covered with leaves that made the sidewalk slippery. To try to fix
matters, the defendant made a deal with the city, giving the defendant

969

possession and control of the trees. The defendant then swept the
leaves off the sidewalk every morning. One morning, the defendant
failed to sweep, and the plaintiff, who was walking into the business
on his way to a meeting, slipped on the leaves and fell, cracking his
head open. The plaintiff was texting on his phone when he fell, but he
had walked into the building every day for weeks and reasonably
believed that the leaves would be swept because of the past conduct of
the defendant. The plaintiff sued, and the defendant defended himself
by asserting he had no duty to sweep the leaves off the sidewalk under
the circumstances.

How should the court rule?

(A) In favor of the defendant, because the sidewalk was city property.

(B) In favor of the defendant, because the plaintiff was texting when he

fell.

(C) In favor of the plaintiff, because the defendant had possession and

control of the trees.

(D) In favor of the plaintiff, because the defendant's past conduct made

the plaintiff reasonably believe the leaves would be swept

137. A farmer owned 500 acres of land on which she grew wheat. By a
valid written contract, she agreed to deliver all her wheat to a
company to be used by that company in the production of bread for
sale to the general public. While harvesting the crop, she realized that
a blade on her harvesting machine was broken and that fine slivers of
metal were becoming mixed with the wheat. She said nothing about
this when she delivered the wheat to the company, since she knew that
the company ordinarily cleaned its wheat before using it.

The bread company used the wheat that it purchased from the farmer to
manufacture a loaf of bread that it sold to a sandwich shop. The
sandwich shop owner used the bread to make a sandwich. Because the
bread contained slivers of the blade from the farmer's harvesting
machine, the customer who bought the sandwich lacerated the lining of
his throat when he tried to eat it.

In an action by the customer against the bread company, can the
customer successfully rely on the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur?

(A) Yes, because the exercise of reasonable care in the baking process

970

would ordinarily have eliminated all metal slivers from the wheat.

(B) Yes, because the presence of metal slivers made the bread

defective.

(C) No, because the presence of the metal slivers in the wheat resulted

from the farmer's failure to use reasonable care.

(D) No, because it was unforeseeable that a broken blade on the

farmer's harvesting machine would result in the presence of metal
slivers in the wheat.

138. A kidnapper falsely claimed he was holding a girl hostage. In reality,
the girl was on a camping trip. The girl's mother remained in a
hysterical state until the girl returned from her camping trip and the
girl's mother realized that it had been a hoax. The girl's mother, who
already suffered from a heart ailment, had a heart attack the day after
the girl's return.

If the girl's mother asserts a claim against the kidnapper for damages
resulting from her heart attack on a theory of intentional infliction of
emotional distress, the court should find for

(A) the kidnapper, because the heart attack occurred the day after the

girl's return.

(B) the kidnapper, because the mother's preexisting condition made her

especially susceptible to heart attack.

(C) the girl's mother, because the heart attack was caused by the

kidnapper's outrageous conduct.

(D) the girl's mother, because the kidnapper should have foreseen that

his conduct would result in harm.

139. While the plaintiff was visiting her daughter, the two of them decided
to go swimming at a nearby public pool. Since she had not brought a
bathing suit along on her visit, the plaintiff went to a department store
to purchase one. While looking at the suits on the bargain counter, she
found one made by a bathing suit company. The package that contained
it bore a label that read, “Disposable Bathing Suit. This garment is
made completely from recycled paper. Although it is strong enough to
be worn several times and is even washable, it's inexpensive enough
to be thrown away after one use.” The plaintiff bought the suit and then
went to the beach. The first time she was hit by a wave, however, the

971

suit completely disintegrated.

Which of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most helpful to the department store's defense
in an action by the plaintiff against the department store?

(A) The department store had sold the bathing suit company's products
for several years and had never heard of any problem like the one
experienced by the plaintiff.

(B) A sign on the bargain counter where the plaintiff found the suit said,

“Sale Merchandise. All sales final.”

(C) The plaintiff knew that paper bathing suits like the one she had
purchased sometimes dissolved when they became wet.

(D) The department store could not implead the bathing suit company
into the action because the company had gone out of business.

140. A 13-year-old boy and his family lived on a farm in a very remote

portion of the state. Because of the lack of automobile traffic, the boy's
parents let him ride a motorcycle between the family farm and the
local grocery store. There was no statute or ordinance that prohibited
the boy's use of the motorcycle. One morning, there was heavy fog on
the ground when the boy drove the motorcycle to the store. The speed
limit was 35 miles per hour. While a reasonable adult would have
known to drive under the speed limit because of the poor visibility, a
reasonable 13-year-old would not normally have such knowledge. The
boy drove the motorcycle at 35 miles an hour and crashed into a car
when he was unable to slow down in time. The boy did not expect a
car to be on the road, because cars were so rarely around. The car
owner sued the boy for negligence. The court should rule in favor of

(A) the car owner, because the boy was driving a motorcycle.

(B) the car owner, because a reasonable adult would have known to

drive under the speed limit.

(C) the boy, because a reasonable 13-year-old would not normally

know to drive under the speed limit.

(D) the boy, because he was driving at the speed limit.

141. The company manufactured a device for training dogs. A professional

dog trainer was working with a dog in her unfenced front yard and was
using the company's brand new device. A man was walking past the

972

yard when the dog began to snarl and lunge at him. When the trainer
yanked on the leather strap of the device, it suddenly broke, freeing the
dog. The dog sprang forward, biting the walker.

If the walker asserts a claim against the dog trainer, the walker's most
effective argument in support of his claim would be that

(A) the dog trainer is strictly liable for damage resulting from her use

of a defective product.

(B) it was unreasonable for the dog trainer to work the dog in her front

yard.

(C) the dog trainer's conduct was a concurring cause of harm.

(D) the dog trainer was a professional dog trainer.

142. Because the plaintiff had a headache, he took two headache tablets

from a bottle that had been purchased by his wife at the grocery store.
The tablets had been manufactured by the company, which sold them to
the grocery store in sealed bottles for resale. Because of a toxic
ingredient that the tablets contained, the plaintiff became ill as a result
of taking them.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the company based on a theory of
strict liability in tort, the ruling should turn on the question of whether

(A) the company knew that the tablets contained a toxic ingredient.

(B) headache tablets that contain a toxic ingredient are inherently

dangerous.

(C) it was reasonable for the company to market the tablets.

(D) the presence of the toxic material was a defect.

143. A driver was looking for an address as he drove down the street and

was not watching the road in front of him. As a result, he did not see a
pedestrian crossing the street in front of him and struck her with his
car, knocking her down. The driver immediately got out of her car to
help the pedestrian. When he saw that she was unconscious, he became
afraid to move her and left her in the roadway while he ran to a nearby
phone. While the driver was gone, a taxi drove down the same street.
The taxi did not see the pedestrian in the roadway, and drove over her,
fracturing her leg.

973

In an action by the pedestrian against the driver for damages resulting
from her fractured leg, a court is most likely to find for

(A) the pedestrian, because the driver's negligence was a factual and

legal cause of the pedestrian's fractured leg.

(B) the pedestrian, since the negligence of the taxi is imputed to the

driver.

(C) the driver, since his conduct was a legal cause but not a factual

cause of the pedestrian's fractured leg.

(D) the driver, because the pedestrian would not have been injured but

for the taxi striking her.

144. An employee resigned after being told he wouldn't be compensated for
extra work hours. At the same time, he told his former employer he
would retain a set of tools issued to him until he received payment.
The employee applied for a job with another company, and that
company wrote to the former employer asking for an evaluation of the
employee's honesty and ability. The former employer wrote a letter to
the other company that stated, “When the employee left my company,
he stole a valuable set of tools.” As a result, the other company did not
hire the employee. If the employee asserts a claim against his former
employer for defamation, the employee should

(A) lose, because the employee did not return the tools that he took

when he left the employer's employ.

(B) lose, because the employer's statement was made in response to a

specific request by the employee's prospective employer.

(C) win, because the employer's statement could not have benefitted the

employer's business interests.

(D) win, because the employer's statement accused the employee of

stealing tools.

145. The defendant operated a train carrying high explosives used to blow

tunnels through mountains. As the train was passing through a city, it hit
the plaintiff, who had ducked through the lowered train-crossing bars
and was trying to get across the tracks to the other side before he was
blocked by the train. The plaintiff was severely injured. The plaintiff
sued the defendant for his damages. During trial, the defendant proved
that it was not negligent in any way. The jurisdiction followed
comparative negligence principles. The court should rule in favor of

974

(A) the plaintiff, under the doctrine of strict liability.

(B) the defendant, because the plaintiff assumed the risk of getting hit

by the train.

(C) the defendant, because it was not negligent.

(D) the defendant, because the plaintiff was contributorily negligent by

trying to cross the tracks.

146. The seller knew that his car's engine was cracked. Because he wanted

to sell the car, he filled the crack with putty and painted it so that the
crack would not show. He then sold the car to a used car dealer. The
next day, the used car dealer was showing the car to a customer when
the crack caused the engine to explode, injuring the customer.

If the customer asserts a claim against the seller for injuries that he
sustained when the engine exploded, which of the following would be
the customer's most effective theory?

(A) Battery, because the seller knew that the engine was cracked.

(B) Intentional misrepresentation, because the seller knew that the

engine was cracked.

(C) Negligent misrepresentation, because the seller had a duty to

disclose that the engine was cracked.

(D) Negligence, because the seller should have anticipated that a

customer of the used car dealer would be injured as a result of the
cracked engine.

147. The defendant negligently burned down a restaurant when he used a

highly flammable cleaner to clean the restaurant's deep fryer. The
defendant was an independent contractor hired to clean the restaurant
and he owned no interest in the restaurant. The plaintiff, a waiter at the
restaurant, was laid off because of the fire damage and could not get a
job for six months. The plaintiff sued the defendant for his financial
losses from his joblessness. The court should rule in favor of

(A) the defendant, because the plaintiff suffered only economic harm.

(B) the defendant, because he owned no interest in the restaurant.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant's negligence caused him to be

laid off.

975

(D) the plaintiff, because the defendant's negligence burned down the

restaurant.

148. A natural gas factory was located on the edge of the city. When the

wind blew from the east, foul-smelling waste gases from the factory's
chimneys were blown over the city, causing most of the residents to
experience a burning of the eyes and throat. On several occasions, a
city resident attempted to persuade the city attorney to seek an
injunction against the factory. The city attorney refused, however,
because the city council was afraid that doing so would drive the
factory from the area. If the resident seeks an injunction by asserting a
claim against the factory on a theory of public nuisance, which of the
following would be the factory's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The city attorney's decision is binding.

(B) The resident has not sustained harm different from that of the

general public.

(C) A private citizen may not seek an injunction against environmental

polluters.

(D) A private citizen may not sue on a theory of public nuisance.

149. A trucker was eating cherry pie in a restaurant when a cherry pit

contained in the pie stuck in his throat. Unable to breathe, the trucker
began choking. A doctor who was eating in the restaurant ran to the
trucker's aid and performed an operation known as an emergency
tracheotomy. Then, at the doctor's direction, the trucker walked across
the street to a hospital. The hospital's emergency room had famously
long waits. Because hospital employees negligently failed to enter the
trucker's name in the emergency room register, he sat in the emergency
room for six hours without further attention. At that time, an earthquake
caused a portion of the hospital's structure to fall, striking the trucker
in the head and fracturing his skull. An earthquake had never occurred
in the state before.

Assume that the doctor's conduct in performing the emergency
tracheotomy was unreasonable, and if the doctor had acted reasonably,
the trucker would have coughed up the pit without any injury. In an
action by the trucker against the doctor for damages resulting from his
fractured skull, will the trucker win?

(A) Yes, since he would not have been in the hospital if the doctor had

976

not performed the tracheotomy.

(B) Yes, because it was foreseeable that the trucker would be required

to wait six hours in the hospital's emergency room.

(C) No, since he would not have been injured were it not for the cherry

pit contained in the pie.

(D) No, because the earthquake was a superseding cause of the

trucker's injury.

150. In answer to specific questions posed by the court, the jury found that
an accident was 60 percent the fault of the plaintiff and 40 percent the
fault of the defendant. In addition, the jury found that damage to
plaintiff's car amounted to $1,000, and that damage to the defendant's
car amounted to $10,000.

The jurisdiction had a statute that provided that “In any negligence
action, a plaintiff's recovery shall not be barred by that plaintiff's fault,
but the recovery of said plaintiff shall be diminished in proportion to
such plaintiff's fault, unless that plaintiff's fault shall be greater than
that of the defendant, and in such event the plaintiff's recovery shall be
barred.” Which of the following correctly states the sum to which the
plaintiff is entitled?

(A) $600 ($1,000 less 40 percent).

(B) $400 ($1,000 less 60 percent).

(C) $1,000.

(D) 0.

151. The landlord was the owner of a four-story office building. An

attorney in the landlord's building knew that the elevator was broken,
but decided to take one of his client's up in it anyway. The landlord
had promised the attorney he would fix it, but the landlord did not do
so. When the attorney and the client were riding in the elevator, it
suddenly dropped, injuring the client.

The client asserted a claim against the landlord for damages resulting
from his injuries, alleging that the landlord was negligent in failing to
fix the elevator or warn the client about it. Which of the following
would be the landlord's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The landlord did not owe the client a duty to repair the elevator

977

since the landlord's promise was not made to the client.

(B) The client was a mere licensee since his presence did not confer a

benefit on the landlord.

(C) It was not foreseeable that the attorney would permit the client to
use the elevator since the attorney knew it was not working
properly.

(D) It was unreasonable for the attorney to permit the client to use the
elevator since the attorney knew that it was not working properly.

152. A licensed exterminator bought a large container of insecticide. The
label said it should only be used by professional exterminators. The
exterminator placed the container on a shelf in his shop, where it was
discovered by a janitor. Since the janitor thought there were termites in
his house, he opened the container and poured some of the chemical
pellets into a plastic bag that he then brought home. The next day, the
janitor's three-year-old daughter found the plastic bag containing the
pellets and ate some of them, becoming seriously ill as a result. A
statute in the jurisdiction adopted the all-or-nothing rule of
contributory negligence.

In an action by the daughter against the exterminator, which of the
following would be the daughter's most effective argument?

(A) The exterminator should have foreseen that the insecticide would
cause injury to someone in the daughter's position if left on an
exposed shelf in his shop.

(B) The insecticide was defective since its label did not adequately

warn of the dangers connected with its use.

(C) The insecticide is an inherently dangerous product.

(D) The janitor's theft of the pellets was a concurring cause of his

daughter's harm.

153. After living together for several months, a man and his girlfriend began
to argue frequently. On Monday, after an argument, the man left their
apartment in anger, saying that he didn't know when he was coming
back. The following Saturday, the girlfriend took all the man's
possessions, including his television set, to a swap meet in hopes of
selling them. At the swap meet, she sold the television to a neighbor.

978

If the man instituted an action against his former girlfriend for trespass
to chattel, which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if
it was the only one true, would be most helpful to the girlfriend's
defense?

(A) The man's leaving the apartment constituted implied consent to the

girlfriend's sale of his possessions.

(B) The girlfriend's interference with the man's right to the television

was serious enough to justify a forced sale.

(C) The neighbor committed a conversion by purchasing the television

set at the swap meet.

(D) At the time the man's action against her was instituted, the girlfriend

could not reacquire possession of the television set from the
neighbor.

154. The plaintiff and the defendant lived on the same street and worked in
the same office, so they formed a car pool, each driving his own car on
alternate days. One day while the defendant was driving, the car in
front of him stopped suddenly and without warning. Since the
defendant had taken his eyes off the road for a moment to look at the
plaintiff, he was unable to stop in time and collided with the rear of the
stopped car. The plaintiff was injured as a result of the collision.

There was no automobile guest statute in the jurisdiction. In an action
by the plaintiff against the defendant, which of the following would be
the defendant's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The plaintiff assumed the risk since he knew that it was possible
that the defendant's car would be involved in an accident while
traveling to work.

(B) The defendant's conduct was not a cause-in-fact of harm since the
accident would not have occurred if the car in front of him had not
stopped suddenly.

(C) The defendant did not owe the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care

since the plaintiff was a licensee.

(D) It was not negligent for the defendant to take his eyes off the road

for a moment.

155. After an accident, a woman was trapped in her car. The fire chief told
a volunteer firefighter to use a new device to free her. He knew the

979

device could be dangerous, and that the volunteer firefighter had not
been trained in how to use it. The volunteer firefighter used the device
improperly, injuring the woman.

If the woman instituted an action against the fire chief, the woman's
best theory would be

(A) negligence.

(B) battery.

(C) strict products liability.

(D) res ipsa loquitur.

156. As a result of her neighbor's negligence, the plaintiff's shoulder and
eye were both injured. The plaintiff went immediately to her eye
doctor. The eye doctor treated the injury to the plaintiff's eye but
suggested that she see an orthopedist for treatment of her shoulder. The
following day, the plaintiff visited an orthopedist, who treated the
plaintiff's shoulder.

Because of negligent treatment by the eye doctor, the plaintiff's nose
became infected, and because of negligent treatment by the
orthopedist, she lost the use of her elbow.

In an action by the plaintiff against her neighbor, which of the
following parts of the plaintiff's body is a court most likely to find
were injured as a proximate result of the neighbor's negligence?

(A) Her nose.

(B) Her elbow.

(C) Both her nose and elbow.

(D) Neither her nose nor her elbow.

157. A newspaper incorrectly stated that a local minister was a minister for

a group that was historically perceived as a cult engaged in unlawful
activities. Which of the following is a court most likely to find about
the statement?

(A) The statement is not defamatory if the group can be classified as a

religion under the First Amendment to the United States
Constitution.

980

(B) The statement is not defamatory if members of the group do not

currently engage in improper activities.

(C) The statement is not defamatory if a substantial group of right-

thinking people know that members of the group no longer engage
in improper activities.

(D) The statement is defamatory if many people continue to believe that

members of the group engage in improper activities.

158. A company was in the business of developing and manufacturing

machinery used in other industries.

A warehouse employee was injured when a pin in one of the
company's machines wore out. The company knew that a pin failure
was dangerous. The employee instituted a negligence action against
the company that made the machine. The company's defense was based
on the assertion that prior to the accident, the company neither knew
nor reasonably could have known that the pin would wear out. If the
jury believes this assertion, the employee will

(A) win, since the company is deemed to be an expert in its field and

has a duty to know all relevant facts about the product that it makes.

(B) win, since it is foreseeable that if the pin did wear out, someone

would be hurt.

(C) win, since a manufacturer is strictly liable for defects in its

product, whether or not it could have prevented those defects.

(D) lose.

159. A carpenter was working on the framework of his roof when he found
that he had brought the wrong hammer onto the roof with him. Without
looking to see if anyone was around, he tossed the hammer to the
ground, shouting, “Heads up!”

A man who was crossing the property was killed when the hammer hit
him in the head.

The representative of the man's estate instituted an appropriate action
against the carpenter, in a jurisdiction that applies the all-or-nothing
rule of contributory negligence, alleging that the carpenter's throwing
of the hammer without looking was negligence. If it were the only one
true, which of the following additional facts or inferences would be

981

most effective in the carpenter's defense against that allegation?

(A) It was reasonable for the carpenter to believe that no one would be

struck by the hammer.

(B) It is customary in the construction industry for people working on a
roof to toss unwanted tools and objects to the ground without
looking, so long as they shout, “Heads up!”

(C) The man could have avoided being struck by the hammer if he had

seen it coming.

(D) The blow of his hammer would not have caused a serious injury to
a normal person, but it seriously injured the man because his head
was extraordinarily sensitive.

160. A man bought a sealed pie from a grocery store. The pie was made by
a local manufacturer. After opening and eating half of the pie, the man
discovered that it was full of worms. A reasonable inspection by the
grocery store would have discovered the worms.

If the man asserts a claim for negligence against the grocery store, the
court should find for

(A) the man, because any negligence by the manufacturer of a product is

imputed to a retailer selling that product.

(B) the man, because the product was defective when the man

purchased it from the grocery store.

(C) the man, because the grocery store failed to act reasonably in

selling the product to the man.

(D) the grocery store, because a retailer is under no duty of reasonable

care when selling products packaged in sealed containers.

161. A mother negligently allowed her nine-year-old son to ride his bike on
a busy road. While doing so, the boy negligently swerved side-to-side
until he was hit by a car driven by a driver. The driver was acting
unreasonably when he struck the boy. The jurisdiction applies the all-
or-nothing rule of contributory negligence.

If the boy asserts a negligence claim against the driver for his injuries,
the court should find for

(A) the boy, because a nine-year-old is presumed incapable of

982

contributory negligence.

(B) the boy, under the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur.

(C) the driver, because the accident resulted from the boy's

unreasonable conduct.

(D) the driver, because it was unreasonable for the boy's mother to give

her son permission to ride his bicycle along the roadway.

162. While attempting to make an arrest at a grocery store, police officers

knocked over several stacks of merchandise, including cases of bottled
soda-pop. This caused minute cracks in all the bottles. The following
day, store employees cleaned up the mess, restacking the cases of
soda-pop without checking any of the bottles for damage. A woman
purchased one of the bottles but did not notice the minute crack in it.

That evening, the woman was placing the bottle on the dinner table
when the bottle exploded because of the crack in it, sending fragments
of glass flying in all directions. The woman was injured.

In an action by the woman against the grocery store, a court is most
likely to find for

(A) the woman, because she could not have done anything to protect

herself against the kind of injury that occurred.

(B) the woman, because the grocery store's conduct in restacking and

selling the bottles without some sort of inspection was
unreasonable under the circumstances.

(C) the grocery store, because the conduct of the police officers was a

proximate cause of the injury sustained by the woman.

(D) the grocery store, because the woman and the grocery store were

not in privity.

163. While standing in an art gallery, a buyer overheard a conversation
between a collector and an art dealer. The dealer stated that a
particular painting was worth $250,000. After the collector left the
gallery, the buyer purchased the painting for $225,000 from the dealer.
The buyer subsequently learned that the painting was worth only $600.

If the buyer is successful in a tort action for misrepresentation against
the dealer, the court is likely to award him a judgment for

983

(A) $250,000 (the value that the dealer stated).

(B) $250,000 (the value that the dealer stated), on condition that the

buyer return the painting to the dealer.

(C) $225,000 (the price that the buyer paid to the dealer).

(D) $224,400 (the price that the buyer paid to the dealer, less the value

of the painting).

164. A man lent his friend his car. The man knew his friend had had his

license revoked for reckless driving, but his friend promised he was
only driving his mother to a doctor's appointment and would return the
car as quickly as possible. In fact, the friend drove the car several
hundred miles away to visit his girlfriend. On the way back, the friend
was speeding and swerving between cars when he crashed into a
woman's car. Because the man's friend had no money, the woman sued
the man for negligence. May she recover?

(A) Yes, because the man loaned his friend the car.

(B) Yes, because the man owned the car.

(C) No, because the friend lied to the man about how he would use the

car.

(D) No, because the woman is only suing the man because his friend

has no money.

165. The plaintiff purchased a bottle of dishwashing detergent made by the

defendant at a supermarket. After using the product for washing dishes,
the plaintiff experienced a serious rash on his hands and wrists as the
result of an allergic reaction to a chemical in the product.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant on the ground that
the product was not merchantable, which of the following additional
facts or inferences, if it were the only one true, would provide the
defendant with its most effective defense?

(A) The plaintiff's allergic reaction was the only such reaction that ever

occurred.

(B) The supermarket purchased the product from an independent

wholesaler that purchased it from the defendant.

(C) Before marketing the product, the defendant made a reasonable

effort to determine whether the product would be harmful to normal

984

skin.

(D) Prior to manufacturing and marketing the product, the defendant
received approval for its sale from the federal Food and Drug
Administration.

166. A statute required all high-rise construction sites to be surrounded by a
temporary fence. The purpose of the statute was to protect people from
being hurt by falling construction debris. A construction company
failed to fence in one of its sites near an elementary school. One of the
schoolchildren wandered onto the site and was poisoned when he
drank water from a puddle on the site. The child's injury was severe.
The child sued the construction company, and the court found the child
would not have been able to get onto the site if the proper fence had
been in place. It also found that a reasonable child of the child's age,
intelligence, and experience would not have drunk the water from the
puddle. The child's attorney then asked the judge to instruct the jury
that the violation of the statute was negligence per se. Should the court
do so?

(A) Yes, because the child would not have been hurt but for the

violation of the statute.

(B) Yes, because the puddle was under the construction company's

control.

(C) No, because the child was poisoned.

(D) No, because the child failed to adhere to the proper standard of

care.

167. The plaintiff and the defendant were at an extremely loud rock concert.
During an argument about gun control, the defendant called the plaintiff
a “dope smoking moron” who only supported gun rights because he
was a “habitual thief.” The plaintiff had never done drugs or stolen
from anyone. A fellow concertgoer overheard the remark and
understood it, although it was so loud that the defendant had no reason
to believe anyone else at the concert could hear him arguing with the
plaintiff. The plaintiff sued the defendant for defamation. During trial,
the court found that the defendant was not negligent in his making of the
statement. The court should find the defendant

(A) liable for libel.

(B) liable for slander.

985

(C) liable for defamation.

(D) not liable.

168. The plaintiff was injured in a car accident and received $100,000
worth of damages. The jury further found that the plaintiff's damage
was caused 20 percent by the plaintiff's negligence, 40 percent by one
defendant's negligence, and 40 percent by another defendant's
negligence. The jurisdiction had a statute that read as follows:

In  a  negligence  action,  no  plaintiff  shall  be  barred  from  recovery
because  of  that  plaintiff's  contributory  negligence,  but  such  plaintiff's
recovery shall be diminished in proportion to plaintiff's own fault.

The court held that the defendants were jointly and severally liable for
the plaintiff's damage and entered judgment for the plaintiff consistent
with the jury's verdict.

Prior to the entry of judgment, the plaintiff collected $10,000 from an
insurance company under a policy in which it agreed to pay any
medical bills that the plaintiff might incur as the result of an
automobile accident. Which of the following correctly reflects the sum
that the plaintiff is entitled to collect from the defendants?

(A) $90,000, because the plaintiff's damage of $100,000 should be
diminished by the sum the plaintiff received from the insurance
company.

(B) $80,000, because the plaintiff's damage of $100,000 should be

diminished by a sum proportional to the plaintiff's own fault,
without regard to sums that the plaintiff has received under the
insurance policy.

(C) $70,000, because the plaintiff's damage of $100,000 should be

diminished by a sum proportional to the plaintiff's own fault and
further diminished by the sum that the plaintiff received under the
insurance policy.

(D) $60,000, because the plaintiff's damage of $100,000 should be

diminished by a sum proportional to the plaintiff's own fault, and
the two defendants' proportional shares should each be further
diminished by the sum that the plaintiff received under the
insurance policy.

169. Although a man realized that his neighbor was drunk, the man asked the

986

neighbor for a ride home. The neighbor agreed and left with the man at
once. Because he was drunk, the neighbor lost control of his car.

The man asserts a negligence claim for his injuries against his
neighbor in a jurisdiction that applies the all-or-nothing rule of
contributory negligence. Which of the following arguments would be
likely to provide the neighbor with an effective defense to that claim?

(A) The man was contributorily negligent in accepting a ride from his

neighbor when he knew his neighbor was drunk.

(B) The man assumed the risk by accepting a ride from his neighbor

when he knew his neighbor was drunk.

(C) It did not matter that the man knew his neighbor was drunk.

(D) The man was contributorily negligent and assumed the risk by
accepting the ride when he knew his neighbor was drunk.

170. A monthly publication of interest primarily to persons who deal in the

purchase and sale of historic buildings as an investment stated that a
property had been purchased by the plaintiff for $1,450,000. It
described the plaintiff as a bank president earning a salary of
$200,000 per year and stated that she had purchased the property with
part of the $1 million fortune that she inherited from her mother.

The plaintiff asserted a claim for invasion of privacy on the ground
that the publication appropriated her identity by publishing the article
about her without her permission. Which of the following would be the
publication's most effective argument in defense?

(A) Information about the purchaser of the property was of interest to

readers of the publication.

(B) The article about the plaintiff did not enrich the publication because

the plaintiff was not a celebrity.

(C) The sale of the property to the plaintiff was a matter of public

record.

(D) Publication of the article was not the result of actual malice.

171. For many years, powdered cement used by a factory was delivered in
90-pound sacks. Recently, however, factory officials determined that it
would be considerably less expensive to purchase unbagged cement.

987

A landowner lived in the area. After the factory began using unbagged
cement, cement dust from the factory's operation continually settled on
the cabin that the landowner occupied. Although the dust did no
physical harm to the cabin or to the landowner, the landowner
complained to officials of the factory that the dust annoyed her.
Because the factory received no other complaints from area residents,
however, it continued using unbagged cement.

The landowner asserts a negligence claim against the factory. Which
of the following would be the factory's most effective argument in
defense?

(A) Changing from bagged cement to unbagged cement resulted in

substantial financial savings to the factory.

(B) The factory's conduct was not a factual cause of the landowner's

discomfort because no other residents complained about the dust.

(C) The landowner assumed the risk by continuing to live in the area.

(D) The landowner sustained no damage as a result of the factory's

conduct.

172. In a negligence action by the plaintiff, the court found that the

defendants were jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff in the sum
of $100,000. The court also found that in producing the plaintiff's
injury, the first defendant was 40 percent at fault and the second
defendant was 60 percent at fault. The jurisdiction has a statute
recognizing the right of contribution between joint tortfeasors, and that
contribution shall be based on apportionment of fault.

After the entry of judgment, the plaintiff succeeded in collecting
$100,000 from the first defendant. In an action for contribution by the
first defendant against the second defendant, which of the following
correctly states the amount that he is entitled to collect from the second
defendant?

(A) 0.

(B) $40,000 (40 percent of $100,000).

(C) $50,000 (50 percent of $100,000).

(D) $60,000 (60 percent of $100,000).

173. An employee was driving a pickup truck owned by the company when

988

he collided with an automobile owned and operated by a driver. The
plaintiff, a passenger in the car, sued. At trial, the jury fixed the amount
of the plaintiff's damages and found that the employee was 40 percent
at fault, the driver was 60 percent at fault, and the plaintiff was not at
fault. It was also found that the employee was acting within the scope
of his duties as an employee of the company when the accident
occurred. In issuing a judgment for the passenger, the court held that
the employee and the driver were jointly and severally liable for the
passenger's injuries and that the company was vicariously liable for
the employee's tort. The jurisdiction had statutes that adopted pure
comparative negligence and recognized a right of contribution between
joint tortfeasors.

In enforcing the judgment, the plaintiff succeeded in collecting
$100,000 from the company. If the company asserts a claim against the
employee seeking compensation for the company's payment to the
plaintiff, the company is entitled to recover

(A) nothing, because the company was found to be vicariously liable

for the employee's tort.

(B) $40,000 as partial indemnity.

(C) $50,000 as contribution.

(D) $100,000 as complete indemnity.

174. A biker was riding her bicycle in a reasonable manner when she was

struck by a car negligently driven by a driver. As a result, the biker
was thrown to the ground, breaking her left leg. A moment later, while
lying in the road, the biker was struck by a car negligently driven by a
second driver, breaking the biker's right leg.

If the biker asserts a claim against the second driver, the second driver
will be held liable for damages resulting from

(A) the biker's broken right leg.

(B) the biker's broken right and left legs.

(C) the biker's broken right and left legs, but only if the first driver's

conduct was foreseeable.

(D) neither leg.

175. As a result of a minor earthquake, the framework of a building that the

989

builder was erecting collapsed. When the builder began the building,
he knew that the steel that he was using for that purpose was of poor
quality but decided to use it anyway. If the steel had not been of poor
quality, the earthquake would not have caused the building to collapse.

A driver was employed by a gas company to operate a gasoline truck.
She had parked the truck in front of the builder's construction site
moments before the earthquake. When the building collapsed, falling
debris struck the truck, causing it to rupture and causing its cargo of
gasoline to leak. A stream of gasoline that leaked from the truck
flowed for three blocks until it reached another nearby street. There,
unaware of the presence of gasoline, a man tossed a lit cigarette into
the street. The cigarette caused the gasoline to explode, injuring a
woman standing nearby.

If the woman asserts a claim against the gas company driver, alleging
that it was negligent for the driver to park a gasoline truck in front of a
construction site, which of the following would be the driver's most
effective argument in defense against the woman's claim?

(A) The builder's use of poor-quality steel was a superseding cause of

the woman's injury.

(B) The explosion would not have occurred if the man did not throw a

lit cigarette into the street.

(C) The driver could not have anticipated that falling debris from the
construction site would cause the truck to rupture and leak.

(D) The explosion that injured the woman was proximately caused by

the earthquake.

176. The owner of a supermarket purchased an automatic door-opener from

its manufacturer. The device included rubber step-plates that were to
be installed on the floor on both sides of the door.

The store owner hired a contractor to install the automatic door-
opener while the store was closed for the night. The contractor read
the instructions furnished by the manufacturer but disregarded a
warning regarding testing the step-plates. When he finished installing
the device, he did not test it by stepping on one of the step-plates, but
advised the store's night manager that the job was complete. The
following morning, a customer was injured by the door.

990

The customer asserted a claim against the manufacturer on the ground
that the step-plate was defective when sold by the manufacturer.
Which of the following would be the manufacturer's most effective
argument in defense?

(A) It was not foreseeable that a person installing the automatic door-
opener would disregard the warning contained in the instructions.

(B) The manufacturer did not act unreasonably in designing or

manufacturing the automatic door opener or in furnishing the
instructions that came with them.

(C) The customer was not a purchaser of the automatic door-opener.

(D) The store owner was negligent in selecting the contractor to install

the automatic door-opener.

177. The plaintiff owned a local coffee shop. The defendant wrote a

newspaper story that the plaintiff had been accused by a customer of
drugging her coffee and locking her in a dungeon in the basement. The
customer really made the accusation, but the accusation was false and
the customer was well-known throughout town for making false
accusations against shop owners she didn't like. The plaintiff sued the
defendant for defamation. At trial, it was established the plaintiff was
not a public figure, and the plaintiff presented evidence that the
defendant knew or should have known of the customer's habit of
making false accusations. The court should rule in favor of

(A) the defendant, because the plaintiff did not establish that the

defendant believed the accusations were false.

(B) the defendant, because the plaintiff did not establish that the

defendant recklessly disregarded whether the accusations were
true.

(C) the defendant, because the plaintiff did not establish that the

defendant intended to cause harm to the plaintiff's reputation.

(D) the plaintiff.

178. A homeowner hired a painter to paint the outside of the homeowner's

house.

Two days later, a government employee was walking across the
homeowner's lawn while delivering mail. The homeowner saw the
employee walking toward the painter's ladder on his lawn but did not

991

warn the employee because he believed that she saw it. Although the
lawn had recently been mowed and the ladder was in plain view, the
employee did not see the ladder and tripped over it, injuring her knee.

The jurisdiction applies the all-or-nothing rule of contributory
negligence.

If the government employee asserts a negligence claim against the
painter for damages resulting from her injury, which of the following
would be the painter's most effective argument in defense?

(A) The ladder was in plain view.

(B) The employee was trespassing at the time the accident occurred.

(C) The painter owed no duty to licensees of the homeowner.

(D) The homeowner was negligent in not warning the employee about

the ladder.

179. The plaintiff was involved in an accident after he was hit by a drunk

driver. The amount of alcohol that one defendant sold the driver would
have made her intoxicated even if a second defendant sold the driver
no alcohol at all, and the amount of alcohol that the second defendant
sold the driver would have made the driver intoxicated even if the first
defendant sold the driver no alcohol at all. Which of the following
statements is most correct?

(A) The first defendant did not cause the plaintiff's injury because the
second defendant subsequently sold the driver enough alcohol to
make her intoxicated.

(B) The second defendant did not cause the plaintiff's injury because

the first defendant had previously sold the driver enough alcohol to
make her intoxicated.

(C) Neither defendant caused the injury.

(D) Both defendants caused the injury.

180. A landowner hired a professional architect to draw plans for a two-

story residence to be constructed on the landowner's realty. The plans
that the architect prepared called for a staircase to be supported by a
single concrete pillar. The landowner then hired a licensed building
contractor to construct a house in accordance with the architect's
design. Upon examining the plans, the contractor told the landowner

992

that she did not think that one pillar would provide sufficient support
for the staircase. When the landowner discussed the contractor's
objection with the architect, however, the architect insisted that one
pillar would be sufficient. The landowner told this to the contractor
and convinced the contractor to rely on the architect's plan.

The contractor completed the building as agreed and turned it over to
the landowner on April 1. Two weeks later, the landowner hired a
mover to move a piano onto the second floor of the house. While the
mover was carrying the piano up the staircase, the staircase collapsed,
causing the mover to sustain injury. If the staircase had been supported
by two columns, it would not have collapsed.

If the mover asserts a negligence claim against the architect, which of
the following would be the architect's most effective argument in
defense?

(A) It was reasonable to support the staircase with only one pillar.

(B) The architect owed the mover no duty since the architect was

employed by the landowner.

(C) The contractor had the last clear chance to avoid the accident.

(D) The use of a single pillar to support the staircase was a matter
exclusively within the architect's professional judgment as an
architect.

181. A man was obviously intoxicated when he entered a bartender's tavern
one night and ordered a drink. A statute made it unlawful to serve
liquor to any intoxicated person. Even so, the bartender served the
man. After drinking the liquor, the man left the tavern and began
driving home.

Before the liquor left the manufacturer's factory, an angry employee
added a poison to it that could not have been discovered by
reasonable inspection. While the man was driving in a reasonable
manner, the poison caused him to die. As a result, the man's car struck
a pedestrian, injuring her.

If the pedestrian asserts a claim against the bartender based on the
bartender's violation of the above statute, which of the following
would be the bartender's most effective argument in defense against

993

that claim?

(A) The bartender did not serve the man enough liquor to make him

intoxicated.

(B) The statute was not meant to prevent people from drinking liquor

that had been poisoned.

(C) Serving the liquor to the man was not a cause of the pedestrian's

injuries.

(D) The angry employee's conduct was a superseding cause of the

pedestrian's injuries.

182. An airline went out of business and sold a belt truck to a second
airline. An independent contractor hired by the second airline to
maintain the second airline's equipment set the truck's belt idle above
25. Due to a mistake at the factory, the belt truck was not equipped
with an acceleration suppressor. An acceleration suppressor would
keep the truck from lurching no matter where the idle was set.
Subsequently, an employee of the second airline attempted to activate
the belt while standing beside the belt truck. Because the idle was set
above 25, she was injured when the belt truck lurched forward and
struck her.

The employee asserted a negligence claim against the independent
contractor. Which one of the following additional facts or inferences,
if it were the only one true, would be most likely to result in a
judgment for the independent contractor in a jurisdiction that applies
the all-or-nothing rule of contributory negligence?

(A) Belt trucks are usually equipped with acceleration suppressors.

(B) If the employee had been in the driver's seat when she started the

belt truck, she would not have been injured.

(C) The omission of an acceleration suppressor was a manufacturing

defect in the belt truck.

(D) The first airline failed to notify the second airline about the need

for an acceleration suppressor.

183. A company operated a manufacturing plant just outside the town.

Breezes frequently carried fumes from the company's plant into the
town.

994

A homeowner's son developed a respiratory illness as the result of an
unusual reaction to the fumes. The homeowner complained to the
company about his son's illness. When the company responded by
offering to buy the homeowner's house, the homeowner refused.

The homeowner asserted a public nuisance claim on behalf of his son
in which he sought an order directing the company to eliminate the
fumes. Which of the following would be the company's most effective
argument in response to this claim?

(A) The claim is not for special damages.

(B) The son's illness was the result of an unusually sensitive reaction to

the fumes.

(C) The homeowner assumed the risk by refusing to sell the property to

the company.

(D) The fumes did not violate state pollution laws.

184. The manufacturer made a product that was sold over the counter for the
treatment of dandruff and dry scalp conditions. A doctor purchased a
bottle at a drugstore. A statement on the label read, “This product will
not harm normal scalp or hair.” The doctor used the product as
directed. Because of a scalp condition making him allergic to one of
the ingredients, the product irritated his scalp, causing him much pain
and discomfort.

In an action by the doctor against the drugstore, which of the following
would be the doctor's most effective argument?

(A) Any negligence by the manufacturer is imputed to the drugstore.

(B) The product was defective as labeled.

(C) The drugstore breached an express warranty.

(D) A drugstore is under a special duty to be aware of possible allergic

reactions to products that it sells.

185. After the plaintiff sued the defendants for injuries caused in an auto

accident, the jury found that the accident was 60 percent the fault of the
first defendant and 40 percent the fault of the second defendant. The
court ruled that the defendants were jointly and severally liable for the
plaintiff's injuries, which amounted to $100,000.

995

The jurisdiction had a statute that provided that “In any negligence
action, a plaintiff's recovery shall not be barred by that plaintiff's fault,
but the recovery of said plaintiff shall be diminished in proportion to
such plaintiff's fault unless that plaintiff's fault shall be greater than
that of the defendant, and in such event the plaintiff's recovery shall be
barred.” Which of the following correctly states the sum that the
plaintiff is entitled to receive from the second defendant?

(A) $60,000 (60 percent of $100,000).

(B) $40,000 (40 percent of $100,000).

(C) $100,000.

(D) 0.

186. A daily newspaper printed an article about a minister's speech. The

article referred to the minister's speech as “inspiring, considering the
fact the minister suffers from leprosy.” After seeing the article, the
minister sued the newspaper for defamation.

The newspaper moved to dismiss the minister's action on the grounds
that his complaint contained no allegation of damage. Which of the
following additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one true,
would be most helpful to the minister in opposing the motion to
dismiss?

(A) Leprosy is a loathsome disease.

(B) The minister was so upset upon 

reading the newspaper's statement about him that he became
physically ill.

(C) Editors of the newspaper disliked the minister.

(D) The minister is neither a public official nor a public figure.

187. A man was eating one of the company's pre-packaged desserts when he

found a cockroach in it.

In an action by the man against the company, which of the following
additional facts or inferences, if it were the only one true, would
provide the company with its most effective defense?

(A) The company did not act unreasonably in manufacturing, packaging,

or marketing the product purchased by the man.

996

(B) The man sustained no injury as a result of the presence of a

cockroach in the product.

(C) The company complied with all statutory requirements for quality

control in the production of the product.

(D) The man purchased the product on the recommendation of a sales

clerk at the grocery store.

188. A pilot was flying his airplane when one of its engines stopped

working. Although the pilot thought he could probably make it back to
the airport, he decided it would be safer to make an emergency landing
in a farmer's field. The plane ended up causing $500 worth of damage
to the farmer's crops, although the pilot's actual landing of the plane
was done in accordance with federal aviation rules and was not
negligent. The farmer sued the pilot to recover his $500. The court
should rule in favor of

(A) the pilot, because the broken engine created a private necessity.

(B) the pilot, because the pilot was not negligent.

(C) the farmer, because the pilot damaged his crops.

(D) the farmer, because the pilot probably could have made it back to

the airport.

189. Two political candidates were known for insulting and playing pranks
on each other. During a nationally televised debate, the defendant lit a
firecracker as a joke and tossed it onto the plaintiff's podium right as
the plaintiff was making a speech regarding his toughness and bravery
in foreign policy. When the firecracker went off, the plaintiff covered
his head and fell onto the floor. Although the plaintiff sustained no
physical injury, the audience laughed and he was embarrassed by the
incident.

The plaintiff filed a claim against the defendant for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. The court should rule in favor of

(A) the defendant, because the plaintiff was only embarrassed.

(B) the defendant, because he was only joking.

(C) the plaintiff, because he fell onto the floor.

(D) the plaintiff, because throwing a firecracker at someone is

outrageous.

997

190. A store owner hired a contractor to install an automatic door-opener
while the store was closed for the night. The contractor read the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer but disregarded a warning
related to its installation. The following morning, a customer was
injured by the door when it short-circuited. In a claim by the customer
against the contractor, which of the following would be the customer's
most effective argument?

(A) The contractor's liability is established by res ipsa loquitur.

(B) It was unreasonable for the contractor to disregard the warning
contained in the instructions furnished by the manufacturer.

(C) The automatic door-opener was installed in a way that made it unfit

for ordinary use.

(D) The short circuit made the automatic door-opener defective.

191. A driver was driving her automobile in the rain when she rounded a
bend and saw a cow standing directly in her path. She immediately
jammed on her brakes and pulled the steering wheel to the right in an
attempt to avoid striking the cow. As a result, she lost control of her
car, which skidded off the road and into the homeowner's yard.

In an action by the homeowner against the driver for negligence, which
of the following arguments would be most effective as a defense for
the driver?

(A) Her conduct did not result in damage.

(B) She was not required to act reasonably because she was confronted

by an emergency.

(C) She was privileged by the doctrine of necessity.

(D) It was foreseeable that users of the road would deviate onto

adjacent private land in connection with their use of the road.

192. A doctor owned a large machine for putting patients to sleep during
surgery. The doctor sent the machine to the manufacturer for repairs.
While making the repairs, the manufacturer accidentally filled the
anesthetic gas can with plain oxygen and the plain oxygen can with
anesthetic. During a surgery, the doctor wanted to administer pure
oxygen to the patient. However, because of the mistake in the cans, the
patient got pure anesthetic instead. As a result, the patient died.

998

The patient's family sued the doctor for damages resulting from the
death of the patient. During trial, the court found the doctor acted
unreasonably in her treatment of the patient. The court should find the
doctor is

(A) liable, because the doctor was unreasonable in her treatment of the

patient.

(B) liable, because of res ipsa loquitur.

(C) not liable, because the death was caused by the manufacturer's

negligence.

(D) not liable, because the negligence occurred while the machine was

in the care of the manufacturer.

999

ANSWERS
____________________
TORTS

1000

ANSWERS TO 
TORTS QUESTIONS

1.  B  If  the  risk  of  injury  to  the  doctor  was  not  foreseeable,  then  the
manufacturer could not be said to have acted unreasonably in the face
of a foreseeable risk. Since negligence is usually defined as failure to
act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable risk, this would mean that
the manufacturer was not negligent.

Conduct  is  a  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm  would  not  have  occurred
without  it.  Thus,  if  the  label  contained  a  warning  that  the  doctor
disregarded  or  failed  to  read,  his  conduct  could  be  contributory  or
comparative negligence that helped cause his injury. Since the label
did  not  contain  any  warning,  however,  his  injury  would  have
occurred whether he read it or not. For this reason, his failure to read
it was not causally related to the harm that he suffered and does not
provide the manufacturer with a defense. If the doctor sued for breach
of  warranty,  he  might  be  required  to  show  that  he  relied  on  some
statement  contained  on  the  label,  and  his  failure  to  read  it  might
prevent  him  from  establishing  such  reliance.  Since  his  lawsuit  is
based  on  negligence,  however,  A  is  incorrect.  Even  if  the  product
was manufactured by another, the manufacturer would be under a duty
to  use  reasonable  care  in  marketing  it,  so  that  fact  alone  would  not
protect the manufacturer against liability to the doctor. C is therefore
incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  manufacturer's  lack  of
awareness might have been negligent if the reasonable person in the
manufacturer's shoes would have been aware.

2. A Negligence is unreasonable conduct in the face of a foreseeable risk.
The  defendant's  awareness  of  the  high  incidence  of  crime  in  the
neighborhood  would  make  the  risk  foreseeable  and  might  result  in  a
finding  that  it  was  unreasonable  for  her  to  open  the  door  under  the
circumstances. While it is not certain that a court would come to this
conclusion, the fact in A is the only one listed that would help support
the plaintiff's case.

The  plaintiff's  knowledge  would  not  impose  any  duty  on  the
defendant, so B is incorrect. Although the defendant's intention to sell
furniture  to  the  plaintiff  might  make  the  plaintiff  an  invitee,  and
thereby impose upon the defendant a duty to act reasonably, the duty
would not be breached unless the defendant had some reason to know

1001

that there was a danger in opening the door. C is therefore incorrect.
D  is  incorrect  because  unless  the  defendant  knew  or  should  have
known  of  the  incident,  it  would  have  no  relevance  to  the
reasonableness of the defendant's conduct.

3. D A misrepresentation is a false assertion of material fact made with the
intent  to  induce  the  plaintiff's  reliance.  If  the  defendant  knew  that  the
statement  was  false,  and  if  the  plaintiff  justifiably  relied  upon  it,  the
defendant is liable for damage that results. If a party to a transaction is
under  a  legal  obligation  to  disclose  a  fact,  nondisclosure  may  be  an
assertion that the fact does not exist. Thus, since the developer had an
obligation to disclose that the highway was coming, her silence was an
assertion  that  there  was  no  highway  coming.  Since  she  knew  this
assertion to be false, she is liable for misrepresentation if the farmer's
reliance on it was justified. Consequently, D is correct.

Since  real  estate  investors  are  usually  experts  in  determining  the
value of real estate, the fact that the farmer knew the developer to be
a  real  estate  investor  might  have  justified  his  reliance  on  her
misrepresentation.  A  is  incorrect  because  this  would  be  likely  to
result  in  a  victory  for  the  farmer  rather  than  the  developer.  If  the
developer's  nondisclosure  was  a  misrepresentation,  she  probably
repeated  the  misrepresentation  by  permitting  an  appraiser  to
determine  value  without  disclosing  the  coming  of  the  highway.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  A  fiduciary  relationship  is  one  based  on  trust.
Since  buyer  and  seller  are  adversaries,  neither  is  the  other's
fiduciary. C is therefore incorrect.

4. D Negligence is the failure to act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable
risk. If selling a pistol for less than $50 created a foreseeable risk to
the woman, it might be found that the gun maker's conduct in doing so
was  unreasonable  and  that  the  gun  maker  is  liable  to  the  woman  for
negligence.  While  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this
conclusion, the argument in D is the only one listed that could possibly
support the woman's claim.

Intent is an essential element of battery. In a battery case, intent means
that  the  defendant  desired  (or  knew  with  substantial  certainty)  that
harmful  or  offensive  contact  with  the  plaintiff  would  occur.  A  is
incorrect  because  the  fact  that  harm  is  foreseeable  (rather  than
substantially certain) is not sufficient to result in liability for battery.
In  every  sale  by  a  merchant,  there  is  an  implied  warranty  that  the

1002

product  sold  is  merchantable,  or  fit  for  ordinary  use.  There  is  no
indication,  however,  that  the  pistol  did  not  function  as  a  pistol
ordinarily functions. B is therefore incorrect. It is sometimes said that
violation of a criminal statute establishes negligence if the statute was
designed to protect a class of persons to which the plaintiff belongs
against  risks  like  the  one  that  led  to  the  harm.  C  is  incorrect,
however, because there is no indication that the gun maker violated a
criminal statute.

5. C One whose conduct creates a foreseeable risk to any person owes that
person a duty of reasonable care. One who helps an intoxicated person
get his or her car started is creating a foreseeable risk to all who are
likely  to  be  endangered  by  that  person's  driving.  If  the  injury  to  the
pedestrian occurred 200 miles away from the place where the dentist
assisted  the  man,  however,  it  may  successfully  be  argued  that  the
reasonable  person  in  the  man's  situation  would  not  have  anticipated
harm to him because the man could be expected to sober up in the time
it took to drive that distance. While it is not certain that a court would
come to this conclusion, the argument in C is the only one listed that
could possibly support the dentist's defense.

Although a statute like the one mentioned in A might impose liability
on  the  bartender,  it  would  not  have  the  effect  of  relieving  any  other
person of liability, so A is incorrect. B is incorrect because being in
the road service business does not exempt any person from his or her
common law duty to act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable risk.
D  would  establish  that  the  man's  intoxication  was  a  cause  of  the
accident but would not establish that the dentist's actions were not. If
anything,  it  would  prove  the  cause-and-effect  relationship  between
the dentist's conduct and the accident. D is therefore incorrect.

6. C  Negligence  liability  requires  a  breach  of  the  duty  of  reasonable  care
that  is  a  proximate  cause  of  the  plaintiff's  damage.  To  say  that  the
plaintiff was outside the foreseeable zone of danger is simply another
way  of  saying  that  because  of  where  the  plaintiff  was  located,  the
injury  to  him  or  her  was  not  foreseeable.  This  argument  could  help
support the driver's defense in two ways. First, if harm to the painter
was not foreseeable, the driver did not owe him a duty of reasonable
care.  This  would  mean  that,  although  the  driver's  conduct  might  have
been negligent as to the hunter, it could not have been negligent as to
the  painter.  Second,  unless  some  injury  to  the  painter  was  a

1003

foreseeable  result  of  the  driver's  conduct,  that  conduct  was  not  a
proximate cause of it. Although a court might not agree that the painter
was  outside  the  foreseeable  zone  of  danger,  the  argument  in  C  is  the
only one listed that could possibly support the driver's defense.

It  is  generally  understood  that  if  an  injury  to  the  plaintiff  was
foreseeable, all its complications are foreseeable too, no matter how
improbable those complications actually were. For this reason, A and
D  are  incorrect.  Joint  tortfeasors  are  two  or  more  persons  whose
torts  proximately  caused  the  same  injury.  In  most  jurisdictions,  they
are  jointly  and  severally  liable  for  the  full  extent  of  the  plaintiff's
injury.  The  argument  in  B  would  establish  that  the  hunter  was
negligent, but this would not provide the driver with a defense since
he and the hunter might be found to be joint tortfeasors.

7. A All persons are liable for the harm that proximately results from their
negligence. Thus, if the burglar's injury was proximately caused by the
brewery's negligence, the brewery is liable to her.

An express warranty is an assertion of fact that becomes part of the
basis of the bargain. B is incorrect because there is no indication that
an  express  warranty  was  made.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  clean
hands  doctrine,  which  is  relevant  in  equity  proceedings,  is  not
applicable  to  an  action  for  money  damages.  Since  it  is  foreseeable
that  the  burglar  could  obtain  the  beer  in  some  manner,  the  precise
manner  in  which  the  burglar  obtained  the  beer  is  immaterial.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

8. C  False  imprisonment  occurs  when  the  defendant  intentionally  confines
the plaintiff. The plaintiff is confined when his or her will to leave a
place with fixed boundaries is overcome in a way that would similarly
overcome the will of the reasonable person in the plaintiff's situation.
Since  the  fisherman  was  not  prevented  from  leaving,  he  was  not
confined (i.e., imprisoned).

In  a  false  imprisonment  case,  the  term  intent  means  a  desire  or
knowledge that the defendant's act will result in a confinement of the
plaintiff and does not depend on whether the defendant knew that the
plaintiff's  rights  were  being  violated.  Thus,  if  the  acts  of  the  movie
studio's employees had resulted in a confinement of the fisherman, the
fact that they did not know they were violating the fisherman's rights
would  not  provide  them  with  an  effective  defense.  A  is  therefore

1004

incorrect. B is incorrect because false imprisonment is an intentional
tort of which unreasonable conduct is not an essential element. D is
incorrect because damage is not an essential element of liability for
false imprisonment.

9.  C  Although  liability  ordinarily  results  from  the  publication  of  false
defamatory  statements  about  the  plaintiff,  the  courts  have  always
required  that  publication  be  either  intentional  or  the  result  of
negligence.  The  competitor's  statement  to  the  handyman  was  not  a
publication  since  the  handyman  is  the  plaintiff.  The  fact  that  it  was
overheard  by  the  customer  does  not  satisfy  the  requirement  of
publication unless either the competitor intended that the customer hear
it or the customer heard it as a result of the competitor's unreasonable
conduct in the face of the foreseeable risk that the customer would hear
it. If the competitor knew that the customer would hear it, he intended
the publication. If he should have known that the customer would hear
it, he acted unreasonably in saying it.

When the plaintiff is not a public figure, courts do not require proof
that  the  defendant  knew  the  statement  to  be  defamatory,  so  A  is
incorrect.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  in  some
defamation cases, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant knew or
should have known that the statement was false when he made it. B is
incorrect, however, because the requirement has not been applied to a
defamation  action  brought  by  a  private  person  against  a  non-media
defendant. D is incorrect because knowledge that harm will result is
not an essential element of any defamation case.

10.  C  Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a
defective  condition  when  sold  and  that  reaches  the  consumer  in  a
condition  that  is  substantially  unchanged.  Although  the  farmer  could
still be held liable, C would be her most effective argument.

A  is  incorrect  because  intervening  negligence,  unless  it  was
unforeseeable, is not sufficient to relieve the supplier of a defective
product from liability. Although privity or some substitute is relevant
to warranty liability, strict liability in tort may be applied to benefit
any  plaintiff  whose  contact  with  the  product  was  foreseeable.  B  is
therefore incorrect. Since strict liability is not based on fault, proof
that  the  defect  resulted  from  some  circumstance  beyond  the
defendant's  control  is  not  sufficient  to  free  that  defendant  from
liability. D is therefore incorrect.

1005

11. C Assault results when the defendant, with the intention of causing either
offensive  contact  or  apprehension  of  offensive  contact,  induces
apprehension of such contact in the plaintiff. Battery results when the
defendant,  with  the  intention  of  causing  either  offensive  contact  or
apprehension  of  offensive  contact,  causes  offensive  contact  with  the
plaintiff. The defendant, intending to cause apprehension of offensive
contact,  induced  such  apprehension,  making  him  liable  for  assault.
With intent to induce apprehension, he also caused offensive contact,
making  him  liable  for  battery.  Therefore,  A,  B,  and  D  are  all
incorrect.

12. D A negligent misrepresentation is a false assertion of fact that is made
without  knowledge  of  its  falsity  but  under  circumstances  such  that  a
reasonable  person  in  the  defendant's  situation  would  have  had  such
knowledge. Thus, if the seller's belief that there were no termites in
the  house  was  reasonable,  his  misrepresentation  was  not  negligent.
Although  there  are  not  enough  facts  to  determine  whether  a  court
would  come  to  this  conclusion,  D  is  the  only  argument  listed  that
could possibly support the seller's position.

A is incorrect because lack of such knowledge would be negligent if
the reasonable person would have known. Whether or not the seller
had  a  duty  to  disclose  the  presence  of  termites,  when  he  discussed
termites,  he  had  a  duty  to  do  so  honestly  and  reasonably.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  A  statement  is  of  opinion  if  it  concerns  a
subjective  matter  or  contains  an  expression  of  doubt.  Since  the
seller's  statement  was  neither,  it  was  not  of  opinion.  C  is  therefore
correct.

13.  D  Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a
defective  condition  when  sold.  Thus,  if  the  supermarket  sold  the
product  while  it  was  defective,  the  supermarket  would  be  held
strictly liable no matter who manufactured it.

Parties  who  work  together  to  accomplish  a  particular  result  are
involved  in  a  concert  of  action  that  may  make  any  one  of  them
vicariously  liable  for  torts  committed  by  the  others.  A  is  incorrect,
however,  because  the  facts  indicate  that  the  manufacturers  and
retailer  did  not  work  together  on  manufacturing  or  marketing  the
product.  It  has  been  held  that  where  there  are  a  small  number  of
manufacturers  in  a  particular  industry,  where  all  belong  to  an
industry-wide  association  that  establishes  industry  standards,  where

1006

those  standards  result  in  their  products'  being  defective,  and  where
all  members  of  the  industry  and  the  association  are  named  as
defendants, liability may be imposed on an industry-wide basis. B is
incorrect, however, because there is no indication that the number of
cereal manufacturers is small or that they belong to an industry-wide
association  that  sets  standards  or  that  their  standards  made  the
product  defective  or  that  all  members  of  the  industry  and  their
association  have  been  named  as  defendants.  Under  the  alternate
liability theory, where two or more defendants commit identical acts
of  negligence  under  circumstances  that  make  it  impossible  to  tell
which  one  injured  the  plaintiff,  it  will  be  presumed  that  all  of  them
factually  caused  the  plaintiff's  injury.  C  is  incorrect,  however,
because  there  is  no  indication  that  all  the  parties  named  committed
identical acts of negligence or that any of them was negligent at all.

14. D Assault occurs when, with the intent to induce such apprehension, the
defendant  induces  in  the  plaintiff  a  reasonable  apprehension  that  a
harmful  or  offensive  contact  with  the  plaintiff  will  occur.  Since  the
girl's mother did not fear contact with herself, she was not assaulted.

A and B are incorrect because the kidnapper's conduct did not induce
the girl's mother to apprehend contact with herself. If the kidnapper's
conduct  did  give  the  girl's  mother  reason  to  apprehend  contact  with
herself, it would not matter whether she had perceived contact with
the girl. C is therefore incorrect.

15. A Strict liability is imposed on the keeper of a wild animal, but only for
harm that proximately results from an aspect of the animal that made
keeping  it  dangerous.  Leopards  are  dangerous  because  they  bite  or
attack. The risk that they may clumsily knock someone over is not one
that makes them more dangerous than a dog or other domestic animal.

B is incorrect because an animal is “wild” if it comes from a species
that  cannot  ordinarily  be  safely  kept  without  special  training  or
restraint. Since this is true with leopards, the leopard's tameness does
not prevent it from being so classified. C and D are incorrect because
strict liability does not depend on the reasonableness of a defendant's
conduct.

16.  B  A  claim  for  damages  resulting  from  contact  with  a  product
manufactured  or  sold  by  the  defendant  may  be  based  on  several
theories, including negligence, misrepresentation, breach of warranty,

1007

and  strict  liability  in  tort.  In  most  jurisdictions,  however,  mental
suffering is not a recoverable item of damage in a claim based on any
of these theories unless the mental suffering is the result of a physical
injury  or  has  a  physical  manifestation.  Although  a  few  jurisdictions
permit recovery even in the absence of physical injuries, the argument
in B is the only one listed that could possibly support the defendant's
defense.

A is incorrect for two reasons: First, even without a representation,
the  defendant  could  be  held  liable  on  negligence,  implied  warranty,
or strict liability theories, and second, the statement that the suit was
“strong  enough  to  be  worn  several  times”  was  probably  a
representation. C  is  incorrect  because  none  of  the  theories  requires
that  the  plaintiff  be  in  privity  with  the  manufacturer.  Although  the
argument  in  D  might  provide  an  effective  defense  to  a  negligence
claim, D is incorrect because the other theories that are available do
not depend on unreasonable conduct by the defendant.

17. A Under the all-or-nothing rule of contributory negligence, unreasonable
conduct  by  the  plaintiff  that  contributes  to  the  happening  of  an
accident  is  a  complete  bar  to  recovery  by  the  plaintiff.  Thus,  if  the
boy's conduct was unreasonable, the driver's defense of contributory
negligence will succeed.

B,  C,  and  D  are  incorrect  because  the  negligence  of  a  parent  in
supervising a child is not imputed to the child. The reasonableness of
the mother's conduct is therefore not in issue.

18.  C  Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a
defective condition when sold. A product is defective if its condition
would defeat the reasonable expectations of the reasonable consumer.
Since  the  reasonable  consumer  probably  would  not  expect  a  brand
new training leash to break when used on a dog of average size and
strength, one that did was probably defective.

Strict  liability  may  be  applied  to  benefit  any  person  whose  contact
with  the  defective  product  was  foreseeable,  so  A  is  incorrect.  B  is
the
incorrect  because  strict 
reasonableness of the defendant's conduct. D is incorrect because the
risk that it describes as foreseeable is not the one that led to the harm
in this case since the device was brand new when it broke.

liability  does  not  depend  on 

19. A A person is liable for all harm that proximately results from his or her

1008

negligence.  Thus,  if  the  aunt  was  negligent  in  giving  the  doll  to  the
boy, she may be held liable for the injury that resulted. It is possible
that  a  court  would  come  to  this  conclusion  since  it  may  have  been
foreseeable  that  a  child  of  the  boy's  age  would  swallow  the  button
and be injured. Although the result is not certain, the argument in A is
the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  a  judgment  for  the
father.

In  every  sale  by  a  merchant,  there  is  an  implied  warranty  that  the
product sold is fit for ordinary use. If the product is unfit, breach of
warranty  liability  is  imposed  without  regard  to  fault.  Similarly,  if  a
product  is  defective  or  unreasonably  dangerous,  strict  tort  liability
may be imposed on the supplier. B, C, and D are incorrect, however,
because these theories are available only against a defendant who is
a professional supplier of products, which the aunt was not.

20. C  The  key  to  this  question  is  that  the  plaintiff  is  basing  his  claim  on
negligence, not strict products liability. Since negligence is a breach
of  the  duty  to  act  reasonably,  the  grocery  store  could  be  held  liable
under that theory only if it acted unreasonably. Since the tablets were
delivered in a sealed bottle, and since the reasonable merchant does
not ordinarily open sealed products before selling them, the grocery
store  probably  did  not  breach  the  duty  that  it  owed  to  the  plaintiff.
While the grocery store could be held liable if the trier of fact found
that  the  reasonable  merchant  would  ordinarily  open  sealed  products
before selling them, C is the best answer out of the choices given.

A is incorrect because a manufacturer's negligence is not imputed to a
retailer. B is based on an incorrect statement of the law. A retailer's
duty is to use reasonable care. The breach of this duty is negligence.
Although a retailer may be held liable without fault under a theory of
strict liability, this liability is based not on the breach of “an absolute
duty,”  but  on  a  policy  that  attempts  to  distribute  the  risks  of  being
injured  by  defective  products.  D  is  incorrect  because  negligence
liability  depends  on  the  foreseeability  of  the  risk,  not  upon  the
existence of any contractual relationship.

21.  C  A  defendant  owes  a  plaintiff  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  if  the
defendant's conduct creates a foreseeable risk to the plaintiff. Thus, if
it  was  foreseeable  that  a  person  would  be  in  the  roadway,  the  taxi
driver owed that person a duty to drive as a reasonable person. Once
it is established that such a duty existed, its breach by driving while

1009

intoxicated is obvious.

Since  the  pedestrian's  presence  in  the  roadway  was  part  of  the  set
stage (i.e., preexisted the defendant's tortious act), it does not matter
whether the circumstances that put her there were foreseeable. A and
B are therefore incorrect. Although a plaintiff must establish that his
or  her  injury  was  a  foreseeable  result  of  the  defendant's  negligent
conduct, he or she is never required to establish that the defendant's
negligence was foreseeable. D is therefore incorrect.

22. B Strict liability is often imposed on one who uses his or her land in a
non-natural manner for the storage of a substance that is likely to do
harm  upon  its  escape  from  storage.  The  storage  of  water  frequently
leads to the application of this principle.

Although  strict  liability  is  imposed  on  one  who  engages  in  an
abnormally  dangerous  activity,  it  is  imposed  only  for  damage  that
results  from  the  dangerous  nature  of  the  activity.  Although  the
operation of a nuclear power plant may be an abnormally dangerous
activity, A is incorrect because harm in this case did not result from
any  of  the  aspects  of  operating  a  nuclear  power  plant  that  make  it
abnormally  dangerous.  If  the  power  company  knew  or  should  have
known that an earthquake might occur in the area of the nuclear power
plant, it might have been unreasonable to operate it there. But absent
such actual or constructive knowledge, the power company's conduct
cannot be presumed to be unreasonable. C is therefore incorrect. The
intervention of an Act of God does not free an antecedent wrongdoer
from  liability  unless  that  intervention  was  unforeseeable.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

in  abnormally  dangerous  activities  such  as 

23.  D  Strict  liability  may  be  imposed  for  damage  resulting  from
the
participation 
manufacture and storage of explosives. Even under a theory of strict
liability,  however,  a  defendant  is  not  liable  for  harm  unless  it  was
proximately  caused  by  the  defendant's  activity.  Conduct  that  is  a
factual  cause  of  harm  is  a  proximate  cause  of  that  harm  if  the  harm
was a foreseeable result and was not brought about by unforeseeable
intervention. Thus, if the intervening conduct of the terrorists was not
foreseeable, 
the  homeowner  was  not
proximately  caused  by  the  conduct  of  the  company.  While  it  is  not
certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  D  is  the  only
argument listed that could possibly support the company's defense.

the  harm  sustained  by 

1010

A is incorrect because strict liability may be imposed regardless of
fault  and  regardless  of  whether  the  defendant's  conduct  was
reasonable. Most jurisdictions hold that there can be no liability for
trespass to land unless there was a physical invasion of the plaintiff's
realty.  B  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  company  may  be  held
liable  on  a  strict  liability  theory,  which  does  not  require  a  physical
invasion.  Even  though  a  defendant's  conduct  was  a  factual  cause  of
harm,  that  defendant  will  not  be  held  liable  if  there  was  an
unforeseeable intervening cause of the harm. C is incorrect, however,
because  the  intervening  cause  will  not  prevent  such  liability  unless
the intervention was unforeseeable.

24. C Nondisclosure of a fact is not an assertion (i.e., representation) unless
the fact is one that is essential to the transaction and the circumstances
are  such  that  the  other  party  is  reasonably  entitled  to  expect
disclosure of it. Since the buyer had no special expertise, his reason
for  purchasing  the  hay  wagon  was  not  a  fact  essential  to  the
transaction, and there were no circumstances that entitled the seller to
expect disclosure of his hope of making a profit.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  slight  differences  in  knowledge
concerning the subject of a particular transaction are not sufficient to
impose a duty of disclosure. D is incorrect because the seller's initial
satisfaction  would  not  prevent  her  from  recovering  if  it  had  been
induced by a misrepresentation by the buyer.

25. C  A  defendant's  conduct  is  not  a  proximate  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm
was  brought  about  by  an  independent  intervening  cause.  An
intervening cause is “independent” if it did not result from one of the
normal  risks  resulting  from  the  defendant's  conduct.  Since  the  first
pilot's plane was safely on the ground at an airport when struck by the
second  pilot's  plane,  it  can  be  argued  that  the  collision  was
independent  of  the  risks  created  by  the  first  pilot's  miscalculation.
While it is not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, the
argument in C is the only one listed that could possibly be effective in
the first pilot's defense.

A  plaintiff  may  be  barred  from  recovery  by  assumption  of  the  risk
when the harm results from a danger of which the plaintiff was aware
and  which  he  or  she  voluntarily  encountered.  Since  there  is  no
indication that the first pilot's miscalculation resulted from his lack of
a  commercial  pilot's  license,  the  harm  did  not  result  from  a  risk  of

1011

which the businessman knew. A is therefore incorrect. Under the all-
or-nothing  rule,  a  plaintiff's  negligence  may  prevent  recovery  if  it
was  causally  related  to  the  harm  which  he  or  she  sustained.  Since
there is no indication that the first pilot's miscalculation resulted from
his  lack  of  a  commercial  pilot's  license,  any  negligence  by  the
businessman in accepting a ride from him was not causally related to
the accident. B  is  therefore  incorrect.  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of
harm if the harm would not have occurred without it. The argument in
D states that the harm would not have occurred if the second pilot had
not  been  negligent.  This  is  obviously  true  and  establishes  that  the
second  pilot's  negligence  was  a  factual  cause  of  the  accident.  The
argument also states, however, that the first pilot's miscalculation was
therefore not a factual cause of the accident. Since the accident would
not have occurred if the first pilot's plane had not been on the ground,
and  since  the  first  pilot's  plane  would  not  have  been  on  the  ground
had  the  first  pilot  not  miscalculated,  the  first  pilot's  miscalculation
was also a factual cause of the accident. D is therefore incorrect.

26.  A  The  patient's  injury  would  not  have  occurred  without  the
manufacturer's  negligence,  so  the  manufacturer's  negligence  was  a
cause of it. Since the patient's injury would not have occurred without
the  doctor's  error,  and  since  the  doctor's  error  came  between  the
manufacturer's conduct and the patient's injury, the doctor's error was
an  intervening  cause  of  the  patient's  injury.  If  negligence  that  is  a
cause of harm is followed by an intervening cause of harm that was
not  foreseeable,  the  intervention  is  regarded  as  a  superseding  cause
that  relieves  the  antecedent  wrongdoer  of  liability.  Thus,  if  the
doctor's  error  was  unforeseeable,  the  manufacturer  would  not  be
liable to the patient.

If  the  doctor's  conduct  was  foreseeable,  it  would  constitute  a
concurring  cause  of  harm  and,  as  such,  would  not  shield  the
antecedent  wrongdoer  from  liability.  This  is  true  whether  that
intervention  was  reasonable  or  not,  and  whether  it  is  classified  as
gross negligence or not. B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

27.  B  Almost  all  theories  of  products  liability  require  that  the  plaintiff's
contact  with  the  product  be  foreseeable.  Since  hypodermic  needles
are  commonly  used  by  doctors  to  give  injections  to  patients,  the
patient's contact with the needle is foreseeable.

It  is  less  foreseeable,  if  it  is  foreseeable  at  all,  that  a  child  would

1012

play  with  a  hypodermic  needle,  so  A  is  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because none of the products liability theories permit the recovery of
losses that are unrelated to personal injury or property damage. D is
incorrect because there is no indication that the needle was infected
when sold by the manufacturer or that the infection resulted from the
manufacturer's negligent conduct.

28. B Trespass to land is defined as intentional entry on the plaintiff's realty
without authorization. Since realty includes the airspace immediately
above the land, the crop duster entered the gardener's realty when she
flew through the air 15 feet above his land. Although she believed that
she  had  authority  to  do  so,  she  did  not  have  such  authority.  Her
overflight  was,  thus,  a  trespass  if  her  entry  onto  the  realty  was
intentional.  A  defendant  has  the  necessary  intent  to  be  liable  for
trespass to land if he or she desires or knows that his or her act will
result  in  an  entry  onto  the  realty  that  he  or  she  entered.  This  is  so
regardless  of  whether  he  or  she  knows  whose  realty  he  or  she  is
entering,  or  that  the  entry  is  unauthorized.  Since  the  crop  duster  did
desire to fly over parcel 621, she had the necessary intent and will be
liable for trespass to the land of the gardener.

Without  intent,  there  is  no  trespass  liability.  A  is  incorrect  because
participation in an abnormally dangerous activity does not satisfy the
requirement of intent. C is incorrect because intent means a desire to
enter the land or airspace above it (without regard to knowledge of
the plaintiff's right). D is incorrect because damage to the realty is not
an essential element of trespass to land.

29. D  The  tort  known  as  invasion  of  privacy  can  be  committed  in  various
ways. One, called “intrusion,” is committed by intentionally invading
the  plaintiff's  right  to  solitude  in  a  manner  that  would  offend  the
reasonable person. An invasion of the plaintiff's solitude occurs when
the defendant causes a physical entry into the plaintiff's private space.
Since  the  reporter  deliberately  entered  the  senator's  private  office,
opened  the  senator's  private  file,  and  copied  the  senator's  private
documents,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  reporter  intentionally  invaded
the senator's solitude. Although it can never be certain that a court or
jury will decide that the reasonable person would have been offended
by  any  particular  conduct,  D  is  the  only  answer  listed  that  could
possibly be correct.

A and B  are  incorrect  because  freedom  of  the  press  under  the  First

1013

Amendment  does  not  privilege  invasions  of  privacy  for  the  purpose
of obtaining documents, even if they are newsworthy. C is incorrect
for two reasons: First, the documents were not made public until after
the  reporter  invaded  the  senator's  privacy  by  obtaining  them,  and
second,  the  privilege  to  publish  facts  that  are  matters  of  public
records  does  not  include  a  privilege  to  invade  privacy  for  the
purpose of obtaining them.

30.  D  The  facts  specify  that  the  plaintiff's  claim  is  for  negligence.
Negligence is unreasonable conduct. It may be unreasonable to sell a
device as dangerous as an air rifle to an 11-year-old because the risk
that he or she will use it to shoot another child is foreseeable. In any
event, D is the only finding listed that could result in a judgment for
the plaintiff.

A is incorrect because negligence of a manufacturer is not imputed to
a retailer. B and C  are  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  there  is  no
indication  that  the  air  rifle  was  defective,  and  second,  negligence
liability requires unreasonable conduct, and there is no indication that
the  defendant  acted  unreasonably.  Thus,  even  if  the  air  rifle  was
defective, there would be no reason to impose negligence liability on
the defendant.

31. D Since the car dealer knew that the mechanic's repairs were frequently
not  successful  until  the  third  or  fourth  attempt,  it  was  probably
unreasonable  for  the  car  dealer  to  trust  him  with  the  repair  of  a
condition that the car dealer knew made the car unsafe to drive. While
it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  the
argument  in  D  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  a
judgment for the plaintiff.

the  doctrine  of  respondeat  superior,  an  employer 

is
Under 
vicariously  liable  for  torts  of  an  employee  committed  within  the
scope  of  employment.  In  determining  whether  one  who  renders
services to the defendant is an employee, courts generally hold that if
the  employer  has  a  right  to  control  the  details  of  performance,  the
worker is an employee, while if the employer does not have a right to
control  the  details  of  performance,  the  worker  is  an  independent
contractor.  Since  the  car  dealer  did  not  control  the  details  of  the
the  mechanic  probably  was  not  an
mechanic's  performance, 
employee.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Statutory  duties  are  sometimes
held to be “non-delegable,” but B  is  incorrect  because  no  statute  is

1014

given. Since employers of independent contractors are not ordinarily
held  vicariously  liable  for  the  torts  of  those  contractors,  C  is
incorrect.

32. D Like other suppliers of products, a retailer owes its customers a duty
to act reasonably. This includes a duty to make whatever inspection is
reasonable.  Sometimes  the  circumstances  make  it  reasonable  for  a
retailer to make no inspection at all, but in such a case, no inspection
constitutes a reasonable inspection.

A,  B,  and  C  are  incorrect  because  under  some  circumstances  the
conduct  specified  would  not  be  reasonable.  (Note:  Beware  of
statements  that  are  overly  broad  or  general.  For  example,  some
writers and judges have stated that “a retailer owes the customer no
duty  to  inspect  products  furnished  by  reputable  manufacturers.”  Do
you think that this statement would be true if the retailer knew that a
shipment  of  glassware  furnished  by  a  reputable  manufacturer  was
dropped by the delivery company, or that many customers had found
dead  rats  in  the  jars  of  peanut  butter  that  were  furnished  by  a
reputable  manufacturer?  It  is  safer  to  recognize  that  a  retailer,  like
any  other  supplier  of  products,  owes  customers  a  duty  to  act
reasonably,  and  that  under  some  circumstances,  failure  to  inspect
merchandise  furnished  by  reputable  manufacturers  is  reasonable,
while under other circumstances, it is not.)

33.  B  There  can  be  no  liability  for  defamation  unless  the  defendant
intentionally or negligently communicated the defamatory statement to
a person other than the plaintiff. Communication of the accusation to
the  employee's  mother  would  satisfy  this  requirement  only  if  the
employer  knew  or  should  have  known  that  she  would  see  the  letter
that contained them.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  statements
actually were communicated to the employee's mother, who read the
letter.  Courts  have  sometimes  held  that  an  employer  who  defames  a
former employee in a communication with a prospective employer of
that  former  employee  is  privileged  if  he  or  she  believes  reasonably
and  in  good  faith  that  his  or  her  statements  are  true.  This  reasoning
does  not  apply  to  the  facts  given,  however,  because  the  employer's
statements  were  not  being  made  to  a  prospective  employer  of  the
employee. D is therefore incorrect.

1015

34. A Strict liability is imposed on the professional seller of a product that
is in defective condition when sold. Neither the pilot's partner nor the
mechanic sold the helicopter, so B, C, and D are incorrect.

35. B A trespassing child is entitled to reasonable care if it was foreseeable
that a child would trespass and be injured, and if the child's age made
it  likely  that  he  or  she  would  fail  to  recognize  the  danger.  Thus,
although  the  boy  was  a  trespasser,  the  fact  that  the  gravel  pit  owner
could  foresee  his  presence  and  foresee  that  he  would  be  injured  by
the  proximity  of  the  hill  to  the  road  imposed  upon  the  gravel  pit
owner the duty to act reasonably and to keep the premises reasonably
safe.  If  the  gravel  pit  owner's  failure  to  erect  a  fence  was
unreasonable,  the  gravel  pit  owner  was  negligent  and  probably  is
liable to the boy.

The phrase “danger invites rescue” is usually used to explain why a
person  who  created  a  danger  to  another  owed  a  duty  of  reasonable
care  to  a  rescuer  who  came  to  the  aid  of  that  other.  A  is  incorrect
because it has no application to these facts. “Last clear chance” is a
doctrine  that  accomplishes  only  one  thing:  Under  the  proper
circumstances,  it  negates  the  effect  of  a  plaintiff's  contributory
negligence.  Only  the  plaintiff  raises  it,  and  only  for  the  purpose  of
negating  the  effect  of  his  or  her  own  negligence.  C  is  incorrect
because it would put the argument at the disposal of a defendant. An
intervening  cause  does  not  free  an  antecedent  wrongdoer  from
liability unless its occurrence was unforeseeable. Thus, the mere fact
that the car driver's conduct was an intervening cause would not lead
to a judgment for the gravel pit owner. D is therefore incorrect.

36. B A misrepresentation is a false assertion of material fact made for the
purpose  of  inducing  the  plaintiff's  reliance.  If  the  defendant  knows
that  the  assertion  is  false,  and  damages  result  from  the  plaintiff's
justified  reliance  on  it,  the  defendant  may  be  held  liable.  It  may  be
argued  successfully  that  by  concealing  the  crack,  the  seller  falsely
asserted  that  it  did  not  exist.  No  liability  will  result  from  that
assertion, however, unless the buyer relied on it. A plaintiff relies on
a  misrepresentation  when  it  is  a  significant  factor  in  the  plaintiff's
decision.  Since  the  buyer  discovered  the  crack,  the  assertion  that  it
did not exist could not have been a factor in his decision to buy the
car. For that reason, he did not rely on it and is not entitled to recover
damages.

1016

A  is  incorrect  because  a  court  would  probably  hold  that  the
affirmative act of concealing the crack was an assertion that it did not
exist.  Since  the  buyer  did  not  rely  on  the  seller's  representation,  it
does not matter whether such reliance would have been justified. C is
therefore  incorrect.  Since  the  facts  indicate  that  the  buyer  was
required  to  spend  $500  on  repairs,  D  is  an  inaccurate  statement  of
fact and is therefore incorrect.

37. B Under the all-or-nothing rule of contributory negligence, a plaintiff is
completely  barred  from  recovering  damages  if  his  or  her  own
unreasonable conduct contributed to the occurrence. Since the second
driver  saw  the  first  driver  in  the  intersection,  it  was  probably
unreasonable, and therefore contributorily negligent, for him to enter
the intersection when he did.

The doctrine of last clear chance does no more than negate the effect
of  a  plaintiff's  contributory  negligence.  If  a  defendant  had  “the  last
clear  chance”  to  avoid  injuring  the  plaintiff,  the  defendant  might  be
held  liable  in  spite  of  the  plaintiff's  negligence.  The  plaintiff  never
loses  a  case,  however,  simply  because  that  plaintiff  had  “the  last
clear chance” to avoid being injured. A is therefore incorrect. C and
D  are  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the  presumption  that  results
from  a  defendant's  violation  of  a  statute  (sometimes  called
negligence  per  se)  may  ordinarily  be  rebutted  by  proof  that  the
violation resulted from circumstances beyond the defendant's control,
and  second,  even  if  the  first  driver  could  not  rebut  the  presumption
that he was negligent, the second driver's contributory negligence is
still available to him as a defense.

38.  A  Although  the  phrase  “AS  IS”  disclaims  implied  warranties  of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, it does not free a
seller  from  the  duty  of  acting  reasonably.  Since  it  probably  was
foreseeable that the purchaser of a refrigerator would plug it in even
after being advised that it did not work, the store owner had a duty to
take reasonable precautions against the harm that might result. If her
failure to warn the customer was unreasonable, it was negligence that
was a proximate cause of harm and would result in liability.

B is incorrect because the phrase “AS IS” is an effective disclaimer
of the implied warranty of merchantability (i.e.,  fitness  for  ordinary
use). C  is  incorrect  because  the  store  owner  is  still  liable  under  a
negligence theory. D is based on a misinterpretation of the doctrine of

1017

last clear chance, which accomplishes nothing more than undoing the
effect of a plaintiff's contributory negligence. (If a defendant had “the
last clear chance” to avoid injuring the plaintiff, the defendant might
be  liable  in  spite  of  the  plaintiff's  negligence.  The  plaintiff  never
loses  a  case,  however,  simply  because  that  plaintiff  had  “the  last
clear chance” to avoid being injured.)

39. B Self-defense is a privilege to use reasonable force to defend oneself
against a threatened contact. Reasonable force is that force that would
appear necessary to the reasonable person. Courts generally hold that
it  is  reasonable  to  use  deadly  force  in  defense  against  what
reasonably appears to be a threat of deadly force.

A is incorrect because it is never reasonable to use deadly force for
the  sole  purpose  of  preventing  a  trespass  to  land  or  chattel.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  defendant's  initial  use  of  gentle  force  was
privileged in defense of property, making the plaintiff's response to it
a  threatened  battery.  The  plaintiff's  trespass  did  not  end  when  he
completed  his  entry  but  continued  so  long  as  he  refused  to  leave  in
response to the defendant's demand. D is therefore incorrect.

40.  A  One  who  keeps  a  wild  animal  is  strictly  liable  for  harm  that
proximately results from keeping it. An animal is “wild” if it comes
from  a  species  that  cannot  ordinarily  be  kept  safely  without  special
training or restraint. For this purpose, the wildcat was a wild animal
even though it had been tamed.

The  terms  foreseeable  and  unforeseeable  are  mutually  exclusive.
Thus if the cat's behavior was unforeseeable, it could not have been
foreseeable.  B  is  incorrect  for  this  reason,  and  because  the
foreseeability of harm is not in itself sufficient to result in liability. C
is  incorrect  for  several  reasons:  First,  res  ipsa  does  not  apply  in
strict  liability  cases;  second,  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  the
injury  would  not  ordinarily  have  occurred  without  negligence;  and
third, res ipsa  does  not  apply  when  there  is  direct  evidence  of  the
defendant's  conduct.  D  is  incorrect  because  private  nuisance  is  an
interference with the plaintiff's right to use and enjoy realty, and there
was no interference with the plaintiff's right to use or enjoy realty.

41.  D  If  a  product  fails  to  live  up  to  an  express  assertion  of  fact  that  a
supplier made about it, the supplier may be liable without regard to
fault on theories of breach of express warranty and misrepresentation.

1018

For  this  purpose,  an  assertion  of  fact  may  be  made  by  the  use  of
models  or  pictures.  The  photo  on  the  box  probably  was  an  express
assertion that the helmet was suitable for use as a motorcycle helmet.
Since  it  was  not  suitable  for  such  use,  the  company  is  liable  for
breach of express warranty and misrepresentation. In addition, strict
products  liability  may  be  imposed  for  damage  that  results  from  a
defect  in  a  product  supplied  by  a  defendant.  For  this  purpose,  a
product  is  defective  if  its  condition  would  defeat  the  reasonable
expectations of the reasonable consumer. Since the photo on the box
showed the helmet being used as a motorcycle helmet, the reasonable
person probably would have expected it to be suitable for such use.
Since it was not, the company is strictly liable for damage.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  misrepresentation  and  strict  products
liability  theories  discussed  above  do  not  require  privity  between
defendant  and  plaintiff,  and  because  under  the  express  warranty
theory,  it  has  been  held  that  the  necessary  privity  exists  between
anyone who made the express assertion and anyone who relied on it.
B is incorrect because even if the product was not intended for use as
a motorcycle helmet, the photo on the box probably was an assertion
that  it  was  suitable  for  such  use.  C  is  incorrect  for  three  reasons:
First, the jurisdiction's “pure comparative negligence” system would
diminish the plaintiff's recovery in proportion to his own fault, but it
would not completely bar that recovery; second, since the purpose of
a  motorcycle  helmet  is  to  protect  the  user  in  an  accident,  the
defendant's  assertion  and  the  reasonable  person's  expectation  might
have been that the helmet would be effective even if the accident was
the  wearer's  own  fault;  and  third,  most  jurisdictions  hold  that
comparative negligence is not a defense to actions that are not based
on fault (i.e., breach of warranty, misrepresentation, or strict products
liability).

42. A The statute given is typical of the “owner-consent” statute that exists
in a number of jurisdictions. It requires the owner to pay for the tort
committed  by  the  driver.  Whenever  the  law  imposes  vicarious
liability on one for damage that another has caused, the one who pays
is entitled to complete indemnity from the one who should have paid.

B  would  be  correct  if  the  accident  resulted  from  some  fault  by  the
owner in addition to that of the mechanic, but it is incorrect because
there  is  no  indication  that  the  owner  acted  unreasonably.  C  is

1019

incorrect  because  there  is  no  factual  basis  for  determining  that  the
owner  is  himself  responsible  for  any  portion  of  the  loss.  D  is
incorrect because of the owner's right of indemnity.

43. A  Commercial  suppliers,  such  as  the  wholesaler,  are  strictly  liable  if
they sell a defective product that injures a foreseeable plaintiff, such
as  a  purchaser.  Here,  the  seeds  were  defective  since  they  were
poisonous, and the breeder was a foreseeable plaintiff.

Since  the  dealer  sold  the  seeds  in  the  same  package  in  which  they
came, the dealer's failure to inspect them was foreseeable whether or
not  it  was  reasonable.  B  is  incorrect  because  a  foreseeable
intervention,  even  if  unreasonable,  does  not  free  an  antecedent
wrongdoer  from  liability.  Although  liability  for  breach  of  warranty
may  require  privity,  the  theories  of  negligence  and  strict  liability  in
tort  do  not.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  strict
liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a  defective
condition when sold, without regard to the possibility that some other
seller of the same product might be liable. Thus, a manufacturer and
retailer of a defective product may be jointly and severally liable as
joint tortfeasors.

44. A  Since  the  coming  of  a  rescuer  is  generally  viewed  as  a  foreseeable
result  of  peril,  negligence  that  causes  peril  is  often  held  to  be  a
breach of a duty owed to a rescuer. Thus, if the swimmer's negligence
caused the need for the rescuer to rescue him, it was a breach of duty
owed to the rescuer.

B is incorrect because if the swimmer had not acted negligently, there
would be no basis for holding him liable to the rescuer. The phrase
“danger  invites  rescue”  is  often  used  to  explain  why  one  who
imperils another owes a duty of reasonable care to a rescuer attracted
by  that  peril.  If  that  principle  had  any  application  to  these  facts,  it
would  be  to  establish  liability,  not  to  free  the  swimmer  from  such
liability.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  An  intervening  cause  does  not
prevent  an  antecedent  wrongdoer  from  being  liable  unless  the
intervention was unforeseeable. D is therefore incorrect.

45. B  There  is  some  question  about  whether  it  is  defamatory  to  say  that  a
person is impoverished or on the verge of bankruptcy. But even if the
defendant's  statement  was  defamatory,  it  was  oral  and,  therefore,
classified  as  slander.  Ordinarily,  there  is  no  liability  for  slander

1020

unless the plaintiff establishes actual damage to his or her reputation.
Since the company did not believe what the defendant told him, there
was no damage to the plaintiff's reputation, and the defendant will not
be held liable for saying it.

A is incorrect because mental suffering is not an essential element of
defamation.  Since  liability  for  defamation  is  imposed  on  the
publisher  of  a  defamatory  statement,  the  fact  that  the  defendant  was
only repeating what he heard would not in itself protect him against
liability.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  Since  publication  is  defined  as
communication to any person other than the plaintiff, D is incorrect.

46. C Since negligence is defined as a failure to act reasonably in the face
of a foreseeable risk, the defendant cannot be called negligent if the
reasonable  person  in  the  defendants'  situation  would  not  have  acted
any differently than the defendant did.

Assumption of the risk requires that the plaintiff have knowledge of
the  risk  that  he  or  she  is  voluntarily  encountering.  Since  there  is  no
indication  that  the  plaintiff  knew  of  the  risks  associated  with
exposure  to  the  material,  A  is  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  the
defendant's  lack  of  knowledge  would  not  prevent  liability  if  the
reasonable  person  in  the  defendant's  situation  would  have  known.
Workers'  compensation  may  be  the  exclusive  remedy  against  an
injured party's employer, but since the plaintiff did not work for the
defendant, D is incorrect.

47. B A claim for private nuisance can be asserted only by a plaintiff who
claims that the defendant's conduct interfered with his or her use and
enjoyment  of  realty  in  which  he  or  she  has  a  present  or  future
possessory interest. Since the gardener held a leasehold interest and
the  landlord  a  reversion,  they  can  successfully  assert  a  private
nuisance claim.

A is incorrect because as a tenant, the gardener had sufficient interest
in the realty. C and D are incorrect because, since the employee was
only  an  employee  of  the  gardener,  he  lacked  the  property  interest
necessary to the assertion of the claim.

48.  A  Trespass  to  chattel  is  intentional  interference  with  the  plaintiff's
chattel  resulting  in  damage.  For  this  purpose,  intent  consists  of  a
desire or knowledge that the chattel will be involved, without regard
to whether the defendant knows that the chattel is the plaintiff's or that

1021

the plaintiff's rights are being violated. Interference can consist of any
act regarding the chattel that only its rightful possessor is entitled to
perform. Since the defendant desired to take that particular coat, she
had the necessary intent, regardless of her belief that the coat was her
own.  Since  only  the  plaintiff  was  entitled  to  take  the  coat,  the
defendant  interfered  with  it.  Since  the  coat  was  destroyed  while  the
defendant  possessed  it,  her  interference  resulted  in  damage  to  the
plaintiff. The defendant is therefore liable to the plaintiff for trespass
to chattel.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  tort  was  committed  when  the  defendant
took the coat and the tort led to the coat's destruction. In trespass to
chattel, intent does not require knowledge that the chattel belongs to
another, or that the defendant's act will affect the rights of another. C
is  therefore  incorrect.  Trespass  to  chattel  was  committed  when  the
defendant  took  the  coat.  If  she  had  succeeded  in  returning  the  coat,
damages might have been mitigated (i.e., reduced), but the tort would
not  have  been  undone.  D  is  incorrect  because  her  unsuccessful
attempt to return the coat could not even mitigate damages.

49. C Liability is imposed on a defendant for damage that was proximately
caused  by  the  defendant's  negligence.  Since  it  is  given  that  the
hospital was negligent in keeping the trucker waiting six hours, it is
necessary  to  determine  whether  that  negligence  was  a  proximate
cause of his injury in the earthquake. Conduct is a proximate cause of
harm  if  it  was  a  factual  and  legal  cause  of  that  harm.  Conduct  is  a
factual cause of harm if the harm would not have occurred without it.
Since the trucker would not have been struck by the debris that fell in
the earthquake if he had not been present, the delay occasioned by the
hospital's negligence was a factual cause of his injury. If conduct is a
factual cause of harm, it is a legal cause if the harm was foreseeable.
Thus,  if  it  was  foreseeable  that  the  trucker  would  be  injured  by  an
earthquake, the hospital's negligence was a legal cause of that injury
and the hospital is liable for it. Otherwise, the hospital is not liable.
Here,  the  fact  that  an  earthquake  had  never  occurred  before  likely
made the earthquake unforeseeable.

“Good  Samaritan”  statutes,  where  they  exist,  only  protect  doctors
who  voluntarily  render  emergency  aid  at  the  scenes  of  accidents.  A
is,  therefore,  incorrect.  Although  the  liability  of  an  antecedent
wrongdoer  might  depend  on  whether  subsequent  intervention  was

1022

foreseeable,  since  the  doctor's  conduct  preceded  the  hospital's,  the
hospital's  liability  does  not  depend  on  whether  the  doctor's  conduct
was  foreseeable.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  too  absolute  a
statement to be correct. Even if a hospital owes its patients some duty
with respect to natural disasters, that duty is only to act reasonably in
the face of them.

50. D If the seller of a product knows the buyer's purpose in buying it, and
he knows also that the buyer is relying on the seller's skill in selecting
a product to suit that purpose, the sale is accompanied by an implied
warranty  that  the  product  is  fit  for  the  buyer's  particular  purpose
(UCC  §2-315),  even  where  that  purpose  is  identical  to  the  ordinary
use of such a product. Similarly, even where the implied warranty of
fitness  for  the  buyer's  particular  purpose  is  present,  the  implied
warranty  of  merchantability  accompanies  every  sale  by  a  merchant
(UCC §2-314) unless it is effectively disclaimed.

51. D The defendant is not liable for harm unless its conduct was a factual
and legal cause of it. Its conduct was a factual cause of harm only if
the  harm  would  not  have  occurred  without  it.  If  the  force  of  the
collision would have caused a good pole to fall, then the fact that the
pole was rotten is not a factual cause of its falling.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  they  do  not  establish  that  the
defendant's conduct was a factual cause of harm, and liability cannot
be  imposed  unless  it  was.  If  the  defendant's  conduct  was  a  factual
cause of harm, the driver's intervention might be a superseding cause
that protects the defendant from liability, but only if the intervention
was  unforeseeable.  This  does  not  necessarily  depend  on  whether  it
was criminal or grossly negligent. C is therefore incorrect.

52.  A  The  statute  given  is  typical  of  the  “pure  comparative  negligence”
approach. Since the car driver's loss amounted to $10,000, and since
it  was  40  percent  his  own  fault,  40  percent  of  $10,000  (or  $4,000)
must be deducted from his recovery. The balance that he is entitled to
collect is $6,000. Therefore, B, C, and D are incorrect.

53.  A  Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a
defective condition when sold. Since the bolt was cracked when the
sled left the sled factory, the sled company would be held liable if the
crack constituted a defect.

B and C are incorrect because the use or sale by the boy would not

1023

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

prevent  the  imposition  of  strict  liability  if  the  sled  was  defective
when  it  left  the  sled  factory,  so  long  as  such  use  or  sale  did  not
substantially  change  its  condition.  D  is  incorrect  because  strict
liability  in  tort  does  not  depend  on  unreasonable  conduct  by  the
defendant.

54. A Negligence is the failure to act as a reasonable person would act in
the  face  of  risks  that  are  foreseeable  or  known  to  exist.  Since  a
reasonable person would not ordinarily subject others to unnecessary
risks, it would probably have been unreasonable (i.e., negligent) for
the attorney to subject the client to the danger of a defective elevator
if  the  attorney  knew  or  should  have  known  of  the  danger.  Here,
leading the client to the elevator minutes after it plunged downward
was likely unreasonable.

However,  if  the  attorney  did  not  act  unreasonably,  he  would  not  be
negligent even though he occupied the entire second floor. Thus, B is
incorrect.  Ordinarily,  obligations  in  a  lease  flow  only  between
parties  to  that  lease.  Some  jurisdictions  hold  that  a  landlord's  lease
obligation  to  keep  premises  in  good  repair  may  impose  on  the
landlord  a  duty  to  invitees  of  tenants.  C  is  incorrect,  however,
because the attorney continues to be liable for the proximate results
of his own negligence even though the landlord might also be liable.
While  a  tenant  might  not  have  an  obligation  to  repair  the  leased
premises, D is incorrect because the attorney might be liable for his
negligence in allowing the client to use the elevator.

55. C One who enters the realty of another to retrieve a chattel that got there
through no fault of his or her own has a qualified privilege to do so,
but he or she must compensate the landholder for any actual damage
that results.

A  and  D  are  therefore  incorrect.  Unless  damage  to  the  realty  of
another  results  from  participation  in  an  abnormally  dangerous
activity, liability for it is imposed only if the entry resulted from fault
(i.e., was intentional or negligent). Since transporting gravel is not an
abnormally  dangerous  activity,  and  since  the  gravel  was  spilled
without any fault on the part of the trucker, the trucker is not liable for
damage resulting from spilling the gravel. B is therefore incorrect.

56. D One who voluntarily encounters a known risk assumes that risk and is

not entitled to damages resulting from it.

1024

A, B, and C are all incorrect since assumption of risk is available as
a defense in claims based on negligence or strict liability. In addition,
B is incorrect because horses are not regarded as wild animals, and
C is incorrect because the fact that the trainer had been warned of the
animal's  propensity  indicates  that  the  horseman's  conduct  was
reasonable.

57.  A  The  phrase  “AS  IS”  disclaims 

the 

implied  warranty  of
merchantability.  In  addition,  it  may  be  argued  that  it  modifies  any
express  warranties  or  representations  that  resulted  from  the  car
dealer's  assurance  that  he  believed  the  car  to  be  in  good  condition,
and that it would have placed the reasonable consumer on notice that
the  car  might  not  be  in  good  condition.  In  any  event,  A  contains  the
only combination of conclusion and reason that are reasonably related
to each other.

B is incorrect because all jurisdictions permit an action for breach of
the implied warranty of merchantability to be brought by any member
of  the  purchaser's  household.  C  and  D  are  incorrect  because  the
phrase “AS IS” disclaimed the implied warranty that the car was fit
for ordinary use.

58. A In an action for conversion, the defendant is liable for the full value of
the  chattel  at  the  time  of  conversion.  Consequently,  the  plaintiff  can
recover  the  value  of  the  car  at  the  time  she  delivered  it  to  the
defendant. B, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

59.  D  Negligence  is  unreasonable  conduct.  If  the  company  did  not  act
unreasonably, it could not have been negligent. Although a court might
not come to this conclusion, the argument in D is the only one listed
that could possibly support the company's defense.

A  is  incorrect  because  contributory  negligence  is  unreasonable
conduct  by  a  plaintiff.  In  this  case,  the  plaintiff  is  the  girl,  not  the
cleaner. B and C are incorrect because an intervening cause of harm
does not cut off a wrongdoer's liability unless that intervening cause
was unforeseeable.

60. B A landholder is entitled to use reasonable force to prevent a trespass.
Serious or deadly force is not regarded as reasonable, however, since
human life is much more valuable than mere property. The use of such
force is therefore a battery.

1025

Negligence  is  the  breach  of  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  owed  by  the
defendant  to  the  plaintiff.  Ordinarily,  a  defendant  owes  a  plaintiff  a
duty  of  reasonable  care  if  the  defendant's  conduct  creates  a
foreseeable risk to the plaintiff. Thus, if the risk to persons entering
on legitimate business was foreseeable, the warehouse owner owed a
duty of reasonable care to such persons. This does not mean that he
owed  such  a  duty  to  everyone,  however,  or  that  he  owed  it  to  the
burglar. A is incorrect for this reason and because of a rule applied
by  most  jurisdictions  that  a  landholder  owes  no  duty  of  reasonable
care to trespassers. C  is  incorrect  because  no  rule  of  law  prohibits
the  use  of  mechanical  devices  unless  they  inflict  excessive  force.
Although courts have made statements like that in D, it is irrelevant
here  since  the  device  did  not  injure  an  innocent  bystander.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

61. A  An  intentional  exercise  of  dominion  and  control  over  a  chattel  by  a
defendant  is  a  conversion  if  the  plaintiff  was  lawfully  entitled  to
possession of the chattel, and if he or she was thereby damaged. In a
conversion  case,  “intent”  means  a  desire  (or  knowledge  with
certainty)  that  the  defendant's  act  will  affect  the  particular  chattel
involved.  In  this  case,  the  neighbor's  desire  to  make  the  television
hers and to carry it off satisfies the intent requirement, even though it
was reasonable for her to believe that the sale was legitimate.

B and C are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect since the plaintiff need
not be in possession of the chattel at the time of conversion, so long
as he or she had a right to possess it.

62. B  A  guest  rides  free.  If  something  of  value  —  like  rides  on  alternate
days  —  is  given  in  return  for  passage,  courts  will  conclude  that  the
passenger  was  not  a  guest  for  purposes  of  the  automobile  guest
statute.

In  a  negligence  claim,  the  existence  of  insurance  coverage  is  not
relevant  in  determining  liability.  A  is  incorrect  for  this  reason  and
because  the  “guest”  statute  was  originally  created  to  protect
insurance  companies  against  collusive  claims.  Recklessness  or
aggravated negligence is usually held to be actionable in the face of a
statute that prohibits actions for negligence. C is incorrect, however,
because  the  facts  do  not  indicate  the  conscious  disregard  of  an
obvious  and  serious  risk  that  aggravated  negligence  requires.  D  is
probably  an  accurate  statement.  It  is  incorrect,  however,  because  it

1026

does not justify non-enforcement of the statute.

63. B A defendant manufacturer can be relieved of strict products liability if
an  intermediate  handler  of  the  product  substantially  changes  the
product before sending it on through the stream of commerce.

Strict  liability  may  be  imposed  regardless  of  whether  the  defendant
was negligent. Since the basis of the volunteer firefighter's action is a
claim that the product was defective (i.e., strict liability in tort), the
fact  that  the  company  acted  reasonably  would  not  furnish  it  with  an
effective  defense.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  plaintiff  assumes  the
risk when he or she knows of it and voluntarily encounters it. Since
the  volunteer  firefighter  had  never  heard  of  the  device  before,  he
could  not  have  known  of  the  risk  or  assumed  it.  C  is  therefore
incorrect. An intervening cause of harm is one that came between the
defendant's  conduct  and  the  plaintiff.  It  is  “independent”  if  it  is  not
related to the risk created by the defendant. D is incorrect because a
plaintiff's  own  conduct  is  not  usually  regarded  as  an  intervening
cause of harm.

64. B Since it is given that the injury to the baker's nose resulted from the

eye doctor's negligence, the eye doctor is liable for it.

It  is,  of  course,  possible  for  harm  to  have  more  than  one  proximate
cause. Thus, even if the neighbor's conduct was a proximate cause of
the injury, the eye doctor's conduct may also be a cause of it, making
the eye doctor liable as a joint tortfeasor. (In most jurisdictions, joint
tortfeasors are jointly and severally liable.) A is therefore incorrect.
Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm  would  not  have
occurred  without  it.  Since  the  injuries  to  the  baker's  elbow  and
shoulder would have occurred even without the negligence of the eye
doctor, his conduct was not a factual cause of those injuries, and the
eye doctor could not be held liable for them. C and D are therefore
incorrect.

65.  A  One  who  holds  himself  or  herself  out  to  be  an  attorney,  even  if
unlicensed,  is  required  to  act  like  a  reasonable  attorney.  If  the
attorney did not, he will be held liable for damages that proximately
resulted.

Negligence does not lead to liability unless it is a cause of damage.
Thus,  although  violation  of  a  statute  sometimes  results  in  a
presumption of negligence, it does not result in liability unless it was

1027

a cause of the plaintiff's damage. Negligence is not a cause of damage
that  would  have  occurred  without  it.  Since  licensed  attorneys
sometimes  lose  cases,  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  attorney  would  not
have lost the case if he had had a license. B and C are incorrect for
this  reason  and  because  courts  usually  hold  that  violation  of  a
licensing statute does not result in a presumption of negligence. D is
incorrect because even though an attorney does not guarantee results,
he or she is liable for damages that result from his or her negligence.

66. C Consent means willingness, and the affirmative defense of consent is
effective  because  of  the  rule  that  a  plaintiff  who  is  willing  for  a
particular thing to happen to him or her has no right to complain when
it does. For this reason, a defendant does not commit a tort when he
or  she  does  something  to  which  the  plaintiff  has  consented.  If  the
defendant  induces  his  or  her  consent  by  fraud,  however,  the  consent
does  not  have  this  effect  and  does  not  privilege  the  defendant's
conduct.  A  defendant  induces  consent  by  fraud  when  he  or  she
knowingly misrepresents the nature of the act to which the plaintiff is
consenting. Thus, if the hypnotist told the plaintiff that the cattle prod
would produce no real discomfort when he knew that this was false,
he  fraudulently  induced  her  consent  to  contact  with  it  and  was  not
privileged by her consent.

the  hypnotist  was  not  always  successful 

In A, the plaintiff consented to the contact even though she was aware
in  hypnotizing
that 
volunteers,  and  that  if  he  was  not  successful  in  hypnotizing  her,  the
cattle prod might cause discomfort. Since she knew the nature of the
act  to  which  she  was  consenting,  her  consent  would  furnish  the
hypnotist with a privilege. A is therefore incorrect. In B, although the
hypnotist defrauded the plaintiff by promising money that he did not
intend to pay, the fraud did not relate to the nature of the act to which
she  was  consenting.  He  would,  therefore,  be  privileged  by  her
consent, and B is therefore incorrect. A mistake that induces consent
does  not  destroy  the  effect  of  that  consent  unless  the  defendant  is
aware  of  the  mistake.  Since  there  is  no  indication  in  D  that  the
hypnotist was aware of the plaintiff's mistake regarding the effect of a
cattle prod, her consent privileged him, and D is therefore incorrect.

67. A A statement is defamatory if it is likely to cause a substantial group of
respectable  people  to  lose  respect  for  the  person  about  whom  it  is
made. A statement that the professor drank a large quantity of alcohol

1028

might  be  defamatory  because  many  people  regard  such  conduct  as
disreputable,  and  because  it  implies  that  the  professor's  public
statements were dishonest. A statement that she drank a large quantity
of  fruit  juice  clearly  would  not  be  defamatory.  If  an  allegedly
defamatory statement is ambiguous (i.e., has two possible meanings),
it is held to mean what the reasonable person would think it means.
Thus,  the  statements  made  in  the  photo  and  caption  would  not  have
been defamatory if the reasonable person would have believed them
to mean that the professor drank fruit juice. If the reasonable person
would have read the story, he or she would have known that this was
what the statements in the photo and caption meant.

B  and  C  are  incorrect  because  the  standard  used  to  determine  the
meaning of an ambiguous statement is objective and does not depend
on  what  any  particular  group  of  persons  thought.  D  is  incorrect
because  if  the  reasonable  person  would  not  have  read  the  story,  the
photo  and  caption  might  mean  that  the  professor  had  drunk  a  large
quantity of alcohol, and thus it might be a defamatory statement.

68. D Liability for misrepresentation may be imposed upon a defendant who
makes  an  intentionally  (or,  in  some  jurisdictions,  negligently)  false
assertion  of  fact  upon  which  the  plaintiff  justifiably  relies  to  his  or
her  detriment.  The  athlete's  only  assertion  of  fact  was  that  he  ate
candy  bars  for  energy.  There  is  no  indication,  however,  that  this
assertion was false. The athlete made no assertion about the flavor of
the  candy  bar,  so  even  if  the  plaintiff's  dislike  of  the  flavor  can  be
regarded as damage, it is not damage that proximately resulted from
his reliance on an assertion by the athlete.

A is incorrect because misrepresentation liability can be imposed on
anyone  who  makes  a  misrepresentation,  and  also  because  the  facts
indicate  that  the  athlete  is  in  the  business  of  selling  candy.  If  the
athlete's  statements  were  misrepresentations,  the  fact  that  he  said
them  could  result  in  liability  even  though  they  were  written  by
someone  else.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because
liability for intentional misrepresentation may be imposed to benefit
anyone  who  was  damaged  by  his  or  her  justified  reliance  on  the
misrepresentation, regardless of privity.

69.  B  Although  blasting  is  generally  recognized  to  be  an  ultra-hazardous
activity,  strict  liability  applies  only  to  harm  that  resulted  from  the
risks that made the activity ultra-hazardous. The possibility of noise

1029

frightening  animals  accompanies  a  great  many  activities  that  are  not
ultra-hazardous,  so  it  is  probably  not  one  of  the  risks  that  makes
blasting ultra-hazardous.

A is incorrect because the breeder's phone call announcing that harm
was  occurring  on  his  farm  made  it  foreseeable  that  harm  would
continue  to  occur  there  if  the  activity  was  continued.  C  is  incorrect
because  strict  liability  may  be  imposed  even  though  the  defendant
acted reasonably. While the demolition contractor's relationship with
the builder might impose liability on the builder as well, it would not
relieve  the  demolition  contractor  from  liability  for  his  acts.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

70. C An invitee is one whose presence confers an economic benefit on the
landholder.  That  which  enables  a  tenant  to  do  business  on  the
premises  confers  economic  benefit  on  the  landholder  by  making  the
premises  attractive  to  the  tenant.  This  applies  to  the  presence  of  a
tenant's  employees,  and  makes  them  invitees  of  the  landlord.
Contributory (comparative) negligence is unreasonable conduct by the
plaintiff. If the reasonable person in the employee's shoes would have
seen and avoided the dangerous condition, then the employee's failure
to do so was negligent.

71. C Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer is vicariously
liable for the negligence of an employee committed within the scope
of  employment.  An  employee  is  acting  within  the  scope  of
employment if his or her conduct is intended to further the interests of
his or her employer and if his or her employer has a right to control
his or her conduct. Since the building inspector was attempting to find
out  whether  the  drapes  were  fire-retardant,  which  was  part  of  what
the city hired her to do, and since the city had the right to tell her how
to  test  drapes,  she  was  acting  within  the  scope  of  her  employment
even if she was violating specific instructions that she received from
the city.

A is therefore incorrect. B is a fabrication with no basis in law, since
even  when  an  employee's  conduct  is  unsupervised,  respondeat
superior may result in the imposition of vicarious liability on his or
her employer. D is incorrect because under respondeat superior, an
employer is vicariously liable only for that for which the employee is
liable.

1030

72. C It may have been unreasonable for the defendant to leave his keys in
the  ignition.  If  so,  he  was  negligent.  Even  if  his  conduct  was  not
unreasonable, his violation of the ignition key statute may result in a
presumption  of  negligence  if  the  statute  was  designed  to  prevent
accidents  involving  stolen  cars.  Negligence  does  not  result  in
liability,  however,  unless  it  is  a  proximate  (i.e.,  factual  and  legal)
cause of harm. Conduct is a factual cause of harm if the harm would
not  have  occurred  without  it.  Since  the  monkey  probably  would  not
have moved the defendant's car and struck the plaintiff with it had the
defendant not left his key in the ignition, the defendant's conduct was a
factual  cause  of  the  plaintiff's  injury.  A  factual  cause  of  harm  is  a
legal cause if the harm was foreseeable and not brought about by an
unforeseeable intervening cause (i.e., a superseding cause). Since the
accident would not have occurred without the monkey's conduct, and
since the monkey's conduct came between the defendant's conduct and
the  plaintiff's  injury,  it  was  an  intervening  cause.  If  it  was
unforeseeable, it was a superseding cause of the plaintiff's harm, and
the  defendant's  conduct  was  not  a  proximate  cause  of  it.  Thus,  the
plaintiff will lose his case against the defendant unless it is found that
the monkey's intervention was foreseeable. This is unlikely.

Even if the defendant's conduct was reasonable, his violation of the
statute  might  result  in  a  presumption  of  negligence.  A  is  therefore
incorrect.  Even  if  the  violation  of  the  statute  does  not  result  in  a
presumption  of  negligence,  the  defendant's  conduct  might  have  been
unreasonable  and  therefore  negligent.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect  because  an  intervening  cause  of  harm  is  not  superseding
unless it was unforeseeable.

73. A  Appropriation  of  identity  is  committed  when  the  defendant,  without
the plaintiff's permission, uses the plaintiff's identity for a commercial
purpose. Since the photographer sold games that were imprinted with
the  governor's  likeness,  a  court  could  conclude  that  he  is  liable  for
appropriation.

Public disclosure is committed when the defendant publicly discloses
a  private  fact  about  the  plaintiff,  the  disclosure  of  which  would
offend the reasonable person in the plaintiff's position. Since a photo
of  the  governor's  face  as  it  appeared  in  a  public  place  is  obviously
not  a  private  fact,  B  is  incorrect.  Intrusion  is  committed  by
intentionally  invading  the  plaintiff's  private  space  in  a  manner  that

1031

would offend the reasonable person in the plaintiff's position. Since
the  photographer  snapped  the  photo  in  a  public  place,  he  did  not
invade the governor's private space, and C is incorrect. False light is
committed  by  publishing  false  statements  about  the  plaintiff  that,
although not defamatory, are in some way embarrassing or damaging.
Since  the  photographer  did  not  publish  any  statements  about  the
governor, D is incorrect.

74.  D  False  imprisonment  requires  intentional  confinement,  which  is  an
overcoming  of  the  plaintiff's  will  to  leave.  Since  a  sleeping  person
has no will to leave, the student was not confined by the locked door.

A is therefore incorrect. B is based on an inaccurate statement since
the risk probably was not a foreseeable one, but it is incorrect in any
event  because  false  imprisonment  requires  intent.  If  the  professor
intentionally confined the student, she would be held liable for all the
harm that foreseeably resulted. C is incorrect, however, because she
did not confine him.

75.  A  In  a  defamation  action  by  a  private  person  against  a  professional
publisher  (media  defendant),  the  plaintiff  must  prove  either  actual
malice or negligence. If the newspaper knew the statement to be false,
it  had  actual  malice.  If  the  reasonable  publisher  would  have  known
the statement to be false, the newspaper acted negligently.

B describes actual malice and is incorrect because a plaintiff who is
not  a  public  person  is  not  required  to  prove  actual  malice.  C  is
incorrect because no liability can be imposed unless the newspaper
knew, or reasonably should have known, that the statement was false.
D  is  incorrect  since  liability  without  fault  cannot  be  imposed  in  an
action  for  defamation  against  a  professional  (media  defendant)
publisher.

76. C Strict liability means that the seller of a product is liable without fault
for personal injuries or other physical harm caused by the product if
the product is sold in a defective condition. Once a defect is found,
the  seller  is  liable  even  if  he  or  she  used  all  possible  care.
Importantly,  strict  liability  applies  not  only  to  the  manufacturer,  but
also to the retailer and any other person in the distribution chain who
is in the business of selling such products. Consequently, a retailer is
strictly liable for selling the defective product even if the retailer is
non-negligent  and  even  if  the  retailer  could  not  have  discovered  the

1032

defect.  Here,  since  the  defendant  sold  the  defective  product,  he  is
liable  even  though  he  sold  the  saws  without  opening  the  boxes  and
could not have possibly discovered the defect before the plaintiff was
injured. A and B are therefore incorrect.

There was no indication that selling saws made by the manufacturer
was unreasonable. D is therefore incorrect.

77.  A  Holders  of  land  owe  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  travelers  who
foreseeably  deviate  onto  the  land  for  reasons  related  to  their  use  of
the  adjacent  public  way.  Here,  the  fact  that  the  road  was  curvy  and
known  for  numerous  accidents  likely  made  the  driver's  accident
foreseeable.

B is incorrect because the mere fact that the homeowner knew drivers
used  the  neighboring  road  is  not  enough.  C  is  incorrect  because
although the reason given explains why the homeowner's conduct was
not  negligent,  it  fails  to  explain  why  he  had  no  duty.  Although  a
landholder generally owes no duty of reasonable care to a trespasser,
D  is  incorrect  because  a  strayed  traveler  as  described  above  is
entitled to reasonable care as an exception to the general rule.

78.  C  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm  would  not  have
occurred  without  it.  Since  medical  assistance  was  summoned  just  a
moment later, and since the facts do not indicate that the truck driver
was  worse  off  for  the  momentary  delay,  the  carpenter's  failure  to
summon aid was not a cause of harm.

Most jurisdictions agree that a landholder owes no duty of reasonable
care  to  a  trespasser.  When  the  landholder  knows  of  the  trespasser's
presence, however, and knows that the trespasser has been imperiled
by some affirmative act of the landholder, the landholder does have a
duty to act reasonably to protect the trespasser from that act. Since the
carpenter knew that his act of throwing the hammer created the need
for aid, he probably did owe the truck driver a duty to act reasonably
in summoning it. A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Punitive  damages  may  be
available  against  a  defendant  who  intended  harm  by  his  or  her  act.
Intent  requires  a  substantial  certainty  that  the  harm  will  probably
occur, however. Knowledge that harm is possible is not intent and is
not sufficient to result in liability for punitive damages. B is therefore
incorrect.  A  user  of  the  public  way  who  enters  upon  private  land
foreseeably and in connection with his or her use of the public way is

1033

entitled to some measure of reasonable care. D is incorrect, however,
because  he  or  she  does  not  thereby  become  an  invitee,  and,  further,
because  the  truck  driver's  entry  onto  the  carpenter's  realty  was  not
connected with the truck driver's use of the public way.

79. C  A  private  individual  may  sue  for  public  nuisance  only  if  his  or  her
damages  were  different  in  kind  from  those  sustained  by  the  general
public.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  the  fact  that  the  defendant's  conduct
preexisted  the  plaintiff's  presence  is  not,  by  itself,  a  defense  to
nuisance unless it can be shown that the plaintiff came to the nuisance
specifically for the purpose of instituting litigation. D is an incorrect
statement  of  the  law;  even  a  lawful  activity  may  constitute  a  public
nuisance if it is conducted in a way that unreasonably interferes with
the rights of the public.

80.  C  Consent  —  the  plaintiff's  willingness  —  is  a  complete  defense  to
most  intentional  tort  actions.  Consent  is  implied  if  the  reasonable
person  would  infer  from  the  plaintiff's  conduct  and  the  surrounding
circumstances  that  the  plaintiff  is  willing  for  the  defendant's  act  to
occur. The fact that the defendant and the plaintiff have been enjoying
each  other's  jokes  for  years  could  result  in  the  inference  that  the
plaintiff was willing to have a joke played upon him. Although it is
not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, the argument in
C is the only one listed that could support the defendant's defense.

A  is  incorrect  because  assault  requires  apprehension  of  harmful
contact  but  not  necessarily  of  battery.  Ordinarily,  the  apprehension
experienced  by  the  plaintiff  must  be  such  as  a  reasonable  person  in
his or her shoes would experience. B is incorrect, however, because
an exception to this objective standard is made when the plaintiff has
a  special  sensitivity  about  which  the  defendant  knows,  and  the
defendant  knew  that  the  plaintiff  was  terrified  of  spiders.  D  is
incorrect  because  assault  requires  an  intent  to  cause  apprehension,
not necessarily an intent to cause injury.

81.  C  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm  would  not  have
occurred  without  the  conduct.  Since  there  is  no  way  of  knowing
whether  the  defendant's  shot  struck  the  plaintiff,  it  cannot  be
established  that  the  plaintiff's  harm  was  factually  caused  by  the
defendant's conduct. (Note: Do not confuse these facts with the rule

1034

of Summers v. Tice, 199 P.2d 1 (1948) where both negligent persons
were named as defendants.)

The  defendant's  duty  of  reasonable  care  might  not  require  the  same
vigilance that would be required in an urban area, but A is incorrect
because  the  possibility  that  someone  would  come  by  required  some
vigilance. Since it is likely that a person struck by a pellet shot from a
slingshot would be seriously injured, it is probably unreasonable to
shoot a slingshot without taking some precaution against hitting other
persons.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  If  the  defendant's  conduct  was  a
factual cause of the harm, it was a legal cause of the harm if the harm
was foreseeable. Since it is clearly foreseeable that a person struck
by a slingshot pellet will sustain an injury, D is incorrect.

82.  C  Although  the  law  recognizes  a  special  standard  for  judging  the
negligence  of  children,  it  is  applied  only  when  the  youth  of  the
defendant  is  likely  to  prevent  him  or  her  from  exercising  the  same
mature  judgment  as  an  adult.  When  a  child  is  old  enough  to  have
acquired the judgment of an adult with respect to a particular activity,
the child standard no longer applies. It is rare for a court to apply the
child standard to persons over the age of 14 years.

A is therefore incorrect. An adult activity is one that is substantially
more  likely  to  be  dangerous  when  performed  by  a  child  than  by  an
adult, or one in which only adults traditionally engage. B is incorrect
because fishing is neither. The balancing test that is sometimes used
to  determine  whether  conduct  is  negligent  weighs  the  risks  that
foreseeably  result  from  acting  a  certain  way  against  the  utility  of
acting that particular way. D is incorrect because it distorts that rule
by weighing the risk of handling a fishhook in whatever way the girl
was handling it against the utility of fishing in general.

83.  A  Strict  liability  in  tort  is  imposed  on  the  supplier  of  a  product  for
damages that result from a defect in the product that existed at the time
it  left  that  supplier's  hands  and  that  made  the  product  unreasonably
dangerous.  Since  a  defect  is  a  condition  that  would  defeat  the
reasonable  expectations  of  the  reasonable  consumer,  and  since  the
reasonable  consumer  probably  does  not  expect  to  find  a  rat's  tail  in
food  products,  the  presence  of  a  rat's  tail  was  probably  a  defect.
Since  a  product  is  unreasonably  dangerous  if  the  benefits  of  its
condition are outweighed by its disadvantages, and since the presence
of a rat's tail has no advantage and is likely to be a source of disease

1035

and disgust in a person eating it, the presence of a rat's tail in a food
product probably makes that product unreasonably dangerous.

B is incorrect because strict liability in tort may be imposed for the
benefit  of  any  plaintiff  whose  contact  with  the  product  was
foreseeable,  without  regard  to  the  existence  of  a  contractual
relationship  (i.e.,  privity).  Although  the  sale  of  a  product  by  a
merchant implies a warranty that the product is merchantable (i.e., fit
for ordinary use), C is incorrect because the question stem specifies
the theory of strict liability in tort, and this theory does not depend on
the existence of an implied promise. The doctrine of res ipsa loquitur
is  applied  to  establish  an  inference  that  the  defendant  acted
unreasonably. Since the reasonableness of the defendant's conduct is
not relevant to the imposition of strict liability, D is incorrect.

84.  C  A  parent's  claim  for  medical  bills  incurred  as  a  result  of  injuries
negligently  inflicted  on  a  child  is  a  derivative  one,  subject  to  any
defenses that could have been raised in response to an action by the
child.  Here,  the  boy's  negligence  could  be  asserted  by  the  driver  in
response to a claim by the boy. Additionally, since the mother is the
plaintiff, her negligence can be asserted by the driver. Consequently,
the driver can raise both the boy's and the boy's mother's negligence
as a defense.

85. D Violation of a statute is relevant to the question of negligence only if
the  statute  violated  was  designed  to  protect  a  class  of  persons  to
which the plaintiff belongs against risks like the one that resulted in
harm  to  the  plaintiff.  Since  insurance  would  not  have  prevented  the
trailer  hitch  from  failing,  the  statute  was  not  designed  to  protect
against the risk that it would. Its violation is therefore not relevant.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  violation  is  not
relevant  unless  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect  against  the  risk
involved. Public policy generally prohibits disclosing to a jury that a
defendant was or was not insured. Such disclosure is not absolutely
prohibited, however, since there are circumstances under which such
disclosure could be made to a jury (e.g., to establish ownership of a
vehicle). C  is  thus  based  on  an  over-inclusive  statement  of  the  law
and is therefore incorrect.

86. C An inference of negligence may be established under the doctrine of
res ipsa loquitur when the accident was one that would not ordinarily

1036

have  occurred  without  negligence,  and  the  circumstances  eliminate
the  probability  that  the  negligence  was  anyone's  but  the  defendant's.
Bottles  don't  usually  explode  unless  the  company  that  was  in
exclusive control of the bottling process acted negligently, so res ipsa
frequently  is  applied  in  exploding  bottle  cases.  But  where,  as  here,
some  other  event  was  as  likely  a  cause  of  the  explosion,  res  ipsa
cannot be applied.

A and B are therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because the fact that
the bottles were not in the defendant's possession when the accident
occurred is not in itself sufficient to eliminate the probability that the
negligence was anyone's other than the defendant's.

87. B A person who sells services rather than goods does not generally fall
within standard strict liability. Consequently, since the contractor was
not  selling  the  glue  itself,  he  could  not  be  held  strictly  liable  for  its
defect. However, the neighbor could recover in strict liability against
the  manufacturer,  because  the  glue  was  defective,  was  sold  by  the
manufacturer, and proximately caused the injury to the neighbor.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

88.  C  An  essential  element  of  tort  liability  for  misrepresentation  is  the
defendant's  intent  to  induce  the  plaintiff's  reliance  with  his  or  her
statement. If the dealer did not know that the buyer would rely on the
statements that she made to the collector, she could not have intended
to  induce  the  buyer's  reliance  on  those  statements.  Since  there  is  no
indication that the dealer was aware that the buyer had overheard her
conversation with the collector, C is correct.

A  is  over-inclusive  and  therefore  incorrect.  Statements  of  opinion,
especially  when  made  by  experts,  may  be  regarded  as  assertions  of
fact  (i.e.,  the  fact  that  the  speaker  actually  held  that  particular
opinion).  Since  the  buyer  paid  $225,000  for  something  worth  only
$600  based  on  his  belief  in  what  he  had  overheard,  he  did  sustain
damage  as  a  result  of  his  reliance  on  the  dealer's  statement.  B  is
therefore incorrect. D is incorrect for two reasons. First, as indicated
above, an expert may incur misrepresentation liability by stating that
he  or  she  holds  an  opinion  that  he  or  she  doesn't  actually  hold.
Second,  the  dealer's  statement  was  not  only  an  evaluation  of  the
painting's value, but also a statement about who had painted it.

89.  D  Intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress  requires  intentional,

1037

outrageous  conduct  that  results  in  severe  mental  suffering.  Since  the
plaintiff  did  not  experience  any  mental  injury,  the  defendant  is  not
liable to her for this tort.

Conduct  is  “outrageous”  if  it  exceeds  all  bounds  normally  tolerated
by decent society and is calculated to cause mental suffering. Conduct
is “calculated to cause mental suffering” if suffering in the mind of a
reasonable  person  is  an  almost  inevitable  result.  The  defendant's
conduct probably was both. A and B are incorrect, however, because
the  plaintiff  sustained  no  mental  injury.  Outrageous  conduct  is
“intentional”  if  the  defendant  desired  or  knew  with  substantial
certainty that it would result in mental suffering in the plaintiff. C is
incorrect  because  the  defendant  might  have  had  such  a  desire  or
knowledge, even though his motive was only to play a joke.

90.  D  A  seller  of  products  owes  his  or  her  customers  the  duty  to  act
reasonably.  If  it  would  be  reasonable  to  inspect  a  product  before
selling it, then the druggist owes his customers a duty of doing so.

A, B, and C are over-inclusive statements. Since some of the harmful
side  effects  or  defects  associated  with  a  particular  drug  might  be
unknown even to the reasonable druggist, a druggist cannot be said to
have a duty to know them all. (Note: A druggist who sells a defective
drug  may  be  held  strictly  liable  for  damages  that  result.  This  is
because  strict  liability  is  not  based  on  fault,  however,  and  does  not
justify the conclusion set forth in C.)

91. D Persons engaged in a concert of action are regarded as members of a
joint  enterprise.  As  such,  they  are  vicariously  liable  for  torts
committed by other members of the enterprise. Thus, the man and his
friend may each be held liable for the other's tort.

To  recover  against  either  or  both  of  them,  the  plaintiff  need  prove
only that his injury was caused by the negligence of some member of
the  enterprise.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  suggests  that  one  thing
cannot be a cause of harm if some other thing is. Since any effect may
have  more  than  one  cause,  B  is  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because
nothing can be a legal cause of harm unless it is a factual cause of that
harm.

92. D Negligence does not result in liability unless it was a proximate cause
of  damage.  Although  the  attorney's  failure  to  commence  the  patient's
action  against  the  doctor  was  probably  negligent,  no  liability  will

1038

result  unless  the  attorney's  negligence  was  a  proximate  cause  of
damage. If the patient would have lost her lawsuit against the doctor
anyway,  the  attorney's  failure  to  institute  it  did  not  result  in  damage
since the patient lost nothing as a result. If the doctor's use of the drug
did not result in damage to the patient, the doctor would not have been
liable to her even if her conduct was negligent. If the drug saved the
patient's  life  at  the  expense  of  her  eye,  it  probably  did  not  result  in
damage, since what the patient gained from its use exceeded what she
lost. This means that the patient would have lost her lawsuit against
the doctor, and that the attorney's failure to assert it did not result in
damage.

A  is  incorrect  because  even  an  inexperienced  lawyer  is  required  to
act  as  the  reasonable  attorney.  The  attorney's  honest  belief  is  no
defense unless the reasonable attorney would have held it. B and C
are therefore incorrect.

93. C Under pure comparative negligence statutes, a plaintiff's recovery in a
negligence  action  is  diminished  in  proportion  to  the  plaintiff's  fault,
but  it  is  not  barred  by  the  plaintiff's  own  negligence.  Thus,  the
plaintiff  would  be  entitled  to  recover  part  of  any  damages  that  she
sustained  as  a  result  of  the  defendant's  conduct  if  the  defendant's
conduct was unreasonable.

In most jurisdictions, a landholder owes a duty of reasonable care to
an  invitee  but  owes  no  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  a  trespasser.  For
this purpose, an invitee is one whose presence confers an economic
benefit on the landholder, and a trespasser is one who enters without
permission.  Since  the  plaintiff's  use  of  the  defendant's  pool  was
consideration  for  valuable  services  that  she  rendered,  she  was  an
invitee. Under the “attractive nuisance” doctrine, a trespassing child
may be entitled to reasonable care, but it is inapplicable here because
the  plaintiff  was  an  invitee  rather  than  a  trespasser.  A  and  B  are
therefore  incorrect.  If  the  plaintiff's  conduct  was  unreasonable,  the
amount  of  her  damages  would  be  diminished  accordingly.  The
language  of  option  D  may  suggest  defenses  based  on  comparative
negligence and on assumption of the risk. If it suggests a comparative
negligence  defense,  it  is  incorrect  because  in  a  pure  comparative
negligence system, the plaintiff's recovery is diminished in proportion
to  his  or  her  own  fault  but  is  not  barred  completely.  In  most
jurisdictions, assumption of the risk is a complete bar to recovery by

1039

the plaintiff. A plaintiff assumes the risk when he or she voluntarily
encounters  a  risk  of  which  he  or  she  knows.  The  knowledge
requirement is subjective, meaning that unless the plaintiff himself or
herself  was  aware  of  the  risk,  the  fact  that  the  reasonable  person
would  have  been  aware  is  irrelevant.  D  is  also  incorrect  for  this
reason,  and  because  the  facts  indicate  that  the  plaintiff  dove  in
without looking and was thus unaware that the pool was empty.

94. C Since the plaintiff entered without the company's permission, she was
a trespasser. Ordinarily, a landholder owes trespassers, even if they
are  children,  no  duty  of  reasonable  care  with  respect  to  dangerous
conditions  of  the  premises.  A  trespassing  child  may  be  entitled  to
reasonable  care,  however,  if  it  was  foreseeable  that  children  would
trespass,  it  was  foreseeable  that  a  child  who  trespassed  would  be
injured,  and  if  the  child  was  too  young  to  comprehend  the  danger.
Thus,  if  the  plaintiff  was  old  enough  to  comprehend  the  danger
associated  with  an  attempt  to  climb  the  pole,  the  company  owed  no
duty of reasonable care to protect her against it. Although a minority
of  jurisdictions  holds  that  a  landholder  owes  a  duty  of  reasonable
care  to  all  who  enter,  C  is  correct  because  it  is  the  only  argument
listed that could provide the company with an effective defense in any
jurisdiction.

A  is  incorrect  because  under  the  rule  stated  above,  a  duty  of
reasonable care may be owed to a trespassing child. The fact that no
child had ever before attempted to climb the pole would not prevent
the rule from being applied if it was foreseeable that a child would
do  so  in  the  future.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because
even if the company could not repair the fence, there may have been
other  steps  that  the  reasonable  person  in  the  company's  position
would have taken to prevent the danger that resulted in the plaintiff's
injury.

95.  B  The  homeowner's  lawsuit  may  be  founded  either  on  negligence  or
upon  strict  products  liability.  Negligence  involves  unreasonable
conduct.  If  the  explosives  were  properly  labeled,  the  company's
conduct was not unreasonable. Strict liability is imposed only if the
product that caused harm left the defendant in a defective condition. A
product may be defective because of the way in which it is labeled,
but  if  the  labels  were  properly  affixed  when  the  cases  left  the
company's plant, the product was not defective at the time it left the

1040

company's hands.

A is incorrect because strict liability may be imposed even though the
defendant acted reasonably. C is incorrect because the negligence of
a company employee would be imputed to the company. Although the
storage  of  explosives  is  usually  regarded  as  an  ultra-hazardous
activity, resulting in the imposition of strict liability upon one storing
it,  D  would  not  furnish  the  company  with  a  defense  since  the
imposition  of  liability  on  the  warehouse  would  not  prevent  liability
from being imposed on the company.

96. D A private nuisance is liability-forming conduct by the defendant that
unreasonably interferes with the plaintiff's right to use and enjoy his
or her property. Liability is formed if the defendant intends to invade
the  plaintiff's  rights.  After  speaking  with  the  plaintiff,  the  defendant
now intends his invasion because he is now acting with either desire
or  substantial  certainty  that  the  interfering  conduct  will  occur.
Consequently,  if  the  interference  is  unreasonable,  the  defendant  is
liable. This is the only theory listed that could result in a judgment for
the plaintiff.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  theory  requires  some  physical  intrusion
into the plaintiff's presence, and there is no indication the restaurant
or the college kids are doing so. B is incorrect because the plaintiff is
not complaining of or seeking damages for severe mental suffering. C
is  incorrect  because  trespass  requires  tangible  entry  onto  the
plaintiff's land, and none has occurred.

97. D Misappropriation of identity is an invasion of privacy that consists of
the  unauthorized  use  of  the  plaintiff's  identity  for  a  commercial
purpose. Since the cigar company used the comedian's name without
his permission for the purpose of selling its product, it has committed
this tort against the comedian.

Although the truth of the statement made in the advertisements might
justify  its  publication  for  some  purposes,  its  use  for  a  commercial
purpose  is  not  privileged.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Although  the
protection  of  the  First  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution
has been extended to commercial expression, it has not been extended
to  the  unauthorized  use  of  another's  identity  for  a  commercial
purpose. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because liability for
misappropriation of identity does not depend on the foreseeability of

1041

the defendant's conduct.

98. A Tort liability may be imposed only for harm that resulted from intent,
negligence, or any activity for which strict liability may be imposed.
Since there is no indication that the defendant intended the harm, and
since  her  activity  was  not  an  abnormally  dangerous  one,  the  only
theory available to the plaintiff is negligence. Negligence is a breach
of  the  duty  of  reasonable  care.  The  duty  exists  if  the  defendant's
conduct creates a foreseeable risk to the plaintiff. Since the operation
of a motor vehicle on a roadway creates foreseeable risks to persons
owning property along the roadway, the operator of a vehicle owes a
duty of reasonable care to such persons. The question of whether the
defendant breached that duty depends on whether the defendant acted
reasonably.

A professional seller of products (i.e., a merchant) may be held liable
for damage resulting from a defect in a product that he or she supplied
on theories of strict liability in tort or breach of the implied warranty
of  merchantability.  Since  the  defendant  did  not  supply  the  trailer,
however,  neither  of  these  theories  can  be  applied  to  her.  Thus,  the
questions of whether the hitch was defective or whether the defendant
was  a  merchant  are  not  relevant.  B  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.
Although negligence liability is often made to depend on whether the
reasonable  person  in  the  position  of  the  defendant  would  have
foreseen  the  harm,  D  is  incorrect  because  it  is  never  necessary  that
the harm be foreseeable to the plaintiff.

99. A  The  old  rule  that  “he  or  she  who  holds  the  land  holds  upward  unto
heaven”  is  no  longer  true.  All  jurisdictions  agree  that  a  flight  over
land is a trespass to the land only if it was below a certain altitude
(although  they  frequently  disagree  about  what  that  altitude  is).  Thus,
unless the woman can prove the altitude at which the pilot hovered,
she cannot establish a trespass.

B is incorrect because damage is not an essential element of an action
for trespass to land. C is incorrect since an action for trespass is not
one  for  invasion  of  privacy,  but  rather  for  invasion  of  the  right  to
exclusive  possession  of  realty.  D  is  incorrect  because  even  one
whose possession is unlawful may sue for trespass.

100. D A person entitled to possess a chattel who enters the realty of another
for the purpose of recovering that chattel is privileged to make such

1042

entry,  provided  that  he  or  she  does  so  in  a  reasonable  manner  (and
provided further that the chattel did not get onto the realty through any
fault  of  his  or  her  own).  The  woman's  entry  onto  the  homeowner's
realty  was  therefore  privileged.  Since  the  woman's  entry  was
privileged, the homeowner was not entitled to use force against her to
defend his realty, and his use of such force constituted a battery.

A  privilege  to  use  force  against  the  wrongful  dispossessor  of  a
chattel  exists  only  when  that  force  is  used  in  hot  pursuit  of  the
dispossessor.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  hot  pursuit  is  not  a
prerequisite to the privilege to enter realty to recover a chattel. B is
incorrect  because  injury  is  not  an  essential  element  of  battery.  C  is
incorrect  because  a  possessor  of  realty  is  privileged  to  use
reasonable force to prevent a trespass to that realty.

101.  C  An  action  for  misrepresentation  requires  proof  that  the  defendant
made  a  statement  that  he  or  she  knew  or  should  have  known  was
false,  for  the  purpose  of  inducing  plaintiff's  reliance,  and  that  the
plaintiff  was  damaged  by  his  or  her  justified  reliance  on  the
statement.  The  facts  given  establish  that  the  employee  made
statements to the husband for the purpose of inducing him to settle his
claim.  The  husband's  independent  consultation  with  the  attorney
would at least create a jury question about whether the husband was
acting  in  reliance  on  the  employee's  statements.  The  fact  that  the
wrongful death suit would have resulted in a judgment for the husband
in  excess  of  $1,000  would  have  to  be  proven  to  establish  that  the
employee's  statements  were  false  and  that  the  husband's  reliance  on
them led to damages. The fact that the employee knew or should have
known  that  the  statements  were  false  would  have  to  be  proven  to
show that the employee had the necessary fault.

102.  D  Private  nuisance  may  consist  of  an  intentional  and  unreasonable
interference with the plaintiff's right to use and enjoy his or her realty.
Interference is intentional if the defendant is substantially certain that
it will occur. Since the company continued testing dog whistles after
the breeder notified it that the testing procedure was interfering with
the  breeder's  business,  the  interference  with  the  breeder's  use  and
enjoyment  of  land  was  intentional.  The  interference  was  not
unreasonable,  however,  unless  the  company's  conduct  would  have
interfered with ordinary use or enjoyment of the breeder's realty. So,
if the breeder's damage resulted from an unusually sensitive use of the

1043

breeder's  land,  it  would  not  be  the  result  of  an  unreasonable
interference.  Since  only  dogs  could  hear  the  sound,  and  since  most
people  are  not  in  the  business  of  keeping  dogs,  the  argument  in  D
might  be  successful.  Of  the  arguments  listed,  it  is  the  only  one  that
could possibly be successful.

A  is  incorrect  because  even  a  lawful  business  may  constitute  a
private nuisance if it is operated in a way that unreasonably interferes
with  the  use  and  enjoyment  of  the  plaintiff's  realty.  B  is  incorrect
because  if  a  defendant's  activity  unreasonably  interferes  with
plaintiff's  use  and  enjoyment  of  his  or  her  realty,  the  fact  that  the
defendant was engaging in it before the plaintiff arrived is not in itself
sufficient  to  prevent  that  activity  from  being  characterized  as  a
nuisance.  Since  the  intent  requirement  is  satisfied  by  the  company's
knowledge  that  its  activity  was  interfering  with  the  breeder's  use  of
his land, C is also incorrect.

103. A An express warranty is a representation regarding a condition of the
product sold. Liability for breach of express warranty is imposed on
the warrantor, regardless of fault, if the product's failure to be what it
was  represented  to  be  results  in  damage.  If  the  label  said  that  the
product would not harm the skin, the fact that it harmed the plaintiff's
skin would be a breach of warranty.

Although  liability  may  be  imposed  for  the  breach  of  an  implied
warranty  of  fitness  for  ordinary  use  (i.e.,  merchantability),  express
warranty liability requires some assertion of fact about the product. B
is  therefore  incorrect.  Liability  for  breach  of  express  warranty  is
imposed on whoever made the warranty that was breached. A retailer
who delivers a product makes whatever warranties are printed on its
label.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  liability  for
breach of express warranty is imposed without regard to fault.

104.  A  As  a  general  rule,  the  courts  hold  that  the  coming  of  a  rescuer  is
foreseeable. This is what is meant by the well-known phrase “Danger
invites  rescue.”  For  this  reason,  one  who  unreasonably  creates  a
danger to any human being — including himself or herself — creates
a  risk  to  a  potential  rescuer  as  well  and  owes  a  potential  rescuer  a
duty  of  reasonable  care.  Thus,  if  the  defendant's  conduct  was
unreasonable, it was a breach of a duty he owed the plaintiff.

B is based on an over-inclusive statement of law — a rescuer's right

1044

to  collect  from  the  person  whom  he  or  she  rescued  must  be  based
either  on  the  breach  of  duty  to  act  reasonably  or  on  an  implied
contract.  An  officious  intermeddler  is  a  person  who  acts  without  a
legitimate reason. C  is  incorrect  because  a  human  life  was  at  stake,
giving  the  plaintiff  a  legitimate  reason  to  act.  The  rule  that  is
characterized  by  the  phrase  “Danger  invites  rescue”  makes  D
incorrect  because  the  rescuer's  attempt  to  rescue  the  defendant  is
regarded as foreseeable for the reason given.

105. B Negligence is a failure to act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable
risk. If it was not foreseeable that the contents of the package would
cause  harm  to  a  passenger  in  her  car,  the  defendant's  conduct  with
respect  to  the  package  could  not  have  been  negligent.  Although  it  is
not certain that a court would come to this conclusion, the argument in
B is the only one listed that is supported by the facts.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  rule  limiting  the  duty  owed  to  a  licensee
applies  only  to  conditions  of  realty  occupied  by  a  defendant.
Contributory negligence is unreasonable conduct by the plaintiff that
contributes to the happening of the accident. Since the plaintiff could
not have known that the contents of the package were caustic, there is
no  reason  to  conclude  that  his  conduct  was  unreasonable.  C  is
therefore incorrect. A plaintiff is said to have assumed the risk when
he or she voluntarily encounters a known risk. D is incorrect because
the  plaintiff  did  not  know  that  the  contents  of  the  package  were
caustic, and touching it did not, therefore, constitute an encounter with
a known risk.

106. A Strict liability in tort may be imposed upon a professional supplier of
products who places a defective product into the stream of commerce.
Since  a  tattoo  artist  does  not  sell  tattoo  needles  to  his  or  her
customers, he or she does not place them in the stream of commerce,
and  he  or  she  cannot  be  held  strictly  liable  for  damage  that  results
from his or her customer's contact with them.

B  is  incorrect  because  strict  liability  is  imposed  regardless  of  fault
and therefore may be imposed on a defendant although he or she did
not  exercise  any  control  over  the  quality  of  the  product.  A  plaintiff
assumes a risk when he or she knows of it and voluntarily encounters
it. Although the defendant informed the plaintiff that the process was
likely to be a painful one, there is no indication that the plaintiff knew
that the needle would break off in her skin. C is therefore incorrect.

1045

Strict  liability  may  be  imposed  upon  the  supplier  of  defective
products  without  regard  to  whether  those  products  would  be
dangerous  without  the  defect  (i.e.,  inherently  dangerous).  D  is
therefore incorrect.

107.  C  False  imprisonment  consists  of  the  intentional  confinement  of  the
plaintiff. Confinement is an overcoming of the plaintiff's will to leave
in  a  manner  that  would  overcome  the  reasonable  person's  will  to
leave. Since the reasonable person usually obeys the directions of a
police officer, the police officer's words would have been sufficient
to overcome the reasonable person's will to leave. For this reason, if
the  police  officer's  language  overcame  the  walker's  will  to  leave,  it
confined him.

A is incorrect because if it was reasonable for the walker to believe
that an attempt to leave would result in some harm to him, then he was
confined even though no physical barriers prevented him from getting
out  of  the  police  car.  B  is  incorrect  because  the  police  officer's
assertion of legal authority and threatening language would have made
any protest by the walker a futile — and thus unnecessary — gesture.
D  is  incorrect  because  damage  is  not  an  essential  element  of  false
imprisonment.

108.  B  A  defendant  owes  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  a  plaintiff  if  the
defendant's  conduct  creates  a  foreseeable  risk  to  that  plaintiff.  A
foreseeable  risk  is  a  danger  that  a  reasonable  person  would
anticipate.  If  the  driver's  conduct  created  no  foreseeable  risks  to
persons in the hospital, the driver did not owe such persons a duty of
reasonable care and could not be held liable to them for negligence.

is  so,  however,  only 

The intervening act of a third person may be a superseding cause of
harm,  relieving  the  original  wrongdoer  of  liability  for  the  plaintiff's
injuries.  This 
intervention  was
unforeseeable. A is incorrect because the negligence of a surgeon is
usually  regarded  as  foreseeable.  C  is  similarly  incorrect  because
even aggravated negligence may be foreseeable. Since any result may
have  several  causes,  the  fact  that  the  scars  were  caused  by  the
conduct  of  the  doctor  does  not  establish  that  they  were  not  also
caused by the negligence of the driver. D is therefore incorrect.

the 

if 

109.  B  There  can  be  no  liability  for  making  defamatory  statements  unless
those  statements  are  false.  Statements  that  are  expressions  of  the

1046

writer's  feelings  regarding  subjective  matters  are  statements  of
opinion, and opinions are neither true nor false. Since the quality of
the plaintiff's writing is a subjective matter, the defendant's statements
are  opinions.  Statements  of  opinion  can  be  defamatory  only  if  the
reasonable  person  would  interpret  the  statements  as  fact.  Here,  the
nature  of  the  defendant's  statements  makes  them  unlikely  to  be
interpreted as facts.

A media defendant may be held liable for defaming a public figure if
the defamatory statements were made with actual malice. A and C are
therefore  incorrect.  Although  a  businessperson  may  be  privileged  to
compete  by  making  unflattering  reference  to  his  or  her  competitor's
products,  D  is  incorrect  because  the  privilege  is  qualified  by  the
requirement of good faith.

110. A A professional supplier who sells a product in a defective condition
is  strictly  liable  for  harm  that  proximately  results  from  the  defect.
Here, since the jury found the machine was the proximate cause of the
employee's injury, the manufacturer is strictly liable for it.

B is incorrect because the manufacturer's liability would not be based
on  whether  it  was  reasonable  in  its  offers  to  make  a  repair.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  machine  was  defective  when  it  was  placed  in
the  stream  of  commerce,  and  nothing  happened  to  change  its
condition.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  unreasonable  conduct  of  an
intervenor  is  not  a  superseding  cause  of  harm  unless  it  is
unforeseeable.  Here,  an  owner  of  the  machine  not  wanting  to  pay
$1,000 for a repair is likely foreseeable.

111.  C  A  defendant  is  liable  only  for  harm  caused  by  his  or  her  conduct.
Conduct is a cause of harm only if the harm would not have occurred
without  that  conduct.  If  the  passenger's  harm  would  have  occurred
without  the  man's  conduct,  the  man's  conduct  could  not  have  been  a
cause of the passenger's harm.

Although  the  violation  of  a  statute  is  relevant  to  the  issue  of
negligence  if  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect  persons  like  the
plaintiff against risks like that which produced the plaintiff's harm, A
would not be an effective defense for two reasons. First, the fact that
the statute was designed to protect schoolchildren does not prove that
it  was  not  also  designed  to  protect  automobile  passengers.  Second,
even  if  the  statutory  violation  is  not  relevant  to  the  issue  of

1047

negligence, the passenger might succeed in establishing common law
negligence (i.e., that the man failed to act reasonably). An intervening
cause  of  harm  may  be  a  superseding  cause  that  shifts  responsibility
from the original wrongdoer to the intervenor, but only if the conduct
of the intervenor was unforeseeable. Since the negligence of motorists
is  a  common  occurrence,  the  woman's  negligence  was  probably
foreseeable. B and D are therefore incorrect.

112.  B  Since  the  two  defendants  were  found  to  be  jointly  and  severally
liable, the plaintiff can collect the entire amount of his judgment from
either  of  them  or  from  both  of  them  in  any  combination.  Under  the
pure  comparative  negligence  statute  that  existed  in  the  jurisdiction,
the  plaintiff's  judgment  should  be  for  the  amount  of  his  damages,
diminished in proportion to his own fault. Since the plaintiff's injury
was  found  to  have  resulted  20  percent  from  the  plaintiff's  own
negligence, his judgment should be for $100,000 less 20 percent, or
$80,000.

A is incorrect because it does not diminish the plaintiff's recovery in
proportion  to  his  fault.  C  is  incorrect  because  joint  tortfeasors  are
jointly  and  severally  liable.  In  an  all-or-nothing  contributory
negligence  jurisdiction,  a  plaintiff  who  was  contributorily  negligent
will  receive  nothing,  even  though  the  defendant  may  have  been
negligent  as  well.  Under  the  “pure  comparative  negligence”  statute
given,  however,  the  plaintiff's  recovery  is  not  completely  barred  by
his negligence. D is therefore incorrect.

113.  D  Vicarious  liability  only  occurs  when  there  is  an  employment
relationship (or, occasionally, an independent contractor relationship)
between  the  defendant  and  the  tortfeasor.  While  the  defendant  could
be liable for inadequate security or negligently allowing the tortfeasor
to come onto the premises, the defendant cannot be found liable under
the principle of vicarious liability for torts committed by a customer.
A  is  therefore  incorrect.  “General  liability”  is  not  a  principle  for
holding a party liable. B is therefore incorrect. Strict liability comes
into  play  with  defective  products,  keeping  wild  or  other  dangerous
animals,  or  carrying  out  abnormally  dangerous  activities.  Here,  the
question  involves  none  of  these  three  scenarios.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.

114. D Invasion of privacy by public disclosure of private facts consists of
publishing offensive and previously unknown facts about the plaintiff.

1048

The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held,  however,  that  First
Amendment guarantees of free expression prohibit imposing liability
for the publication of facts that are already matters of public record.
The  Court  said  that  this  rule  applies  even  to  facts  that  are  not
commonly known, since the press often serves as eyes and ears for a
public too busy to search public records for itself.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  for  the  above  reason.  B  is  also  incorrect
because a privilege to publish information about one who is involved
in a matter of public interest may exist even though that person is not a
public employee. C  is  incorrect  because  although  publication  of  the
truth  cannot  lead  to  liability  for  defamation,  publication  of  private
facts  that  are  not  newsworthy  may  result  in  liability  when  it  would
offend the reasonable person, even if those facts are true.

115. C  Trespass  to  land  consists  of  intentional  unauthorized  entry  on  realty
possessed by the plaintiff. There is no requirement of damage. Since
the landowner's complaint gave the factory knowledge that dust from
its operation was settling on the cabin, and since the factory thereafter
continued  operating  as  it  had  been,  the  necessary  intent  is  present
(i.e.,  the  factory  was  substantially  certain  that  entry  would  occur).
Some  cases  have  held  that  the  settling  of  dust  constitutes  a  tangible
entry on affected realty; other cases have held that it does not. For this
reason,  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  find  that  a  trespass
occurred.  Of  all  the  theories  listed,  however,  trespass  to  land  is  the
only one that might possibly result in a judgment for the landowner.

Invasion  of  privacy  by  intrusion  involves  an  interference  with  the
plaintiff's  interest  in  solitude  and  requires  some  kind  of  prying  into
the  plaintiff's  affairs  or  private  life.  This  did  not  occur  here.  Other
privacy  theories  —  appropriation,  public  disclosure,  false  light  —
are  not  even  remotely  applicable.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Unlike
trespass,  which  requires  no  damage,  nuisance  liability  is  imposed
only  where  the  plaintiff  has  sustained  some  substantial  harm.  An
individual may assert a public nuisance claim only if the harm that he
or she sustained differed from that sustained by the general public. B
is  incorrect  for  these  reasons.  An  abnormally  dangerous  activity  is
one  that  necessarily  involves  a  serious  risk  of  harm  that  cannot  be
eliminated  by  acting  reasonably.  Since  there  are  no  facts  indicating
that the use of unbagged cement is such an activity, D is incorrect.

116. D When tortfeasors are jointly and severally liable, a plaintiff is entitled

1049

to  collect  all  his  or  her  damages  from  any  one  of  them  (i.e.,
“severally”), or to collect his or her damages from them together (i.e.,
“jointly”)  in  any  combination  whatsoever.  Since  the  court  held  the
company,  the  employee,  and  the  driver  to  be  jointly  and  severally
liable  to  her,  the  passenger  is  entitled  to  collect  100  percent  of  her
damages from the employee if she chooses to do so.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect. (Note: Comparative negligence
statutes  determine  the  effect  of  the  plaintiff's  fault.  Since  the  jury
found the plaintiff to be free of fault, the existence of a comparative
negligence  statute 
law
contribution systems give joint tortfeasors certain rights against each
other, but do not affect a plaintiff's right to collect from them jointly
and/or severally.)

irrelevant.  Statutory  and  common 

is 

117. C That joint tortfeasors are “jointly and severally liable” means that the
plaintiff  may  collect  all  his  or  her  damages  from  either  of  them  or
from  both  of  them  in  any  combination.  Obviously,  however,  the  fact
that there are multiple tortfeasors does not entitle a plaintiff to collect
his or her damages more than once. Since the defendants were jointly
and  severally  liable  to  the  plaintiff  for  $100,000,  the  plaintiff  is
entitled  to  collect  $100,000  from  either  or  both  of  them  in  any
combination.  Since  the  plaintiff  has  already  received  $10,000  from
the  first  defendant,  she  is  entitled  to  collect  the  remaining  $90,000
from the second defendant.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  a  statute  basing  contribution  on
apportionment  of  fault  affects  the  rights  that  joint  tortfeasors  have
against  each  other,  but  it  does  not  affect  their  joint  and  several
liability  to  the  plaintiff.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  plaintiff  has
already received $10,000 from the first defendant, and to allow her to
collect  an  additional  $100,000  from  the  second  defendant  would
result in her collecting her damages more than once.

118. B In jurisdictions that follow pure comparative negligence, the plaintiff's
recovery 
fault.
Consequently,  the  $100,000  in  damages  was  75  percent  the  fault  of
the plaintiff, so he should only recover 25 percent of the damages, or
$25,000.

in  proportion 

the  plaintiff's 

reduced 

to 

is 

A  is  incorrect  because  in  a  pure  comparative  fault  jurisdiction,  the
fact  that  the  plaintiff  was  responsible  for  more  of  the  damages  does
not  relieve  the  defendant  from  liability.  C  is  incorrect,  because  the

1050

plaintiff would not be entitled to damages that could be attributed to
his negligence. D is incorrect, because the plaintiff's damages would
be reduced by the amount of his negligence.

threatened 

119. B Self-defense is a privilege to use reasonable force to protect oneself
against  a 
tortious  contact  or  confinement.  Some
jurisdictions hold that it is never reasonable to use deadly force when
it is reasonably safe to retreat. But even in those jurisdictions that do
not  require  retreat,  the  defendant's  privilege  is  likely  to  turn  on
whether he knew or should have known that he could safely retreat. In
connection  with  the  privilege  of  self-defense,  “reasonable  force”
means the force that would have appeared necessary to the reasonable
person  in  the  defendant's  situation.  If  the  defendant  knew  or  should
have known that he could safely and easily retreat without sustaining
harm, the reasonable person in his situation would probably not have
considered it necessary to use any force at all in self-defense. On the
other hand, if the defendant could not have known that he could safely
and  easily  retreat,  the  reasonable  person  in  his  situation  might  have
considered the use of a knife necessary because of the extreme danger
facing a person who has a pistol pointed at him.

Deadly force may be reasonable in self-defense if the person using it
is  being  threatened  by  what  reasonably  appears  to  be  deadly  force.
Since the plaintiff was threatening the defendant with a pistol, the use
of a knife — even if it was deadly force — may have been privileged
in  self-defense.  For  this  reason,  A  is  incorrect.  If  the  defendant
initiated the aggression by slapping the plaintiff, then the plaintiff was
privileged  to  use  reasonable  force  to  defend  himself  against  the
possibility of further blows by the defendant. Thus, if the force with
which the plaintiff threatened the defendant was reasonable, it would
have  been  privileged  and  therefore  not  tortious.  If  that  was  so,  then
the defendant would not have been privileged to use force to defend
himself against it. (This reasoning accounts for the rule that an initial
aggressor is not privileged to use force to defend himself or herself
against a reasonable response to his or her aggression.) If, however,
the plaintiff's use of a pistol was unreasonable (i.e., excessive force),
it  was  not  privileged  by  self-defense.  Then,  the  contact  with  which
the  plaintiff  threatened  the  defendant  would  have  been  tortious,  and
the defendant would have been privileged to defend himself against it
by using reasonable force. Thus, even if the defendant was the initial
aggressor,  he  might  have  been  privileged  to  use  a  knife  to  defend

1051

himself  against  the  plaintiff's  use  of  a  gun.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.
Since reasonable force depends on what the reasonable person in the
defendant's  situation  would  have  considered  necessary, 
the
defendant's  privilege  depends  on  how  the  defendant  perceived  or
should  have  perceived  the  threat  with  which  he  was  confronted.
Whether  or  not  the  plaintiff  knew  that  the  pistol  was  loaded,  the
defendant's  use  of  a  knife  might  have  been  reasonable  if  the
defendant  believed  that  the  pistol  was  loaded.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

120. D  A  person  who  keeps  a  wild  animal  is  strictly  liable  for  all  damage
done by that animal so long as that damage results from a dangerous
propensity that is typical of the animal's species. Importantly, the fact
that the average person fears a particular type of animal is part of that
animal's dangerous propensities. Here, although the lion may not have
harmed  the  plaintiff  in  any  way,  the  defendant  is  strictly  liable
because humans' fear of unrestrained lions is part of what makes lions
dangerous. Importantly, that fear caused the plaintiff to drop the pot of
grease  onto  her  foot.  C is  therefore  incorrect.  Whether  an  animal  is
known to be dangerous comes into play when determining liability for
domestic  animals.  A  lion  is  certainly  not  a  domestic  animal  (like  a
cat, dog, or hamster). A is therefore incorrect. Because the defendant
can be held strictly liable, the defendant's negligence is irrelevant. B
is therefore incorrect.

121. C The law of torts knows only three possible bases of liability: intent,
negligence,  and  strict  liability.  Since  intent  is  desire  or  knowledge
with  substantial  certainty  that  harm  will  occur,  and  since  the  store
owner did not desire or know that any person would be struck by the
door,  no  recovery  is  possible  on  an  intent  theory.  Although  strict
liability  is  imposed  on  the  sellers  of  defective  products,  strict
liability  is  not  available  against  the  store  owner  because  the  store
owner  did  not  sell  the  product  that  injured  the  customer.  The  only
remaining theory is negligence, which involves unreasonable conduct
in  the  face  of  a  duty  of  reasonable  care.  Since  the  customer  entered
the premises for the purpose of making a purchase, he is an invitee.
The duty owed to an invitee is to keep the premises reasonably safe
by making reasonable inspections and reasonable repairs. Thus, if a
reasonable  inspection  would  have  disclosed  the  problem,  then  the
store  owner  was  either  negligent  in  not  inspecting  or  negligent  in
failing  to  discover  what  a  reasonable  inspection  would  have

1052

disclosed.

A is incorrect because only a professional seller of products like the
one  that  caused  injury  can  be  held  strictly  liable  for  defects  in  that
product.  The  liability  of  a  defendant  does  not  depend  upon  the
availability of remedies against others. Thus, even if the fact that the
contractor  was  not  negligent  might  leave  the  customer  without  a
remedy,  it  would  not  affect  the  liability  of  the  store  owner.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  A  landholder  owes  an  invitee  a  duty  of
reasonable care to keep the premises reasonably safe, while he or she
owes  a  lesser  duty  to  licensees  and  trespassers.  For  this  reason,  it
might be relevant to determine whether the customer entered the store
owner's premises as an invitee. An invitee is one whose presence is
likely to confer an economic benefit on the landholder or one who has
entered the premises in response to a public invitation. Supermarkets
ordinarily  invite  the  public  (either  expressly  or  impliedly)  to  enter
their premises for the purpose of examining their wares. In addition,
the courts usually hold that a person who is likely to buy confers an
economic  benefit  by  entering  business  premises,  even  if  he  or  she
does not actually make a purchase while there. For these two reasons,
the customer was an invitee whether or not he made a purchase before
leaving. D is therefore incorrect.

122.  C  Battery  is  committed  by  intentionally  causing  harmful  or  offensive
contact  with  another  person.  Since  there  was  no  contact  with  the
plaintiff, he could not successfully maintain a battery claim.

A, B, and D are incorrect for the above reason.

123. B  False  imprisonment  is  committed  by  intentionally  confining  another
person.  For 
the
plaintiff's will to leave. If the ex-husband's father did not prevent the
plaintiff from leaving, he did not confine her and could not be liable
to her for false imprisonment.

this  purpose,  “confining”  means  overcoming 

A  is  incorrect  because  damage  is  not  an  essential  element  of  false
imprisonment.  Although  the  ex-husband's  father's  conduct  may  have
prevented the plaintiff from obtaining physical custody of her son, the
plaintiff cannot maintain an action for false imprisonment unless she
herself was confined. C and D are therefore incorrect.

124. A Since the facts do not indicate that the defendant intended contact with
the boy or harm of any kind to the plaintiff, the only claim that could

1053

possibly  succeed  against  him  would  be  one  founded  on  negligence.
Negligence  is  a  breach  of  the  duty  of  reasonable  care.  Generally,  a
defendant owes a duty of reasonable care to a plaintiff only if his or
her conduct created a risk to that plaintiff that was foreseeable to the
reasonable  person.  Thus,  if  the  reasonable  person  would  not  have
expected  (i.e.,  foreseen)  harm  to  the  plaintiff,  the  defendant  would
have  owed  her  no  duty  of  reasonable  care  and  could  not  be  held
liable  to  her  for  negligence.  Many  jurisdictions  apply  the  “zone  of
danger” rule, which holds that a plaintiff may not recover for mental
suffering  that  he  or  she  experienced  upon  seeing  another  person
sustain  a  physical  injury  unless  he  or  she  was  in  the  same  zone  of
physical  danger  as  the  injured  person.  In  those  jurisdictions,  the
plaintiff  could  not  succeed  against  the  defendant  even  if  the  harm  to
her  was  foreseeable.  A  is  correct,  however,  because  of  all  the
additional facts listed, it is the only one that could possibly result in a
judgment for the plaintiff.

B is incorrect because the doctrine of transferred intent applies only
when the defendant's intent was tortious to begin with. Since the facts
do not indicate that the defendant desired or knew with certainty that
his car would strike the boy, he had no tortious intent. C is incorrect
because there is no rule of tort law that transfers consequences that is
known  as  the  “doctrine  of  transferred  consequences.”  Liability  for
intentionally inflicting emotional distress requires outrageous conduct
by  the  defendant.  This  tort  also  requires  that  the  defendant  intend  to
cause mental suffering or be reckless in creating the risk of emotional
distress,  however.  Since  the  defendant  lacked  such  intent  (while  he
was  speeding,  “reckless”  requires  the  defendant  to  act  in  deliberate
disregard of a high degree of probability that emotional distress will
occur,  and  there  are  no  facts  indicating  this),  he  could  not  be  held
liable  for  intentionally  inflicting  mental  distress  even  if  his  conduct
was outrageous. D is therefore incorrect.

125.  C  Negligence  is  the  breach  of  a  duty  of  reasonable  care.  In  some
jurisdictions, the duty that a landholder owes to a plaintiff who enters
the  land  depends  on  the  plaintiff's  status  as  trespasser,  licensee,  or
invitee.  In  other  jurisdictions,  the  duty  does  not  depend  on  the
plaintiff's  status.  All  jurisdictions  agree,  however,  that  a  defendant
does not owe a plaintiff anything more than reasonable care, no matter
what the plaintiff's status. Since the lawn had recently been mowed,
and  since  the  ladder  was  in  plain  view,  it  probably  was  reasonable

1054

for  the  homeowner  to  believe  that  the  employee  saw  it.  If  so,  the
homeowner's  failure  to  warn  the  employee  about  it  probably  was
reasonable as well, and therefore probably was not negligent. While
it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  the
argument in C  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly  support  the
homeowner's defense.

The  fact  that  the  homeowner  did  not  know  with  certainty  that  the
employee would be injured means that he did not intend her injury. A
is  incorrect,  however,  because  negligence  liability  does  not  require
intent or knowledge with certainty that harm will result. B is incorrect
because  a  landholder's  obligation  to  warn  or  protect  others  against
dangerous conditions of his or her land may extend to conditions that
he  or  she  did  not  create.  D  is  an  incorrect  statement  of  the  law;  in
general,  a  government  employee  entering  on  official  business  is  at
least a licensee, entitled to be warned of dangerous conditions known
to the landholder and hidden from the licensee's view.

126.  D  Under  the  doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur,  an  inference  that  the
defendant acted unreasonably can be drawn if the injury involved was
one that does not usually occur without unreasonable conduct and the
defendant was the only person whose conduct could have caused the
injury (i.e., the defendant had exclusive control of the circumstances).
If  an  expert  witness  testifies  that  surgeons  do  not  usually  leave
instruments  inside  a  patient  unless  they  are  acting  unreasonably,  the
patient  can  rely  on  the  inference  established  by  res  ipsa  loquitur  if
she can show that the doctor was the only person who could have left
the instrument inside her. Since the doctor was the only person who
had  ever  performed  surgery  on  the  patient,  the  doctor  is  the  only
person who could have left the instrument inside her.

A is incorrect because it is based on an inaccurate statement of law;
there are many medical malpractice cases in which the plaintiff was
permitted  to  rely  on  res  ipsa  loquitur.  (Note:  These  frequently
involve  foreign  objects  that  were  left  in  the  plaintiff's  body  during
surgery). Ordinarily, in drawing an inference of negligence under the
doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur,  a  jury  relies  on  what  it  knows  about
human experience to determine whether a particular accident is of a
kind  that  does  not  usually  occur  without  negligence.  Because  of  its
lack  of  specialized  knowledge,  a  jury  is  not  competent  to  decide
whether  the  particular  result  of  a  professional's  conduct  is  one  that

1055

would  not  usually  occur  without  negligence.  Once  a  jury  has  heard
testimony to that effect from an expert witness, however, it may base
an  inference  of  negligence  on  its  decision  about  whether  or  not  it
believes  that  witness.  This  is  a  decision  that  a  jury  is  uniquely
competent  to  make.  For  this  reason,  B  is  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect
because  res  ipsa  loquitur  is  not  dependent  on  the  existence  of  any
“absolute duty,” but rather on circumstantial evidence that justifies the
inference that a particular defendant acted unreasonably.

127.  A  In  an  all-or-nothing  contributory  negligence  jurisdiction,  a  plaintiff
whose own negligence contributed to the accident cannot recover any
damages for injuries that he or she sustained. Under pure comparative
negligence  statutes,  a  plaintiff's  negligence  does  not  bar  his  or  her
recovery, but results in a reduction of damages in proportion to his or
her  own  fault.  Since  the  jury  found  the  pedestrian's  damage  to  be
$100,000  and  found  the  pedestrian  to  be  20  percent  at  fault,  the
pedestrian  is  entitled  to  collect  $100,000  reduced  by  20  percent.
When  two  defendants  are  “jointly  and  severally”  liable  to  the
plaintiff,  the  plaintiff  may  collect  the  entire  amount  of  his  or  her
judgment from either of them (several liability), or may collect it from
both of them in any combination whatsoever (joint liability). Since the
court  found  both  defendants  to  be  jointly  and  severally  liable  to  the
pedestrian, the pedestrian can collect the full amount of his judgment
from the first driver alone.

B is incorrect because of the “collateral source rule,” which provides
that money that a plaintiff receives from parties other than tortfeasors
or  their  representatives  is  irrelevant  in  determining  his  or  her
damages.  For  this  reason,  the  sum  of  $10,000  that  the  pedestrian
received  from  his  own  hospitalization  insurer  plays  no  part  in
determining the amount that he can collect from the defendants. C is
incorrect  because  the  court  found  the  defendants  to  be  jointly  and
severally liable to the pedestrian as explained above. D is incorrect
under the collateral source rule as explained above.

128. D A person is strictly liable for any damages that occur while he or she
is  conducting  an  abnormally  dangerous  activity.  An  activity  is
abnormally dangerous if there is a high degree of risk of some harm to
others, the harm that results is likely to be serious, the risk cannot be
eliminated  by  the  exercise  of  reasonable  care,  the  activity  is  not
common,  the  activity  is  not  appropriate  for  the  place  where  it  is

1056

carried  on,  and  the  danger  outweighs  the  activity's  value  to  the
community. There are some types of activities that are generally held
to be abnormally dangerous, such as the use or storage of explosives,
crop  dusting  or  spraying  with  pesticides,  and  the  operation  of  a
nuclear  reactor.  Here,  since  the  defendant  is  operating  a  nuclear
reactor, it is strictly liable for the harm done to the plaintiff. A and C
are  therefore  incorrect.  Ordinary  contributory  fault  will  not  usually
bar  a  plaintiff  from  recovery  under  strict  liability.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.

129. C Under the “but for” rule of causation, a defendant's conduct is a cause
of a plaintiff's injury if the plaintiff's injury would not have occurred
without it. Since the pedestrian would not have been injured without
the  girl's  intoxication,  and  since  the  girl  would  not  have  become
intoxicated  without  the  second  tavern's  conduct,  the  second  tavern's
conduct was a cause of the pedestrian's injury.

A  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons.  First,  given  the  facts,  it  is  uncertain
whether the first tavern's conduct was a substantial factor in making
the  girl  intoxicated.  Second,  even  if  the  first  tavern's  conduct  was  a
cause  of  the  harm  (i.e.,  a  substantial  factor  in  producing  it),  the
second tavern's conduct was also a cause of that harm. B is incorrect
because the language  of  the  statute  (“.  .  .  any  person  who  sold  said
minor  the  alcohol  which  resulted  in  said  minor's  intoxication  .  .  .”)
indicates  that  liability  depends  on  a  causal  relationship  between  the
defendant's  conduct  and 
the
the  minor's 
pedestrian's  injury  would  not  have  occurred  without  the  girl's
intoxication, any cause of the girl's intoxication must also have been a
cause of the pedestrian's injury. D is therefore incorrect.

intoxication.  Since 

130. C Negligence is unreasonable conduct in the face of a foreseeable risk.
If  the  contractor  acted  reasonably  in  relying  on  the  architect's
instructions, she could not have been negligent.

A  plaintiff  may  be  prevented  from  recovering  for  damages  resulting
from  a  defendant's  negligence  if  the  plaintiff  “assumed  the  risk”  by
voluntarily  encountering  a  risk  of  which  he  or  she  knew.  A  is
incorrect  because  this  concept  applies  only  to  the  conduct  of  a
plaintiff.  B  is  incorrect  because  a  defendant  owes  a  duty  of
reasonable care to all persons who are placed at a foreseeable risk as
a result of that defendant's conduct. Since it was foreseeable that the
landowner would hire a mover to bring furniture into the new house,

1057

the  contractor  thus  owed  the  mover  a  duty  to  act  reasonably  in
building the house and could be liable to the mover for breaching it.
D is incorrect because a ritualistic protest is not sufficient to absolve
a person of liability for the results of his or her conduct if that conduct
is unreasonable.

131. C The manufacturer of a product is strictly liable for damage that results
from a defect in the product that existed at the time the manufacturer
placed that product in the stream of commerce. In this connection, a
product is defective if its condition would defeat the expectations of
the  reasonable  consumer.  Since  a  reasonable  consumer  would  not
expect liquor to contain poison, the liquor was defective. Since that
defect  existed  when  the  liquor  left  the  factory,  the  factory  is  strictly
liable for the pedestrian's injuries.

A  is  incorrect  because  strict  liability  is  imposed  regardless  of  the
reason  for  the  existence  of  the  defect.  B  is  incorrect  because  strict
liability  is  applied  for  the  benefit  of  any  foreseeable  plaintiff
regardless  of  whether  he  or  she  was  a  purchaser,  consumer,  or
bystander. D is incorrect because strict liability (i.e., liability without
fault) does not depend on the defendant's unreasonable conduct.

132. A  Strict  liability  (i.e.,  liability  without  fault)  may  be  imposed  on  one
who engages in an abnormally dangerous activity. In this connection,
an activity is sufficiently dangerous to result in strict liability if it is
not a common activity and necessarily involves a serious risk of harm
that cannot be eliminated by reasonable care. While it is not certain
that a court would come to this conclusion, A is the only option that
could possibly be correct.

Although the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur may permit an inference of
negligence  to  be  drawn  from  circumstantial  evidence,  it  does  not
impose  negligence  liability  on  a  defendant  who  was  not  negligent.
Since  the  facts  indicate  that  the  rocket  company  acted  reasonably,
negligence liability should not be imposed. B  is  therefore  incorrect.
Although  tort  liability  is  sometimes  limited  by  the  concept  of
foreseeability,  the  amount  of  damage  need  not  be  specifically
foreseeable  so  long  as  the  type  of  damage  is  foreseeable.  C  is
therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  a  type  of  harm  may  be
foreseeable  even  though  it  never  happened  before  (e.g.,  it  is
foreseeable  that  a  person  will  die  even  though  he  or  she  has  never
died before). The fact that no such damage had ever occurred in the

1058

past is therefore not sufficient to make that damage unforeseeable.

133. C A manufacturer is strictly liable for injuries that result from a defect
in its product if the defect existed when the manufacturer placed the
product in the stream of commerce. The company will thus be strictly
liable  if  the  absence  of  an  acceleration  suppressor  was  a  defect.  A
defect  is  a  condition  that  would  defeat  the  expectations  of  the
reasonable  consumer.  Unless  the  belt  truck  is  equipped  with  an
acceleration  suppressor,  it  will  lurch  forward  if  the  belt  idle  is
adjusted  improperly.  The  reasonable  consumer  probably  does  not
expect  a  vehicle  to  lurch  forward  when  it  is  being  used  for  its
intended purpose. Since persons who maintain belt trucks frequently
adjust the belt idle improperly, belt trucks will frequently lurch in the
absence  of  an  acceleration  suppressor.  Its  absence,  therefore,  is
probably a defect.

those  subsequent  acts  (i.e., 

The absence of an acceleration suppressor was a factual cause of the
employee's injury because the employee would not have been injured
if the truck had been equipped with one. The fact that the injury would
not  have  occurred  without  the  subsequent  acts  of  others  (i.e.,
intervening causes) would not prevent the company from being liable
intervening  causes)  were
unless 
unforeseeable (i.e., superseding causes). Since humans are frequently
negligent,  the  unreasonable  conduct  of  the  first  airline  and  the
contractor may have been foreseeable. For this reason, A and B are
incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  it  is  based  on  an  inaccurate
statement.  Sometimes  the  relationship  between  two  persons  makes
one of them responsible for conduct of the other (i.e., conduct of one
is  imputed  to  the  other).  There  is  no  relationship  between  the
contractor  and  the  company  that  would  result  in  such  an  imputation,
however.

134. D Private nuisance involves a tortious invasion of the plaintiff's right to
use  and  enjoy  realty.  Although  the  fumes  invaded  the  homeowner's
right  to  use  and  enjoy  his  realty,  their  emission  was  not  a  nuisance
unless it resulted from liability-forming (i.e., tortious) conduct by the
company.  Since  the  homeowner  has  alleged  that  the  company's
conduct  was  liability-forming  in  that  it  was  negligent,  liability  will
depend  on  whether  the  company's  conduct  was  unreasonable  (i.e.,
is
negligent).  Ordinarily, 
unreasonable,  it  is  necessary  to  weigh  the  risks  resulting  from  such
conduct  against  the  burdens  of  eliminating  those  risks.  Additionally,

in  determining  whether  conduct 

1059

courts  will  weigh  the  social  value  and  utility  of  the  defendant's
activity  against  the  harm  done  to  the  plaintiff.  Here,  the  company  is
making an insecticide that is very important to the state's orange crop,
and the plaintiff is having the paint on his home damaged. If the cost
(i.e.,  the  burden)  of  eliminating  the  fumes  would  drive  the  company
out  of  business,  a  court  might  find  that  the  burden  was  so  much
heavier  than  the  risk  that  it  would  eliminate  that  it  was  not
unreasonable for the company to continue emitting the fumes, and that
the company, therefore, was not negligent. While it is not certain that
a court would come to this conclusion, D is the only argument listed
that could possibly provide the company with an effective defense.

A  is  incorrect  because  nuisance  requires  an  invasion  of  plaintiff's
rights in realty, but it does not require a physical invasion of the realty
itself. For an individual to prevail in a claim for public nuisance, he
or  she  must  show  that  the  harm  that  he  or  she  sustained  was
substantially different from that sustained by the general public. B is
incorrect,  however,  because  no  such  showing  is  required  in  a  claim
for private nuisance. If the homeowner's claim were based on intent,
it would be necessary for him to show that the company knew that its
activity  was  interfering  with  his  right.  Since  his  claim  is  based  on
negligence,  however,  it  is  sufficient  for  him  to  show  that  such
interference was foreseeable. C is therefore incorrect.

135. C Strict liability in tort is imposed, regardless of fault, on a professional
supplier who sells a product while it is in a defective condition. If a
product  is  more  dangerous  than  would  be  contemplated  by  the
ordinary  consumer,  the  product  is  defectively  dangerous.  If  the
ordinary consumer would not have expected the product to irritate the
scalp  of  a  person  with  the  plaintiff's  allergy,  then  the  product's
condition  would  defeat  the  reasonable  expectation  of  the  ordinary
consumer and was defective.

Under  the  doctrine  of  res  ipsa  loquitur,  an  inference  of  negligence
can be drawn from the fact that a particular kind of accident does not
usually  occur  without  negligence.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because
the plaintiff's theory is strict liability in tort, and since strict liability
is imposed without regard to fault, an inference that the defendant was
negligent is not relevant to it. The facts in B and D would suggest that
the company knew or should have known about the plaintiff's allergy.
This  knowledge  is  not  sufficient,  however,  to  establish  that  the

1060

product's  condition  would  have  defeated  the  reasonable  expectation
of  the  ordinary  consumer  (i.e.,  that  the  product  was  defective).  For
this reason, B and D are incorrect.

136. D Negligence can be based on an unreasonable omission, so long as the
potentially negligent party had a duty to act. Generally, a person has a
duty to act only when his or her conduct causes a need for such action.
This can happen when a person's conduct causes a plaintiff to fail to
protect himself or herself against already existing risks because he or
she  reasonably  believes  that  the  person  would  protect  him  or  her.
Consequently,  since  the  defendant's  past  conduct  had  caused  the
plaintiff  to  reasonably  believe  there  would  be  no  leaves  on  the
sidewalk,  the  defendant  could  be  found  negligent  under  these
circumstances.  This  would  be  so  whether  or  not  the  danger  was
created by the defendant or located on his or her property. Therefore,
A and C are incorrect. B is incorrect because the plaintiff's potential
negligence would not necessarily insulate the defendant from liability.

137. A Res ipsa loquitur permits an inference of unreasonable conduct to be
drawn  where  the  accident  is  one  that  would  not  ordinarily  have
occurred  without  negligence,  and  the  defendant  was  in  exclusive
control of the circumstances that produced the harm. Since the bread
company  was  in  exclusive  control  of  the  baking  process,  res  ipsa
loquitur  would  apply  if  reasonable  care  in  baking  would  ordinarily
have eliminated the slivers (i.e., if the accident would not ordinarily
have occurred without negligence).

B  is  incorrect  because  liability  for  negligence  (which  is  the  only
theory  to  which  res  ipsa  loquitur  applies)  does  not  depend  on
whether a product is defective. The customer's harm  was  caused  by
the presence of the metal slivers in the bread. C is incorrect because
even if the farmer's negligence caused the slivers to be in the wheat,
the bread company may be liable for the harm if its negligence caused
them to be in the bread. If reasonable care would have prevented the
slivers from getting in the bread, it does not matter how they got into
the  wheat.  Thus,  even  if  the  breaking  of  the  farmer's  blade  was
unforeseeable, the bread company might be liable to the customer for
its  negligence  in  failing  to  keep  the  slivers  out  of  the  bread.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

138. C A defendant is liable for intentional infliction of emotional distress if,
with  the  intent  to  cause  mental  distress,  he  or  she  engages  in

1061

outrageous conduct that causes severe mental distress. The defendant
intends  the  plaintiff's  mental  distress  if  he  or  she  desires  or  knows
that  it  will  result  from  his  or  her  conduct.  Because  of  the  affection
normally  associated  with  the  mother-daughter  relationship,  the
kidnapper probably intended that his threats to injure or kill the girl
would cause her mother to experience mental distress. If his conduct
was  outrageous  and  caused  her  to  experience  mental  distress,  the
kidnapper  is  liable  to  her  for  the  mental  distress  and  any  physical
manifestations of it.

A is incorrect because the passage of time is not sufficient to prevent
liability  for  an  injury  that  was  caused  by  the  defendant's  tortious
conduct.  If  the  reasonable  person  would  not  have  experienced  any
suffering  as  a  result  of  the  kidnapper's  conduct,  then  a  plaintiff  who
did  experience  suffering  might  not  be  permitted  to  recover  for  it
because the law does not seek to benefit a supersensitive plaintiff. If
the  reasonable  person  would  have  experienced  some  suffering,
however,  a  plaintiff  will  be  permitted  to  recover  for  his  or  her
suffering even if a preexisting condition makes it unusually severe. B
is therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because liability for intentional
infliction of mental distress requires intent, not merely a foreseeable
risk.

139.  C  Assumption  of  the  risk  is  a  defense  in  all  approaches  to  products
liability (although some jurisdictions have merged it with the concept
of  comparative  fault),  and  it  occurs  when  the  plaintiff  voluntarily
encounters a known risk. If the plaintiff knew that the paper suit was
likely  to  dissolve  when  wet  and  wore  it  anyway,  she  voluntarily
encountered (and therefore assumed) a known risk.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  department  store  may  be  held  liable
without fault for selling a defective product. B is incorrect because a
sign like the one described is not sufficient to apprise the buyer that
the product is being sold without any warranty of merchantability or
to prevent the reasonable consumer from expecting the bathing suit to
hold  together  when  wet.  Although  a  product  retailer  who  is  held
liable for selling a defective product has a right to be indemnified by
the product's manufacturer, the right of the injured plaintiff to recover
does not depend on this right of the retailer. D is therefore incorrect.

140.  B  Normally,  a  minor  child  is  held  to  the  same  standard  of  care  as  a
reasonable  child  of  similar  “age,  intelligence,  and  experience.”

1062

However, if the child engages in an adult activity, the child is held to
an adult standard of care. An adult activity is one normally undertaken
only  by  adults  and  for  which  adult  qualifications  are  required.
Driving a motorcycle is such an activity (usually, it requires a license
and has age restrictions). Consequently, the boy would be held to an
adult standard of care. According to the question, a reasonable adult
would have known to slow down, so the boy is liable for not adhering
to that standard.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  boy  is  not  automatically  liable  for  the
simple fact he is driving a motorcycle. C is incorrect because it states
the  wrong  standard  of  care.  D  is  incorrect  because  following  the
posted speed limit would not necessarily absolve him from liability.

141. B Negligence is a failure to act reasonably. Thus, if it was unreasonable
for the dog trainer to work the dog in her front yard, her conduct was
negligent  and  could  result  in  liability.  While  it  is  not  certain  that  a
court would come to this conclusion, the argument in B is the only one
listed that could possibly support the walker's claim.

Strict liability for damage resulting from a product defect is imposed
only  against  a  professional  supplier  who  placed  the  product  in  the
stream of commerce. Since the dog trainer was a user of the device
rather  than  a  supplier  of  it,  A  is  incorrect.  Conduct  that  causes
damage  can  result  in  tort  liability  only  if  the  damage  was  intended,
resulted from negligence, or resulted from an activity for which strict
liability  is  imposed.  Without  establishing  one  of  these  bases  of
liability, calling the dog trainer's conduct a cause of harm would not
be sufficient to result in liability. For this reason, the argument in C is
incomplete,  making  C  incorrect.  Although  some  special  standard  of
care might be imposed because of the dog trainer's profession, D  is
incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication  that  the  standard  was
breached.

142.  D  Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  product  that  is  in  a
defective  condition  when  sold.  If  the  presence  of  the  toxic  material
was a defect, the company would be strictly liable.

A is incorrect because strict liability is imposed regardless of fault or
knowledge by the defendant. Although the classification of a product
as  “inherently  dangerous”  was  significant  during  a  certain  historical
period  in  the  development  of  the  law  of  torts,  this  is  no  longer  the

1063

case. B is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because strict liability in
tort does not depend on the reasonableness of the defendant's conduct.

143.  A  A  person  whose  conduct  is  negligent  is  liable  for  damage  that  is
proximately caused by that negligence. Conduct is a proximate cause
of harm if it is a factual and legal cause of that harm. Thus, because
the  driver's  negligence  was  a  factual  and  legal  cause  of  the
pedestrian's broken leg, the driver is liable for it.

B is incorrect because there was no relationship between the driver
and  the  taxi  that  would  result  in  such  an  imputation.  C  is  an
impossibility since nothing can be regarded as a legal cause of harm
unless  it  was  a  factual  cause  of  that  harm.  The  reasoning  of  D
establishes that the taxi's conduct was a cause of harm, but it does not
establish  that  the  other  driver's  conduct  was  not.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

144. D A statement is defamatory if it would tend to hold the plaintiff up to
shame,  disgrace,  or  ridicule  in  the  minds  of  a  substantial  group  of
respectable people. Since most respectable people believe that theft
is  disgraceful,  an  accusation  that  the  plaintiff  is  a  thief  is  probably
defamatory.

Because  the  employee  did  not  return  the  tools,  the  employer's
statement  is  literally  true.  However,  the  literal  truth  of  the  statement
would not prevent the employer from being liable since there is some
dispute as to whether the employee was justified in taking the tools. A
is  therefore  incorrect.  A  defendant  may  be  privileged  to  make
defamatory  statements  in  a  reasonable  and  good  faith  attempt  to
protect  a  legitimate  interest.  In  deciding  whether  a  former  employer
was  acting  in  good  faith  when  making  a  defamatory  statement  to  a
plaintiff's prospective employer, courts frequently look to whether the
former employer made the statement gratuitously (making it less likely
that he or she was acting in good faith) or in response to a request for
information (making it more likely that he or she was acting in good
faith). B is incorrect, however, because this fact alone is not sufficient
to  privilege  a  defendant's  publication.  C  is  incorrect  because  if  the
defendant was acting reasonably and in good faith, the interest that a
former  employer  has  in  common  with  a  prospective  employer  might
be sufficiently legitimate to make the privilege apply.

145.  C  While  a  defendant  can  be  held  strictly  liable  for  carrying  on  an

1064

abnormally  dangerous  activity  such  as  transporting  high  explosives,
the  defendant  is  only  strictly  liable  for  damage  that  results  from  the
kind  of  risk  that  made  the  activity  abnormally  dangerous.  While
transporting  high  explosives  may  be  abnormally  dangerous,  the
plaintiff's  injuries  did  not  result  from  the  kind  of  risk  that  made  this
activity  abnormally  dangerous  (namely  explosions).  A  is  therefore
incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  assumption  of  the  risk  involves
situations where the plaintiff has voluntarily consented to take his or
her  chances  that  a  harm  will  occur.  This  usually  involves  situations
where the plaintiff is engaging in some type of activity, such as going
to a baseball game, bungee jumping, skiing, etc. Here, the plaintiff's
actions  were  more  correctly  categorized  as  contributory  negligence.
Importantly,  in  a  jurisdiction  that  follows  comparative  negligence
principles,  this  negligence  will  not  completely  bar  the  plaintiff's
recovery.  It  will  only  lessen  the  amount  recovered.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

146. D Negligence is the failure to act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable
risk  created  by  the  defendant's  conduct.  Since  it  probably  was
foreseeable  that  the  used  car  dealer  would  show  a  customer  the  car
after  buying  it  for  resale,  the  seller  owed  such  customers  a  duty  of
reasonable care that probably was breached by his failure to disclose
the  crack.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this
conclusion, D is the only argument listed that could possibly lead to
recovery by the customer.

Battery  is  committed  by  intentionally  causing  a  harmful  or  offensive
contact  with  the  plaintiff.  In  a  battery  case,  intent  means  a  desire  or
knowledge  that  there  will  be  harmful  or  offensive  contact  with  the
plaintiff  or  that  the  plaintiff  will  become  apprehensive  of  such
contact. Although the seller knew that the engine was cracked, there is
no  indication  that  he  desired  or  knew  that  the  crack  would  result  in
harmful or offensive contact with any person, or that it would cause
apprehension  of  such  contact.  Although  these  risks  may  have  been
foreseeable,  battery  liability  cannot  be  imposed  without  intent.  For
this  reason,  A  is  incorrect.  Misrepresentation  liability  is  imposed
only  for  the  benefit  of  a  plaintiff  who  justifiably  relied  on  the
defendant's  false  representation.  Since  the  customer  did  not  rely  on
any  express  or  implied  statement  made  by  the  seller,  B  and  C  are
incorrect.

1065

147.  A  When  a  defendant  negligently  causes  physical  injury  or  property
damage to one party, but only pure economic loss to the plaintiff, the
traditional rule is that the plaintiff may not recover anything. This is
because  a  defendant  could  have  open-ended  liability  (for  example,
the restaurant's suppliers could sue, other waiters, etc.). Some courts
recognize  case-by-case  exceptions  to  this  rule,  but  only  in  cases
where the injury to the plaintiff was relatively foreseeable, relatively
few plaintiffs would be permitted to sue, and the defendant's conduct
was  relatively  blameworthy.  As  stated  above,  if  plaintiffs  are
allowed  to  sue  for  pure  economic  loss  in  this  case,  there  is  a
potentially  limitless  number  of  plaintiffs.  C  and  D  are  therefore
incorrect.  Because  the  defendant  would  be  liable  in  certain
exceptional cases, B is incorrect.

148.  B  A  private  individual  can  successfully  assert  a  claim  for  public
nuisance only if the harm that he or she sustained was different from
that sustained by the general public (i.e., “particular” harm). Since no
fact  indicates  this  to  be  so  of  the  resident,  she  may  not  assert  the
public nuisance claim.

A is incorrect because if the resident had sustained “particular” harm,
the decision of the city attorney would not prevent her from suing for
damages. Although it is generally held that a private individual may
not  seek  an  injunction  on  a  public  nuisance  theory,  C  is  incorrect
because  there  are  other  theories  on  which  a  private  individual  may
receive an injunction against environmental polluters. D is incorrect
because a private individual who sustains particular harm as result of
a public nuisance may sue for damages.

149.  D  It  is  given  that  the  doctor's  conduct  was  negligent.  Even  if  a
defendant's  conduct  was  negligent,  however,  the  defendant  is  not
liable for the plaintiff's injuries unless they were proximately caused
by  that  conduct.  Conduct  is  a  proximate  cause  of  an  injury  if  it  is  a
factual  and  legal  cause  of  the  injury.  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of
injury  if  the  injury  would  not  have  occurred  without  it.  Since  the
trucker would not have been in the hospital and injured by the falling
of the hospital structure except for the doctor's conduct, the doctor's
conduct was a factual cause of the trucker's injury. If conduct was a
factual  cause  of  harm,  it  was  a  legal  cause  of  that  harm  if  the  harm
was  foreseeable  and  not  brought  about  by  superseding  causes.  A
is
superseding  cause  of  harm 

intervening  cause 

is  an 

that 

1066

unforeseeable  or  independent  of  the  risks  created  by  the  defendant's
conduct. Thus, because the earthquake was a superseding cause of the
trucker's  fractured  skull,  it  prevented  the  doctor's  negligence  from
being a legal or proximate cause of the fractured skull.

A  establishes  that  the  doctor's  conduct  was  a  factual  cause  of  the
fractured  skull,  but  it  is  incorrect  because  it  does  not  deal  with  the
problem of legal cause. The doctor's conduct was not a legal cause of
the fractured skull unless the fractured skull was a foreseeable result
of  it.  The  fact  that  the  wait  might  have  been  foreseeable  does  not
make  the  fractured  skull  foreseeable.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C
establishes that the presence of the cherry pit was a factual cause of
the trucker's injury, but it does not establish that the doctor's conduct
was not also a cause of it. C is therefore incorrect.

150. D The statute given is typical of the “modified” comparative negligence
approach. A deduction is made from the plaintiff's recovery based on
the percentage of fault which was the plaintiff's. But if the plaintiff's
fault exceeds the defendant's, the plaintiff receives nothing. Since the
jury  found  the  plaintiff  to  be  60  percent  at  fault,  he  can  recover
nothing. A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

151. C Even if a defendant's conduct is negligent, the defendant is not liable
for the plaintiff's injuries unless they were proximately caused by that
conduct. Conduct is a proximate cause of harm if it was a factual and
legal cause of the harm. Conduct is a factual cause of harm if the harm
would not have occurred without it. Since the client would not have
been hurt if the landlord had fixed or warned him about the elevator,
the  landlord's  failure  to  do  so  was  a  factual  cause  of  the  client's
injuries. Conduct that is a factual cause of harm is a legal cause if the
harm  was  a  foreseeable  result  of  it  and  not  brought  about  by  an
unforeseeable intervening cause (i.e., a superseding cause). Since the
client would not have been hurt if the attorney had not permitted him
to  use  the  elevator,  the  attorney's  conduct  was  also  a  cause  of  the
client's injury. Thus, if it was not foreseeable that the attorney would
permit  the  client  to  use  the  elevator,  the  attorney's  conduct  was  a
superseding cause of the client's injury. While it is not certain that a
court  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  C  is  the  only  argument  listed
that could possibly support the landlord's defense.

Although  the  landlord's  promise  to  repair  the  elevator  might  not  be
enforceable  by  the  client,  A  is  not  an  effective  argument  because,

1067

apart  from  the  promise,  one  who  holds  realty  owes  a  duty  of
reasonable  care  to  invitees.  An  invitee  is  a  person  whose  presence
confers  an  economic  benefit  on  the  landholder.  The  client  was  the
attorney's client, and the attorney would not have rented space in the
building  unless  his  clients  could  come  to  see  him  there.  For  this
reason,  the  client's  presence  did  confer  an  economic  benefit  on  the
landlord, and the client was the landlord's invitee. (Note: It is usually
held that invitees of a tenant are also invitees of the landlord.) B  is
therefore incorrect. Although an unforeseeable intervening cause may
be  superseding  (i.e.,  prevent  the  antecedent  wrongdoer  from  being
liable), the fact that it was unreasonable is not sufficient to make it
superseding. D is therefore incorrect.

152. A If the harm to the daughter was foreseeable, then the exterminator had
a duty to act reasonably in the face of it. His failure to do so would
constitute  negligence,  for  which  he  may  be  liable  to  the  daughter.
Although a court might not come to this conclusion, the argument in A
is the only one listed that could possibly support the daughter's claim.

Strict  liability  is  imposed  on  the  seller  of  a  defective  product,  but
since  the  store  owner  did  not  sell  the  pellets  to  the  janitor,  B  is
incorrect.  Courts  impose  a  duty  to  act  reasonably  in  designing  or
producing  a  product  on  the  manufacturers  of  all  products.  For  this
reason, the question of whether a product is inherently dangerous is of
no  importance,  and  C  is  incorrect.  Unless  the  exterminator  was
negligent,  questions  of  causation  are  irrelevant.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

153. A Consent (i.e., willingness) is a defense to all intentional torts. While
it is not likely that this inference would be drawn, it would give the
girlfriend a complete privilege if it was.

B is incorrect because the plaintiff has a right to elect whether to sue
for  conversion  or  trespass  to  chattel.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
neighbor's liability would not prevent the girlfriend from being liable
as  well.  The  remedy  for  trespass  to  chattel  is  money  damages.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

154.  D  Negligence  means  failing  to  act  like  the  reasonable  person.  If  the
defendant  can  convince  the  trier  of  fact  that  the  reasonable  person
occasionally takes his or her eyes off the road while driving, and that
his  conduct  was  therefore  not  negligent,  the  plaintiff's  negligence

1068

action  against  him  will  fail.  While  a  court  might  not  come  to  this
conclusion, D is the only argument listed that might be effective in the
defendant's defense.

A  is  incorrect  because  assumption  of  the  risk  requires  a  voluntary
encounter  with  a  known  risk.  For  this  purpose,  a  risk  is  “known”  if
the  plaintiff  is  substantially  certain  that  harm  will  probably  occur.
Recognition  of  a  mere  possibility  of  harm  is  not  sufficient.  B  is
incorrect  because  although  it  establishes  that  the  other  car's  sudden
stop  was  a  cause  of  the  accident,  that  does  not  mean  that  the
defendant's  conduct  was  not  also  a  cause.  C  is  incorrect  since  the
special rules about duties owed to licensees apply only to accidents
that occur on a defendant's land.

155. A It was probably unreasonable for the fire chief (who knew the device
could  be  dangerous)  to  permit  the  volunteer  firefighter  (whom  he
knew to be untrained) to use it. Although a court might not find that the
fire chief was negligent, A is the only theory listed that could result in
a judgment for the woman.

Unless  the  fire  chief  had  a  substantial  certainty  that  harm  would
result,  he  lacked  the  intent  to  make  him  liable  for  battery.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  Strict  products  liability  is  imposed  only  on  a
professional supplier of a defective product. Since the fire chief was
not  in  the  business  of  supplying  the  device,  C  is  incorrect.  D  is
incorrect  because  res ipsa  permits  an  inference  of  negligence  to  be
drawn from the circumstances only when there is no direct evidence
of the defendant's conduct.

156. C A defendant is liable for damage that was proximately caused by his
or her negligence. A defendant's conduct is a proximate cause of harm
if  it  is  a  factual  and  legal  cause  of  that  harm.  Conduct  is  a  factual
cause of harm if the harm would not have occurred without it. Since
the  plaintiff  would  not  have  sustained  any  injuries  at  all  were  it  not
for  her  neighbor's  negligence,  her  neighbor's  negligence  is  a  factual
cause of all her injuries. Conduct that is a factual cause of harm is a
legal cause of that harm if the harm was foreseeable and not brought
about  by  unforeseeable  or  independent  interventions.  Courts  usually
hold that in treating injuries inflicted by a defendant, the malpractice
of a physician is neither unforeseeable nor independent of the conduct
that  caused  the  initial  injuries.  For  this  reason,  all  complications
caused by the malpractice of the doctors were proximately caused by

1069

the  neighbor,  making  the  neighbor  liable  for  them.  C  is  therefore
correct. (Note: The negligent doctors may also be held liable as joint
tortfeasors.)

157. D  A  statement  is  defamatory  if  it  would  expose  the  plaintiff  to  hatred,
contempt,  disgrace,  or  ridicule.  Here,  if  many  people  continue  to
believe that members of the group engage in improper activities, the
statement would do so.

A is incorrect since a judgment for the minister will not violate either
the Establishment Clause or the Free Exercise Clause. B is incorrect
because  what  matters  is  what  a  substantial  group  of  people  would
believe about the plaintiff as a result of the statement. The fact that a
substantial  group  of  right-thinking  people  would  not  associate  the
plaintiff with shame or disgrace does not prevent the statement from
being  defamatory  if  there  is  also  a  substantial  group  of  people  who
would. C is therefore incorrect.

158. D Negligence is the failure to act reasonably in the face of a foreseeable
risk.  If  the  risk  was  not  foreseeable,  the  company's  failure  to  guard
against it was not negligence.

A is incorrect since an expert is expected to know only that which the
reasonable  expert  would  know.  If  the  risk  that  it  will  wear  out  was
not foreseeable, knowledge that harm would occur if it did wear out
does  not  result  in  a  duty  to  protect  against  its  wearing  out.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  employee's  action  is
based on negligence.

159. A  Negligence  is  a  breach  of  the  duty  of  reasonable  care.  Most  cases
hold that a defendant does not owe a duty of reasonable care unless it
is foreseeable (i.e., the reasonable person would anticipate) that his
or her act will cause harm. If it was reasonable for the carpenter to
believe  that  his  act  would  cause  no  harm,  he  owed  no  duty  of
reasonable care. If the carpenter owed no duty of reasonable care, the
carpenter could not have been negligent.

B  is  incorrect  because  custom  does  not  determine  what  reasonable
care is. Although the man's contributory negligence might prevent him
from recovering, there is no indication that the man's failure to see the
hammer  was  negligent.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect
because  of  the  rule  that  a  defendant  takes  the  plaintiff  as  he  or  she
finds  him  or  her.  (Note:  What  this  means  is  that  if  an  injury  to  the

1070

plaintiff  is  foreseeable,  the  full  extent  of  that  injury  is  foreseeable
even  though  some  special  sensitivity  of  the  plaintiff  was  a
contributing factor to its extent.)

160. C Negligence consists of a failure to act reasonably. Since the question
specifies  an  action  for  negligence,  the  man  cannot  win  without
establishing  that  the  grocery  store  was  negligent  (i.e.,  acted
unreasonably).

A is incorrect because it is based on an inaccurate statement of law:
The  negligence  of  a  manufacturer  is  not  ordinarily  imputed  to  a
retailer selling products made by that manufacturer, although a retailer
may  be  held  strictly  liable  for  damages  resulting  from  a  defect  that
existed  when  the  product  was  sold  by  that  retailer.  B  is  incorrect
because  negligence  liability  is  not  imposed  unless  the  defendant
acted  unreasonably.  D  is  incorrect  because  it  is  based  on  an
inaccurate  statement  of  law;  a  retailer  owes  its  customers  a  duty  of
acting  reasonably,  which,  depending  on  the  circumstances,  may
require the inspection of products packaged in sealed containers.

161. C  Negligence  is  unreasonable  conduct.  Thus,  if  the  driver  was  acting
unreasonably,  he  was  negligent  and  should  be  liable  for  the  boy's
injuries.  Under  the  all-or-nothing  rule  of  contributory  negligence,
however, a plaintiff is completely barred from recovery if his or her
own  negligence  contributed  to  the  happening  of  the  accident.
Contributory negligence is unreasonable conduct by a plaintiff. Thus,
if  the  boy's  injury  resulted  from  his  own  unreasonable  conduct  (i.e.,
contributory negligence), he will not recover in spite of the fact that
the driver was also negligent.

A  child  is  said  to  have  been  negligent  if  he  failed  to  act  like  a
reasonable child of the same age, experience, and intelligence. A  is
therefore  incorrect.  Res  ipsa  loquitur  permits  an  inference  that  the
defendant  was  negligent  to  be  drawn  from  certain  circumstantial
evidence. Since the driver's negligence is given, res ipsa loquitur is
inapplicable,  and  B  is  incorrect.  Unreasonable  conduct  by  a  third
person  is  not  imputed  to  a  plaintiff  as  contributory  negligence,  even
when  the  third  person  is  the  minor  plaintiff's  parent.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

162. B A defendant's conduct is a proximate cause of harm if it was a factual
and legal cause of that harm. Conduct is a factual cause of harm if the

1071

harm would not have occurred without it. Since the woman would not
have been injured by the bottle if the grocery store had not restacked
and sold the bottles, the grocery store's conduct was a factual cause of
the woman's injury. Conduct that is a factual cause of harm is a legal
cause of that harm if the harm was a foreseeable result of it. Since the
contents  of  bottles  of  soda-pop  are  under  pressure,  it  is  probably
foreseeable that a crack in the bottle will result in an explosion and
injury. The grocery store's conduct was thus a proximate cause of the
woman's injury. A defendant is liable for the proximate results of his
or  her  negligence.  For  this  reason,  since  the  grocery  store's  conduct
was negligent, the woman is likely to win her lawsuit against it.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  plaintiff's  helplessness  is  not  in  itself  a
basis  of  the  defendant's  liability.  C  is  incorrect  because  harm  may
have more than one proximate cause. The fact that the conduct of the
officers was a proximate cause of the plaintiff's harm does not mean
that the negligence of the grocery store was not. Since privity is not an
essential element of a negligence action, D is also incorrect.

163. D Since the buyer received something for his money, the measure of his
damages  must  consider  the  value  that  he  has  received.  In  some
jurisdictions,  damage  for  misrepresentation  is  measured  by  the
difference between what the plaintiff received and what the defendant
told him or her he or she would be receiving (“benefit of the bargain”
theory). In this case, that would be $250,000 less $600, or $249,400.
In  other  jurisdictions,  the  damage  is  measured  by  the  difference
between what the plaintiff paid and what he or she actually received
(“out-of-pocket”  theory).  In  this  case,  that  would  be  $225,000  less
$600 or $224,400. D is therefore correct.

A and C are incorrect because they ignore the value of what the buyer
actually  received.  B  is  incorrect  because  it  describes  a  rescission
remedy, which may be available in a claim for breach of contract but
is not available in this tort claim for damages.

164. A  If  the  likelihood  of  injury  is  great,  a  defendant  may  be  required  to
anticipate the negligence of others. Here, a reasonable person would
not  have  lent  the  car  to  the  friend,  considering  the  fact  he  had  his
license revoked for reckless driving.

B is incorrect because the man's liability in this instance is based on
his loan of the car, not his ownership of it. C is incorrect because the

1072

man was negligent when he lent the car to his friend, so the fact the
friend lied to him about his intentions does not change the analysis. D
is  incorrect  because  the  woman's  motivation  for  suing  the  man  does
not affect the man's liability for negligence.

165. A  The  term  merchantable  means  “fit  for  ordinary  use.”  Proof  that  the
plaintiff's  allergic  reaction  was  the  only  one  that  ever  occurred
indicates  that  it  was  an  unusual  one.  If  the  plaintiff's  allergy  was
unusual enough to be regarded as extraordinary, the product may have
been fit for ordinary use (i.e., by ordinary persons) although unfit for
use by the plaintiff. While a court might not come to this conclusion,
A  is  the  only  fact  listed  that  could  possibly  support  the  defendant's
defense.

Most  jurisdictions  hold  all  members  of  the  chain  of  commercial
product distribution liable for a condition of the product that breaches
the  implied  warranty  of  merchantability.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.
Although  reasonable  inspection  may  have  revealed  that  the  product
was  safe  for  persons  with  “normal”  skin,  C  is  incorrect  for  two
reasons.  First,  warranty  liability  does  not  depend  on  unreasonable
conduct  by  the  defendant,  and  second,  ordinary  use  may  include  use
by  persons  with  skin  that  is  not  normal.  D  is  incorrect  because
government  approval  or  compliance  with  government  requirements
does not prevent common law liability.

166. C For the violation of a statute to constitute negligence per se, the type
of harm that occurred must be the type of harm the statute intended to
protect against. Here, the purpose of the statute was to protect people
from  falling  debris,  not  poisoning,  so  the  construction  company's
violation of it would not constitute negligence per se in this instance.
Therefore, A is incorrect.

B  and  D  are  incorrect  because  issues  of  control  or  the  child's
negligence would not change the initial negligence per se analysis.

167.  D  Defamation  is  a  tort  that  protects  a  person's  interest  in  their
reputation.  It  is  split  into  two  sub-torts,  libel  and  slander.  Libel
consists  mainly  of  all  written  and  printed  matter,  while  slander
involves  oral  statements.  To  establish  a  prima  facie  case  for  either
libel  or  slander,  the  plaintiff  must  prove  there  was  a  false  and
defamatory statement concerning the plaintiff, a communication of that
statement to some person other than the plaintiff, fault on the part of

1073

the  defendant,  and  either  special  harm  or  other  actionability.
Importantly,  the  communication  of  the  statement  has  to  be  either
intentional  or  negligent.  There  is  no  strict  liability.  Here,  since  the
defendant was not negligent in making the statement and did not intend
for others to hear it, he is not liable for either form of defamation. A,
B, and C are therefore incorrect.

168. B Under the given “pure comparative negligence” statute, the plaintiff's
damage should be diminished by 20 percent, since 20 percent of his
injury resulted from his own negligence. Under the collateral source
rule,  applied  in  most  jurisdictions,  money  that  the  plaintiff  has
received from collateral sources (i.e., those other than tortfeasors) is
not relevant to his or her rights against tortfeasors who caused his or
her injury. The insurance money that the plaintiff received was from a
collateral  source  and  should  therefore  not  play  any  role  in
determining the damages.

A, C, and D are therefore incorrect.

169.  D  Contributory  negligence  is  unreasonable  conduct  by  the  plaintiff
without  which  his  or  her  injury  would  not  have  occurred.  Since  the
man would not have been injured if he had not accepted a ride from
his neighbor, and since doing so was obviously unreasonable, the man
was contributorily negligent. Assumption of the risk occurs when the
plaintiff voluntarily encounters a known risk. Since the man knew that
his  neighbor  was  drunk  and  voluntarily  rode  with  him,  the  man
assumed all the risks that normally accompany riding in a car driven
by a person who is drunk. Both of these would be effective arguments
in the neighbor's defense.

170. A Tortious appropriation of identity is committed by making commercial
use  of  the  plaintiff's  name,  likeness,  or  identity  without  his  or  her
permission.  It  has  been  repeatedly  held,  however,  that  newsworthy
publications about the plaintiff do not constitute commercial use and
therefore cannot result in liability for this tort. It has also been held
that information may be regarded as “newsworthy” for this purpose,
even though the group to which it is of interest is a limited one.

Since the use of a non-celebrity's identity might be put to commercial
gain (e.g.,  the  photograph  of  an  unknown  but  muscular  person  in  an
advertisement  for  exercise  equipment),  it  is  not  necessary  that  the
plaintiff be a public figure. Many of the cases imposing liability for
this  tort  have  involved  plaintiffs  who  were  not  celebrities.  B  is

1074

incorrect  for  this  reason  and  because  every  article  of  interest  to  a
publication's readers enriches the publisher by increasing the demand
for its product. Although the publication of facts that are contained in
public records is protected by the First Amendment, the commercial
use of such information is not necessarily protected. For this reason,
although C  would  be  an  effective  defense  against  a  claim  of  public
disclosure, it is not necessarily an effective defense against a claim of
appropriation.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  indicated  that
liability for false light privacy invasions cannot be imposed without a
showing of actual malice, but no such requirement exists for the tort
of appropriation. D is therefore incorrect.

171.  D  Damage  is  an  essential  element  of  a  negligence  action.  There  are
circumstances  under  which  a  plaintiff's  mental  suffering,  although
unrelated  to  physical  injury,  may  be  regarded  as  damage.  Mere
annoyance,  however,  is  probably  not  damage  sufficient  to  justify
recovery  for  negligence.  While  it  is  not  certain  that  this  argument
would defeat the claim of the landowner, D is the only argument listed
that could possibly lead to a judgment for the factory.

The reasonableness of a defendant's conduct is ordinarily determined
by weighing the risks that it creates against the benefits that it confers.
The  argument  set  forth  in  A  is  not  an  effective  defense,  however,
because  it  considers  only  the  benefit  resulting  from  the  use  of
unbagged concrete without balancing it against the resulting risks. A
is  therefore  incorrect.  Conduct  is  a  factual  cause  of  any  result  that
would  not  have  occurred  without  it.  Since  the  landowner  would  not
have  experienced  annoyance  if  the  factory  had  not  used  unbagged
cement,  the  use  of  unbagged  cement  was  a  factual  cause  of  the
landowner's annoyance. B is therefore incorrect. A plaintiff assumes a
risk  when  he  or  she  knows  of  it  and  voluntarily  encounters  it.  C  is
incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication  that  the  landowner's
encounter with the dust was voluntary.

172.  D  Although  the  plaintiff  can  still  collect  her  judgment  from  either  of
them or from both of them in any combination, as between themselves,
the defendants' contributive shares will be in proportion to their fault.
Thus,  the  plaintiff  could  collect  $100,000  from  the  first  defendant.
After  paying  this  sum,  however,  the  first  defendant  is  entitled  to
contribution from the second defendant in a sum proportionate to the
second defendant's fault. Since the second defendant was 60 percent

1075

at fault, the first defendant is entitled to collect 60 percent of what he
paid, or $60,000.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  jurisdiction  recognizes  a  right  of
contribution. B  is  incorrect  because  the  court  found  that  the  second
defendant  was  60  percent  at  fault.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  given
statute based contribution on apportionment of fault.

173. D The doctrine of respondeat superior makes an employer vicariously
liable to a plaintiff for torts committed by an employee acting within
the scope of employment. But the concept of indemnity may shift the
burden of payment from the one who actually did pay to the one who
should have paid. Therefore, an employer who has been required to
pay  for  a  tort  committed  by  an  employee  is  entitled  to  complete
indemnity (i.e., repayment) from the employee.

The  concept  of  vicarious  liability  determines  a  plaintiff's  rights
against a tortfeasor's employer, but it does not determine the rights of
that  employer  against  its  employee.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  When
parties are found to be jointly and severally liable to a plaintiff, the
plaintiff may collect all of his or her damages from any one of them or
from all of them in any combination whatsoever. For this reason, one
of the joint tortfeasors may be required to pay more than its fair share
of the plaintiff's damages. After this happens, most jurisdictions allow
the one who has paid to seek partial repayment from the others so that
each ends up paying a fair share. The majority of jurisdictions apply
the  equal  apportionment  approach,  determining  fair  shares  by
dividing the amount paid by the number of joint tortfeasors (treating
an  employee  and  employer  who  is  vicariously  liable  for  his  or  her
tort  as  a  single  unit  for  this  purpose).  In  these  jurisdictions,  joint
tortfeasors  who  pay  more  than  their  fair  share  are  said  to  seek
“contribution.”  Other  jurisdictions  apply  the  apportionment  of  fault
approach, basing the determination of fair shares on the relative fault
of  the  joint  tortfeasors.  In  these  jurisdictions,  joint  tortfeasors  who
pay more than their fair share are said to seek “partial indemnity.” B
and  C  are  both  incorrect,  however,  because  all  jurisdictions
recognize that a party who pays only because he or she is vicariously
liable for the tort committed by another person is entitled to complete
indemnity from that person.

174. A One who is negligent is liable for all harm proximately caused by that
negligence.  Negligence  is  a  proximate  cause  of  harm  if  that

1076

negligence  was  a  factual  cause  of  the  harm  and  if  the  harm  was  a
foreseeable consequence of the negligence. Since the biker's right leg
would not have been broken without the second driver's negligence,
and since a broken leg is a foreseeable consequence of being run over
by a car, the second driver's negligence was a proximate cause of the
biker's  broken  right  leg.  However,  since  the  biker's  left  leg  would
have been broken without the second driver's negligence, the second
driver's  negligence  was  not  a  factual  cause  of  it,  and  the  second
driver cannot be held liable for it.

175. C A defendant's conduct is a proximate cause of the plaintiff's harm if it
was both a factual and legal cause of that harm. Conduct is a factual
cause of harm if the harm would not have occurred without it. Since
the truck would not have leaked gas if it had not been parked in front
of the builder's construction site where it was struck by falling debris,
the driver's parking it there was a factual cause of the woman's harm.
Conduct is a legal cause of harm if the harm was a foreseeable result
of  it  and  was  not  brought  about  by  an  unforeseeable  intervention.
Since the explosion would not have occurred if debris had not fallen
onto  the  truck  after  the  driver  parked  it,  the  falling  debris  was  an
intervening cause of the woman's harm. If that intervening cause was
foreseeable, however, the driver's conduct could still be regarded as
a legal cause of the explosion. On the other hand, if the intervention of
the falling debris was unforeseeable, the driver's conduct would not
be regarded as a legal cause of the explosion, and the driver could not
be held liable for the resulting damage. Whether the driver could have
anticipated  that  debris  would  fall  and  damage  the  truck  cannot  be
determined from the facts, but C is the only argument listed that could
possibly be effective in the driver's defense.

A  superseding  cause  of  harm  is  an  unforeseeable  intervening  cause.
An intervening cause is something that happened after the defendant's
conduct,  and  without  which  the  accident  would  not  have  occurred.
Although  the  builder's  use  of  poor-quality  steel  was  a  cause  of  the
woman's injury (because the injury would not have occurred without
it), it preceded the driver's conduct and thus was not an intervening
cause. It could not, therefore, have been a superseding cause. For this
reason,  A  is  incorrect.  The  fact  that  the  explosion  would  not  have
occurred  if  the  man  had  not  thrown  a  lit  cigarette  into  the  street
proves that the man's conduct was a cause of the woman's harm. The
fact  that  the  man's  act  occurred  after  the  driver's  conduct  makes  the

1077

man's  act  an  intervening  cause.  B  is  incorrect,  however,  because
unless  its  occurrence  was  unforeseeable,  the  fact  that  there  was  an
intervening cause is not sufficient to prevent the driver's conduct from
being a proximate cause of the woman's injury. Since any result may
have  several  proximate  causes,  it  is  never  correct  to  conclude  that
one thing was not a proximate cause because another thing was. D is
incorrect because the driver's conduct and the earthquake could both
have been proximate causes of the woman's injury.

176. A Although the manufacturer of a defective product may be held liable
without  fault  to  a  person  injured,  it  is  necessary  for  the  plaintiff  to
show that his or her injury was proximately caused by the product's
defect. If there was a superseding intervening cause of the harm, the
defect was not the proximate cause. An intervening cause of harm is a
superseding cause if its occurrence was unforeseeable. Thus, if it was
unforeseeable  that  the  contractor  would  disregard  the  warning,  the
contractor's conduct would be a superseding cause of the customer's
injury.  Although  cases  have  held  that  intervening  negligence  is
foreseeable, many cases have held that when the intervention involves
the disregard of a known risk, it is unforeseeable. For this reason, it
is  impossible  to  tell  whether  the  contractor's  intervening  conduct
would  be  found  to  be  unforeseeable.  Of  all  the  arguments  listed,
however,  A  is  the  only  one  that  could  possibly  be  effective  in  the
manufacturer's defense.

B  is  incorrect  because  strict  liability  may  be  applied  to  make  the
manufacturer of a defective product liable without regard to whether
it  acted  reasonably.  C  is  incorrect  because  strict  products  liability
may be imposed to benefit any injured person whose contact with the
defective product was foreseeable, without regard to the existence of
a  business  relationship  between  the  defendant  and  plaintiff.  D  is
incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  there  is  no  fact  indicating  that  the
reasonable  person  in  the  store  owner's  position  would  not  have
selected  the  contractor  to  do  the  job,  and  second,  intervening
negligence by a third party is not a superseding cause of harm unless
it was unforeseeable.

177. D If the plaintiff is a public figure, he or she can recover in defamation
only  if  he  or  she  shows  that  the  statement  was  made  either  with
knowledge that the statement was false or with reckless disregard to
its truth. However, if the plaintiff is a private figure, he or she is not

1078

required to prove that the defendant knew the statement was false or
recklessly  disregarded  its  truth  or  falsity.  However,  even  if  the
plaintiff is a private figure, he or she has to show at least negligence
by  the  defendant  regarding  the  truth  of  the  statement.  If  the  plaintiff
does  prove  that  defendant  was  negligent  in  not  ascertaining  that  the
communication was false, most states allow the plaintiff to recover if
the plaintiff is not a public figure. Here, the plaintiff has shown that
the defendant was at least negligent in making the statement. A and B
are  therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  a  plaintiff  in  a
defamation  case  does  not  have  to  prove  that  the  defendant  actually
intended to cause harm to the plaintiff's reputation.

178. A Under the all-or-nothing rule of contributory negligence, unreasonable
conduct by a plaintiff is a complete bar to recovery. Since the ladder
was in plain view, it was probably unreasonable (i.e., contributorily
negligent) for the employee not to see it. Although it is not certain that
a  jury  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  A  is  the  only  argument  listed
that could possibly provide the painter with an effective defense.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  special  rules  that  limit  the  duty  owed  to
trespassers protect only the landholder, and no one but he or she or a
member  of  his  or  her  household  may  successfully  assert  them  in
defense.  C  is  incorrect  because  a  defendant  owes  a  duty  of
reasonable care to any person who may foreseeably be injured by his
or her conduct, whether such persons are licensees of another or not.
One  whose  negligence  proximately  causes  an  injury  to  another  is
liable for damages even though there were other causes of that injury.
For this reason, D is incorrect.

179. D Under the “substantial factor” rule of causation, a defendant's conduct
is a cause of a particular consequence if it was a substantial factor in
bringing that consequence about. Conduct that would have produced a
particular  consequence  all  by  itself  was  a  substantial  factor  in
producing that consequence even if other factors happened to combine
with  that  conduct  to  bring  the  consequence  about.  Since  either
defendant's  conduct  alone  would  have  made  the  driver  intoxicated,
each  was  a  substantial  factor  in  making  the  driver  intoxicated.  Each
was,  therefore,  a  cause  of  the  driver's  intoxication.  Under  the  “but
for”  rule  of  causation,  a  condition  is  a  cause  of  harm  if  the  harm
would not have occurred without that condition. Since the plaintiff's
injury  would  not  have  occurred  had  the  driver  not  been  intoxicated,

1079

the driver's intoxication was a cause of the plaintiff's injury. Since the
conduct  of  both  defendants  were  causes  of  the  driver's  intoxication,
and since the driver's intoxication was a cause of the plaintiff's injury,
the conduct of both drivers were causes of the plaintiff's injury.

180.  A  The  fact  that  an  accident  occurred  is  not  enough  to  prove  that  the
architect was negligent, even if he could have avoided the accident by
using  two  pillars.  Negligence  is  unreasonable  conduct.  If  the
architect's conduct was reasonable, it could not have been negligent.
Since the facts are not sufficient to permit a conclusion as to whether
or not the architect's conduct was reasonable, it is not certain that a
jury would be convinced by the architect's contention. A  is  the  only
argument  listed,  however,  that  could  possibly  provide  the  architect
with an effective defense.

A  defendant  owes  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  to  all  persons  who  are
placed  at  foreseeable  risk  as  a  result  of  that  defendant's  conduct.
Since  it  was  foreseeable  that  the  landowner  would  hire  a  mover  to
bring furniture into the new house, the architect thus owed the mover a
duty  to  act  reasonably  in  designing  the  house  and  could  be  liable  to
the mover for breaching it. B  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  doctrine  of
“last clear chance” has become obsolete in most jurisdictions. All it
ever did (and all it does in those jurisdictions in which it survives) is
excuse  a  plaintiff  from  the  consequences  of  his  own  contributory
negligence. It was never an argument that a defendant would advance
because it never benefitted any party but a plaintiff. For these reasons,
it is inapplicable to this problem, and C is incorrect. D is incorrect
because the unreasonable exercise of professional judgment in making
a decision is negligence (or malpractice) and may result in liability.

181.  B  Violation  of  a  statute  may  establish  the  violator's  negligence  (or
liability)  in  a  particular  case  if  the  statute  was  designed  to  protect
against the risk that led to the plaintiff's harm. The pedestrian was not
hurt  because  the  man  was  drunk  but  because  the  man  had  been
poisoned.  (Note  that  the  facts  indicate  that  the  man  was  driving
reasonably.) If the statute was not meant to protect against the risk of
drinking poison, then its violation would not be relevant in the case of
an  injury  that  resulted  from  drinking  poison.  Since  poison  could  as
easily be drunk in non-alcoholic drinks, it is unlikely that the statute in
this case was designed to protect against drinking poison.

A is incorrect because the language of the statute appears to prohibit

1080

the  sale  of  alcohol  to  a  person  who  is  already  intoxicated  without
regard  to  how  he  got  intoxicated.  C  is  based  on  an  inaccurate
statement.  Conduct  is  a  cause  of  harm  if  that  harm  would  not  have
occurred without the conduct. Since the man's death and the resulting
accident  would  not  have  occurred  if  the  man  had  not  drunk  the
poisoned liquor, service of the liquor was a cause of the pedestrian's
injuries. C is therefore incorrect. If an intervening cause of harm was
unforeseeable,  it  may  be  called  a  superseding  cause  and  relieve  a
defendant of liability because his or her conduct was not a “legal” or
“proximate” cause of the injury. Causes that existed or occurred prior
to  the  defendant's  conduct  are  not  intervening  causes,  however,  and
therefore  cannot  be  superseding  causes  of  harm.  D  is  incorrect
because  the  employee's  conduct  preceded  the  bartender's  service  of
liquor to the man.

182. A Negligence is unreasonable conduct in the face of a foreseeable risk.
Thus,  unless  the  risk  that  the  contractor  created  was  foreseeable,  it
was not negligent for the contractor to create it. Adjusting the belt idle
improperly does not cause a belt truck to lurch if it is equipped with
an  accelerator  suppressor.  Thus,  if  belt  trucks  are  usually  equipped
with  acceleration  suppressors,  it  might  not  be  foreseeable  that
adjusting the belt idle improperly would cause a belt truck to lurch. If
this  risk  was  not  foreseeable,  the  contractor  was  not  negligent  in
creating  it.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that  a  jury  would  come  to  this
conclusion,  the  additional  fact  listed  in  A  is  the  only  one  that  could
possibly result in a judgment for the contractor.

Under  the  all-or-nothing  rule,  a  plaintiff  whose  own  negligence
contributed  to  the  accident  is  prevented  from  recovering.  B  is
incorrect,  however,  because  there  is  no  fact  indicating  that  it  was
negligent  for  the  employee  to  attempt  to  activate  the  belt  while
standing on the ground. C and D are incorrect because a defendant is
liable  for  damage  that  was  proximately  caused  by  his  or  her
negligence  even  though  there  are  other  causes  or  other  parties  who
may also be liable.

183.  A  Public  nuisance  is  a  tortious  invasion  of  some  right  of  the  general
public. Ordinarily, a public nuisance action is brought on behalf of the
general  public  as  an  entity,  and  it  may  result  in  a  judgment  for
damage,  an  injunction,  or  both.  An  individual  may  bring  a  public
nuisance action on his or her own behalf, but only by showing that the

1081

public  nuisance  that  the  defendant  created  caused  the  individual
plaintiff  to  sustain  harm  so  different  from  that  of  the  general  public
that his or her damages would not be included in a judgment on behalf
of the general public. Most jurisdictions hold that in such an action,
the plaintiff's only remedy is a judgment for those damages. Since the
son's  claim  is  for  an  injunction  rather  than  for  the  son's  special
damage, public nuisance is not an appropriate vehicle for it.

An activity that does not disturb anyone but a super-sensitive plaintiff
is  probably  not  a  public  nuisance  since  it  does  not  interfere  with  a
public  right.  If  an  activity  does  disturb  the  general  public,  however,
and is therefore a public nuisance, the fact that the plaintiff's damage
resulted  from  a  special  sensitivity  will  not  prevent  him  or  her  from
recovering for that damage. (Note: This is the essence of the famous
“eggshell  skull”  hypothetical,  in  which  the  defendant  accidentally
drops  an  object  that  strikes  the  head  of  a  plaintiff  whose  skull  is  as
thin as an eggshell. If it was not foreseeable that dropping the object
would injure the ordinary person, the defendant was not negligent in
dropping it. But if it was foreseeable that dropping it would injure the
ordinary person, then the defendant was negligent in dropping it and
would be liable for the full extent of the plaintiff's injury even though
the ordinary person in the plaintiff's shoes would not have sustained
an injury as serious as that of the plaintiff.) B is therefore incorrect. A
plaintiff “assumes  the  risk”  when  he  or  she  voluntarily  encounters  a
risk  of  which  he  or  she  has  knowledge.  Although  assumption  of  the
risk  is  a  complete  defense  in  many  jurisdictions,  C  is  incorrect
because  the  claim  was  asserted  on  behalf  of  the  son,  and  the
homeowner  could  not  “assume  the  risk”  for  his  son.  D  is  incorrect,
because, although violation of a statute sometimes helps to establish
tort liability, compliance with a statute does not ordinarily prevent a
defendant from being liable in tort.

184. B A seller of a product that is defective at the time it was sold is held
strictly  liable  for  damages  that  result.  Thus,  if  the  product  was
defective when the drugstore sold it, the drugstore would be strictly
liable  to  the  doctor.  A  product  is  “defective  as  labeled”  if  its
condition  would  defeat  the  expectations  that  the  reasonable  person
would form upon reading its label. While it is not certain that a court
would come to this conclusion about the product, the argument in B is
the only one listed that could possibly support the doctor's claim.

1082

A  is  incorrect  because  the  negligence  of  a  manufacturer  is  not
ordinarily  imputed  to  a  retailer.  C  is  incorrect  because  any  express
warranty that was made referred to “normal hair or scalp” and would
therefore be inapplicable to the doctor. Although a drugstore might be
under  the  type  of  duty  set  forth  in  D,  there  is  no  indication  that  the
drugstore  failed  to  act  reasonably  in  pursuit  of  such  a  duty.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

185. C The statute given is typical of the “modified” comparative negligence
approach. Since the plaintiff was not at fault at all, however, it has no
relevance to her rights. No matter what approach a jurisdiction takes
to  contributory  or  comparative  negligence,  most  agree  that  joint
tortfeasors are jointly and severally liable to the injured plaintiff. In
this case, the court specifically held that the defendants are jointly and
severally  liable.  This  means  that  the  plaintiff  can  collect  all  her
damage from the first defendant, or the second defendant, or the two
of them in any combination.

186. A  In  general,  the  plaintiff  in  a  defamation  case  must  allege  and  prove
special damages to his or her reputation that occurred because of the
defendant's statements. However, if the defendant accuses the plaintiff
of having a “loathsome” disease (such as leprosy, venereal diseases,
or AIDS), the plaintiff is not required to show damages.

Consequently, B, C, and D are incorrect.

187.  B  All  the  products  liability  theories  require  proof  that  the  plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of his or her contact with the product. If
the man did not, he cannot succeed against the company on any theory.

A  is  incorrect  because  some  of  the  approaches  to  products  liability
(i.e., strict liability in tort and breach of warranty) do not depend on
the  unreasonableness  of  the  defendant's  conduct.  C  is  incorrect
because  compliance  with  a  statute  is  not  a  defense  to  any  products
liability  theory.  A  seller  who  recommends  a  particular  product,
knowing why the purchaser wants it and that the purchaser is relying
on the seller's judgment, may be held liable for breach of warranty if
the product is unfit for the buyer's particular purpose. D is incorrect,
however,  because  imposing  liability  on  the  grocery  store  would  not
prevent its being imposed on the company.

188.  C  Under  the  private  necessity  doctrine,  a  person  may  enter  another
person's  property  if  the  entry  is  necessary  to  protect  someone  from

1083

serious  harm.  This  is  a  complete  defense  to  a  trespass  claim.
However,  the  person  still  has  to  pay  for  any  damage  caused.  Here,
while the pilot was protecting himself from a plane crash, he would
still be liable for the damage to the crops. Therefore, A is incorrect.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  pilot's  lack  of  negligence  in  actually
landing the plane would not change the analysis in regards to private
necessity.  D  is  incorrect  because  although  the  pilot  could  probably
have made it back to the airport, the private necessity doctrine would
not require the pilot to be 100 percent sure that he could only avoid
serious harm by trespassing in the farmer's field.

189.  A  Intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress  requires  outrageous
behavior that intentionally results in severe mental suffering. Because
the  plaintiff  was  only  embarrassed  by  the  incident,  the  defendant's
actions likely did not result in liability.

B is incorrect because even if the defendant was only joking, he may
still  have  had  the  required  mental  state  to  satisfy  the  intent
requirement if he desired or knew that mental suffering would result
from  his  act.  C  is  incorrect  because  although  some  jurisdictions
require  some  physical  manifestation  of  the  mental  suffering,  the
question  stated  the  plaintiff  was  only  embarrassed  and  suffered  no
physical  injury.  D  is  incorrect  because,  although  throwing  a
firecracker at someone could be outrageous, the plaintiff still did not
suffer the necessary harm.

190.  B  Negligence  is  a  breach  of  the  duty  to  act  reasonably.  A  defendant
owes such a duty to a plaintiff when the defendant's conduct creates a
foreseeable risk to the plaintiff. Since the installation of an automatic
door-opener  creates  obvious  risks  to  future  users  of  the  device,  the
installer owes them a duty to install it in a reasonable manner. If the
contractor  failed  to  do  so,  he  was  negligent.  Whether  or  not  it  was
unreasonable to disregard the warning is probably a question of fact
for the jury. The argument in B  is  the  only  one  listed,  however,  that
could possibly support the customer's claim.

When  the  defendant's  conduct  is  unknown,  the  doctrine  of  res  ipsa
loquitur allows an inference that the defendant acted unreasonably to
be established circumstantially by proof that the accident was one that
would  not  ordinarily  have  occurred  without  negligence.  It  is
inapplicable  when  the  defendant's  conduct  was  known  and  the

1084

question to be determined is whether that conduct was unreasonable.
A is incorrect for this reason, and because there is no fact indicating
that  this  kind  of  accident  would  not  ordinarily  occur  without
negligence by the installer. According to UCC §2-314, every sale by a
merchant  implies  a  warranty  that  the  product  sold  is  fit  for  its
ordinary  use  (i.e.,  merchantable).  C  is  incorrect,  however,  because
the  contractor  did  not  sell  the  automatic  door-opener  and  therefore
did not impliedly warrant its fitness. The seller of a defective product
may  be  held  strictly  liable  for  damage  resulting  from  the  product's
defect. D  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  contractor  was  not  the
seller of the automatic door-opener.

191. A Although damage is not an essential element of an action for trespass
to land, it is an essential element of a negligence action. Since there is
no indication that the homeowner was damaged, A is correct.

B is incorrect because, even in an emergency, a person is expected to
act as the reasonable person would under the circumstances (although
conduct that would ordinarily be regarded as unreasonable might be
reasonable in an emergency). While necessity is a defense to actions
for  intentional  tort,  it  is  not  a  defense  to  actions  founded  in
negligence.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  probably  an  accurate
statement, but its effect is to impose a duty of reasonable care on the
homeowner, not to relieve the driver of liability for negligence.

192.  A  The  doctor  can  only  be  liable  if  he  or  she  acted  unreasonably  in
treating  the  patient.  Here,  the  court  found  the  doctor  acted
unreasonably, so the doctor would be liable for the patient's damages.

If  there  is  no  evidence  as  to  what  the  defendant  did,  the  doctrine  of
res ipsa loquitur might allow an inference regarding the defendant's
conduct.  This  doctrine  applies  when  the  accident  is  one  that  would
not  ordinarily  occur  without  negligence  and  the  defendant  is  in
exclusive control of whatever caused the harm. Here, the defendant's
conduct is known, and the defendant was not in exclusive control of
the tanks when the manufacturer filled them. Therefore B is incorrect.
C and D are incorrect, because under the circumstances, the fact the
patient's death likely resulted from the manufacturer's negligence did
not  establish  that  the  death  did  not  also  result  from  the  doctor's
negligence.
