http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

Strategies & Tactics 
for the 
Finz Multistate Method
Fourth Edition

STEVEN R. FINZ

This Edition Edited by
Alex Ruskell, Esq.
Director of Academic Success and Bar Preparation
University of South Carolina School of Law

2

Copyright © 2016 CCH Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.

Published by Wolters Kluwer in New York.

Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory US serves customers worldwide with CCH, Aspen
Publishers, and Kluwer Law International products. (www.WKLegaledu.com)

No  part  of  this  publication  may  be  reproduced  or  transmitted  in  any  form  or  by  any
means,  electronic  or  mechanical,  including  photocopy,  recording,  or  utilized  by  any
information storage or retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher.
For  information  about  permissions  or  to  request  permissions  online,  visit  us  at
www.WKLegaledu.com,  or  a  written  request  may  be  faxed  to  our  permissions
department at 212-771-0803.

To contact Customer Service, e-mail customer.service@wolterskluwer.com, call 1-800-
234-1660, fax 1-800-901-9075, or mail correspondence to:

Wolters Kluwer
Attn: Order Department
PO Box 990
Frederick, MD 21705

eISBN: 978-1-4548-7888-9

3

 
 
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

About Wolters Kluwer Legal & Regulatory
US

Wolters  Kluwer  Legal  &  Regulatory  US  delivers  expert  content  and
solutions  in  the  areas  of  law,  corporate  compliance,  health  compliance,
reimbursement,  and  legal  education.  Its  practical  solutions  help  customers
successfully navigate the demands of a changing environment to drive their
daily activities, enhance decision quality and inspire confident outcomes.

Serving  customers  worldwide,  its  legal  and  regulatory  portfolio  includes
products  under  the  Aspen  Publishers,  CCH  Incorporated,  Kluwer  Law
International,  ftwilliam.com  and  MediRegs  names.  They  are  regarded  as
exceptional  and  trusted  resources  for  general  legal  and  practice-specific
knowledge, compliance and risk management, dynamic workflow solutions,
and expert commentary.

4

Dedication

To Iris

To Jimmy and Mary Frances

5

TABLE OF CONTENTS

How to Use This Book
Strategies & Tactics — Playing the MBE Game to Win

Sections by Subject
Civil Procedure
Questions
Answers

Constitutional Law

Questions
Answers
Contracts

Questions
Answers
Criminal Law
Questions
Answers

Evidence

Questions
Answers

Property

Questions
Answers

Torts

Questions
Answers

Practice Multistate Bar Exam
Questions — A.M. Exam
Questions — P.M. Exam
Answers — A.M. Exam
Answers — P.M. Exam

6

 
 
 
How to Use This Book
This  book  contains  a  collection  of  questions  (called  “items”)  in  the
Multistate  Bar  Exam  format,  accompanied  by  answers  (called  “options”)
and  explanations.  Each  of  the  explanations  is  intended  to  be  a  mini-
dissertation on the topic involved.

The chapter entitled Strategies & Tactics: Playing the MBE Game to
Win (what we call the Multistate Method) sets forth a detailed method for
approaching  and  dealing  with  items  in  this  format.  You  should  study  the
chapter diligently before beginning to practice with the items that follow it.
By the time you have worked your way through 50 or 60 items, you should
have become so familiar with this Multistate Method that its use is second
nature.

The  questions  are  divided  into  the  seven  subject  areas  tested  on  the
Multistate  Bar  Examination:  Civil  Procedure,  Constitutional  Law,
Contracts, Criminal Law, Evidence, Real Property, and Torts. If you are still
in law school, you can use the separate sections to review the material that
you are studying in each of the subject areas. Each section is accompanied
by a subject matter outline and a question index. Using the question index,
you can look for questions dealing with the particular topics and subtopics
that you wish to review.

The items that appear in this book are similar in content and form to the
questions  that  appear  on  the  Multistate  Bar  Examination  (MBE).  On  the
MBE,  each  item  tests  only  one  general  subject  area  but  is  likely  to  cover
several topics and subtopics within that area. A Torts question, for example,
may test knowledge of intentional torts, negligence, nuisance, and proximate
cause, all in the same set of answers (options).

For  this  reason,  most  questions  (items)  in  this  book  may  be  listed  in
several  different  places  in  the  question  index.  If  you  have  just  completed
your  study  of  intentional  torts  and  wish  to  field  questions  that  test  your
newly acquired knowledge, you can find them by looking at the appropriate
place in the Torts question index. You may discover, however, that the same
questions also test knowledge of topics that you have not yet studied. This
need not prevent the questions from being useful to you.

The Multistate Method game plan suggests that, in answering Multistate
items, you treat each option (i.e., proposed answer) as a separate true-false
question. Using this approach, you can choose to deal only with the options

7

for  which  your  studies  have  prepared  you.  The  explanation  accompanying
each item analyzes why the answer we pick is correct and why each of the
incorrect  options  is  incorrect.  You  can  use  these  analyses  to  check  your
responses to the options.

If you are preparing for the MBE, you should work on the items in each
of  the  subject  areas  after  completing  your  review  of  those  areas.  If  your
review has not prepared you for all the options, you will know what areas
need further review. The explanations can help you complete your study.

In  addition,  this  book  contains  a  200-question  practice  exam  in  which
the items are shuffled, as they are on the MBE, so that the seven subjects are
tested in random order. If you need additional questions to review, or want
Strategies & Tactics on each MBE subject, you should purchase a copy of
Strategies & Tactics for the MBE, also published by Aspen and available
at your local bookstore. For each MBE subject, Strategies & Tactics for the
MBE delivers detailed advice on what to study and what traps to watch for,
as well as actual released MBE questions with detailed answers.

For substantive MBE review, you should check out the Law in a Flash
MBE Set, which contains flash cards on all MBE subjects (Civil Procedure,
Constitutional Law, Contracts, Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure [tested on
the MBE as part of Criminal Law], Evidence, Future Interests [tested as part
of Property], Real Property, Sales [tested as part of Contracts], and Torts)
as  well  as  a  copy  of  Strategies  &  Tactics  for  the  MBE.  The  MBE  Set  is
available at your local bookstore.

If  you  are  preparing  for  the  bar  exam,  you  should  wait  until  you  have
completed  your  review  of  all  seven  Multistate  subjects  before  taking  the
practice  exam  contained  in  this  book.  It  may  be  a  good  idea  to  simulate
examination conditions when taking it. Turn off your phone, lock your door,
tell the rest of the world to go away, and give yourself three uninterrupted
hours for each half of the exam.

GOOD LUCK!

8

Strategies 

& Tactics®—Playing the MBE Game
to Win

TERROR AND THE MBE

It's given on the last Wednesday of February and July in almost every

one of the 50 states, and it has become a significant factor in the bar
admitting standards of most states. It evokes loathing and paranoia from the
souls of embryonic attorneys across the land. It's the Multistate Bar
Examination (the MBE), an all-day challenge consisting of 200 questions on
seven important subjects. It scares the devil out of most of us.

The reason it's so frightening to us is that our profession attracts people
who learned as they were growing up that they could talk their way into and
argue their way out of most situations. I'm one of these people. You
probably are, too. Much of the time, people like us treat life as a game. The
trouble with the MBE is that it doesn't give us a chance to talk or argue,
which is what we believe we do best. We find it too structured, too
restrictive. There's not enough game in it. It cramps our style.

When we think that, though, we're forgetting that the people who create

the MBE are cut from the same cloth as we are. They are law professors
and practitioners who have argued their way into and out of trouble all their
lives. They've been playing the same game with their lives that we've been
playing with ours. The ideas that appeal to them also appeal to us. The only
difference is that they specialize in testing and finding out what other
lawyers are made of. Their exam does a pretty good job of it, but we have
to approach it the way we approach other problems in our lives—as a game
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
that must be played from a position of strength.

It helps to realize that, by its very nature, the MBE has certain aspects
that work in our favor. First, because it is given in most of the states, it can
test only general principles of law—no petty details. Second, because its
multiple choice format eliminates the options of argument or explanation,
each issue must be so precisely drawn that only one of the four possible
answers satisfies the requirements of the question. Most important, because
it is given to budding lawyers, the most argumentative and litigious people

9

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

in the world, it must be scrupulously fair and unassailable.

To assure that the exam will be just and to protect it against attack, the
creators of the MBE have developed a method for constructing questions.
They stick to a policy that requires that there be no trick questions and no
trick answers. No problem will be solved on the basis of a subtle turn of
word or phrase. They even have rules to assure the effective use of
apostrophes and to eliminate the confusing misuse of pronouns. Questions
are screened repeatedly before they are used, and then screened again.

After the exam has been given, the answers are analyzed. Questions that

proved too tricky to be fair are invalidated and eliminated from further
consideration. Questions that show themselves to have no correct answer or
more than one correct answer are also invalidated. Applicants are not
supposed to be asked to select the best of four bad answers or four good
answers. There is only one demonstrably correct answer to each question.
The others are clearly incorrect. That is, it's clear if we follow the right
analytical steps.

Since they have a method for creating the exam, we need a method for
taking it. This chapter provides a unique Multistate Method. To develop our
method, we must begin by understanding theirs.

STRUCTURE OF QUESTIONS

Questions, or “items,” as the examiners call them, can be broken into

three distinct parts: the root, the stem, and the options.

The root is the part of the item containing the underlying facts.

The stem is the part of the item containing the call of the options or
assigning a task. Sometimes it is in the form of a question; sometimes it calls
for the completion of a sentence.

The options are the answer choices. Sometimes they state conclusions
and nothing more; sometimes they link a conclusion with a reason to support
it. Sometimes two or more of the options seem to be related to each other;
sometimes each of the four is independent of the other three. One of them is
always the correct option; three of them are always incorrect.

Exhibit A shows a typical item.

DISTRACTORS AND FOILS

The examiners spend a lot of time and energy creating three wrong

10

options for each item. They call the incorrect options “distractors” or
“foils.” In using those names, they have unwittingly tipped their hand.
According to Webster, a “distractor” is something that compellingly and
confusingly attracts in the wrong direction. A “foil” is something that serves
to set off another thing to advantage or disadvantage by contrasting with it.
By definition, some of the incorrect options are there to make the others
look good, and some of them are there to make the correct option seem bad.

Here, again, the nature of the exam works in our favor. The examination

is supposed to be a test of knowledge. The correct choice must be
somewhere among the four options, but it can't be left exposed for everyone
to see; it has to be hidden. According to their own rules, the examiners can't
use tricky devices or puzzling language, so they have to hide it behind a
screen of distractors and foils. Like a magician's banter, these are designed
to make us look away from the real action. That's how the game is played.

Many of the people who create the MBE are law professors or former
law professors. In creating distractors and foils, they use insight that comes
from their experience with law students. After all, the main purpose of the
exam is to find out whether we are finished studying the law and ready to
start practicing it. Their foils and distractors are usually based on
anticipating the errors that law students are likely to make.

11

Their method gives all the options a look of superficial plausibility. At
first glance, every option appears to be correct. Our response to their bag of
tricks must therefore include a careful reading of the language that they use.

Incomplete definitions and arguments

No one needs to be more precise in the use of language than a lawyer.

Learning to communicate precisely is one of the goals of a law school
education. A first-semester law student may define “murder” as the
unjustified killing of a human being, but a lawyer knows that an
unjustified killing isn't murder unless it's an unjustified killing of another
human being with malice aforethought.

Some of the foils and distractors that appear on the MBE consist of
incomplete or imprecise statements, like those made by beginners in the
classroom. An option that says, “John is guilty of murder because he
committed the unjustified killing of a human being,” is wrong because it
is based on an incomplete definition. Don't assume that the examiners left
out the rest of the definition by mistake, or that they expect you to know
what they really mean. Don't allow yourself to complete the argument or
definition in your mind and conclude that it is correct.

Dealing with the facts

Lawyers must be very careful with facts. They must assume nothing in

addition to what has been established or given. In summing up to a jury,
for example, trial counsel may not refer to any facts that have not been
proven. Frequently, distractors and foils are designed to find out whether
we have the ability to play the game the way a lawyer plays it. If a
prosecutor proved only that the defendant shot the victim and that the
victim died an hour later, the defendant's prosecution for murder would
have to be dismissed unless the prosecutor had also proven that the
defendant's bullet caused the victim's death. If the facts in the root of the
item do not say that the victim died as a result of the defendant's bullet,
don't assume or infer that she did. Only a medical expert is competent to
draw such a conclusion, and you are probably not a doctor. Without such
proof, we must conclude that the defendant's guilt has not been
established.

On the other hand, lawyers can't get away with ignoring facts that
have been established. In arguing appeals, for example, lawyers may not
claim that the facts proven at the trial should be ignored. They are
restricted to making arguments about the legal effects of the proven facts.

12

Since examiners are out to determine whether we can do a lawyer's job,
they are likely to fill the root with implausible facts in an effort to trick us
into rejecting or disbelieving them. Falling for their ploy can be
disastrous. In taking the MBE, we must accept the facts that are given to
us, no matter how unlikely or implausible they may seem.

We may have been taught, for example, that an intoxicated person is

not capable of driving her car in a reasonable manner. If, however, an
item's root tells us that after the defendant drank two quarts of whiskey,
she was driving her car in a reasonable manner when she collided with
the plaintiff, we must accept this as true. Since negligence is
unreasonable conduct, and since we are told that the defendant was
driving her car in a reasonable manner, we must conclude that she was
not negligent.

Common errors

Some areas of the law are so confusing to law students that they
furnish the examiners with a fertile field in which to cultivate foils and
distractors. The literature distributed by the examiners indicates that
incorrect options contained in MBE items are frequently based on
common errors made by law students. Often, these common errors result
from misunderstandings about the significance of legal expressions that
have different meanings for lawyers than for laypersons.

The doctrine of “last clear chance” is an example of how this
common confusion can be used to create an effective foil or distractor.
“Last clear chance” is a doctrine that can be raised only by a plaintiff; its
only effect is to eliminate the consequence of the plaintiff's contributory
negligence. Thus, even in a jurisdiction that applies the “all-or-nothing”
rule of contributory negligence, a plaintiff who goes to sleep in the
middle of the road and is struck by a defendant who sees her in time but
fails to take reasonable steps to avoid striking her may still win her case.
In finding for the plaintiff, the court is likely to say that the plaintiff's
negligence does not bar her recovery because the defendant had the “last
clear chance” to avoid the accident.

Knowing that many students are confused about this doctrine, the
examiners may create a distractor that says, “The defendant wins because
the plaintiff had the last clear chance to avoid the accident.” It sounds
logical, but not to someone who understands that “last clear chance” is a
doctrine available only to plaintiffs.

13

Similarly, a foil or distractor may be based on the “dead man's rule,”

which excludes evidence of certain conversations with a person now
deceased. Although the “dead man's rule” sometimes keeps evidence out,
it never justifies the admission of evidence. Thus, an option that says,
“The evidence is admissible under the dead man's rule” has to be
incorrect, even though at first glance it sounds logical.

Overlooking the obvious

Some lawyers lose cases because they overlook the obvious. Perhaps

that's why the examiners occasionally create an option that is so
obviously correct that there is no rational excuse for missing it. It's
amazing how many applicants reject such an option in the belief that
nothing so important could possibly be so easy.

Items regarding the sufficiency of a deed description are good
examples of this technique. The general rule is that a description in a
deed is sufficient if it adequately identifies the realty conveyed. Usually,
it is impossible to decide whether a description satisfies this requirement
without knowing something about surveying in general and the
geographical area involved in particular. Since the MBE is not a test of
surveying or geographical knowledge, however, its creators cannot
expect us to determine the validity of a particular description. Instead,
they are likely to give the language of a deed description, tell you that it
adequately identifies the realty conveyed, ask whether it is valid, and then
create an option that says, “The description is valid because it adequately
identifies the realty conveyed.” Can anything be more obviously correct?
Don't miss a gift like that one.

Plausible creations

Some applicants are so intimidated by the examination process that
they are sure the correct options will involve concepts they never heard
of before. This not only leads them to reject options that are obviously
correct, it causes them to select options that consist of meaningless
garbage. Knowing this, the examiners occasionally indulge their sense of
whimsy by building foils and distractors around Latin words or phrases
that sound momentous but are used in a context that makes them
meaningless.

Post hoc ergo propter hoc is an example of a Latin phrase that may

be at the core of one of these seemingly plausible creations. The
expression translates as “after which, therefore because of which,” and is

14

a name given to the error in reasoning that leads people to offer such
arguments as “It always rains after I wash my car, so washing my car
makes it rain” (i.e., it rains after (and, therefore, because) I wash my car).
This is likely to show up as a foil or distractor in an option that says
something like, “John will win under the doctrine of post hoc ergo
propter hoc.”

If that kind of bluff fools us, we will end up at the examiners' mercy.
In a question that actually appeared on a past MBE, many applicants were
taken in by a double-talk option that stated that a plaintiff could not be the
holder of a certain easement because “an incorporeal hereditament lies
only in grant.” One way to avoid falling for such seemingly plausible
creations is to remember that after passing all your law school finals,
taking a bar review course, and cramming for the exam, you probably are
familiar with any rule of law that will matter to the examiners. If an
option cites a doctrine or rule that you never heard of, it's probably
incorrect.

Unfamiliar phrases

This doesn't mean that all the correct options will use familiar

language. One of the goals of the exam is to determine whether we really
understand the law that we've learned or whether we've just been trained
like parrots to spout phrases. To accomplish this goal, the examiners may
describe familiar concepts in nontraditional words. Instead of saying, for
example, that the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care
because he created a foreseeable risk to her, they may say, “The
defendant owed an obligation to the plaintiff because it appeared that the
defendant's conduct would injure her.” Instead of saying that strict
liability is imposed on one who engages in an ultra-hazardous activity,
they may say that “a defendant is liable without regard to fault because
his or her occupation is extremely dangerous.” Remember that there are
many ways of saying anything, and that substance is far more important
than form.

PLAYING THE RIGHT ROLE

In the real world, lawyers play various roles. Sometimes they are
judges, deciding the outcome of an issue or selecting the winner of a case.
Sometimes they are advocates, making the best argument possible for one of
the parties, even though there's no telling whether that party is going to win.
Sometimes they are scholars, unconcerned about who wins or loses,

15

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

interested only in seeing the legal significance of a fact or in selecting the
most applicable rule of law, without caring whose interest will be served. It
is natural that the items appearing in the MBE game should cast us in each of
these three roles. This makes knowing how to act in each of the roles an
important part of our Multistate Method.

Acting as the judge

[Typical stem: If the plaintiff sues the defendant for battery, the court

should find in favor of . . . ]

In the real world, the judge starts out with no particular result or
conclusion in mind. He or she does not decide questions of fact but is
always alert for misstatements about the facts in lawyers' arguments. If an
argument does not accurately characterize the facts, is based on an
inference not justified by the facts, or is based on a rule of law that is not
correctly stated, the judge rejects it. He or she rules in favor of the
argument in which accurate statements about the facts and law are
consistent with the conclusion with which they are coupled.

When you are asked to act as judge, do not decide questions of fact.

Do not try to determine who should win or how the issue should be
resolved until you have considered all the arguments presented in the
options. Examine each option in turn. First, see whether the facts and law
are accurately stated. If not, reject the option. See whether the conclusion
offered is consistent with the argument advanced. If not, reject the option.
There will be only one option in which the argument advanced is based
on accurate statements of fact and law and is consistent with the
conclusion offered. This is the correct choice. Select it, even though you
may not like the result. After all, you're a judge.

Acting as the advocate

[Typical stem: Which of the following is the most effective argument

in favor of the defendant's position?]

Unlike the judge, the advocate works toward a particular result—the

one he or she's been paid or assigned to accomplish. It doesn't matter
whether he or she believes that the client will win. So long as there is any
question at all for either the judge or jury, he or she understands that a
client is entitled to representation. The advocate assumes that the client
can win and then makes the argument that is most likely to bring about the
victory. He or she doesn't invent facts but presents and interprets in the
light most favorable to the client those facts that have been established.

16

When an item asks you to be an advocate, examine each of the options

in turn to see whether the law is accurately stated and whether the
inferences on which the option is based are justified by the facts that are
given. If not, reject it. See whether the option presented could possibly
result in victory for the client the stem has assigned you to represent. If
not, reject it. There will be only one option in which the argument
advanced is based on accurate statements of law and fact and which
supports your client's position. Choose it, even if you don't really believe
that your client can win. After all, you're an advocate.

Acting as the scholar

[Typical stem: The interest in the land that the son had on the day after

the landowner's death is best described as a . . . ]

The scholar doesn't try to decide or influence the outcome of a case.
The scholar uses his or her knowledge of the law to recognize the legal
significance of a particular fact or to select the most applicable rule. He
or she sees an intellectual challenge and nothing more. Like a professor
asking a question in the classroom, he or she doesn't care who wins or
loses. He or she focuses on a specific and limited issue, listens to each of
the options chosen by the students, and then smiles at the student whose
choice comes closest to the one he or she had in mind when he or she
asked the question.

Do the same with an item that casts you in the role of a scholar. Forget

about who will win or lose. Don't worry whether the option you select
will result in justice. Just focus on the specific issues involved and try to
resolve them in your mind. Then examine each of the options carefully
and select the one that comes closest to the selection you have already
formulated.

TIMING

Our Multistate Method must teach the most efficient possible use of
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
time. Most people barely manage to answer all the items in the allotted time.
You probably will not have an opportunity to go back and check your
choices. It's wise to get them right on the first pass because that's probably
the only chance you will get.

According to the Examiners, seven subjects are tested. The test presents

200 questions total—28 questions in Contracts, and 27 questions each in
Constitutional Law, Criminal Law, Evidence, Real Property, Torts, and

17

Civil Procedure (10 questions are being “tested” by the Examiners that do
not form part of your score, but you won't be able to distinguish these
questions). You should recognize, however, that in reality, 10 law school
subjects are tested—the section on Contracts includes questions on Sales,
the section on Property includes questions on Future Interests, and the
section on Criminal Law includes questions on Criminal Procedure.

There are usually two or more versions of each exam so that, although
everyone gets the same questions, the questions are not in the same order.
They are randomly shuffled in each version. Therefore, you may see two
real property items in a row and then not see another until 10 or 20 items
later.

Everyone feels stronger in some of the subjects than in others, and there

will be a powerful temptation to go looking for those questions that deal
with your best subjects. Resist that temptation. Answer the questions in the
order in which they appear.

There are three good reasons why you should take this advice. First, the

tough ones aren't going to get any easier with the passage of time. If
anything, fatigue will make them seem even tougher, so there's no point in
putting them off. Second, if you read item #3, for example, and decide not to
answer it until later, part of your mind will still be working on it when you
try to answer subsequent items. This will keep you from devoting all your
energy to the item before you and may even cause you to base a choice in
one question on facts that you still remember from item #3. Third and most
important, if you skip item #3, there will be a blank space on your answer
sheet, and you may become confused into putting the answer to item #4 in
the space for item #3. Once you do that, every choice that follows will be
written in the wrong space.

This potential pitfall alone makes it better to guess than to leave a blank
space. But there's more. The examiners give you one point for every correct
choice and don't subtract any points for a wrong choice. This means that a
wrong choice is certainly no worse than a blank space. In most states, you
can get 60 or more wrong and still pass the exam. If you can't come up with
the correct option, guess and move ahead. You have at least a 25 percent
chance of guessing correctly.

After the exam is over, the examiners usually determine that some of the

items—sometimes as many as 10—were invalid. When this happens, they
often give credit for any option chosen. This means that you may receive a
point even if you guessed wrong. If you left it blank, though, you'll get

18

nothing.

You won't really be guessing anyway, because a “guess” is a choice that

is based on no real knowledge. By the time you get to the bar exam, your
head will be so filled with information that there won't be any item that you
don't know at least something about. Even if it's buried deep in the
unconscious recesses of your mind, this knowledge will increase the
probability that the option you choose is correct.

Time is not on your side. You'll have two three-hour sessions with 100
items in each. That breaks down to 33.3 items per hour, about 17 items per
half hour, or 1.8 minutes per item. It is important to stay on schedule. Each
item is worth one point. You don't get anything extra for the ones you spend
extra time on. Every extra second you spend on one item is a second less
that you'll have to spend on the next.

THE TEST BECOMES A GAME

After observing a courtroom proceeding for the first time, the layperson

typically scratches his or her temple and says, “It's a game. Nothing but a
game.” We, on the other hand, say it's serious business. But when we reflect
on the origins of the adversary system, we see knights in armor jousting on a
field of battle in the belief that the righteous was assured of winning the
contest.

It started out as a game, and we're kidding ourselves if we try to believe
that there isn't any game left in it. In a way, the phrase “adversary system” is
a euphemism for a complex and exciting game that society plays, with
lawyers as its game pieces. It is fitting, therefore, that the bar examination,
which tests competency to practice law, is, itself, a kind of game, testing,
among other things, the applicant's ability to play.

All games involve a combination of knowledge and strategy. A craps
shooter has no control over the numbers that come up on the dice; he or she
wins or loses by making bets based on his or her knowledge of the odds. A
card player decides “when to hold 'em and when to fold 'em” by knowing
what cards are in the deck and remembering which ones have already been
dealt. Trivial Pursuit champions win by moving their game pieces in the
most advantageous way, but they don't get to move them at all unless they
know the answers to the questions that appear on the game cards.

The MBE is a game that can't be won without knowledge but knowledge
isn't everything. Given enough time, any decent lawyer who approaches the
MBE seriously enough to prepare for it adequately can get a passing score.

19

But the exam is long and the hours are short. Without an effective strategy,
an applicant is likely to be cut down by the clock. Ding dong. Game over.

To avoid running out of time, move through every item as swiftly as

possible. To avoid being foiled and distracted, however, read every
relevant word patiently and carefully. At first, these goals seem to be
inconsistent with each other. By beginning with an orientation, our
Multistate Method provides us with a strategy for accomplishing both of
them.

ORIENTATION

The fact pattern in an item's root may raise dozens of issues, some of
which can be resolved and some of which won't ever be resolved. Usually,
however, the stem is more narrowly drawn to eliminate all but one or two of
the possible issues. If we waste time answering questions that weren't
asked, we won't have a chance of answering the ones that were.

To avoid being drawn in to a series of false directions, always begin

with a quick reading of the stem to determine the call of the question.
Look for the role that each stem assigns and the task that it sets before you. It
may specify a particular cause of action, it may name a crime, it may point
to a clause of the United States Constitution, or it may designate the parties,
plaintiff, and defendant.

After the stem, quickly read the root. We're still not ready to begin
choosing among the options, so we aren't sure what we're looking for, even
though the stem gave us a pretty good idea. This first reading of the root is
part of our orientation.

Don't struggle too hard at this point to understand all the facts. Don't
worry about keeping the chronology straight. Don't begin drawing those
little diagrams you learned about in law school or bar review. Some facts in
the root may not even be relevant to the options, and attempting to deal with
them at this point may turn out to be a waste of time. If necessary, you can
always return to the root to check the facts again.

MAKING THE PLAY

Our first reading of the stem and root was an orientation, designed to
find out what role we've been assigned to play and what task we've been
asked to accomplish. Now it's time to accomplish it. Read the stem again,
more carefully this time.

20

Basic game plan

Because the examiners' game plan includes options that make us look
in the wrong direction, our Multistate Method must adopt a game plan that
will keep us from being foiled and distracted. Since the wrong options
are supposed to make the other options look either good or bad by
comparison, don't compare one option to the others. Treat each as a
separate option and as if it were the only one before you. Recall that,
according to the examiners' policy, only one can be correct. To play it
safe, even if you have found one that you think is true, don't stop until you
have checked all four options.

With pencil in hand, examine each option carefully, returning to the
root to confirm facts if necessary. Mark the option with a “T” if it is true,
with an “F” if it is false, and with a “?” if you can't make up your mind.
When you're done, you should have three “F”s and one “T.” So long as
you have a good clear “T,” count “?”s as “F”s. If you have no “T”s at all,
treat a “?” as a “T.” The option with the “T” next to it is the correct
answer.

Although this basic game plan works for all MBE item types, there
are a few variations that may help us deal more efficiently with particular
kinds of items.

Negative response

Occasionally a stem asks for a “reverse” response, such as “Which of

the following is LEAST likely to violate the Fourteenth Amendment?”
When that happens, restate the stem in the reverse: “Would the following
violate the Fourteenth Amendment?” You should end up with three “T”s
(yes) and one “F” (no). Choose the one that got the “F.”

Overlapping options

Sometimes some of the options contain parts of others. Typical

options:

The defendant is guilty of
(A) Burglary only.
(B) Robbery only.
(C) Burglary and Robbery.
(D) Neither Burglary nor Robbery.

Instead of trying to deal with these overlapping options in
combination, break them down into the individual components (e.g.,

21

Burglary and Robbery). Give each of the individual choices a “T” or “F,”
and then find the option that contains the correct combination of choices.

Three-to-one options

In some items, three of the options offer one conclusion coupled with

different reasons for it, while the fourth offers the opposite conclusion
with no reason at all. A typical question:

The defendant will
(A) lose.
(B) win, because . . . .
(C) win, because . . . .
(D) win, because . . . .

Since the odd option is unaccompanied by a reason, it is impossible
to select it without eliminating the other three first. For this reason, when
confronted by a three-to-one options item, always consider the odd option
last. Then choose it only if all of the others have received “F”s.

What-if options

Sometimes the options offer additional facts and the stem calls for
selection of the fact pattern that would be most likely to bring about a
particular result. This kind of item is like the classroom game in which
the professor changes the facts in a case under discussion by saying,
“Now, what if . . . ?”

[Typical stem: Which of the following additional facts or inferences,

if it was the only one true, would be most likely to result in a judgment
for the plaintiff?]

It is important to remember that this kind of item does not require you
to decide whether the additional fact or inference in the “what if” option
is true; it directs you to assume that it is. If you encounter one of these,
combine the stem with each “what-if” option in turn, accepting as true the
facts that it contains. In assigning a “T” or “F,” don't ask whether the facts
are true or the inference is justified; assume that they are. Then decide
whether the existence of these additional facts or inferences would be
likely to bring about the particular result (e.g., in the previous item, ask,
“If this fact were true or this inference were justified, would it result in a
judgment for the plaintiff?”).

SELECTING THE CORRECT OPTION

22

Selecting the correct option is easy once you've placed three “F”s and
one “T” next to the given options. The hard part is deciding whether to give
an option a “T” or “F.” This becomes easier if an appropriate strategy is
applied. Although the MBE will present you with 800 options (i.e., four for
each question), all options fall into only two categories. Our Multistate
Method provides a strategy to use for each of the categories.

Simple options

Some options only state possible conclusions. These are called

“simple options.” Here's a typical simple-option item:

A man took a diamond ring to a pawnshop and borrowed $20 on it. It
was agreed that the loan was to be repaid within 60 days, and if it was
not, the pawnshop owner, the defendant, could sell the ring. A week
before the expiration of the 60 days, the defendant had an opportunity to
sell the ring to a customer for $125. He did so, thinking it was unlikely
that the man would repay the loan and that if he did, the defendant would
be able to handle him somehow, even by paying for the ring if necessary.
Two days later, the man came in with the money to reclaim his ring. The
defendant told him that it had been stolen when his shop was burglarized
one night and that therefore he was not responsible for its loss. 
Larceny, embezzlement, and false pretenses are separate crimes in the
jurisdiction.

Which of the following crimes has the defendant most likely committed?

(A) Larceny.
(B) Embezzlement.
(C) Larceny by trick.
(D) Obtaining by false pretenses.

These options are “simple” rather than “complex,” but not “simple”

rather than “difficult.” Since nothing is given but a bare conclusion,
simple options usually require the most work. In dealing with each simple
option, it is necessary to remember the essential elements of whatever
rule of law is applicable and to check the root to see whether every one
of those elements is satisfied by the facts given.

In the previous example, to decide whether to mark option (A) with a

“T” or “F,” it is first necessary to remember that larceny is the
trespassory taking and carrying off of personal property known to be
another's with the intent to permanently deprive. Then it is necessary to
return to the root to see whether the defendant trespassorily took the ring,
whether he carried it off, whether he knew that the ring belonged to
another, and whether he had the intent to permanently deprive. The option

23

can receive a “T” only if all the elements of the crime are satisfied by the
facts.

In the real world, it is likely that some of these elements will raise

questions of fact for a jury to determine or questions of law that
ultimately will be decided by an appellate court. Different juries may
come up with different answers to the questions of fact, and different
appellate courts may come up with different answers to the questions of
law. An MBE item must have three options that are clearly incorrect,
however, and one that is clearly correct. This means that the facts must be
structured so as to make it clear that at least one of the elements of the
rule applicable in each option is unsatisfied.

In the previous example, the defendant's act cannot be larceny (option

A) because there was clearly no trespassory taking. A defendant
trespassorily takes when he or she receives possession contrary to the
rights of the owner. Since the defendant received possession of the ring
lawfully, with the man's consent, and with no improper purpose, he did
not trespassorily take it and cannot be guilty of larceny. Larceny by trick
(option C) is committed by fraudulently obtaining temporary possession
of personal property known to be another's. Since the defendant was not
planning to do so when he obtained the ring from the man, he cannot be
guilty of larceny by trick. Obtaining by false pretenses (option D) is
committed by fraudulently inducing another to transfer title to a chattel.
Since the man never transferred title to the ring, the defendant cannot be
guilty of obtaining it by false pretenses. As can be seen, options A, C, and
D are clearly incorrect.

At the same time, the facts must establish that all the elements of the
rule supporting the correct option are satisfied. Embezzlement (option B)
is committed by criminally converting property of which the defendant
has lawful custody. Since the man delivered the ring to the defendant
before the defendant developed the intent to steal it, the defendant's
custody was clearly lawful. Because only a person with the right to do so
http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond
is entitled to sell a chattel, and because the defendant did not have the
right to sell it, his sale of the ring was clearly a criminal conversion.
Since all the elements of embezzlement are clearly satisfied, (B) must be
the correct option.

Complex options

Most of the time, an option will consist of two parts: a conclusion and a

24

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

reason giving rise to the conclusion. Here's a typical complex-option item:

The plaintiff was eating in a restaurant when he began to choke on a
piece of food that had lodged in his throat. The defendant, a physician
who was dining at a nearby table, did not wish to become involved and
did not render any assistance, although prompt medical attention would
have been effective in removing the obstruction from the plaintiff's
throat. Because of the failure to obtain prompt medical attention, the
plaintiff suffered severe brain injury from lack of oxygen. The
jurisdiction had a statute that relieved physicians of malpractice liability
for emergency first aid. When the defendant saw the plaintiff choking, he
knew the plaintiff was substantially certain to sustain serious injury.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for his injuries, the
court should find for

(A) the defendant, because the defendant did not cause the piece of

food to lodge in the plaintiff's throat.

(B)  the  plaintiff,  because  a  reasonably  prudent  person  with  the
defendant's  experience,  training,  and  knowledge  would  have
assisted the plaintiff.

(C)  the  plaintiff,  because  the  jurisdiction  has  a  statute  which
relieves physicians of malpractice liability for emergency first
aid.

(D) the defendant, because the defendant knew that the plaintiff was

substantially certain to sustain serious injury.

“Because” as a conjunction

It is important to understand what an option built around the

conjunction “because” or its synonym “since” means. An option of this
kind actually makes two statements. If I say, “The street is wet because it
is raining,” my conclusion is “the street is wet,” and my reason is “it is
raining.” If it isn't raining, my whole statement is false. Even if it is
raining, my statement is true only if the rain is what is making the street
wet.

To decide whether to give the option a “T” or “F,” we must first
determine whether the reason given is based on an accurate statement. In
the real world, we can find out whether it is raining by looking out the
window. In an MBE option, if the reason given involves a statement about
the facts, we must return to the root to see whether the facts are accurate.
If the reason involves a statement about the law, we must search our bank
of knowledge to see whether it states the law accurately. If the reason is
based on an inaccurate statement of either facts or law, the option gets an

25

“F.”

But even if the reason given is based on an accurate statement of the
facts or law (i.e., it is actually raining), we cannot give the option a “T”
unless the reason logically justifies the conclusion. Since rain does make
the street wet, the reason given in the previous statement (i.e., it is
raining) justifies the conclusion (i.e., the street is wet), and the entire
statement is correct. If the statement is, “The street is wet because the sun
is shining,” the statement is incorrect even if the sun is shining, because
sunshine does not make the street wet.

Option (A) in the previous item says that the court should find for “the
defendant, because the defendant did not cause the piece of food to lodge
in the plaintiff's throat.” Since the reason given (i.e., the defendant did not
cause the piece of food to lodge in the plaintiff's throat) is a statement
about the facts, we must return to the root to see whether it is accurate.
According to the root, the defendant happened to be dining at a nearby
table when the plaintiff began choking on food. Since there is no fact
indicating that the defendant had anything to do with the food in the
plaintiff's throat, the reason is based on an accurate statement about the
facts. So far, option A is valid.

Next, we must decide whether the fact that the defendant did not cause

the food to lodge in the plaintiff's throat justifies the conclusion that the
court should find for the defendant. Here, of course, it is necessary to rely
on our knowledge of the law. Under the law of negligence, a defendant is
generally not under a duty to assist a plaintiff in peril unless the defendant
did something to cause that peril. Since the defendant did not cause the
food to lodge in the plaintiff's throat, the defendant had no obligation to
help remove it, and his failure to do so cannot result in liability. Since the
reason is an accurate statement, and since it logically justifies the
conclusion with which it is coupled, option A should receive a “T.”

If option A states the reason as follows: “The court should find for the

defendant because the plaintiff's brain injury resulted from a lack of
oxygen,” the option would be incorrect. The root states that the plaintiff's
brain injury was caused by a lack of oxygen, and this establishes that the
reason is based on an accurate statement of the facts. But the medical
cause of an injury does not necessarily determine whether a particular
defendant is liable. Thus, the reason given does not justify the conclusion
to which it is coupled, and the option should receive an “F.”

Option (B) is incorrect because it is a misstatement of the law. Since

26

a defendant is generally not under a duty to assist a plaintiff in peril
unless the defendant did something to cause the peril in the first place, the
defendant's liability is not measured by what any other person would
have done. Since the fact that a reasonably prudent person with the
defendant's experience, training, and knowledge would have assisted the
plaintiff would not justify the conclusion that the court should find for the
plaintiff, option (B) should receive an “F.” Option (C) references a
statute that is in effect in the jurisdiction (a common distractor in MBE
questions). Here, the question tells you that the jurisdiction has a statute
that relieves physicians of malpractice liability for emergency first aid.
Where they exist, statutes of the kind described (i.e., Good Samaritan
laws) protect a physician who renders aid, but they do not require that he
or she render aid. For this reason, the existence of such a statute would
not impose a duty on the defendant and would not be relevant to the
defendant's liability. Its existence would not make him or her liable. For
this reason, this option should receive an “F.” Option (D) also relies upon
our knowledge of the law. A defendant who performs a voluntary act with
the knowledge that it is substantially certain to result in injury intends that
injury and may be liable for causing it. Intentional tort liability cannot be
based on a failure to act, however, unless there was an obligation to act
in the first place. Because of the rule that provides that a defendant has no
duty to assist a plaintiff in peril unless the defendant caused that peril, the
defendant had no obligation to assist the plaintiff. Thus, even if he was
substantially certain that his failure to do so would result in injury, he is
not liable for the injury. The option should receive an “F.”

PRACTICE MAKES BETTER

Anyone who says that practice makes perfect is telling a tall tale; no one

and nothing can be perfect. Practice does lead to improvement, though. No
matter how good you are at answering Multistate-type questions now, the
more you practice, the better you'll get at it. If you know your law,
practicing our Multistate Method will equip you with a strategy for
achieving success on the MBE.

People who think that there is a way to get the actual MBE questions in

advance are dreaming. It's true that each MBE contains 50 questions that
have been used before. But the examiners publish only the ones that they
will not use again. So if you have a compilation of released questions, such
as Strategies & Tactics for the MBE, don't expect to see any of them on
your exam.

27

Some publishers and bar reviewers take the exam every time it is given
and tell you that their books contain verbatim copies of all the questions that
were on it. This is an empty promise. There's no such thing as a fully
photographic memory. Nobody can take a six-hour exam and come out of it
remembering even a single question word for word. MBE questions are
written so precisely that even a slight change of wording alters the effect of
the entire question.

Instead of trying to find out what the questions are going to be,

concentrate on mastering the Method so that you'll be ready for whatever
comes. The questions in this book are similar to those that the Multistate Bar
Examiners use.

Try to deal with each item by using the Method outlined in this chapter.
Start by orienting yourself to the item with a quick reading of the stem and
root, paying careful attention to the role that each assigns to you. Then apply
the basic game plan, treating each option as a separate true-false choice and
marking it with a “T,” “F,” or “?.”

The MBE is a very special game because it's a game played only by
prospective lawyers. Some will be winners, and others will be losers.
Decide in advance which you intend to be and build your whole attitude
from that basic decision. When you've learned to think of the MBE as a
game, you may even find that you look forward to playing it. Afterwards,
you may hear yourself saying that it was fun. Nevertheless, it's a game you
don't want to play more than once. So practice, practice, practice.