QUESTIONS
____________________
PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM

PRACTICE MBE — P.M. QUESTIONS

101. The homeowner, who owned a home in a residential development,

decided to have his driveway paved. He called the plaintiff, a licensed
contractor who specialized in residential driveways, and asked for an
estimate on the job. Although the standard market price to pave a
driveway the size of the homeowner's was $2,750, the plaintiff was
willing to do the job for $2,500 since business was slow. The
homeowner agreed to hire him to do the job at that price and filled out
and signed a detailed work order for the plaintiff's work crew. Since
the 
homeowner was planning to go on vacation for two weeks, he and the
plaintiff agreed that the job would be finished by the time the
homeowner returned.

Three days later, the plaintiff's work crew went out to do the job
described in the homeowner's work order. By mistake, they paved the
neighbor's driveway, which was identical to the homeowner's except
that it was on a different street. The neighbor was out of town at the
time. The job cost the plaintiff $2,600 in labor and materials and
increased the value of the neighbor's realty by $2,100. The homeowner
did not communicate with the plaintiff while away on vacation. When
he returned and discovered that his driveway had not yet been paved,
he demanded that the plaintiff perform as agreed, but the plaintiff
refused.

The plaintiff asserts a claim against the neighbor on a quasi-contract
theory. If the plaintiff is successful, he is entitled to

(A) $2,100 (the increase in the value of the neighbor's realty).

(B) $2,500 (the agreed price in the contract between the plaintiff and

the homeowner).

1143

(C) $2,600 (the plaintiff's cost in paving the neighbor's driveway).

(D) $2,750 (the standard price of the paving job).

102. The plaintiff and the defendant, both residents of the state, entered into
an installment contract for the sale of goods. When a dispute arose
between them under the contract, the plaintiff asserted a claim for
$52,000 against the defendant in a United States district court in the
state. The defendant moved to dismiss the claim on jurisdictional
grounds. A state statute grants concurrent state and federal jurisdiction
over contract disputes, and a federal statute grants jurisdiction to hear
such a claim to the United States district court.

Did the United States district court have jurisdiction to adjudicate the
claim?

(A) Yes, because a statute of the state grants concurrent state and

federal jurisdiction over contract disputes.

(B) Yes, because a federal statute 

grants jurisdiction to hear such a claim to the United States district
court.

(C) No, under Article III of the United States Constitution.

(D) No, under the Eleventh Amendment to the United States

Constitution.

103. The company was a major corporation with shares of stock traded on
several stock exchanges. When rumors began to circulate that the
company was experiencing financial difficulties, the price of the
company stock fell drastically. The reporter was a journalist who
wrote a financial news column for a daily newspaper.

One day, while the reporter was discussing the company rumor with
her friend, the friend said, “I wouldn't be surprised if the whole thing
was some kind of stunt to manipulate the price of stock.” The reporter
was aware that the friend knew nothing about the stock market or about
the company. The following day, based solely upon what she had
heard from the friend, the reporter made the following statement in her
column:

Don't be fooled by rumors that the company is in trouble. Insiders say
that  the  whole  thing  is  a  stunt  to  manipulate  the  price  of  the  stock.  I
say the company is still a good investment.

1144

After reading the column, the plaintiff invested in the company's stock
in reliance on the reporter's statement. Two days later, the company
filed a petition in bankruptcy, and its stock became worthless. If the
plaintiff asserts a claim against the reporter for misrepresentation,
which one of the following facts or inferences, if it were the only one
true, would be most likely to result in a judgment for the reporter?

(A) At the time the plaintiff purchased the company's stock, the

company's financial condition was a matter of public record.

(B) The reporter's statement “I think the company is a good investment”

was an expression of opinion.

(C) The plaintiff did not purchase the edition of the newspaper that

contained the reporter's statement, but read it after finding it on a
bus.

(D) The reporter did not know that any person would rely on her

statement.

104. Upon borrowing money from her accountant, the landowner executed a
note and a mortgage on her realty in favor of her accountant. The
accountant immediately and properly recorded the mortgage. One
month later, the landowner borrowed money from her brother,
executing a note and a mortgage on the realty in her brother's favor.
The landowner's brother immediately and properly recorded the
mortgage. The landowner died soon afterwards, leaving a will that
devised the realty to her nephew for life, remainder to her niece. Her
nephew subsequently moved onto the realty. Neither the accountant nor
the landowner's brother received payment as required by the notes
executed by the landowner.

Without notifying or serving process on the landowner's nephew and
niece, the accountant asks a court to order a foreclosure sale of the
realty. The court should

(A) order the sale of a life estate only.

(B) order the sale of a remainder only.

(C) order the sale of a fee interest.

(D) deny the accountant's request.

105. The defendant and the victim, who resided in the city, purchased rifles.

Because neither of them had ever fired a rifle before, they decided to

1145

take them to the municipal dump to try them out. Although both
believed that the dump was outside city limits, it was actually within
city limits. At the dump, the defendant shot his rifle in the victim's
direction, aiming slightly to the right to miss the victim. The bullet
struck a rock and ricocheted, hitting the victim in the back and causing
his death.

A city ordinance provides that “Any person who shall discharge a
firearm knowing that he or she is within the municipal limits shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine of $100.”
Which of the following is the most serious crime of which the
defendant may properly be convicted?

(A) Murder.

(B) Voluntary manslaughter.

(C) Attempted murder.

(D) Discharging a firearm within the municipal limits.

106. The plaintiff asserted a personal injury claim against the defendant for
injuries that she sustained when their cars collided at an intersection.
At the trial, the witness, an eyewitness to the accident, testified that
when it occurred, the traffic light at the intersection was red against the
plaintiff. In a prior deposition given under oath, the witness had stated
that, at the time of the accident, the light was green in the plaintiff's
favor.

The witness was called by the defendant and her testimony was given
on direct examination by the defendant's attorney. On cross-
examination, the witness authenticated the deposition described above,
and the plaintiff's attorney offered it in evidence. Over the defendant's
objection, the deposition should be

(A) admitted for impeachment only.

(B) admitted as substantive evidence only.

(C) admitted for impeachment and as substantive evidence.

(D) excluded.

107. A waiter worked for a catering service owned by a chef. One night

while the waiter was working a dinner party in State A, he dumped hot
soup on a professor. The professor was a citizen of State B and the

1146

chef was a citizen of State A. The professor sued the chef in federal
district court in State A based on diversity jurisdiction. The professor
claimed $100,000 in damages. The professor had the summons served
on the chef personally at her kitchen in State A. The chef wanted to
implead the waiter as a third-party defendant. The waiter lived in State
C, 60 miles away from the district court in State A. The chef had the
summons served on the waiter personally at her home. Under State A's
long-arm statute, state courts did not have personal jurisdiction over
defendants who could not be personally served within the state itself.

Would the federal district court in State A have personal jurisdiction
over the chef's third-party claim?

(A) No, because the district court must follow the long-arm statute of

State A.

(B) No, because there is no indication the waiter would be liable for at

least $75,000 in damages.

(C) Yes, because the waiter lived 60 miles away.

(D) Yes, the chef is diverse from the waiter.

108. Which of the following constitutional provisions is most likely to give
Congress the power to pass a law making it a federal crime for
persons or corporations in the construction industry to practice racial
discrimination in their hiring practices?

(A) The Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.

(B) The Involuntary Servitude Clause of the Thirteenth Amendment.

(C) The Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) The Previous Condition of Servitude Clause of the Fifteenth

Amendment.

109. On March 1, the seller entered into a written agreement with a licensed
real estate broker. By its terms, the seller agreed to pay the broker a
commission equal to 6 percent of the price if, prior to April 15, the
broker procured a buyer ready, willing, and able to pay $50,000 for
the seller's realty. In return, the broker agreed to make reasonable
efforts to sell it.

After the agreement was executed, the broker advertised the seller's
property and showed it to several prospective buyers. On April 10,

1147

the buyer signed a document agreeing to purchase the seller's realty for
$50,000 but stating that her agreement was contingent upon her success
in obtaining the necessary financing. The same day, the broker
presented to the seller the document that the buyer had signed. The
seller read it, thought for a moment, and handed it back to the broker,
saying, “I won't even consider a deal built around a contingency.”
Although the broker protested that the agreement between him and the
seller did not specify a sale without contingencies, the seller refused
to discuss the matter any further.

On April 11, the broker informed the buyer of the seller's response.
The buyer then obtained a cashier's check for $50,000 payable to the
seller. She delivered the check to the broker, together with a signed
document in which she agreed to purchase the seller's realty for that
sum. On April 14, the broker presented the second document to the
seller with the cashier's check. The seller said, “I've changed my
mind. I'm not interested in selling.”

If the broker asserts a claim against the seller for a commission, the
court should find for

(A) the seller, because he did not agree to sell the realty to the buyer.

(B) the seller, because his rejection of the buyer's offer on April 10

terminated his agreement with the broker.

(C) the broker, because the seller's oral rejection of the buyer's written

offer of April 10 was invalid under the Statute of Frauds.

(D) the broker, because on April 14 the buyer was ready, willing, and

able to purchase the seller's realty for $50,000.

110. The defendant was speeding in her car 15 miles per hour above the
speed limit when the car's steering mechanism failed, causing her to
lose control of the vehicle. The vehicle spun approximately 250
degrees before skidding across the plaintiff's lawn and colliding with
the side of the plaintiff's house, causing serious structural damage to
the building.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damage to his
realty, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the defendant entered his realty without his

permission.

1148

(B) the plaintiff, because the defendant negligently operated her car by

speeding.

(C) the plaintiff, because the defendant had the last clear chance to

avoid damaging his realty.

(D) the defendant, because she was privileged by necessity to enter the

plaintiff's realty.

111. In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the plaintiff claimed

that the defendant breached a contract to market the plaintiff's products.
At trial, the plaintiff testified that she and the defendant had reached an
agreement at a conference held in the office of the plaintiff's attorney
on October 15. She stated that she and the defendant discussed five
separate products on that occasion. On direct examination of the
plaintiff, the attorney asked her to name the products that had been
discussed. The plaintiff named four of them, but said she could not
remember the fifth. After having them properly marked for
identification, the attorney offered to show the plaintiff notes that the
attorney had made during the conference, asking whether looking at
them would refresh the plaintiff's recollection. The defendant's
attorney objected to the plaintiff's looking at the notes. The objection
should be

(A) sustained, because the notes had not been made by the plaintiff.

(B) sustained, because the notes were not in evidence.

(C) sustained, because the attorney's question was leading.

(D) overruled.

112. A state law empowers any municipality within the state to collect a

property tax from its landowners if a plan to do so is proposed by its
governing body and approved by a majority of its eligible voters. The
township is a municipality governed by a Township Council. Pursuant
to the above law, the Township Council proposed a property tax plan
and scheduled a special election for August 15 to submit the plan for
voter approval. The Township Council declared that only persons
owning land within the township were eligible to vote in the special
election and that eligible voters were required to register for that
purpose at the Township Hall between the hours of 1 P.M. and 3 P.M. on
Tuesday, July 15. The constitutionality of the special election was
challenged in an appropriate proceeding by a petitioner with standing.

1149

If the special election is found to be unconstitutional, it will probably
be because

(A) the eligibility requirements violated the Fifteenth Amendment by

excluding a discrete class of persons.

(B) the registration requirement had the effect of imposing a residence

qualification for voter eligibility.

(C) all persons who did not own land were excluded from the voting

process.

(D) conducting the special election on an at-large basis could have the
effect of diluting the political power of a particular interest group.

113. The plaintiff was the manufacturer of a chair that she usually sold only
to furniture dealers. When the plaintiff recently stopped making the
product, she found that she had only 75 of the chairs left. As a result,
the plaintiff published the following advertisement in a popular
magazine:

For  Sale  to  the  Public.  Chairs  at  $100  each  (or  $80  each  in  orders  of
10 or more). Act fast. There are only 75 left. When they're gone, don't
ask for any more.

On February 12, the defendant, a furniture dealer, saw the
advertisement and wrote to the plaintiff, “We will purchase all 75
Chairs at the wholesale price.”

On February 15, the plaintiff received the defendant's letter and wrote
to the defendant, saying, “This will confirm our agreement to the sale
of 75 Chairs at $80 each. Shipment to follow immediately.”

On February 20, the defendant telephoned the plaintiff to say that he
had changed his mind and did not want the chairs after all. Within the
next two weeks, the plaintiff sold all the chairs for $80 each to
individuals who purchased one chair each.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for damages
resulting from breach of contract, the court should award the plaintiff

(A) a sum equivalent to the profit that the plaintiff would have made by

selling all the chairs to the defendant.

(B) a sum equivalent to the total of the difference between $100 per

1150

chair and the price that the plaintiff actually received.

(C) a sum equivalent to the difference between the price that the

defendant had agreed to pay and the actual market value of the
chairs.

(D) nothing, because the plaintiff sustained no loss as a result of the

defendant's failure to purchase the chairs.

114. The plaintiff brought an action against the defendant for injuries that he
sustained when a gas stove that he purchased from the defendant
exploded while he was attempting to use it. At trial, the plaintiff
produced a snapshot photograph that he said had been taken by him
prior to the accident and which he said was an accurate representation
of the stove. On behalf of the defendant, the defendant's employee
testified that he had installed the stove. The employee produced a
photograph from an advertising brochure and stated that it fairly and
accurately represented the stove that the plaintiff had purchased from
the defendant and that the employee had installed. The stove in the
photograph offered by the defendant was clearly different from the
stove in the photograph offered by the plaintiff.

Both photographs were offered into evidence, and each party's
attorney objected to admission of the other party's photograph. In
response to the objections, the court should

(A) admit both photographs and allow the jury to decide whether either

of them accurately represents the stove in question.

(B) admit only the photograph offered by the plaintiff.

(C) admit only the photograph offered by the defendant.

(D) not admit either photograph.

115. The landlord, the owner of a seven-story office building, leased the

entire sixth floor to an attorney for a period of five years by a written
lease that fixed the rent at $2,000 per month. There were only two
offices on the sixth floor, identified as Office 6A and Office 6B. A
clause in the lease provided that in the event it ever became necessary
to determine how the rent payments were apportioned, it was
understood that $900 of each month's rent was to be applied to Office
6A, $900 was to be applied to Office 6B, and $200 was to be applied
to the hallways and other common areas. The lease prohibited
assignment by the attorney without the landlord's written permission

1151

and provided that such permission would not be unreasonably
withheld.

One year after executing the lease, the attorney entered into a written
agreement with a second attorney. Under its terms, the second attorney
was to occupy Office 6A for the balance of the attorney's term at a
monthly rental of $1,500 payable to the attorney. The second attorney
was an attorney with a better reputation and a more lucrative practice
than the first attorney's.

The landlord refused to consent to the attorney's arrangement with the
second attorney. The landlord subsequently asserted a claim against
the attorney for breaching the lease provision prohibiting assignment.
Which of the following would be the attorney's most effective
argument in response to that claim?

(A) The attorney's agreement with the second attorney was not an

assignment because the rent paid by the second attorney was not in
the same sum as the rent paid by the first attorney.

(B) The attorney's agreement with the second attorney was not an

assignment because it only gave the second attorney the right to
occupy part of the sixth floor.

(C) The clause prohibiting assignment was an invalid restraint on

alienation.

(D) The landlord's refusal to consent was not reasonable because the
second attorney's credit was as good as the first attorney's.

116. The defendant wrote a column about life in suburbia that appeared

regularly in a newspaper of general circulation. In one of his columns,
the defendant mentioned his neighbor, the plaintiff, by name, and
referred to him as “a silly pig.” If the plaintiff asserts a defamation
claim against the defendant as a result of this reference, which of the
following would be the defendant's most effective argument in
defense?

(A) The defendant did not have actual malice when he made the

statement.

(B) Reasonable persons would not believe that the statement asserted a

fact about the plaintiff.

(C) Reasonable persons would not believe the statement to be true.

1152

(D) At the time the defendant made the statement, he was of the opinion

that it was an accurate assertion of fact.

117. A brick supplier wrote to a builder, stating “We will sell you bricks at

$1 per brick for as many bricks as you would like to purchase, up to
100,000 per quarter.” The brick supplier signed the letter. The builder
did not refrain from entering any other deals or otherwise rely on the
letter, but he did write back, “I accept your offer to sell any bricks I
need to me for $1. We will likely order some bricks this summer.” The
builder signed the letter. Six months later, the builder placed an order
for 50,000 bricks at a $1 per brick. The brick supplier responded that
due to transportation costs outside of its control, the price of bricks
was now $1.50.

The builder sued the supplier for breach of contract. May the builder
recover?

(A) Yes, because the offer was in writing and signed by the supplier.

(B) Yes, because the acceptance was in writing and signed by the

builder.

(C) No, because the revocation was based on increased transportation

costs.

(D) No, because the builder did not provide sufficient consideration.

118. After inheriting a large tract of land, the landowner subdivided it into

60 numbered lots pursuant to state law, filing a plat map and
development scheme that indicated that all lots in the subdivision
would be restricted to residential use. The landowner thereafter
conveyed Lot 1 to his brother and Lot 2 to his sister by deeds
containing a condition restricting the lots to residential use.

The landowner's sister announced her intention to erect a motorcycle
repair shop on Lot 2, and her brother instituted a proceeding seeking to
prevent his sister from doing so. Which of the following additional
facts or inferences, if it was the only one true, would be most likely to
result in a decision in the brother's favor?

(A) The brother's deed to Lot 1 was recorded prior to his sister's

purchase of Lot 2.

(B) The brother purchased Lot 1 before his sister purchased Lot 2.

1153

(C) The brother was aware of the landowner's development scheme

when he purchased Lot 1 from the landowner.

(D) The sister was aware of the landowner's development scheme

when she purchased Lot 2 from the landowner.

119. The plaintiff was hired as a probationary employee by an agency of the
state pursuant to a written contract. The contract provided that at the
end of one year, the parties could agree to renew the contract for an
additional one-year period, but that either party could, without cause,
elect not to renew.

Eleven months after hiring him, the agency informed the plaintiff in
writing that his contract would not be renewed at the end of the year.
The plaintiff asked the agency for a hearing on his fitness to be
rehired, but his request was denied. The plaintiff subsequently
instituted a proceeding to challenge the decision of the agency on the
ground that its failure to hold a hearing before deciding not to rehire
him violated his right to due process.

Which of the following would be the agency's most effective argument
in response to the plaintiff's challenge?

(A) Due process was not required, since the decision not to rehire the

plaintiff did not deprive him of life, liberty, or property.

(B) State employment is a privilege rather than a right, since no person

is guaranteed employment by the state.

(C) There would be no point in holding a hearing in the plaintiff's case,

since the hearing officer would be an employee of the agency and
the findings would necessarily support the decision already made
by the agency.

(D) The plaintiff's constitutional rights could not have been violated by
the decision not to renew his contract, since the contract provided
that the decision could be made without cause.

120. The plaintiff purchased realty in the county in 2000 and has lived on it
since then. The realty is located approximately one mile from a private
airport owned and operated by the defendant. At the time of the
plaintiff's purchase, county ordinances restricted the use of the
defendant's airport to aircraft of a particular type. Noise from the
airport was not disturbing to the plaintiff. Recently, however, the

1154

county adopted an ordinance allowing other kinds of aircraft to use the
airport. Since then, noise levels from the airport have increased,
disturbing the quiet atmosphere of the plaintiff's home.

If the plaintiff desires to assert a claim against the defendant on
account of noise from the airport, which of the following would be his
most effective theory of recovery?

(A) Private nuisance.

(B) Prescriptive aeronautical easement.

(C) Inverse condemnation.

(D) Continuing trespass.

121. While the defendant and his wife were standing in line outside a movie
theater, the defendant whispered to his wife that he had committed a
series of robberies the previous week. The defendant was
subsequently arrested and charged with the robberies in a jurisdiction
that holds that confidential marital communications are privileged.

A prosecution witness attempted to testify that he overheard the
defendant's whispered statement to his wife while standing behind
them in the movie line. If the defendant objects to this testimony, his
objection should be

(A) sustained, because communications made within a marriage are

presumed to be confidential.

(B) sustained, because the statement is inadmissible hearsay.

(C) overruled, because the statement is admissible as an admission.

(D) overruled, because a communication concerning a crime is not

subject to the marital privilege.

122. After he was fired, a man filed suit in state court in State A against a

company. The man's complaint alleged a single federal discrimination
claim and a number of state law claims. The company removed the
case to federal district court. The man then amended his complaint to
remove the discrimination claim because he believed it was untenable
and moved to have the case remanded to state court.

May the federal district court remand the case to state court?

(A) No, because the case must be dismissed.

1155

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

(B) No, because the state claims were in federal court based on

pendent jurisdiction.

(C) Yes, because the claim was originally brought in state court.

(D) Yes, because of judicial economy.

123. The defendant was charged with assaulting the victim. At the trial, the

victim testified that he accidentally bumped into the defendant while
walking on a crowded street, and that the defendant responded by
repeatedly hitting and punching him. As part of his defense, the
defendant denied that he had ever struck any person intentionally and
testified that any contact between the victim and him had been
accidental.

The prosecutor subsequently called a witness. The witness testified
that she and the defendant were divorced, but that she had been
married to him for 10 years. She stated that during the period of their
marriage, the defendant had frequently struck her with his fists in
public places. The jurisdiction recognized a privilege for marital
communications. If the defendant's attorney objects and asks the court
to exclude the witness's testimony, the testimony should be

(A) excluded, because the jurisdiction recognizes a privilege for

marital communications.

(B) excluded, because it is not relevant to a material issue.

(C) admitted, because it bears on the defendant's reputation for truth

and veracity.

(D) admitted, because the defendant testified in his own defense.

124. The plaintiff showed his silver coins to the defendant and asked

whether the defendant would be interested in trading them for
chickens. After inspecting the coins, the defendant and the plaintiff
placed them in a bag that they sealed together and left with a banker
whom they both knew. Then, in a writing signed by both of them, they
agreed to the trade.

Pursuant to the terms of their agreement, the defendant was to deliver
6,000 fryer chickens to the plaintiff on July 1, at which time the bag of
coins would be turned over to the defendant as payment in full. In May,
weather conditions were such that the price of fryer chickens
increased to three times what it had been when the agreement was

1156

signed. Although it was foreseeable that the market price for fryer
chickens would change dramatically, neither party knew that the
marker price of fryer chickens would change,

On July 1, the defendant refused to deliver 6,000 fryer chickens to the
plaintiff. If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the defendant for breach
of contract, the court should find for

(A) the defendant, because neither party knew that the market price of

fryer chickens would change.

(B) the defendant, because the likelihood of fluctuation in the value of

money makes this contract aleatory.

(C) the plaintiff, because it was foreseeable that the market price of

fryer chickens would change dramatically.

(D) the plaintiff, because the transaction was not a sale as defined by

the UCC.

125. The defendant, a water supply company, owned a well adjacent to the
plaintiff's land. By a conveyance that properly described the size and
location of the easement, the plaintiff granted the defendant an
easement across his realty “for the installation of underground pipe or
pipes for the transport of water to customers of the defendant.”
Pursuant to the easement, the defendant subsequently installed a single
underground pipe across the plaintiff's land. After the installation, the
defendant regularly entered the plaintiff's land to service its
underground pipe, occasionally excavating for that purpose. Twenty
years after the easement had been granted, construction of a nearby
housing development caused the number of the defendant's customers
to double, making it necessary for the defendant to transport more
water than the single pipe could carry. The defendant notified the
plaintiff that it planned to install a second underground pipe alongside
the first within the area over which the defendant had an easement. The
plaintiff objected and instituted an appropriate proceeding to stop the
defendant from installing a second underground pipe.

Which of the following arguments would be most likely to result in a
judgment for the plaintiff?

(A) Twenty years of continuous use by the defendant established the

scope of the easement.

1157

(B) The initial installation of a single pipe by the defendant established

the scope of the easement.

(C) When the easement was granted, neither party could have

anticipated that the number of the defendant's customers would
double.

(D) The plaintiff's grant to the defendant did not specify the number of

pipes that could be installed.

126. By a contract calling for the delivery of marketable title, the seller

agreed to sell the buyer a parcel of realty consisting of four adjacent
lots. On the date set for closing, the seller informed the buyer that one
of the four lots was encumbered by a utility company easement. The
seller said that it was unlikely that the utility company would ever
attempt to exercise its easement and offered to either execute a general
warranty deed to the entire parcel, including a covenant against
encumbrances, or to convey the remaining three lots to the buyer,
deducting from the purchase price the reasonable value of the
encumbered lot. The buyer refused both offers.

In litigation between the seller and the buyer for breach of contract, a
court should find for

(A) the seller, because a covenant against encumbrances would have

given the buyer sufficient protection.

(B) the seller, because title to the remaining three lots was marketable
and abatement of the purchase price would assure the buyer of
receiving the value for which he had bargained.

(C) the buyer, because the seller knew of the easement at the time the

contract of sale was formed.

(D) the buyer, because the seller failed to deliver marketable title.

127. At the trial of a personal injury action brought by the plaintiff against
the defendant and arising out of an automobile accident, the plaintiff
attempted to testify that immediately following the accident, the
defendant offered to pay $500 to fix the plaintiff's car. Over objection
by the defendant's attorney, the plaintiff's statement should be

(A) excluded, because to admit such evidence would violate public

policy.

(B) admitted, because the court could give the defendant an opportunity

1158

to explain his offer.

(C) admitted, as a declaration against the defendant's pecuniary interest.

(D) admitted, as an implied admission of a party.

128. The defendant was out walking when she saw the plaintiff, a seven-

year-old child, suddenly chase a ball into the street in the path of a car
driven by a driver. Afraid that the plaintiff would be hit by the car, the
defendant ran into the roadway and pushed the plaintiff out of the way.
The driver's car struck the defendant. The plaintiff was not hit by the
driver's car, but he hurt his knees when he fell to the ground as a result
of being pushed by the defendant. The jurisdiction applies the all-or-
nothing rule of contributory negligence.

If the plaintiff asserts a negligence claim against the defendant for the
injuries to his knees, which one of the following additional facts or
inferences, if it was the only one true, would be most likely to result in
a judgment for the defendant?

(A) The plaintiff's injury was proximately caused by the negligence of

the driver.

(B) If the defendant had not pushed him out of the way, the plaintiff

would have been struck by the driver's car and killed.

(C) The defendant was severely injured as a result of being struck by

the driver's car.

(D) The situation confronted the defendant with an emergency.

129. At a jury trial, the defendant was convicted of aggravated assault. On
appeal, the defendant's conviction was reversed on the ground that, as
a matter of law, the evidence against her was insufficient to establish
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Subsequently, the prosecutor
attempted to try the defendant again on the same charge. If the
defendant asserts that the subsequent prosecution violates the
constitutional protection against double jeopardy and moves to dismiss
it, her motion should be

(A) denied, because the reversal of her conviction ended any jeopardy

that attached as a result of the initial prosecution.

(B) denied, because the reversal amounted to a declaration that the trial
was a nullity and that she had, therefore, never been in jeopardy as
a result of the initial prosecution.

1159

(C) denied, because the defendant waived the constitutional protection

against double jeopardy by appealing her conviction.

(D) granted.

130. After he was injured during surgery, a man sued a doctor in federal
district court. The doctor's lawyer hired a private investigator, who
interviewed several witnesses to the surgery, including the head nurse.
The investigator filmed all of the interviews with his phone and made
transcripts of them. During the head nurse's interview, she stated
certain facts regarding what happened during the surgery that were
only known to the head nurse. Shortly after the interview, the head
nurse died. Is the man entitled to a copy or transcript of the interview?

(A) Yes, because the head nurse is dead.

(B) Yes, because the investigator was the one who filmed and

transcribed the interviews.

(C) No, because the interview was prepared in anticipation of

litigation.

(D) No, because the interview was prepared by another on the

attorney's behalf.

131. The state published an advertisement calling for bids “for a contract to
be the exclusive supplier of fuel for state vehicles.” The plaintiff
submitted a bid and, after negotiation, entered into a written contract to
supply at a specified price per gallon for a period of one year “all fuel
ordered by the state.” Several months after executing the contract, the
plaintiff learned that the state was purchasing substantial amounts of
fuel from other suppliers.

The plaintiff asserted a claim against the state for breach of contract.
At the trial, state attorneys offered the written contract into evidence
and pointed out that its language did not specifically state that the
plaintiff was to be the exclusive supplier. When the plaintiff attempted
to offer a copy of the advertisement calling for bids into evidence,
state attorneys objected on the ground that the advertisement was
inadmissible under the parol evidence rule. The plaintiff's most
effective argument in response to the state's objections would be that
the advertisement

(A) tends to show that the written contract was ambiguous.

1160

(B) was in writing.

(C) was a communication that led to a written contract.

(D) was an invitation to negotiate.

132. In 2008, the landowner conveyed a parcel of realty to her oldest son in
fee simple absolute as a gift. At the landowner's request, the oldest son
did not record the conveyance. In 2010, the landowner borrowed
$10,000 from a neighbor, executing a note purporting to be secured by
a mortgage on the land. The neighbor did not record the mortgage. In
2012, the landowner purported to convey the land in fee simple to her
youngest son as a gift. The youngest son immediately recorded the
deed. On default by the landowner, the neighbor now seeks to
foreclose on the land.

A statute in the jurisdiction provides that “No transfer of an interest in
real property shall be good and effectual in law or equity against
creditors or subsequent purchasers for value and without notice unless
it shall be recorded.”

Is the neighbor entitled to foreclose on the land?

(A) No, because his mortgage was not recorded.

(B) No, because the youngest son recorded his deed in 2012.

(C) Yes.

(D) No, because the oldest son owns the land in fee simple absolute.

133. The plaintiff bought from the defendant, a car dealer, a new car

manufactured by the manufacturer. The vehicle was equipped with a
seat belt warning indicator, although the law did not require such a
device. The indicator was designed to cause a bright red light on the
dashboard to begin glowing when the engine was started and to remain
lit until the driver's seat belt was fastened. When the car was delivered
to the plaintiff, an employee of the defendant explained to the plaintiff
that the seat belt warning indicator was not working, but that the
defendant would repair it without charge as soon as the necessary
parts were received.

The following day, the plaintiff was involved in an accident while
driving the new car. As a result of the impact, she was thrown from the
vehicle and sustained an injury when her head struck the pavement. If

1161

she had been wearing a seat belt at the time, she would not have been
injured.

The plaintiff subsequently asserted a claim against the defendant for
her injuries on the ground that the failure of the seat belt warning
indicator made the vehicle defective. Which of the following would be
the defendant's most effective argument in response to that allegation?

(A) When the plaintiff drove the vehicle, she was aware that the seat

belt warning indicator was not working.

(B) The law did not require the vehicle to be equipped with a seat belt

warning indicator.

(C) It is impossible to prove with certainty that the plaintiff would have

worn a seat belt if the seat belt warning indicator had been
working.

(D) The failure of the seat belt warning indicator was the result of the

negligence of the manufacturer.

134. A man owned a home worth $200,000. He had three mortgages on the
property. The first mortgage was for $150,000 and was owed to first
bank. The second mortgage was for $30,000 and was owed to second
bank. The third mortgage was for $10,000 and was owed to third bank.
The first mortgage was foreclosed, and the bid at the foreclosure sale
was $200,000. The attorney's fees and foreclosure expenses were
$15,000, and the accrued interest on the first mortgage was $5,000.

How will the funds from the foreclosure sale be distributed?

(A) $5,000 to the accrued interest, $15,000 to attorneys and foreclosure
expenses, $150,000 to the first mortgage, $30,000 to the second
mortgage, and nothing to the third mortgage.

(B) $5,000 to the accrued interest, $15,000 to attorneys and foreclosure
expenses, $150,000 to the first mortgage, $20,000 to the second
mortgage, and $10,000 to the third.

(C) $5,000 to the accrued interest, $15,000 to attorneys and foreclosure
expenses, $140,000 to the first mortgage, $30,000 to the second
mortgage, and $10,000 to the third mortgage

(D) $15,000 to attorneys and foreclosure expenses, $150,000 to first
mortgage, $30,000 to second mortgage, $5,000 to third mortgage,

1162

nothing to the accrued interest.

135. After the plaintiff instituted litigation against the defendant, the

defendant's attorney demanded that the plaintiff furnish the answers to
a list of interrogatories as provided by the state code of civil
procedure. Interrogatory #4 was “List the plaintiff's gross sales
receipts for each month during the four-year period in controversy.” In
response to this interrogatory, the plaintiff responded, “Gross receipts
for the period in question are contained in an industry publication.”
The court provided judicial notice that the industry publication was a
reputable source that reasonably well informed people regarded as
accurate.

At trial, the defendant's attorney attempted to offer into evidence those
portions of the industry publication listing the plaintiff's gross receipts
for the months in question. Upon objection by the plaintiff's attorney,
the court should rule those portions of the industry publication

(A) inadmissible, because the contents of the industry publication have

not been shown to be accurate.

(B) inadmissible as hearsay not within any exception.

(C) admissible as an admission of a party.

(D) admissible, because the industry publication was shown to be a
reputable source that reasonably well informed people regard as
accurate.

136. After the victim lost all his money to the defendant in a dice game, the
two men began to argue. During the course of the argument, the
defendant stabbed the victim in the leg with a knife. The victim
staggered home and pounded on the door, begging his wife to let him
in. The wife realized that the victim needed medical attention because
he was bleeding badly, but she was so angry at him for gambling that
she refused to open the door or call a doctor. The victim collapsed on
the doorstep and died an hour later from loss of blood. The wife could
have secured immediate medical attention for the victim, and if she had
done so, the victim would not have died.

If the defendant is prosecuted for the murder of the victim, which of
the following would be his most effective argument in defense?

(A) The defendant did not cause the victim's death because the victim

1163

would not have died if the wife had secured prompt medical
attention.

(B) Leg wounds do not usually result in death.

(C) It was unforeseeable that the wife would refuse to secure medical
attention for the victim when she knew that he needed it so badly.

(D) The wife's omission to secure medical attention was a substantial

factor in producing the victim's death.

137. A state statute grants state employees an annual 5 percent salary

increase. Another statute provides that upon retirement, a state
employee shall receive an annual pension equivalent to 60 percent of
the salary received during the year immediately prior to retirement.
The state also maintains a group health insurance plan for state
employees. After determining that the health insurance plan could be
operated less expensively if it did not include persons over the age of
65, the state legislature passed a compulsory retirement law requiring
state employees to retire at the age of 65.

The plaintiff, who was employed by the state as a station engineer,
reached the age of 65 several years after the compulsory retirement
law was passed. His job did not require any skills or abilities related
to age. When he was informed that he was required to retire, the
plaintiff challenged the constitutionality of the mandatory retirement
law. In support of his challenge, the plaintiff proved that a federal law
permits station engineers employed by the federal government to
continue working until they are 70.

In deciding the plaintiff's claim, the court should hold that the state's
mandatory retirement law is

(A) invalid under the Supremacy Clause.

(B) invalid, because the plaintiff's job did not require skills or abilities

that were related to age.

(C) valid, because the state could operate its employee health insurance

plan on a more economically efficient basis by mandating
retirement at 65.

(D) valid, because the federal government may not impose economic

burdens on the state.

1164

138. A banker, a citizen of State A, was injured in a car accident with a
doctor, a citizen of State A, and a lawyer, a citizen of State B. The
banker sued both the doctor and the lawyer in state court for $100,000.
The banker then voluntarily dismissed the doctor. Twenty-five days
later, the lawyer sought removal to the federal district court.

May the lawsuit be removed to federal court?

(A) Yes, because there is now complete diversity of citizenship.

(B) Yes, because the lawyer sought removal within 30 days of the

doctor's dismissal.

(C) No, because the lawyer did not seek removal within 14 days of the

doctor's dismissal.

(D) No, because the banker voluntarily dismissed the doctor.

139. The Department of Highway Transportation is the agency of state

government responsible for maintaining state highways. While driving
on a state highway, the defendant attempted to pass the plaintiff's
vehicle on the right. As she did so, one of the defendant's wheels
struck a pothole, causing her car to go out of control and strike the
plaintiff's car. The pothole existed because the Department of Highway
Transportation was negligent in maintaining the road surface, and there
were many potholes in the area. The defendant would not have lost
control of her car if she had not hit the pothole while driving at an
unreasonably fast rate of speed. A statute in the jurisdiction prohibits
passing on the right. The jurisdiction has also abolished the concept of
governmental immunity.

The plaintiff subsequently asserted a negligence claim against the
defendant for injuries sustained in the accident. If the defendant's only
argument in defense is that the pothole was a superseding cause of
harm, the court should find for

(A) the plaintiff, because the defendant's attempt to pass the plaintiff on

the right was a violation of an automobile safety statute.

(B) the plaintiff, because potholes are often found on the road surfaces

where the accident occurred.

(C) the plaintiff, because the concept of governmental immunity has

been abolished in the jurisdiction.

1165

(D) the defendant, because the accident would not have happened but

for the existence of the pothole.

140. The plaintiff had an exclusive five-year contract to sell products
manufactured by the defendant. When the defendant canceled the
contract in its third year, the plaintiff entered into a similar contract
with another manufacturer. The plaintiff then asked an attorney to sue
the defendant for breach of contract. Because the compensation plans
in the plaintiff's contracts with the defendant and the other company
were extremely complex, the attorney was unable to determine whether
the defendant's breach had damaged the plaintiff. Before agreeing to
represent the plaintiff, the attorney therefore arranged for the plaintiff
to meet with the witness, an accountant. At the attorney's request, the
witness interviewed the plaintiff, obtained certain facts from her, and
made mathematical calculations that she submitted to the attorney.

The attorney subsequently commenced a lawsuit against the defendant
on the plaintiff's behalf. At the trial, the defendant's attorney called the
accountant as a witness and attempted to question her about her
interview with the plaintiff. If the attorney objects to the examination
of the witness, the most effective argument in support of her objection
would be that statements made by the plaintiff to the witness are

(A) privileged as part of an attorney's work product.

(B) records kept in the course of business.

(C) inadmissible hearsay.

(D) confidential communications between client and attorney.

141. A man and a woman were residents of a local housing project in the

center of the city. Because the housing project was thought of as a
hotbed of crime and gang activity, the city wanted to tear down the
project and relocate the project's 800 residents to several smaller
apartment buildings spread out among the far suburbs. The man and the
woman filed suit against the city housing authority in federal district
court, claiming that the city's plan violated their federal due process
rights. The man and the woman wanted to certify a class made up of
the current project residents. The best law firm in the city agreed to
take the case, and the man and the woman were longtime residents of
the project who each owned small successful businesses. Their action
sought an injunction to stop the planned demolition and relocation from
going forward.

1166

Can the action go forward as a class action?

(A) Yes, because the injunction would likely be worth more than

$75,000.

(B) Yes, because the requested injunction is appropriate to the class as

a whole.

(C) No, because a class action cannot be based on a request for an

injunction.

(D) No, because joinder of the project residents would be more

appropriate.

142. A man was negligently flying his new drone when it hit a woman
walking on the sidewalk nearby. According to Federal Aviation
Authority law, drones were aircraft that needed to be registered. The
man's drone was not. The drone did not hit the woman very hard, but it
did cause her to fall on the ground. Although an ordinary person would
have suffered at most slight scrapes or bruises, the woman had a rare
brain condition that made any fall extremely dangerous to her optic
nerves. Because of the fall, the woman's optic nerves disconnected and
she became blind. The woman sued the man for damages related to
loss of her sight.

May the woman recover?

(A) Yes, because the man failed to register his drone.

(B) Yes, because the man negligently hit her with the drone.

(C) No, because the blindness was caused by the woman's rare medical

condition.

(D) No, because an ordinary person would only have suffered slight

scrapes or bruises.

143. At the jury trial of an action by a bank against the defendant on a

promissory note, the defendant testified that the signature on the note
was not his. An employee of the bank testified that she recognized the
signature as the defendant's. The judge believed the signature on the
promissory note was the defendant's. Accordingly, the judge decided
that the evidence was sufficient to support a finding that the signature
on the note was the defendant's. The jury was also given an
authenticated sample of the defendant's signature so that they could

1167

decide whether the signature on the promissory note was the
defendant's.

If the bank's attorney offers the promissory note into evidence, it
should be

(A) admitted, because any dispute regarding the genuineness of a

signature should be decided by the jury.

(B) admitted, because the judge decided that the evidence was

sufficient to support a finding that the signature on the note was the
defendant's.

(C) admitted, because the jury was given an authenticated sample of the

defendant's signature so that they could decide whether the
signature on the promissory note was the defendant's.

(D) admitted, because the judge believed that the signature on the

promissory note was the defendant's.

144. A plaintiff belongs to an ethnic minority that constitutes 10 percent of
the general population of the city. Approximately 10 percent of the
motorists driving on a particular road are members of the plaintiff's
ethnic minority. One day, while the plaintiff was driving her
automobile on the road, a police officer stopped her and issued a
traffic summons charging her with driving in excess of the statutory
speed limit. In her defense, the plaintiff asserted that the traffic statute
was unconstitutional as applied.

Which one of the following additional facts or inferences, if it were
the only one true, would best support the plaintiff's assertion?

(A) In the past two years, the plaintiff has received three such

summonses from the officer, but she has never received one from
another officer.

(B) In the past two years, the officer has issued a total of 300

summonses for driving in excess of the statutory speed limit on the
road, all of which were issued to members of the plaintiff's ethnic
group.

(C) Properly compiled statistics indicate that members of the plaintiff's
ethnic group do not customarily drive faster than members of any
other ethnic group.

1168

(D) At the time the officer issued the summons to the plaintiff, many

people who did not belong to the plaintiff's ethnic group were
driving on the road at speeds in excess of the plaintiff's speed, and
the officer did not issue summonses to any of them.

145. A defendant knew that he often became intoxicated upon drinking small

quantities of alcoholic beverages. He frequently visited the
neighborhood tavern because he liked the atmosphere, but he usually
ordered orange juice or some other non-alcoholic beverage. While at
the tavern one night, the defendant drank half of a friend's glass of beer.
Soon afterwards, he began shouting and throwing objects about the
tavern. A chair that he hurled across the room struck the bartender,
injuring her severely. As a result, the defendant was subsequently
arrested and prosecuted. At the defendant's trial, the defense attorney
called a psychiatrist to the witness stand to testify that the defendant
suffered from a mental illness that made him extremely susceptible to
the effects of alcohol. The psychiatrist offered to testify further that
even a small quantity of beer was likely to make the defendant become
physically violent, and that when this happened to him, he was not
aware that his conduct would result in injury to others.

The defendant's prosecution was for criminal battery. If the prosecutor
moves to exclude the psychiatrist's testimony, the motion should be

(A) granted, because the defendant knew that he often became

intoxicated upon drinking small quantities of alcoholic beverages.

(B) granted, because the sanity of a defendant is a question of fact to be

determined by a jury.

(C) denied, because a jury might find that the defendant's intoxication
prevented him from forming the intent to injure the bartender.

(D) denied, because that testimony could establish that the defendant's

intoxication was involuntary.

146. The buyer and the seller signed a written document agreeing to the sale

of the seller's realty to the buyer. The document adequately described
the realty, required the seller to deliver marketable title by a general
warranty deed, and set the date for closing. It also stated that the price
would be determined by agreement of the parties prior to the date of
closing. The value of real estate in the area could be objectively
determined rather easily. Three weeks before the date set for closing,
the buyer telephoned the seller to discuss the price of the realty. At that

1169

time, the seller told the buyer that she had changed her mind and would
not sell the realty to the buyer at any price. If the buyer asserts a claim
against the seller for breach of contract, the court should find for

(A) the seller, because the Statute of Frauds requires a contract for the

sale of realty to be in writing and to state the price.

(B) the seller, because the parties did not agree on a method for

determining the price.

(C) the buyer, because the value of real estate in the area can be

objectively determined.

(D) the buyer, because where a written contract omits the price term,

the price is to be a reasonable price.

147. The defendant was a college student preparing to take an important

exam. Before the exam, she sneaked into the professor's office, hoping
to steal a copy of the exam answer. The exam answer was locked
securely in the dean's safe, however, and the defendant was therefore
unable to find it. While she was looking, the professor discovered her
in his office, and the defendant told him her reason for being there. A
state statute prohibits the theft of certain specifically defined
“information,” which specifically included “exam answers.” The
defendant did not believe an exam answer was “information” under the
statute. If the defendant is charged with attempting to violate the
statute, she should be found

(A) not guilty, because the exam answers were, in fact, securely locked
in the dean's safe and the defendant could not possibly have stolen
them.

(B) not guilty, because an exam answer is “information” as defined by

the statute, but the defendant believed that it was not.

(C) guilty, because the theft of an exam answer by one preparing to take

the exam is “inherently immoral.”

(D) guilty, because an exam answer is “information” as defined by the

statute, even though the defendant believed that it was not.

148. A group of friends were playing a pickup soccer game. The plaintiff
was dribbling the ball down the field when the defendant kicked the
ball away, tripping the plaintiff and injuring him. If the plaintiff sues
the defendant for battery, the defendant's best defense is

1170

(A) by playing in the game, the plaintiff assumed the risk of the contact.

(B) by playing in the game, the plaintiff consented to the contact.

(C) the defendant did not intend to injure the plaintiff

(D) being tripped in a soccer game is not offensive to a reasonable

sense of dignity.

149. A will devised a parcel of real estate to a brother and his sister as
joint tenants with full right of survivorship. The brother died after
quitclaiming his interest in the realty to his wife. Subsequently, the
sister died, leaving a will that purported to devise her interest in the
realty to her daughter. Which of the following statements most
accurately describes the rights of the wife and the daughter after the
deaths of the brother and the sister?

(A) The wife is the sole owner of the realty.

(B) The daughter is the sole owner of the realty.

(C) The wife and the daughter hold the realty as joint tenants.

(D) The wife and the daughter hold the realty as tenants in common.

150. Congress authorizes a federal agency to lease federally owned land to

livestock ranchers for grazing purposes at specified rental rates. The
plaintiff also owns land in the area that it leases for grazing purposes.
The plaintiff complains that the rates charged by the federal agency are
significantly lower than those charged by the plaintiff and that this has
resulted in unfair competition that will cause the plaintiff an immediate
loss of revenue. In an appropriate proceeding, the plaintiff challenges
the constitutionality of the federal lease.

Which of the following arguments would be most effective IN
OPPOSITION TO the plaintiff's claim?

(A) The Property Clause of Article IV of the Constitution empowers

Congress to dispose of federal land as it sees fit.

(B) The lease of federal land is valid under the Commerce Clause.

(C) The plaintiff lacks standing because the activities of the federal

agency do not affect it directly.

(D) The federal government is immune from claims based on

allegations of unfair competition.

1171

151. A breeder agreed to sell a farmer a cow, which both parties believed
to be barren. The contract price was $200. Prior to delivery of the
cow, the breeder realized the cow was pregnant and refused to deliver
her because her value as a breeding cow was at least $1,000. May the
breeder rescind the contract?

(A) Yes, because the characteristic on which the parties were mistaken

was a basic assumption of the contract.

(B) Yes, because the cow is worth much more as a breeding cow.

(C) No, because the mistake merely went to the adequacy of price.

(D) No, because the farmer merely received an unexpected benefit in

the deal.

152. At the trial of a robbery prosecution, a witness for the prosecution

testified that the robber walked with a limp. While the witness was on
the stand, the prosecutor asked the defendant to walk across the
courtroom. If the defendant objects, asserting his Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination, his objection should be

(A) sustained, because the defendant has not waived the privilege by

testifying in his own behalf.

(B) sustained, because the jury is likely to interpret a refusal by the

defendant to walk across the courtroom as evidence that he is
guilty.

(C) overruled, because the Fifth Amendment privilege applies only to

testimony.

(D) overruled, because the defendant has waived the privilege by

personally appearing in the courtroom.

153. Following her indictment by a grand jury for bank robbery, the
defendant voluntarily surrendered at police headquarters.

The officers went to lunch and returned to headquarters an hour later.
Upon their return, they ordered the defendant to appear in a lineup for
identification purposes in connection with the bank robbery. At first,
the defendant refused. When the officer threatened to use force to
compel her appearance, however, the defendant appeared without
resisting. Witnesses at the lineup identified her as the bank robber.

If the defendant objects to the admission of evidence of the lineup

1172

identification, which of the following would be her most effective
argument in support of her objection?

(A) The defendant was deprived of her right to have an attorney present

during the lineup.

(B) The lineup deprived the defendant of the right to confront her

accusers.

(C) The lineup violated her right against self-incrimination.

(D) Police officers coerced the defendant into appearing in the lineup.

154. A man was snowmobiling with his friend as a passenger. The man
negligently cut across a road and an oncoming car struck the
snowmobile. The friend was severely injured. The driver of the car
called an ambulance, and the ambulance picked up the friend. Because
of the serious nature of the friend's injuries, the ambulance drove in
excess of the speed limit and crashed into a pole. The friend was
killed in the crash. The friend's estate sued the man.

Assuming the estate may recover for the injuries sustained during the
initial car crash, can it recover for the friend's death?

(A) No, because the ambulance broke the chain of liability.

(B) No, because the ambulance was negligent by speeding.

(C) Yes, because the ambulance's rescue attempt was foreseeable.

(D) Yes, because the death was preceded by the friend's serious

injuries.

155. By a properly executed and recorded deed, the landowner conveyed a

parcel of real estate with a building on it as follows:

to the church for as long as the land is used by the church for church
purposes;  and  when  the  land  ceases  to  be  so  used,  to  the  hospital  for
as long as the land shall be used by the hospital for hospital purposes;
and  when  the  land  ceases  to  be  so  used,  to  my  son  if  my  son  is  then
living.

The church moved onto the real estate, using the building as a house of
worship.

If the validity of the interest held by the son is challenged on the sole
ground that it violates the Rule Against Perpetuities, the interest of the

1173

son should be declared

(A) valid, because the church and the hospital are charitable

institutions.

(B) valid.

(C) void, because there is no assurance that the interest of the son will

vest during the period established by the Rule Against Perpetuities.

(D) void, because the interest of the hospital is void.

156. After a nuclear power plant was built in the state, the state passed the
Nuclear Waste Act. The Act regulates the storage of radioactive
wastes and authorizes the construction of radioactive waste storage
facilities at specified locations within the state. Section 40 of the Act
provides that “No radioactive waste storage facility in the state shall
store or accept for storage any radioactive waste resulting from
activities conducted more than five miles from said storage facility.”
All storage facilities within the state that are authorized by the Nuclear
Waste Act are located more than five miles from the state line.

If the constitutionality of Section 40 is challenged in an appropriate
proceeding, it is LEAST likely to be declared unconstitutional under
the

(A) Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV.

(B) Privileges and Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(C) Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

(D) Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.

157. A married couple lived in State A. The wife moved to State B and

filed for divorce in State B state court. The husband was visiting State
B on business and to see his daughters when he was served with the
divorce papers. In a special appearance, the husband moved to quash
service, arguing he had insufficient contacts with State B to confer
personal jurisdiction.

Does the State B court have personal jurisdiction over the husband?

(A) Yes, because the divorce action was filed in state court in State B.

(B) Yes, because the husband was personally served in State B.

(C) No, because the husband was only in State B on business and to see

1174

his daughters.

(D) No, because there is no indication the husband consented to

jurisdiction.

158. The security guard of a warehouse was making his rounds after closing

time one night when he found the defendant walking around inside the
warehouse. When the guard asked him what he was doing there, the
defendant replied that he had been driving past the warehouse when he
noticed that its door was open, and that he had entered to report this to
the guard. The guard called the police, and the defendant was arrested
and charged with violating a statute providing that “any person
entering the building of another for the purpose of committing a crime
therein is guilty of burglary.”

At the defendant's trial, the prosecutor tried to prove that the
defendant's van, parked outside the warehouse at the time of the
defendant's arrest, had license plates on it that had been stolen from an
out-of-state vehicle the day before the defendant's arrest.

Over objection by the defendant's attorney, evidence that the license
plates had been stolen should be

(A) inadmissible, because the defendant was not on trial for stealing

license plates.

(B) inadmissible, because the defendant was not convicted of stealing

license plates.

(C) admissible, because it tends to establish that the defendant was

likely to engage in criminal behavior.

(D) admissible, because it tends to establish that the defendant made

special preparations for the commission of a crime.

159. The farmer was the owner of a peach orchard. On May 15, the seller
contracted in writing to sell the land to the buyer for $200,000 under
terms specified. The agreement called for the delivery of marketable
title and set July 15 as the date for closing. The seller did not own the
land on May 15 but planned to acquire title to it prior to the closing.
On June 1, the buyer assigned his rights under the contract to an
attorney. On June 15, the seller acquired title to the land by purchasing
it from the farmer for $150,000. On July 15, the seller tendered a
general warranty deed, but the buyer and the attorney both refused to

1175

go through with the transaction.

If the seller asserts a breach of contract claim for damages against the
buyer, the court should find for

(A) the seller, because at the time of closing, the seller held marketable

title to the realty.

(B) the seller, under the doctrine of estoppel by deed.

(C) the buyer, because at the time of contracting, the seller did not hold

title to the land.

(D) the buyer, because at the time of closing, the seller's interest was

outside the chain of title.

160. A businessman, a citizen of State A, sued a real estate company in

federal district court in State A for breach of contract. The real estate
company was incorporated in State B and was run by a group of
executives based in State A. However, the majority of its apartments
were located in State C. The businessman claimed that after he was
injured in one of the company's luxury apartments, the company gave
him a free apartment for life in exchange for his promise not to file
suit. However, three years after giving him the free apartment, the
company started charging him rent. The company defended its decision
to start charging the businessman rent by pointing to a new law enacted
by Congress that made gifts of free apartments illegal because of
concerns free apartments were being used to bribe foreign
businessmen and other officials. After a trial, the district court ruled in
favor of the businessman. The company appealed, arguing the case
should have been dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

How should the court rule?

(A) The case should be dismissed, because the company was a citizen

of State A.

(B) The case should be dismissed, because the majority of the

company's apartments were in State C.

(C) The case should not be dismissed, because the company did not

challenge jurisdiction in the initial trial.

(D) The case should not be dismissed, because the company's defense

is based on a law passed by Congress.

1176

161. After police officers arrested the defendant for driving with a

suspended license, the officers handcuffed the defendant and placed
him in their patrol car. The police officers then searched the
defendant's car and discovered cocaine in the pocket of a jacket on the
backseat. At trial, the defendant argued that the search of his car was
unlawful. If the court rules in the defendant's favor, it will be because

(A) searches conducted without prior approval by a judge or magistrate

are per se unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment.

(B) the defendant could not have accessed his car to retrieve weapons

or evidence at the time of the search.

(C) the search of the car was not the result of a valid inventory search.

(D) the interior of a car is always within the immediate control of an

arrestee.

162. An insurance salesman sued a company in federal district court after

he was passed over for a promotion. The salesman's claim arose under
federal employment law. In the salesman's complaint, he gave a short
statement claiming he was entitled to relief, but the complaint did not
contain details regarding the alleged employment discrimination and it
set out three different claims that were inconsistent with each other. In
response, the company filed a motion to dismiss for failure to state a
claim.

How should the court rule?

(A) Deny the motion, because the complaint contained a short and plain

statement of the claim.

(B) Deny the motion, because the complaint gave the company notice of

the lawsuit.

(C) Grant the motion, because the complaint did not adequately allege a

prima facie case.

(D) Grant the motion, because the complaint contained inconsistent

claims.

163. A man told his friend, a druggist, that he was planning to kill his wife

and asked the druggist to help him by furnishing a poison. Although the
druggist did not actually intend to help the man kill his wife, he said
that he would because he did not want his friend to be angry at him.
The druggist gave the man a commonly used antibiotic, telling him that

1177

it was a deadly and undetectable poison. The druggist knew that the
antibiotic was not supposed to be dispensed without a prescription and
that about 2 percent of the people who received it developed an
allergic reaction to it, but he did not believe that it would hurt the wife.
That night while the wife was asleep, the man injected her with the
antibiotic that the druggist had given him. Because she was allergic to
the drug, the wife became seriously ill and nearly died.

If the druggist is prosecuted for attempted murder, he should be found

(A) guilty, because giving the man the antibiotic without a prescription
with knowledge that the man would give it to his wife shows a
reckless disregard for human life.

(B) guilty, because he did not attempt to stop the man from killing his

wife.

(C) guilty, because he furnished the drug knowing that the man would

use it to attempt to kill his wife.

(D) not guilty, because he did not believe that the wife would die.

164. The defendant was arrested and charged in a state court with the

unlawful possession of a dangerous drug. As his defense, the defendant
asserted that he was an undercover officer in a special division of the
state police department and that he had possessed the drug lawfully as
part of an undercover assignment. During the presentation of its case,
the prosecution called the witness, an official of the state police
department. The witness testified that he was the custodian of a
personnel file that contained the names of all undercover officers
employed by the special division of the state police department and
that he had studied the file before coming to court. He said that all
entries in the file were made by the person who selected its personnel
and issued their assignments when the special division was formed
and as new personnel were added.

The prosecution then offers to have the witness testify that the file
contains no mention of the defendant. The defendant's attorney objects.
Which of the following additional facts and inferences, if it was the
only one true, would be most likely to result in the admission of the
witness's testimony?

(A) The file itself is unavailable.

1178

(B) The person who makes the entries in the file is unavailable.

(C) The person who made the entries in the file is dead.

(D) The personnel file is available for inspection by the public.

165. The homeowner, who owned a home in a residential development,

decided to have his driveway paved. He called the plaintiff, a licensed
contractor who specialized in residential driveways, and asked for an
estimate on the job. Although the standard market price to pave a
driveway the size of the homeowner's was $2,750, the plaintiff was
willing to do the job for $2,500 since business was slow. The
homeowner agreed to hire him to do the job at that price and filled out
and signed a detailed work order for the plaintiff's work crew. Since
the 
homeowner was planning to go on vacation for two weeks, he and the
plaintiff agreed that the job would be finished by the time the
homeowner returned.

Three days later, the plaintiff's work crew went out to do the job
described in the homeowner's work order. By mistake, they paved the
neighbor's driveway, which was identical to the homeowner's except
that it was on a different street. The neighbor was out of town at the
time. The job cost the plaintiff $2,600 in labor and materials and
increased the value of the neighbor's realty by $2,100. The homeowner
did not communicate with the plaintiff while away on vacation. When
he returned and discovered that his driveway had not yet been paved,
he demanded that the plaintiff perform as agreed, but the plaintiff
refused.

After the driveway was paved, the neighbor promised to pay the
plaintiff $2,000 for the job. In a jurisdiction that adopts the view of the
Restatement (2d) of Contracts, if the neighbor then refused to pay and
the plaintiff sued him for breaching his promise, which of the
following additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one true,
would be most likely to result in a judgment for the plaintiff?

(A) When the neighbor promised to pay, the neighbor knew that the

plaintiff had already paved his driveway.

(B) When the neighbor promised to pay, the neighbor did not know that

the plaintiff had already paved his driveway.

(C) The neighbor decided to have his driveway paved before speaking

1179

with the plaintiff.

(D) The neighbor did not decide to have his driveway paved until

speaking with the plaintiff.

166. The landlord leased an apartment to a new tenant. The lease provided
that the tenant could not assign or sublease without the landlord's
consent. Soon thereafter, the tenant assigned the lease to his friend. The
landlord accepted the friend's first rent payment without any protest.

The landlord then realized he didn't like the idea of having the friend
as a tenant, so he declared the lease terminated. May he do so?

(A) Yes, because assignments were prohibited by the lease.

(B) Yes, because the landlord protested within a reasonable time.

(C) Yes, because the landlord had a superior property interest to the

tenant and the friend.

(D) No, because the landlord waived his right to terminate the lease.

167. The defendant suffered from severe anxiety. One day, he had a job
interview at a new company. Because he was so nervous about the
interview, he took three times the amount of anxiety pills that were
prescribed for him and drank a bottle of beer. The pills and the beer
made him severely intoxicated. On the way to the interview, the
defendant was driving his car when a man in another car ran a red
light. The resulting collision ended up killing the man. A police
investigation showed the defendant was driving at the correct speed
and obeyed all other traffic regulations.

The defendant was charged with involuntary manslaughter. How
should the court rule on the involuntary manslaughter charge?

(A) Guilty, because the defendant was grossly negligent in taking three
times the drugs prescribed for him and drinking a beer before
driving.

(B) Guilty, because the defendant was negligent under the totality of the

circumstances.

(C) Guilty, because driving while intoxicated is malum in se.

(D) Not guilty.

168. The defendant's husband owed money to the plaintiff. This was

1180

evidenced by a promissory note. When the note became due, the
defendant signed the back of it and promised to pay the note if her
husband did not. In return, the plaintiff promised he would not put the
note in his bank for immediate collection. Instead, he agreed to “hold it
until the time I want my money.” The plaintiff did not collect on the
note for two years. The plaintiff then sued the defendant based on her
endorsement. If the court does not enforce the agreement, it will be
because

(A) there was no consideration for the promise.

(B) the plaintiff did not detrimentally rely upon the promise.

(C) the defendant's husband was the primary debtor.

(D) the agreement was unconscionable.

169. On March 1, the seller entered into a written agreement with a licensed
real estate broker. By its terms, the seller agreed to pay the broker a
commission equal to 6 percent of the price if, prior to April 15, the
broker procured a buyer ready, willing, and able to pay $50,000 for
the seller's realty. In return, the broker agreed to make reasonable
efforts to sell it.

After the agreement was executed, the broker advertised the seller's
property and showed it to several prospective buyers. On April 10,
the buyer signed a document agreeing to purchase the seller's realty for
$50,000 but stating that her agreement was contingent upon her success
in obtaining the necessary financing. The same day, the broker
presented to the seller the document that the buyer had signed. The
seller read it, thought for a moment, and handed it back to the broker,
saying, “I won't even consider a deal built around a contingency.”
Although the broker protested that the agreement between him and the
seller did not specify a sale without contingencies, the seller refused
to discuss the matter any further.

On April 11, the broker informed the buyer of the seller's response.
The buyer then obtained a cashier's check for $50,000 payable to the
seller. She delivered the check to the broker, together with a signed
document in which she agreed to purchase the seller's realty for that
sum. On April 14, the broker presented the second document to the
seller with the cashier's check. The seller said, “I've changed my
mind. I'm not interested in selling.”

1181

If the buyer institutes a proceeding against the seller for an order
directing the seller to sell her the realty for $50,000, the court should
find for

(A) the seller, because he did not agree to sell the realty to the buyer.

(B) the seller, because his attempt to orally modify his written

agreement with the broker was invalid.

(C) the buyer, because she can show that the realty is unique.

(D) the buyer, because her written agreement to purchase was delivered

with the cashier's check prior to April 15.

170. In an action by the plaintiff against the defendant, the plaintiff claimed

that the defendant breached a contract to market the plaintiff's products.
At trial, the plaintiff testified that she and the defendant had reached an
agreement at a conference held in the office of the plaintiff's attorney
on October 15. She stated that she and the defendant discussed five
separate products on that occasion. On direct examination of the
plaintiff, the attorney asked her to name the products that had been
discussed. The plaintiff named four of them but said she could not
remember the fifth. After having them properly marked for
identification, the plaintiff's attorney offered to show the plaintiff notes
that the attorney had made during the conference, asking whether
looking at them would refresh the plaintiff's recollection.

The defendant's attorney did not object to the plaintiff's looking at the
notes, and the plaintiff stated that looking at the notes refreshed her
recollection. After looking at the notes, the plaintiff named the fifth
product, and the plaintiff's attorney then offered the notes in evidence.
If the defendant's attorney objects to admission of the notes in
evidence, the objection should be

(A) overruled, because the notes constitute a business record.

(B) overruled, because the plaintiff used the notes to refresh her

recollection while testifying.

(C) sustained, because the notes are hearsay not within any exception.

(D) sustained, because the notes constitute an attorney's work product.

171. A state law empowers any municipality within the state to collect a

property tax from its landowners if a plan to do so is proposed by its
governing body and approved by a majority of its eligible voters. The

1182

township is a municipality governed by a Township Council. Pursuant
to the above law, the Township Council proposed a property tax plan
and scheduled a special election for August 15 to submit the plan for
voter approval. The Township Council declared that only persons
owning land within the township were eligible to vote in the special
election and that eligible voters were required to register for that
purpose at the Township Hall between the hours of 1 P.M. and 3 P.M. on
Tuesday, July 15. The constitutionality of the special election was
challenged in an appropriate proceeding by a petitioner with standing.

The petitioner argued that the registration schedule was
discriminatory, proving that a substantial percentage of persons who
owned land in the township were males who commuted to work in a
city 45 miles away and were unable to register during the scheduled
hours without missing a day's work and incurring a loss of income. In
response, the Township Council argued that the registration schedule
had a rational basis, proving that its timing allowed the process to be
carried out with volunteer labor that would save the Township the cost
of hiring special registration personnel. If these are the only arguments
made, the court should declare the registration schedule invalid
because

(A) it discriminates against commuters on the basis of their lifestyle.

(B) it discriminates on the basis of wealth by excluding those who

cannot afford to lose a day's work.

(C) it results in benign sex discrimination.

(D) the right to vote is a fundamental right.

172. The landlord, the owner of a seven-story office building, leased the

entire sixth floor to an attorney for a period of five years by a written
lease that fixed the rent at $2,000 per month. There were only two
offices on the sixth floor, identified as Office 6A and Office 6B. A
clause in the lease provided that in the event it ever became necessary
to determine how the rent payments were apportioned, it was
understood that $900 of each month's rent was to be applied to Office
6A, $900 was to be applied to Office 6B, and $200 was to be applied
to the hallways and other common areas. The lease prohibited
assignment by the attorney without the landlord's written permission
and provided that such permission would not be unreasonably
withheld.

1183

One year after executing the lease, the attorney entered into a written
agreement with a second attorney. Under its terms, the second attorney
was to occupy Office 6A for the balance of the attorney's term at a
monthly rental of $1,500 payable to the attorney. The second attorney
was an attorney with a better reputation and a more lucrative practice
than the first attorney's.

The landlord consented to the arrangement between the two attorneys,
but one month before the term expired, the second attorney vacated the
premises and made no further payments. After the second attorney
moved out, the office that the second attorney had occupied remained
vacant. For the final month of the lease term, the first attorney paid
only $1,100 to the landlord, although the landlord demanded an
additional $900. In an appropriate proceeding, the landlord can
collect $900 from

(A) the first attorney only.

(B) the second attorney only.

(C) Either attorney.

(D) Neither attorney.

173. A woman sued a company in federal district court in State A after she
was injured by one of the company's products. After trial, the jury
ruled in favor of the woman and awarded her damages.

If the trial judge believed the compensatory damages awarded by the
jury were inadequate because the jury was prejudiced against the
woman, what should she do?

(A) Amend the judgment through additur.

(B) Offer the defendant a choice between a higher damage award or a

new trial.

(C) Order a new trial.

(D) Enter judgment as a matter of law.

174. The owner of one piece of land granted an easement to his neighbor,

the owner of the adjacent piece of land. The easement allowed the
neighbor to use a 12-foot-wide strip of the owner's land to drive his
car from his property to the public highway. The strip crossed a
bridge, but the easement document was silent regarding any repairs to

1184

it. After the grant of the easement, the bridge washed out. The neighbor
asked the owner who granted him the easement to repair the bridge,
and he refused to do so. Does the owner who granted the easement
have a duty to repair the bridge?

(A) No, because the owner of the servient estate is not required to

repair or maintain the property used in the easement.

(B) No, but he will have to reimburse his neighbor if his neighbor

chooses to repair it.

(C) Yes, because without the bridge, the neighbor has no way to get to

the public highway.

(D) Yes, because he expressly granted an easement for his neighbor to

be able to reach the highway.

175. The plaintiff was hired as a probationary employee by an agency of the
state pursuant to a written contract. The contract provided that at the
end of one year, the parties could agree to renew the contract for an
additional one-year period, but that either party could, without cause,
elect not to renew.

Eleven months after hiring him, the agency informed the plaintiff in
writing that his contract would not be renewed at the end of the year.
The plaintiff asked the agency for a hearing on his fitness to be
rehired, but his request was denied. The plaintiff subsequently
instituted a proceeding to challenge the decision of the agency on the
ground that its failure to hold a hearing before deciding not to rehire
him violated his right to due process.

If it was the only one true, which of the following additional facts or
inferences would be most likely to lead to an order requiring the
agency to hold a hearing before deciding not to rehire the plaintiff?

(A) During the same year, the agency held hearings before deciding

whether to rehire certain other probationary employees.

(B) The decision not to rehire the plaintiff was based in part on the fact
that, while employed by the agency, he had actively campaigned for
a political candidate.

(C) The decision not to rehire the plaintiff was likely to damage the

plaintiff's reputation.

1185

(D) The job held by the plaintiff was vital to the efficient operation of

the agency.

176. While the defendant and his wife were standing in line outside a movie
theater, the defendant whispered to his wife that he had committed a
series of robberies the previous week. The defendant was
subsequently arrested and charged with the robberies in a jurisdiction
that holds that confidential marital communications are privileged.

The wife is called as a prosecution witness, and the prosecutor
attempts to question her about the statement that the defendant made to
her while they were waiting in the movie line. Which of the following
statements is most correct?

(A) The court should exclude this testimony if the wife is willing to

testify but the defendant objects to her testimony.

(B) The court should exclude this testimony even if the defendant and

his wife make no objection to it.

(C) The court should exclude this testimony even if the defendant and 

his wife make no objection to it, 
or if the wife is willing to testify but the defendant objects to her
testimony.

(D) The court should admit the testimony.

177. The defendant showed his silver coins to the plaintiff and asked

whether the plaintiff would be interested in trading them for chickens.
After inspecting the coins, the defendant and the plaintiff placed them
in a bag that they sealed together and left with a banker whom they
both knew. Then, in a writing signed by both of them, they agreed to the
trade.

Pursuant to the terms of their agreement, the plaintiff was to deliver
6,000 fryer chickens to the defendant on July 1, at which time the bag
of coins would be turned over to the plaintiff as payment in full. In
May, weather conditions were such that the price of fryer chickens
increased to three times what it had been when the agreement was
signed.

In May, the plaintiff notified the defendant that because of the increase
in the price of chickens, the plaintiff would not be able to accept the
bag of coins as payment for 6,000 fryer chickens in July. The

1186

defendant immediately sold the coins to a third person. On July 1, the
plaintiff attempted to deliver 6,000 fryer chickens to the defendant, but
the defendant refused to accept delivery. If the plaintiff asserts a claim
against the defendant for breach of contract, the court should find for

(A) the defendant, because the plaintiff said that she would not accept

the coins as payment for the chickens.

(B) the defendant, because the defendant's sale of the coins has resulted

in the defendant's prospective inability to perform.

(C) the plaintiff, because the sale of the coins by the defendant has

made performance by the defendant impossible.

(D) the plaintiff, because the plaintiff tendered the chickens as required

by the contract.

178. While out hunting for wolves, the defendants saw a large furry animal

that they believed was a wolf running through the trees. The defendants
opened fire, killing the creature. When they got closer, they realized
they had just shot a dog that was owned by a local farmer. The dog did
in fact look exactly like a wolf. The farmer sued the defendants for
damages, and the defendants countered that they shot the dog by
mistake and were acting in good faith. What result?

(A) The defendants are not liable for the farmer's damages because

their mistake was made in good faith.

(B) The defendants are not liable for the farmer's damages because

their mistake was reasonable.

(C) The defendants are liable for the farmer's damages because it is

unreasonable to mistake a dog for a wolf.

(D) The defendants are liable for the farmer's damages even though they

may have been acting in good faith.

179. After many residents of the state complained of being annoyed by calls
received from robocall computers, the state legislature enacted a
statute that prohibited operating such a device from within the state.

The company, a manufacturing company doing business in the state,
planned to use the robocall computer to market its products within the
state. After passage of the law, the company attempted to hire an out-
of-state company to set up a robocall computer system connected to
phone lines outside the state for the purpose of making calls to

1187

telephones within the state. When the company learned that the cost of
doing so would far exceed the cost of setting up such a system inside
the state, the company challenged the constitutionality of the state law.

The company's only claim is that the statute violates the First
Amendment protection of freedom of expression. The company's most
effective argument in support of that conclusion is that the statute is

(A) overbroad because it could interfere with non-commercial

communications as well as with commercial communications.

(B) content-related because it is more likely that the telephone
solicitation computer would be used for commercial
communications than for non-commercial communications.

(C) likely to have a chilling effect on expression because of the

increased cost of using the telephone solicitation computer from
locations outside the state.

(D) not justified because prohibiting use of the telephone robocall

computer from locations within the states does not directly advance
a substantial government interest.

180. The farmer was the owner of a small farm that had been in his family

for many generations and which had become a well-known community
landmark. The farmer had a son and a daughter. Because the farmer
was advanced in age, he was concerned about what would happen to
the property after his death. He wanted to keep it in the family for as
long as possible, and he wanted the son to have the use of it throughout
his lifetime.

The farmer died, leaving a will that devised the property “to my son
for life, but if within 40 years my son attempts to sell or mortgage his
interest, to my daughter for life.” If, in an appropriate proceeding, the
son challenges the validity of the restrictions on his estate, his most
effective argument would be that the restrictions

(A) constitute a disabling restraint on alienation.

(B) constitute a forfeiturial restraint on alienation.

(C) constitute a promissory restraint on alienation.

(D) violate the Rule Against Perpetuities.

181. A police officer was going door-to-door in a neighborhood handing

1188

out flyers related to several recent burglaries. A homeowner invited
the police officer in for some coffee. The police officer sat down in
the living room while the homeowner went into the kitchen to get the
coffee. While the officer was sitting there, he noticed a large gun case
on the floor. The case wasn't locked, so he opened it. Inside was a
fully automatic machine gun, which was unlawful in the state. The
police officer arrested the homeowner. The homeowner moved to have
the evidence against her suppressed.

Should the evidence be suppressed?

(A) Yes, because the homeowner was not in the room when the officer

opened the case.

(B) Yes, because the homeowner did not give the officer permission to

open the case.

(C) No, because the homeowner had invited the officer into her home.

(D) No, because the illegality of the evidence was readily apparent.

182. After determining that the health insurance plan could be operated less

expensively if it did not include persons over the age of 65, the state
legislature passed a compulsory retirement law requiring state
employees to retire at the age of 65.

The plaintiff, an employee of the state, sued, claiming that she reached
65 several years after the passing of the new law.

The plaintiff's only argument was that the mandatory retirement law
violated the Obligation of Contracts Clause of Article I of the United
States Constitution. If it was the only one true, which of the following
additional facts or inferences would best support the plaintiff's claim?

(A) The plaintiff was a state employee prior to the time the mandatory

retirement law was passed.

(B) The plaintiff borrowed money for the purchase of a retirement

home, planning to pay it back from his salary as a state employee.

(C) The plaintiff is as physically fit as the average person who is 60

years of age.

(D) The plaintiff's job as a state employee does not require any

physical labor or strain.

1189

183. After executing a contract with the defendant, the plaintiff advertised

that he would be showing the defendant's world-famous hog at the state
fair. All his advertising emphasized that the hog, the American
champion, would be exhibited at the fair. On June 20, the hog
contracted a highly contagious and frequently fatal disease of hogs.
The defendant notified the plaintiff on June 22 that, because of the
disease, he could not exhibit the hog as agreed. When the plaintiff
advised the public that the hog would not be appearing, many people
who had planned to purchase tickets changed their minds and did not
do so. The plaintiff subsequently asserted a claim against the defendant
for damages resulting from the defendant's refusal to exhibit the hog as
agreed.

Which of the following additional facts, if it were the only one true,
would be most likely to result in a judgment in favor of the plaintiff?

(A) On May 1, the defendant was aware that many hogs in the area had

contracted the hog disease.

(B) On June 21, the state learned that the hog had contracted the hog
disease and issued an order prohibiting the exhibition of the hog.

(C) On June 22, the defendant owned a hog with qualities equivalent to

the other hogs.

(D) On the day of the trial, the plaintiff could prove exactly how much
revenue the plaintiff lost as a result of the defendant's failure to
exhibit the hog.

184. The tenant leased a parcel of real estate from the landlord for one year
at a monthly rent of $2,000 with an option to buy it for a specified
price at the termination of the lease. After moving onto the realty, the
tenant erected a storage building on it. The construction cost of the
building was $6,000, but when it was completed, its value was
$8,000. The tenant's employer subsequently transferred him to a
company office located in a different state. As a result, the tenant
vacated the realty four months before the expiration of the lease,
advising the landlord that he would not exercise his purchase option.
On the same day, the landlord conveyed the property to the buyer.

The buyer moved onto the realty on the day the tenant vacated it, and
all parties agreed that therefore the tenant would have no further
obligation to pay rent. If the tenant wishes to remove the storage

1190

building, but the landlord and the buyer object, which of the following
statements is correct?

(A) The landlord and the buyer may prevent removal of the building by
declaring it to be realty and tendering its reasonable value to the
tenant.

(B) If a court prevents the tenant from removing the building, declaring
it has been annexed to the realty, the tenant is entitled to receive its
reasonable value from the landlord or the buyer.

(C) The landlord and the buyer may prevent the removal of the building
by declaring it to be realty and tendering its reasonable value to the
tenant, and if a court prevents the tenant from removing the
building, declaring it has been annexed to the realty, the tenant is
entitled to receive its reasonable value from the landlord or buyer.

(D) If the building has become part of the realty, the landlord and the

buyer owe nothing.

185. The company is the manufacturer of an agricultural insecticide. Since
the county in which the company is located is primarily devoted to
farming, the company has manufactured the agricultural insecticide at
its factory there for the past 50 years. Although the insecticide is an
important product commonly used by farmers for the control of an
insect highly destructive to food crops, only three other companies
have a similar product.

Due to the manufacture of the insecticide, fumes that issue from the
company factory frequently have an unpleasant odor. These fumes
cause no physical harm to persons, property, or crops, but residents of
the county frequently complain about the foul smell. All the factories
that manufacture a product similar to the insecticide produce the same
odor.

The farmer began growing crops on a field near the company factory
less than a year ago. The farmer leases the field from its owner in
return for a percentage of his crop. When he telephoned the company
to complain about the bad smell emanating from its factory, a company
official told him that nothing could be done about it.

The farmer asserts a claim against the company based on private
nuisance, seeking damages for discomfort that he experiences as a

1191

result of the bad smell produced by the company's factory. Which one
of the following additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one
true, would be most likely to result in a judgment for the company?

(A) There is no other factory within 1,000 miles that manufactures a

product similar to the insecticide.

(B) The farmer does not own realty in or reside in the county.

(C) It is impossible to manufacture a product similar to the insecticide

without producing a bad smell.

(D) The farmer's discomfort does not differ substantially from the
discomfort experienced by other residents of the county.

186. At the jury trial of an action by the bank against the defendant on a

promissory note, the defendant testified that the signature on the note
was not his. An employee of the bank testified that she recognized the
signature as the defendant's.

The defendant's attorney asserts that the promissory note is hearsay.
The bank's most effective response to that assertion would be that

(A) the promissory note is a business record.

(B) the promissory note is an original document.

(C) the promissory note is not being offered to prove that any statement

that it contains is true.

(D) the defendant is in court.

187. Three men all agreed to carry loaded fully automatic machine guns for
a robbery of a pharmacy. The men entered the pharmacy, and to scare
everyone, one of the men fired about 30 bullets into the ceiling. The
pharmacy was in an antique building with a tin ceiling. A bullet
ricocheted off the metal and killed a customer. All three men were
arrested and charged with murder. The jurisdiction does not apply the
felony-murder rule. What is the most severe crime committed by the
two men who did not shoot into the ceiling?

(A) Conspiracy.

(B) Involuntary manslaughter.

(C) Voluntary manslaughter.

(D) Depraved-indifference murder.

1192

188. A stockbroker brought an action in federal district court in State A

against a car salesman after the stockbroker was injured while taking a
test drive in a new car he was thinking about buying. The stockbroker,
a citizen of State A, sought $1 million in damages. The salesman was a
citizen of State B. The salesman brought a counterclaim against the
stockbroker for damages he claimed he received during the same
accident. The salesman joined to the counterclaim the car dealer he
was working for at the time of the accident. The car dealer was a
citizen of State B. The salesman claimed the car dealer and the
stockbroker were both liable to him for $50,000 in damages based on
the accident. The salesman also joined to the counterclaim a claim for
breach of contract against the car dealer because the car dealer fired
him shortly after the accident.

May the court hear the salesman's claim for breach of contract?

(A) Yes, because the claim is part of the same case or controversy.

(B) Yes, because the federal court would have supplemental

jurisdiction over the related claim.

(C) No, because the counterclaim would contain additional facts from

the main claim.

(D) No, because the salesman and the dealer are citizens of the same

state.

189. An astronaut, who is a resident of the Western District of State A, sued
an engineer, who was a resident of the Eastern District of State B, and
a videogame designer, who was a resident of the Southern District of
State C, in federal district court for damages related to an automobile
accident. The accident occurred in the Western District of State D. The
astronaut brought suit in the Western District of State A. After the
defendants submitted their answers, they realized venue was improper
and moved to have the case transferred to the Western District of State
D. However, the district judge found that in the interest of
convenience, the district court in the Western District of State A should
hear the case.

Is venue proper in the Western District of State A?

(A) No, because neither the defendants nor the accident have any

connection to the Western District of A.

1193

(B) No, because neither defendant is a citizen of State A.

(C) Yes, because the defendants have already filed their answers.

(D) Yes, because venue decisions are discretionary.

190. The defendant and the victim are adults. During an argument, the

defendant slammed a glass door against the victim, causing the victim
to sustain serious cuts on her hand. After the victim received medical
treatment for her injuries, she spoke to the defendant's mother about it.
The victim told the mother that she was thinking of suing the defendant
for her medical expenses, but that if the mother would agree to pay the
victim $250, the victim would make no claim against the defendant for
medical expenses. The mother agreed in writing that she would do so.

Two weeks later, the defendant was prosecuted criminally as a result
of the injuries that he had inflicted on the victim. The victim told the
defendant's mother that the prosecutor had asked the victim to testify
against the defendant at the proceeding. The mother begged her not to.
Finally, the victim said that if the mother gave her an additional $1,000
for her pain and suffering, she would not testify against the defendant.
The defendant's mother orally agreed to do so.

The defendant's mother paid $250 to the victim, but refused to pay an
additional $1,000. If the victim asserts a claim against the defendant's
mother on account of the mother's failure to pay the additional $1,000,
which of the following would be the mother's most effective argument
in defense?

(A) The defendant's mother was not legally obligated to pay for damage

done by her adult son.

(B) The defendant's mother's promise to pay an additional $1,000 to the

victim was not supported by consideration.

(C) The defendant's mother's payment of $250 to the victim was an

accord and satisfaction.

(D) The defendant's mother's promise to pay the debt of the defendant

was not in writing.

191. Following her indictment by a grand jury for bank robbery, the
defendant voluntarily surrendered at police headquarters. After
booking her, police officers advised the defendant that she had a right
to remain silent, that anything she said might be used against her, that

1194

she was entitled to have an attorney present during questioning, and
that if she could not afford an attorney, one would be furnished without
cost to her. The defendant said that she did not wish to answer any
questions until her attorney arrived.

The officers went to lunch and returned to headquarters an hour later.
Upon their return, they ordered the defendant to appear in a lineup for
identification purposes in connection with the bank robbery. At first,
the defendant refused. When the officer threatened to use force to
compel her appearance, however, the defendant appeared without
resisting. Witnesses at the lineup identified her as the bank robber.

Following the lineup, the officers asked the defendant whether she
knew anything about a series of residential burglaries. Although they
did not think that she had committed the burglaries, they thought that
she might know the people who had. The defendant admitted
participating in the burglaries, however. She was subsequently
prosecuted for bank robbery and the burglaries.

If the defendant moves to exclude evidence that she admitted
participating in the burglaries, her motion should be

(A) denied, because the police did not suspect her of being involved in

the burglaries when they asked her about them.

(B) denied, because she received Miranda warnings before being

questioned about the burglaries.

(C) granted, because she stated that she did not wish to answer any

questions until her attorney arrived and did not in any other manner
waive her Miranda rights.

(D) granted, because the police did not advise her that she was

suspected of committing the burglaries before they questioned her
about them.

192. By a properly executed and recorded deed, the landowner conveyed a

parcel of real estate with a building on it as follows:

to the church for so long as the land is used by the church for church
purposes;  and  when  the  land  ceases  to  be  so  used,  to  the  hospital  for
so long as the land shall be used by the hospital for hospital purposes;
and  when  the  land  ceases  to  be  so  used,  to  my  son  if  my  son  is  then
living.

1195

The church moved onto the real estate, using the building as a house of
worship.

Five years after the landowner's conveyance, the size of the
congregation of the church increased, creating the need for more
space. As a result, church officials sold the realty, planning to use the
proceeds to buy a bigger church, and executed a deed purporting to
convey the realty to a real estate development company. In subsequent
litigation to determine the rights of the church, the hospital, and the
company, which of the parties should be found to have a present
possessory interest in the realty?

(A) The company, because the church plans to use the proceeds of the

sale to purchase realty for church use.

(B) The company, because the hospital's interest is void under the Rule

Against Perpetuities.

(C) The hospital, because the conveyance to the company terminated

the estate of the church.

(D) The church, because its conveyance to the company was invalid

under the grant from the landowner.

193. After a nuclear power plant was built in the state, the state passed the
Nuclear Waste Act. The Act regulates the storage of radioactive
wastes and authorizes the construction of radioactive waste storage
facilities at specified locations within the state. Section 40 of the Act
provides that “No radioactive waste storage facility in the state shall
store or accept for storage any radioactive waste resulting from
activities conducted more than five miles from said storage facility.”
All storage facilities within the state that are authorized by the Nuclear
Waste Act are located more than five miles from the state line.

The constitutionality of Section 40 is challenged on the sole ground
that it violates the Commerce Clause. Which of the following
additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one true, would be
most likely to result in a conclusion that Section 40 is constitutional?

(A) Prohibiting the storage of radioactive wastes generated outside the
state reduces the expense of operating nuclear power plants within
the state.

(B) The transportation of radioactive wastes within the state over

1196

distances greater than five miles would pose a significant health
and safety hazard to state residents.

(C) There are only a few locations within the state where radioactive

wastes can be stored safely.

(D) There are many locations outside the state where radioactive

wastes can be stored safely.

194. The security guard of a warehouse was making his rounds after closing

time one night when he found the defendant walking around inside the
warehouse. When the guard asked him what he was doing there, the
defendant replied that he had been driving past the warehouse when he
noticed that its door was open, and that he had entered to report this to
the guard. The guard called the police, and the defendant was arrested
and charged with violating a statute providing that “any person
entering the building of another for the purpose of committing a crime
therein is guilty of burglary.”

At the defendant's trial, the prosecutor tried to prove that the
defendant's van, parked outside the warehouse at the time of the
defendant's arrest, had license plates on it that had been stolen from an
out-of-state vehicle the day before the defendant's arrest.

The prosecutor subsequently offered evidence that the defendant had
previously been convicted of a crime other than burglary. Which of the
following additional facts or inferences, if it was the only one true,
would be most likely to result in the exclusion of that evidence?

(A) The defendant testified in his own behalf at the burglary trial and

stated that he had never been convicted of a crime.

(B) The defendant did not testify in his own behalf at the burglary trial.

(C) The defendant's prior conviction was for involuntary manslaughter.

(D) The defendant's prior conviction was rendered in the court of

another state.

195. A man sued a boxer in federal district court in the Western District of
State A for injuries the man sustained during a bar fight. The boxer's
attorney wanted to get a copy of the police report. The police
department was located in the Western District of State A, the same
District in which the fight occurred.

1197

How can the boxer's attorney get a copy of the police report?

(A) Serve a request to produce documents on the police department.

(B) Cause the court clerk to issue a subpoena duces tecum on the police

department.

(C) Serve a notice of deposition on the police officer that wrote the

report.

(D) Serve interrogatories on the police officer that wrote the report.

196. The plaintiff, a dentist, owned an apparatus for putting patients to sleep
while she operated on their teeth. The apparatus consisted of two
canisters, one filled with oxygen and the other filled with anesthetic
gas. By manipulating valves attached to the canisters, the plaintiff used
the apparatus to mix and administer a proper combination of gases to
patients. Noticing that one of the valves was beginning to wear out, the
plaintiff sent the apparatus to its manufacturer for repairs. After fixing
the valve, the manufacturer negligently filled the oxygen canister with
anesthetic gas and the anesthetic gas canister with oxygen.

After the manufacturer returned the apparatus to the plaintiff, she
attempted to use it on a patient. While treating the patient, the plaintiff
decided that it was necessary to administer pure oxygen and
manipulated the valves accordingly. Because of the manufacturer's
error in refilling the oxygen canister with anesthetic gas, however, the
plaintiff administered pure anesthetic instead. As a result, the patient
died in the plaintiff's office.

If the plaintiff asserts a claim against the manufacturer for mental
suffering that she experienced as a result of the patient's death in her
office, which of the following would be the plaintiff's most effective
argument in support of her claim?

(A) The manufacturer's error was outrageous because it created a high

probability of serious harm.

(B) It was likely that the manufacturer's error would lead the plaintiff to

experience mental suffering.

(C) The plaintiff assumed all risks associated with using anesthetic gas.

(D) There was substantial certainty that the plaintiff would use the

apparatus on a patient.

1198

197. A man told his friend, a druggist, that he was planning to kill his wife

and asked the druggist to help him by furnishing a poison. Although the
druggist did not actually intend to help the man kill his wife, he said
that he would because he did not want his friend to be angry at him.
The druggist gave the man a commonly used antibiotic, telling him that
it was a deadly and undetectable poison. The druggist knew that the
antibiotic was not supposed to be dispensed without a prescription and
that about 2 percent of the people who received it developed an
allergic reaction to it, but he did not believe that it would hurt the wife.
That night while the wife was asleep, the man injected her with the
antibiotic that the druggist had given him. Because she was allergic to
the drug, the wife became seriously ill and nearly died.

If the man is prosecuted for conspiracy to murder his wife, which of
the following would be his most effective argument in defense?

(A) His wife did not die.

(B) The druggist did not believe that the wife would die.

(C) The drug that the man gave his wife was not likely to cause her

death.

(D) The inchoate crime and the substantive crime merge when the
defendant's overt act brings him or her substantially close to
achieving his or her intended result.

198. The defendant was arrested and charged in a state court with the

unlawful possession of a dangerous drug. As his defense, the defendant
asserted that he was an undercover officer employed by the Special
Division of the State Police Department and that he had possessed the
drug lawfully as part of an undercover assignment. During the
presentation of its case, the prosecution called the witness, an official
of the State Police Department. The witness testified that he was the
custodian of a personnel file that contained the names of all
undercover officers employed by the Special Division of the State
Police Department and that he had studied the file before coming to
court. He said that all entries in the file were made by the person who
selected its personnel and issued their assignments when the Special
Division was formed and as new personnel were added.

The prosecution offers the file itself into evidence for the purpose of
showing that it contains no mention whatsoever of the defendant. If the

1199

defendant's attorney objects, the personnel file should be

(A) admitted as a business record.

(B) admitted as past recollection recorded.

(C) excluded, because government documents may only be used against

the government.

(D) excluded, because it calls for an inference to be drawn from

negative evidence.

199. A company brought a claim for violations of federal securities laws
against a bank in federal district court. The case was tried before a
jury. The company's case consisted of one witness: the company
president, who presented a few emails that allegedly proved the
company had been harmed by insider trading committed by the bank.
The bank then presented its case, which included dozens of documents
and several expert witnesses regarding the financial actions taken by
the bank. The experts all agreed that the bank's actions were legal. The
case was then submitted to the jury. The jury found in favor of the
company. The bank made a motion for judgment as a matter of law,
arguing there was no way a reasonable jury could have ruled in favor
of the company.

How should the court rule?

(A) Deny the motion, because the bank provided no new evidence to

dispute the claim.

(B) Deny the motion, because the bank did not move for judgment as a

matter of law before the case was submitted to the jury.

(C) Grant the motion, based on the 

insufficiency of the company's evidence.

(D) Grant the motion, because the jury's decision was clearly

erroneous.

200. A pipe company filed a complaint in state court in State A for breach

of contract against a builder. The company did not serve the builder
then, but emailed a “courtesy copy” of the complaint to one of the
builder's vice presidents. The company officially served the builder
two weeks later. Twenty-nine days after service, but 44 days after
receiving the email, the builder removed the case to federal district
court in State A. The company moved to remand the case to state court.

1200

How should the court rule?

(A) Deny the motion, because the builder removed the claim within 30

days after it was served.

(B) Deny the motion, because the “courtesy copy” was not sent by

certified mail.

(C) Grant the motion, because the builder did not remove the claim

within 30 days of receiving notice of the complaint.

(D) Grant the motion, because the builder did not challenge notice

when it received the initial email.


ANSWERS
____________________
PRACTICE MBE — P.M. EXAM
101.  A  A  person  who  renders  a  measurable  benefit  to  another,  with  the
reasonable  expectation  of  payment  and  not  as  an  officious
intermeddler,  may  be  entitled  to  recovery  on  a  theory  of  quasi-
contract  (i.e.,  restitution  for  unjust  enrichment).  (Note:  Since  the
neighbor  did  not  request  the  plaintiff's  performance,  and  since  the
neighbor did not become aware of it until after it had occurred, it is
not at all certain that a court would find in favor of the plaintiff on this
theory. But since the question calls for the assumption that the plaintiff
would be successful in his claim, it is necessary to consider the relief
to which he would be entitled if successful.) Ordinarily, recovery on
this theory is based on the benefit received by the person from whom
payment  is  sought.  This  benefit  may  be  measured  in  terms  of  net
enrichment  or  cost  avoided.  If  these  amounts  are  unequal,  the  court
will usually award the lower of the two. In this case, the neighbor's
net enrichment is the increase in his realty's value — $2,100. The cost
avoided is what he would have had to pay another for the job (i.e., the
standard  market  price)  —  $2,750.  Since  the  net  enrichment  is  the
lesser of these two figures, the plaintiff would be entitled to receive
$2,100.

B and C are incorrect because the benefit received by the neighbor is
unrelated  to  the  plaintiff's  agreement  with  the  homeowner  or  to  the
plaintiff's cost. D  is  incorrect  because  it  exceeds  the  net  enrichment
that the neighbor received.

102.  C  Article  III  of  the  United  States  Constitution  vests  federal  judicial
power in the United States Supreme Court and in such inferior federal
courts  as  Congress  shall  establish.  In  addition,  by  specifying  what
cases they may hear, Article III establishes limits on the jurisdiction
that may be exercised by the federal courts. Although it gives federal
courts  the  power  (i.e.,  jurisdiction)  to  hear  controversies  between
citizens  of  different  states,  or  between  citizens  of  the  same  state
claiming lands under grants of different states, it does not give the

1259

federal courts any power to hear contract disputes between residents
of the same state. Since the United States Constitution is the supreme
law  of  the  land,  neither  Congress  nor  a  state  legislature  can  confer
this power on the United States district courts.

A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.  The  Eleventh  Amendment  only
prohibits the federal courts from hearing certain claims against a state
and  is  inapplicable  because  the  plaintiff's  claim  is  not  against  the
state. D is therefore incorrect.

103. D  A  misrepresentation  is  a  false  assertion  of  material  fact  intended  to
induce  the  plaintiff's  reliance.  A  defendant  intends  to  induce  the
plaintiff's reliance if he or she knows with substantial certainty that a
class of persons to which the plaintiff belongs will rely on his or her
statement. If the reporter did not know that any person would rely on
her  statement,  she  could  not  have  intended  to  induce  any  person's
reliance. Her statement would therefore not be a misrepresentation.

In addition, misrepresentation liability cannot be imposed unless the
plaintiff  was  justified  in  relying  (i.e.,  the  reasonable  person  in  the
plaintiff's  situation  would  have  relied)  on  the  defendant's  false
statement.  Since  the  reasonable  person  might  believe  a  newspaper
account instead of personally checking public records, however, A is
incorrect. B is incorrect for two reasons: First, an expert's statement
of opinion may be a misrepresentation because it asserts as a fact that
the  expert  actually  holds  that  opinion,  and  second,  the  reporter's
statement that “Insiders say . . . (etc.)” is an assertion of fact on which
misrepresentation  liability  could  be  based.  In  actions  for  negligent
misrepresentation,  it  is  frequently  held  that,  without  privity,  the
defendant owes the plaintiff no duty of reasonable care. In this case,
however,  since  the  reporter  knew  that  there  was  no  basis  for  her
statement,  her  misrepresentation  was  intentional.  C  is  incorrect
because  privity  is  not  a  prerequisite  to  liability  for  intentional
misrepresentation.

104. D One who inherits an interest in realty takes it subject to any existing
prior interests. Since the landowner's accountant and brother received
interests prior to the death of the landowner, and since both of those
interests  were  immediately  recorded,  the  landowner's  nephew  and
niece  took  their  interests  in  the  realty  subject  to  those  of  the
accountant and the brother. Thus, the accountant is entitled to succeed
in a foreclosure proceeding. Because of the constitutional requirement

1260

of due process, however, persons who may be deprived of property
as  the  result  of  a  judicial  proceeding  must  be  given  notice  of  an
opportunity  to  be  heard  in  that  proceeding.  For  this  reason,  all
persons  with  existing  present  or  future  interests  in  the  realty  are
necessary parties who must be served with process in a foreclosure
proceeding. Deciding who must be served thus requires nothing more
than determining who holds a property interest — present or future —
in  the  realty.  Since  the  landowner's  nephew  is  the  holder  of  a  life
estate (i.e.,  has  a  present  interest),  and  the  landowner's  niece  is  the
holder of a remainder (i.e., has a future interest), both are necessary
parties. Since neither has been served or brought into the proceeding,
the accountant's request for a foreclosure sale must be denied.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

105.  A  Murder  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought. Malice aforethought consists of a wanton disregard for
human life, or of the intent to kill, inflict great bodily harm, resist a
lawful  arrest,  escape  from  custody,  or  commit  a  dangerous  felony.
Because  it  was  very  likely  to  lead  to  death  or  serious  injury,  the
defendant's firing slightly to the right of the victim probably showed a
wanton disregard for human life. This is particularly so in view of the
fact that the defendant had never fired a rifle before, and therefore he
could not have been sure that he would miss the victim. Thus, since
the defendant caused the unjustified killing of the victim with malice
aforethought,  he  could  properly  be  convicted  of  murder.  While  it  is
not certain that he would be convicted, murder is the only crime listed
of which he could possibly be properly convicted.

Voluntary  manslaughter  is  the  intentional  killing  of  a  human  being
under mitigating circumstances. Since the defendant did not intend to
hit  the  victim  with  the  bullet,  he  cannot  be  guilty  of  voluntary
manslaughter.  Thus,  B  is  incorrect.  A  person  is  guilty  of  a  criminal
attempt when, with the intent of bringing about a criminally prohibited
result,  he  comes  largely  close  to  achieving  that  result.  Thus,  while
murder does not require the intent to kill or inflict great bodily harm,
attempted  murder  does.  The  defendant  did  not  intend  to  inflict  harm
upon the victim, so he cannot be guilty of attempted murder. Thus, C
is  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  knowledge  that  the  location  is
within  the  municipal  limits  is  an  essential  element  of  guilt,  and  the
defendant did not know the dump was within these limits.

1261

106. C The fact that a witness has made prior statements that are inconsistent
with her testimony suggests that her testimony is not worthy of belief.
For  this  reason,  such  statements  are  admissible  for  purposes  of
impeachment.  In  general,  substantive  evidence  is  admissible  if  it
tends to establish a fact in issue. Since the color of the traffic light is
material  to  the  determination  of  the  plaintiff's  rights  against  the
defendant (i.e., is a fact in issue), the deposition in which the witness
said  that  the  light  was  green  for  the  plaintiff  is  relevant  evidence.
Hearsay is ordinarily defined as an out-of-court statement offered to
prove  the  truth  of  the  matter  that  it  asserts.  FRE  801(d)(1)(A)
specifically provides, however, that a deposition given under oath is
not hearsay so long as the person who gave it is available for cross-
examination. Thus, the witness's deposition is not hearsay although it
was  made  out  of  court  and  is  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  a  matter
asserted  in  it.  For  this  reason,  it  is  admissible  as  substantive
evidence. A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

107.  C  Under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  4(k)(1)(B),  “serving  a  summons  or  filing  a
waiver of service establishes personal jurisdiction over a defendant
. . . who is a party joined under Rule 14 or 19 and is served within a
judicial district of the United States and not more than 100 miles from
where  the  summons  was  issued.”  Here,  the  chef  is  impleading  the
waiter under Fed. R. Civ. P. 14(a)(1), since the waiter may be liable
to the chef for all or part of the professor's claim. Consequently, since
the waiter lives within 100 miles of the court where the summons was
issued, the federal district court in State A has personal jurisdiction
over her.

A is incorrect because of the 100-mile rule stated above. B and D are
incorrect because the amount in controversy and the citizenship of the
parties  is  irrelevant  to  the  question  of  whether  the  federal  district
court in State A would have personal jurisdiction over the parties.

108. B The Thirteenth Amendment provides that, except as a punishment for
crime,  “Neither  slavery  nor  involuntary  servitude  .  .  .  shall  exist
within the United States,” and grants Congress the power to enforce
that  provision.  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the
prohibition against slavery was directed at individuals as well as at
government action. This, the Court stated, gives Congress the power
to  define  badges  of  servitude  and  to  eliminate  them  by  enacting
legislation  regulating  private  conduct.  The  Court  further  ruled  that

1262

racial discrimination could constitute a badge of slavery.

individual  rights.  Since 

The  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  has  been  held  to
the  Fifth
protect  certain  substantive 
Amendment  protects  only  against  action  by  the  federal  government,
however, it could not justify the regulation of private conduct. Thus,
A  is  incorrect.  Since  the  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits  only
invidious discrimination by states, C is incorrect for the same reason.
The Fifteenth Amendment provides that the right to vote shall not be
denied  on  account  of  race  or  previous  condition  of  servitude.  Since
the legislation in question does not protect the right to vote, it cannot
be justified by the Fifteenth Amendment. D is therefore incorrect.

109. D A contract may make the happening of a particular event a condition
precedent to the performance of a contractual duty. If so, one party's
strict  compliance  with  the  condition  makes  the  other  party's
conditional  duty  absolute.  The  terms  of  the  commission  agreement
made the broker's delivery prior to April 15 of a buyer ready, willing,
and  able  to  pay  $50,000  for  the  realty  a  condition  precedent  to  the
seller's duty to pay a commission. Since the broker complied with that
condition by presenting the buyer's offer on April 14, the seller's duty
to pay has become absolute.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  commission  agreement  did  not  make
completion of the sale a condition precedent to the seller's obligation
to pay a commission. If an agreement specifies its own duration, then
the  obligations  that  it  creates  are  understood  to  exist  for  the  period
specified.  The  commission  agreement  required  the  broker  to  make
reasonable  efforts  to  sell  the  realty  until  April  15  and  required  the
seller to pay a commission if the broker procured a buyer prior to that
date.  Those  obligations,  therefore,  continued  to  exist  until  April  15.
The seller's rejection of the buyer's offer of April 10 terminated the
buyer's offer but did not affect the obligations created by the seller's
contract  with  the  broker.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  Statute  of
Frauds  simply  provides  that  certain  agreements  are  unenforceable
over objection unless they are in writing and signed by the party to be
charged. The Statute of Frauds would thus prevent the enforcement of
any  contract  that  is  claimed  to  have  been  formed  as  a  result  of  the
buyer's  April  10  offer.  C  is  incorrect  for  this  reason  and  because
while the Statute of Frauds may prevent an alleged oral contract from
being  enforced,  it  does  not  have  any  effect  on  the  validity  of  the

1263

rejection of an offer.

110. B  There  are  only  three  potential  bases  of  liability  in  a  tort  action  —
intent, negligence, and liability without fault (i.e., strict liability). It is
clear from the facts that the defendant's entry onto the plaintiff's realty
was  not  intentional.  Operating  an  automobile  is  not  one  of  the
activities  for  which  strict  liability  is  imposed.  The  only  possible
basis of liability is therefore negligence. Thus, the defendant can be
liable only if she was negligent. Here, she was negligent because she
was driving 15 miles per hour above the speed limit.

A  is  incorrect  because  an  unauthorized  entry  onto  realty  is  not  a
trespass unless it is intentional. The doctrine of “last clear chance” is
practically  obsolete,  but  where  it  is  applicable,  its  only  effect  is  to
relieve a plaintiff of the consequences of his or her own contributory
negligence. Since the defendant is not the plaintiff, whether or not she
had  the  “last  clear  chance”  to  avoid  an  accident  is  irrelevant.  C  is
therefore incorrect. The privilege of necessity permits the reasonable
violation  of  property  rights  in  the  face  of  an  emergency.  D  is
incorrect, however, for two reasons: First, necessity is available only
as  a  defense  to  intentional  tort,  and  second  —  even  under  the
privilege  of  necessity  —  one  who  invades  the  property  rights  of
another  to  protect  his  or  her  own  interests  must  pay  for  any  actual
damage that results from that invasion.

111. D  It  is  generally  understood  that  even  while  testifying,  a  witness  may
look at any document (in fact, at anything at all) that serves to refresh
his  or  her  recollection  about  the  matters  to  which  he  or  she  is
testifying.  Although  there  are  dangers  connected  with  this  rule,  it  is
thought  that  these  can  be  averted  by  investing  the  judge  with
discretion to determine, while listening to the testimony, whether the
witness's recollection has really been refreshed by consulting such a
document, or whether the witness has no real present recollection but
is  simply  reading  from  the  document.  Since  the  plaintiff  had  not  yet
looked at  the  notes  or  stated  that  looking  at  them  would  refresh  her
recollection,  the  judge  is  not  yet  in  a  position  to  exercise  this
discretion and must overrule the objection.

A  is  incorrect  because  any  material  may  be  used  to  refresh  the
recollection of a witness, without regard to the origin of that material.
B is incorrect because even material that has not been admitted or is
not  capable  of  being  admitted  may  be  used  to  refresh  a  witness's

1264

recollection.  A  leading  question  is  one  that  suggests  a  particular
answer.  C  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  there  are  occasions
when a direct examiner is permitted to stimulate a witness's memory
through the use of leading questions, and second, since the attorney's
question did not suggest a particular answer, it was not leading.

112.  C  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  constitutional
requirements  of  equality  in  the  electoral  process  prohibit  the  use  of
property ownership as a qualification for voter eligibility in general
elections. An exception to this rule has been recognized for special-
purpose  elections  on  matters  that  relate  only  to  the  interests  of
landowners.  The  election  in  question  does  not  fit  this  exception,
however, since municipal revenues and their source are of interest to
all residents of the municipality. For this reason, the land ownership
requirement probably makes the special election invalid.

The  Fifteenth  Amendment  only  prohibits  exclusion  of  persons  from
the  electoral  process  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  or  previous
condition of servitude. A  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication
that any persons will be excluded from voting in the special election
on this basis. B is incorrect because the United States Supreme Court
has held that states can constitutionally limit the vote to residents and
has specifically upheld residence requirements of up to 50 days, and
because persons owning land within the township are not necessarily
residents of the township. D is incorrect for two reasons: First, unlike
the  election  of  representatives,  which  may  be  conducted  by  district,
this is an election that could not be conducted in any other way but at-
large,  and  second,  in  the  absence  of  a  specific  intent  to  dilute  the
power of a particular interest group, at-large elections are valid even
if they have that effect.

113. D  Upon  breach  by  a  buyer,  UCC  §2-706  provides  that  the  seller  may
resell  the  goods  in  a  commercially  reasonable  manner  and  recover
damages equivalent to the difference between the contract price and
the price that the seller actually received upon the resale. Here, since
the plaintiff resold the chairs at the same price that she had agreed to
accept from the defendant, she has sustained no damage at all. (Note:
If the plaintiff incurred extra expense in making 75 individual sales of
one chair each, rather than a single sale of 75 chairs as agreed by the
defendant,  recovery  for  the  extra  expense  might  be  available  as
incidental damages. D  is  correct,  however,  because  the  facts  do  not

1265

indicate that any extra expense was actually incurred, and because no
other  answer  listed  correctly  describes  damages  that  might  be
available.)

Where  the  goods  that  a  breaching  buyer  contracted  to  buy  are  in
unlimited supply, the seller may be entitled to recover the profit that
the seller would have realized if not for the breach. Since there were
a limited number of chairs, however, and since the plaintiff succeeded
in  selling  them  all,  she  is  not  entitled  to  this  remedy.  A  is  therefore
incorrect. B  is  incorrect  because  the  defendant  did  not  agree  to  pay
$100  per  chair,  and  C  is  incorrect  because  when  the  seller  resells
under  UCC  §2-706,  the  damages  are  measured  by  the  difference
between the contract price and the price that she actually received.

114. A Generally it is the judge's function to decide whether offered evidence
may  be  considered  by  the  jury  (i.e.,  is  admissible),  and  the  jury's
function to decide what weight to give evidence that the judge decides
they  may  consider.  To  find  them  admissible,  a  judge  must  determine
whether  photographs  offered  into  evidence  have  been  properly
authenticated.  A  party  seeking  to  authenticate  a  photograph  must
establish that the photograph is an accurate representation of what it
purports  to  picture.  The  plaintiff  has  authenticated  his  photo  by
testifying that he took it of the stove in question and that it accurately
represents  the  stove.  The  employee  has  authenticated  his  photo  by
testifying  that  it  accurately  represents  the  stove  in  question.  Both
photos  have  thus  been  sufficiently  authenticated  to  be  admitted  into
evidence.  It  will  then  be  the  jury's  job  to  decide  which  witness  it
believes — if any — and which photo it therefore believes to be an
accurate representation of the stove in question.

B is incorrect because the employee's testimony that his photo fairly
and  accurately  represents  the  stove  sufficiently  authenticates  it  even
though  he  was  not  the  photographer.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
plaintiff's  testimony  that  he  took  the  snapshot  and  that  it  accurately
represents the stove sufficiently authenticates it. D is incorrect for a
combination of the reasons that make B and C incorrect.

115.  B  Restraints  on  the  alienation  of  leasehold  interests  are  generally
regarded  as  valid  but  are  strictly  construed.  For  this  reason,  a
restraint  against  assignment  is  held  not  to  prohibit  sublease.
Assignment of a lease takes place when a lessee transfers to another
his or her entire remaining interest in the premises. If any interest less

1266

than  this  is  transferred,  the  transfer  is  a  sublease  rather  than  an
assignment.  Since  the  attorney  retained  a  right  to  one  of  the  offices,
his transfer to the second attorney was not an assignment and did not
breach the lease provision prohibiting assignments.

A  is  incorrect  because  if  a  transfer  of  the  lessee's  entire  remaining
interest occurs, the transfer is an assignment even though the terms in
the agreement between assignor and assignee are not identical to the
terms  in  the  agreement  between  the  landlord  and  assignor.  Although
courts generally disfavor restraints on the alienation of fee interests in
realty, C  is  incorrect  because  clauses  prohibiting  the  assignment  of
leasehold  interests  are  generally  regarded  as  valid.  The  financial
status  of  a  prospective  tenant  is  only  one  of  the  factors  which  a
landlord  considers  in  deciding  whether  to  rent  to  him  or  her.  (For
example,  a  landlord  might  be  unwilling  to  rent  to  a  person  with  a
good  credit  rating  if  that  person  has  a  history  of  damaging  leased
premises or engages in an occupation inconsistent with other uses of
the premises.) D is therefore incorrect.

116. B  The  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  because  defamation
liability can be imposed only for a false statement, and because there
is  no  such  thing  as  a  false  opinion,  defamation  liability  cannot  be
imposed  for  an  assertion  of  opinion.  The  Supreme  Court  also  ruled
that a statement is an assertion of opinion if reasonable readers would
recognize that it was an expression of the writer's feelings and would
not  believe  that  it  was  intended  to  assert  a  fact.  Thus,  if  reasonable
readers would not believe that the statement asserted a fact, it was an
expression  of  opinion  and  therefore  not  subject  to  defamation
liability.

Although  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  a  public  person  suing  for
defamation  must  prove  actual  malice  (i.e.,  knowledge  of  falsity  or
reckless  disregard  for  truth),  this  requirement  has  not  been  imposed
on private persons. For this reason, the defendant could be liable for
publishing  a  defamatory  statement  about  the  plaintiff  that  he
negligently believed to be true, even if he did not have actual malice
when he made it. A  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  statement,  even  if  it  is
defamatory,  will  not  subject  its  publisher  to  defamation  liability
unless it is false. But a defamatory statement is said to be false if it is
not substantially true, without regard to whether or not the reasonable
person would believe it. If damage results from the publication of a

1267

statement  found  to  be  defamatory  (which  does  depend  on  what  the
reasonable  person  would  think  it  means)  and  false  (which  does  not
depend at all on what the reasonable person would think), defamation
liability is imposed. Although the amount of damage will probably be
related  to  the  number  of  people  who  believed  the  defamatory
statement  and  held  it  against  the  plaintiff,  it  does  not  depend  on
whether  or  not  those  who  did  so  were  reasonable  people.  The
argument  in  C  would  not  therefore  be  an  effective  defense  for  the
defendant. Although (for reasons stated above) defamation liability is
not  imposed  for  stating  an  opinion,  it  may  be  imposed  for  a  false
assertion of fact even though the maker of that statement believed it to
be  true.  Thus,  if  the  defendant's  statement  was  defamatory,  and  if  it
was a false assertion of fact, the defendant could not escape liability
by  proving  that  he  believed  it  (i.e.,  in  his  opinion  it  was  accurate)
unless his belief was reasonable. D is therefore incorrect.

117. D An illusory promise is a statement that appears to make a promise but
does  not  commit  the  promisor  to  do  anything.  Illusory  promises  are
insufficient consideration to support a contract. Here, the builder has
not bound himself to do anything since he's only agreed to buy bricks
for $1 if he decides to buy bricks. Because the builder's promise did
not actually bind him in any way, it did not provide consideration for
the  brick  supplier's  promise.  Consequently,  the  brick  supplier  could
not be bound to its promise.

A is incorrect because it appears to be referencing the rules for a firm
offer  under  UCC  §  2-205.  Under  that  section,  a  promise  to  keep  an
offer  open  is  enforceable  without  consideration  if  the  promisor  is  a
merchant,  offering  to  buy  or  sell  goods  in  a  signed  writing,  and  the
writing  gives  assurances  that  it  will  be  held  open.  In  that  case,  the
offer is not revocable for lack of consideration during the time stated,
or if no time is stated, for a reasonable time (in no event exceeding
three  months).  Here,  it  doesn't  seem  that  the  supplier  is  giving  any
assurances  regarding  holding  the  offer  open,  the  supplier's  letter
includes no promised time, and the builder made his order six months
later, so the rules regarding a firm offer could not apply. Importantly,
this is not the situation of a requirements contract, as the builder made
no  promise  to  buy  his  required  brick  from  the  brick  supplier.  B  is
incorrect because the letter sent by the builder was not an acceptance.
As stated above, it was an illusory promise. C is  incorrect  because
the reason for the price increase is irrelevant to the analysis.

1268

118. C Since the restriction to residential use was contained in the deed by
which  the  sister  received  her  interest  in  Lot  2,  there  is  no  question
about whether the restriction is enforceable against her. But since her
brother was not a party to the transaction in which the restriction on
his sister's use was created (i.e., the conveyance of Lot 2), a question
exists  about  whether  that  restriction  is  enforceable  by  the  brother.
The  facts  are  unclear  about  who  purchased  first.  (If  the  sister
purchased  before  her  brother,  the  question  would  be  an  easier  one.
Then,  the  benefit  that  the  landowner  received  from  the  restriction  in
his sister's deed probably ran with the landowner's land and probably
passed to the brother with the conveyance of Lot 1. Unfortunately, this
is not one of the options.) Even if the brother purchased first, he may
be able to enforce the restriction in his sister's deed if, at the time of
his purchase, he relied on a representation by the landowner that Lot
2  would  be  similarly  restricted.  In  that  event,  the  brother  might
succeed  on  two  theories:  first,  that  he  was  an  intended  creditor
beneficiary  of  his  sister's  covenant,  and  second,  that  there  were
implied  reciprocal  servitudes.  One  way  of  establishing  reliance  on
such  a  representation  would  be  to  show  that  at  the  time  of  his
purchase,  the  brother  was  aware  that  the  restriction  was  part  of  the
landowner's development scheme. The additional fact in C might thus
result in a decision for the brother.

If  the  brother  purchased  before  his  sister,  the  benefit  that  the
landowner  received  from  the  restriction  in  his  brother's  deed
probably passed to his sister with Lot 2 because that benefit ran with
the land. For this reason, the facts in A and B might be relevant if the
sister was trying to enforce the restriction contained in her brother's
deed.  They  are  irrelevant  to  the  brother's  attempt  to  enforce  the
restriction contained in his sister's deed, however. For this reason, A
and  B  are  incorrect.  If  the  sister  purchased  before  her  brother,  she
might  be  able  to  enforce  the  restriction  in  her  brother's  deed  by
showing that she was aware of the landowner's development scheme
when  he  purchased.  But  since  the  question  involves  the  brother's
attempt to enforce the restriction in his sister's deed, D is incorrect.

119.  A  The  Fifth  and  Fourteenth  Amendments  of  the  United  States
Constitution provide in part that no person shall be deprived of life,
liberty,  or  property  without  due  process  of  law.  Since  the  plaintiff's
claim is that the agency's decision violated his right to due process,
his claim must fail unless the decision deprived him of life, liberty, or

1269

property.  If  it  did  not,  he  was  not  entitled  to  due  process  in  the
decision-making  process.  Cases  have  held  that  if  a  state  employee's
contract  provides  that  the  state  may  decide  not  to  rehire  him  or  her
without  cause,  the  employee's  expectation  of  being  rehired  is  not  a
sufficient property interest to require due process. Thus, the argument
in  A  would  probably  be  successful.  Even  without  these  cases,
however, A would be the only argument listed that could possibly be
an effective response to the plaintiff's challenge.

is 

the 

interest 

involved 

incorrect  because 

is  unimportant  where 

Although no person has a right to state employment (i.e., no person is
guaranteed employment by the state), the distinction between right and
privilege 
is  an
“entitlement”  that  is  seen  to  be  a  property  interest.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.  C 
the  hearing  officer  would
presumably  act  properly  in  considering  whatever  evidence  the
plaintiff  might  submit  and  therefore  might  not  come  to  the  same
conclusion  as  the  agency.  D  is  incorrect  because  it  is  based  on  an
over-inclusive  statement;  even  though  the  contract  provided  that  the
decision not to renew could be made without cause, it could still have
been  made  for  a  reason  (e.g.,  based  on  race)  or  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  the  requirements  of  the  Constitution,  thus  violating
the plaintiff's constitutional rights.

120. A Private nuisance is a tortious interference with the plaintiff's right to
use  and  enjoy  realty,  and  it  may  be  committed  without  any  physical
intrusion onto the realty. Although the county ordinance permitted use
of the airport by certain aircraft, the defendant could still be liable for
private nuisance if he was operating the airport in a manner other than
that  contemplated  by  the  ordinance.  While  it  is  not  certain  that  the
plaintiff  would  recover  on  this  theory,  private  nuisance  is  the  only
theory listed that could possibly result in a judgment in his favor.

It  is  sometimes  held  that  repeated  overflights  for  a  given  period  of
time  result  in  a  prescriptive  aeronautical  easement.  B  is  incorrect,
however,  because  this  conclusion  would  privilege  the  continuing
overflights, thus providing the defendant with a defense to an action
brought  by  the  plaintiff.  The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States
Constitution  prohibits  the  taking  by  government  of  private  property
for  public  use  without  just  compensation.  If  the  county  ordinance
resulted  in  a  reduction  in  the  value  of  the  plaintiff's  realty,  the  Fifth
Amendment might require that the county pay just compensation to the

1270

plaintiff.  Although  this  right  would  be  enforceable  in  an  inverse
condemnation  proceeding,  C  is  incorrect  because  this  theory  is
available only against an agency of the government. Trespass to land
and  the  variant  known  as  continuing  trespass  require  a  physical  or
tangible  entry  onto  the  realty.  D  is  incorrect  because  noise  is  not
tangible.

121. C  An  “admission”  is  a  statement  by  a  party  offered  against  that  party.
Under the common law, it is admissible as an exception to the hearsay
rule;  under  FRE  801(d)(2),  it  is  not  hearsay.  Since  the  defendant's
statement  to  his  wife  is  offered  against  the  defendant,  it  is  an
admission and therefore admissible.

The marital privilege is designed to protect the confidentiality of the
marital  relationship.  For  this  reason,  it  prevents  either  spouse  from
testifying over objection by the other to a confidential communication
made during the marriage. For the same reason, however, it does not
prevent a stranger to the marriage from testifying to a communication
that  he  or  she  overheard  between  the  spouses.  Thus,  although
communications  made  within  the  marriage  are  presumed  to  be
confidential, A  is  incorrect  because  the  witness  did  not  receive  the
communication within the marriage (i.e., as a marriage partner). B is
incorrect  because  an  admission  is  not  hearsay  under  FRE  801(d)(2)
and it is admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule under common
law.  Communications  that  advance  a  crime  are  not  protected  by
privilege.  The  defendant's  statement  did  not  advance  a  crime,
however,  because  it  was  about  a  crime  that  had  already  been
committed. The fact that it concerned a crime is not enough to take it
out of the protection of the marital privilege, making D incorrect.

122. D If an action is in federal court based on federal question jurisdiction,
a federal court has discretion to remand the case to state court once
all  the  federal  questions  have  been  resolved  based  on  principles  of
fairness  and  judicial  economy.  See  Carnegie-Mellon  University  v.
Cohill,  484  U.S.  343  (1988).  Here,  considering  the  action  was
originally brought in state court and only state claims remain, it would
be  more  practical  and  fair  to  remand  the  case  to  the  state  court.
Therefore, A and B are incorrect.

C  is  incorrect  because  the  district  court's  discretion  to  remand  the
case  to  state  court  is  not  based  on  the  simple  fact  the  case  was
originally brought in state court.

1271

123. B A basic principle of the law of evidence is that only evidence that is
relevant to a material issue may be received in evidence. Evidence is
logically relevant to a material issue if it has any tendency to prove or
disprove a fact of consequence. Since the defendant is charged with
assaulting the victim, not the witness, his beating of the witness could
not  tend  to  prove  or  disprove  a  fact  of  consequence  in  the
prosecution.  (It  might  seem  logical  to  argue  that  the  witness's
testimony  tends  to  establish  that  the  defendant  is  the  kind  of  person
who is likely to have committed the crime with which he is charged.
All  jurisdictions  agree,  however,  that  evidence  of  a  defendant's
character  is  not  admissible  to  create  the  inference  that  he  or  she
engaged in particular conduct on a particular occasion.)

In  some  jurisdictions,  confidential  marital  communications  are
privileged  and  cannot  be  revealed  —  even  after  the  marriage  has
terminated — over the objection of the spouse against whom they are
offered.  There  is  some  disagreement  about  whether  this  privilege
applies  to  acts  as  well  as  communications.  It  is  generally  agreed,
however, that communications or acts are privileged only if they were
intended to be confidential. The fact that the acts to which the witness
testified  occurred  in  public  places  indicates  that  they  were  not
intended  to  be  confidential,  and  the  privilege  therefore  does  not
apply. A is incorrect for this reason and because, as explained above,
the  testimony  may  be  excluded  even  if  the  jurisdiction  did  not
recognize  the  marital  privilege.  The  credibility  of  a  witness  may  be
impeached by evidence relating to his or her reputation for truth and
veracity. C is incorrect, however, for two reasons: First, the witness's
testimony does not logically relate to the defendant's reputation at all,
and second, FRE 608(b) specifically provides that extrinsic evidence
(except  for  convictions)  of  specific  conduct  may  not  be  used  to
impeach  the  credibility  of  a  witness.  Although  a  defendant  who
testifies  in  his  or  her  own  behalf  may  be  impeached  by  cross-
examination (i.e.,  intrinsically)  regarding  past  conduct,  FRE  608(b)
prevents the use of extrinsic evidence of specific acts of unconvicted
bad conduct. D is therefore incorrect.

124. C  Under  the  doctrine  of  impossibility  of  performance,  a  party  may  be
excused from obligations under a contract if an unforeseeable change
in  circumstances  has  made  performance  vitally  different  than  that
which  was  contemplated  by  the  parties  at  the  time  the  contract  was
formed.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  change  that  occurred  was

1272

foreseeable, the fact that it increases a party's burden of performance
is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to  excuse  that  performance.  Because
contracts  must  remain  stable  even  when  the  market  does  not,  it  is
generally  understood  that,  for  this  purpose,  fluctuations  in  market
price are foreseeable. In any event, if dramatic fluctuation in the price
of chickens was foreseeable, then the increase in market price would
not excuse the defendant's performance.

A  is  incorrect  because  if  the  change  was  foreseeable,  it  does  not
matter  whether  the  parties  actually  knew  that  it  would  occur.  In  an
“aleatory” contract, one party agrees to confer a benefit on the other
upon the happening of a fortuitous event over which neither party has
control (e.g., X agrees to pay Y if Y's roll of the dice comes up 7).
Since the agreement between the plaintiff and the defendant was not
conditioned upon the happening of any event over which neither had
control, it was not aleatory. B is therefore incorrect. (Note: Under the
reasoning of option B, all contracts for the future payment of money
would be aleatory and invalid.) D is incorrect for two reasons: First,
the  rights  of  the  parties  would  be  the  same  under  common  law  as
under  the  UCC,  and  second,  the  transaction  is  deemed  a  sale  by  the
language of the UCC, which defines a sale as a passing of title from
the seller to the buyer for a price.

125.  C  When  an  easement  is  created  by  grant,  the  language  of  the  grant
determines the scope of the easement. When that language is unclear,
the courts most often determine the scope of the easement on the basis
of  what  could  reasonably  have  been  anticipated  at  the  time  the
easement  was  created.  Although  there  are  insufficient  facts  to
determine whether the argument in C would result in a judgment for
the plaintiff, it is the only argument listed that could possibly support
his position.

If  an  easement  is  created  by  adverse  use  over  a  specified  period  of
time  (i.e.,  by  prescription),  the  use  over  that  period  determines  the
scope of the easement. If the easement is created by grant, however,
its scope is determined by the language of the grant, construed in the
light of what the parties contemplated at the time of its creation. A is
therefore  incorrect.  The  initial  installment  of  a  single  pipe  by  the
defendant might be evidence of what the parties contemplated at the
time the easement was created. It is not conclusive, however, because
the  scope  of  an  easement  is  usually  understood  to  include  those

1273

changes in the activities of the dominant estate that could reasonably
have  been  foreseen.  Thus,  although  the  defendant  installed  only  one
pipe, it may be found that the parties anticipated that the installation
of a second pipe might one day be necessary. If so, that anticipation
would  be  relevant  in  determining  the  scope  of  the  easement  granted
by the language given. B is therefore incorrect. D is incorrect because
where the granting language is not sufficiently specific, the scope of
the easement is determined as explained above.

126. D  Since  the  sales  contract  called  for  delivery  of  marketable  title  to  a
parcel  consisting  of  four  lots,  the  buyer  could  not  be  required  to
accept  anything 
including
easements  —  make  a  title  unmarketable.  Since  one  of  the  four  lots
was  encumbered  by  an  easement,  the  seller  was  unable  to  deliver
marketable title and was, therefore, in breach of contract.

less.  Outstanding  encumbrances  — 

A  covenant  against  encumbrances  is  breached  if  an  encumbrance
exists at the time of conveyance, and it gives rise to an action against
the covenantor for any damage resulting from the existence of such an
encumbrance.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  marketable  title
means a title that can be enjoyed without the likelihood of litigation,
and  title  to  encumbered  realty  is  likely  to  lead  to  litigation.  Since
there may be reasons why the buyer would want to purchase a parcel
consisting  of  four  lots  but  not  a  parcel  consisting  of  three  lots,  he
cannot be required to accept less than what he bargained for. Having
bargained for a parcel consisting of four lots, he cannot therefore be
compelled  to  accept  a  deed  to  only  three  of  them.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. In a tort action for intentional misrepresentation, it would
be  necessary  for  the  buyer  to  show  that  the  seller  knew  that  the
easement  existed  when  he  promised  to  deliver  marketable  title.
Breach of contract liability is not based on fault, however, and may
be imposed simply because the promisor has failed to keep a promise
that he or she made. Since the seller promised to deliver marketable
title (i.e., title free of encumbrances), he may be liable for breaching
that  contract  without  regard  to  whether  he  knew  that  it  would  be
breached when he made it. For this reason, C is incorrect.

127.  A  For  various  reasons,  the  law  recognizes  a  policy  to  encourage
settlements. Since a party might refrain from making a settlement offer
if  he  or  she  believed  that  his  or  her  offer  could  be  used  as
circumstantial evidence of his or her liability, this policy prohibits the

1274

admission as evidence of the offerer's liability of an offer to settle or
compromise a claim.

Since the offerer's explanation for his or her offer would not always
prevent  the  offerer  from  convincing  a  jury  of  his  or  her  liability,
policy would prevent the admission of evidence of the offer even if
the  offerer  was  given  an  opportunity  to  explain  it.  B  is  therefore
incorrect. Although a declaration against pecuniary interest may be an
exception to the hearsay rule, and although the admission of a party is
an exception to the hearsay rule under common law, and not hearsay
at  all  under  FRE  801(d)(2),  C  and  D  are  incorrect  since  the
settlement  offer  is  being  excluded,  not  because  it  is  hearsay,  but
because of the policy to encourage settlements.

128. B The plaintiff in a negligence action must establish that the defendant
breached  a  duty  of  reasonable  care  and  that  the  breach  was  a
proximate  cause  of  damage.  In  concept,  a  plaintiff  has  sustained
damage  as  a  result  of  a  defendant's  act  if  the  plaintiff  would  have
been better off without that act. If the plaintiff otherwise would have
died, then the defendant's act saved the plaintiff's life at the expense
of his injured knees. Since the plaintiff's life was more important (i.e.,
valuable)  than  his  knees,  he  would  not  have  been  better  off  without
the defendant's act and therefore sustained no damage.

Since a result might have several proximate causes, any damage that
the  plaintiff  did  sustain  could  have  been  proximately  caused  by  the
negligence of the defendant and by the negligence of the driver. This
would make the defendant and the driver joint tortfeasors — in most
jurisdictions,  jointly  and  severally  liable  for  the  plaintiff's  damage.
For this reason, the fact that the driver's negligence was a proximate
cause of the plaintiff's injury is not likely to result in a judgment for
the defendant. A is therefore incorrect. If the plaintiff was damaged as
a  proximate  result  of  the  negligence  of  the  defendant,  the  defendant
would be liable for the plaintiff's damage. This is true regardless of
any  injuries  that  the  defendant  might  have  sustained.  C  is  therefore
incorrect.  Ordinarily,  a  person  who  acts  is  required  to  act  as  the
the  same  circumstances.  Since
reasonable  person  would 
emergencies call for quick response without time for cool reflection,
a person confronted with an emergency is not required to act as he or
she would if not confronted by an emergency. He or she is, however,
required  to  act  like  the  reasonable  person  would  if  confronted  with

in 

1275

the same emergency. Thus, the fact that an emergency existed does not
excuse  a  defendant  from  the  obligation  of  acting  reasonably.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

129. D The Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution provides that
no person shall for the same offense be placed twice in jeopardy of
life or limb. In general, this prevents a person from being tried twice
for  the  same  crime.  Since  the  defendant  has  already  been  tried,  the
subsequent  prosecution  violates  this  constitutional  protection.  D  is
correct for this reason, and because none of the reasons listed in the
other options is sufficient to result in a denial of her motion.

For  the  protection  against  double  jeopardy  to  be  violated  by
prosecution  for  a  crime,  it  must  be  found  that  the  defendant  has
already been in danger (i.e., jeopardy) of losing his or her liberty as a
result  of  a  prosecution  for  the  same  crime  and  that  the  danger  has
ended.  If  the  danger  to  the  defendant  that  was  created  by  the  first
prosecution  has  ended,  subsequent  prosecution  would  place  her  in
danger  again,  thus  violating  the  Double  Jeopardy  Clause.  A  is
therefore incorrect. It is sometimes argued that a reversal based on a
legal  flaw  in  the  trial  results  in  the  conclusion  that  the  trial  was  a
nullity and that jeopardy therefore never attached in the first place. If
this  were  so,  subsequent  prosecution  would  not  violate  the  Double
Jeopardy  Clause  because  the  defendant  was  never  in  danger  as  a
result of the previous prosecution. B  is  incorrect,  however,  because
the reversal by the appellate court was not based on a legal flaw but
on insufficiency of the evidence that is equivalent to an acquittal after
trial.  Usually  a  convicted  defendant  who  appeals  his  or  her
conviction thereby waives the constitutional protection against double
jeopardy. A reversal based on insufficiency of the evidence, however,
indicates  that  the  initial  trial  should  have  resulted  in  an  acquittal,
which would have barred re-prosecution, and so in such a case, the
defendant does not waive his or her rights under the Double Jeopardy
Clause. C is therefore incorrect.

130. A Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(3), a statement prepared by a party “in
anticipation  of  litigation”  is  protected  by  work-product  immunity.
However, since the statement is simply the statement of the head nurse
and does not appear to contain any mental conclusions or impressions
by  the  investigator,  it  is  probably  only  protected  by  qualified
immunity.  In  that  case,  the  man  can  get  the  statement  if  he  shows  he

1276

has  “substantial  need  for  the  materials  .  .  .  and  [he]  cannot,  without
undue  hardship,  obtain  their  substantial  equivalent  by  other  means.”
Since the head nurse related information that was known only to her
regarding  what  happened  during  the  surgery,  the  fact  she  has  died
means  the  man  is  likely  entitled  to  the  information.  Therefore,  C  is
incorrect.

the 

lawyer  and  work  prepared  by 

B is incorrect because work-product immunity applies both to work
prepared  by 
the  party's
“representative  (including  the  other  party's  attorney,  consultant,
surety,  indemnitor,  insurer,  or  agent).”  Consequently,  the  fact  it  was
the  investigator  who  did  the  interview  and  not  the  lawyer  is
irrelevant. D is incorrect because the issue doesn't revolve around the
question of whether the information was obtained by another working
on the attorney's behalf.

131. A Under the parol evidence rule, extrinsic evidence of prior agreements
or  negotiations  is  not  admissible  to  contradict  or  modify  an
unambiguous written contract that the parties intended as a complete
expression  of  their  agreement.  The  rule  does  not  prevent  the  use  of
extrinsic  evidence  for  other  purposes,  however.  Virtually  all
jurisdictions  permit  its  use  to  show  that  the  written  contract  is
ambiguous  and  to  clear  up  the  ambiguity.  Since  the  phrase  “all  fuel
ordered by the state” might mean all the fuel that the state chooses to
order  from  the  plaintiff,  or  all  the  fuel  that  the  state  orders  at  all
during that period, the contract is probably ambiguous on its face. If it
is not ambiguous on its face, the fact that the advertisement calling for
bids indicated that the contract would be exclusive tends to show an
ambiguity since it might mean that the parties intended the plaintiff to
be  the  exclusive  supplier  even  though  the  written  contract  does  not
specifically say so. The advertisement is probably admissible for this
reason.  Although  it  is  not  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this
conclusion, the argument set forth in A is the only one listed that might
provide  the  plaintiff  with  an  effective  response  to  the  state's
objection.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  parol  evidence  rule  may  prevent  the
admission of extrinsic evidence, whether it is oral or written. C and
D  are  incorrect  because  the  parol  evidence  rule  excludes  extrinsic
evidence  of  statements  made  prior  to  and  during  negotiations  if
offered to modify the terms of an unambiguous written contract.

1277

132.  C  At  common  law,  priorities  were  determined  by  the  dates  of  the
transactions  involved.  The  person  who  received  his  or  her  interest
first  had  priority  over  all  others.  In  all  jurisdictions  in  the  United
States, recording statutes have modified the common law rule. Under
the  statute  given  (typical  of  the  “notice”  variety)  an  unrecorded
interest does not defeat the rights of a subsequent taker for value and
without notice. Since the youngest son received the property as a gift
(i.e., did not give value), however, he is not protected by the statute.
For  this  reason,  the  interest  of  the  neighbor,  since  it  was  created
before that of the youngest son, has priority over it. Since the neighbor
did give value for his interest, and since the facts do not indicate that
he was aware of the oldest son's interest, the neighbor is protected by
the recording statute. Under the statute, the oldest son's interest is not
good  against  the  neighbor,  since  the  oldest  son's  deed  was  not
recorded.  Thus,  the  interest  of  the  neighbor  has  priority,  and  the
neighbor is entitled to foreclose.

Although  the  neighbor  did  not  record  his  mortgage,  it  has  priority
over  the  youngest  son's  interest  because  the  youngest  son  —  not
having given value — is not protected by the recording statute. Under
the  statute,  the  interest  of  the  neighbor  —  which  is  protected  by  the
recording statute — has priority over the previously created interest
of  the  oldest  son  because  the  oldest  son's  interest  was  unrecorded
when the neighbor received the mortgage. A is therefore incorrect. B
is incorrect because the youngest son is not protected by the recording
statute  for  the  reasons  given  above.  Since  the  neighbor's  interest  is
superior  to  the  oldest  son's  under  the  recording  statute,  the  oldest
son's  interest  is  subject  to  the  mortgage  held  by  the  neighbor.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

133. A The plaintiff's allegation that the vehicle was defective means that her
claim is based on the theory of strict liability in tort. Assumption of
the risk may be raised as an effective defense to such a claim. Since a
plaintiff  assumes  the  risk  when  he  or  she  voluntarily  encounters  a
danger of which he or she knows, the plaintiff may have assumed the
risk by driving with the knowledge that the seat belt warning indicator
light was not working.

B  is  incorrect  because  a  product  might  be  defective  even  though  it
does  not  violate  a  safety  statute.  If  the  plaintiff  would  have  ignored
the seat belt warning indicator light, its failure to operate was not a

1278

factual  cause  of  her  harm,  and  the  defendant  could  not  be  liable  for
her  injury.  Factual  cause  is  a  question  of  fact  for  the  jury,  however,
and a plaintiff needs to prove it only by a fair preponderance of the
evidence. Thus, even if the plaintiff cannot prove with certainty that
she  would  have  worn  the  seat  belt  had  the  indicator  been  working,
she may still win her case if the jury finds it more likely than not that
she would have. C is therefore incorrect. A professional seller who
supplies  a  defective  product  is  strictly  liable  for  resulting  harm
whether  or  not  the  defect  resulted  from  that  seller's  fault.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

134. A In a foreclosure sale, the proceeds are first used to pay the attorney's
fees and other expenses of the sale, the principal and interest on the
foreclosed  loan,  and  then  any  junior  mortgages  in  the  order  of  their
priority. If there is anything left over, it goes to the mortgagor. On the
other hand, if the proceeds are insufficient to pay the mortgage debt,
the  mortgagee  can  bring  a  personal  action  against  the  mortgagor
unless  such  an  action  is  prohibited  by  state  law.  Here,  A  correctly
states  these  rules.  If  it  is  not  prohibited  by  state  law,  the  third  bank
may  sue  for  a  personal  judgment  against  the  man  to  recover  the
$10,000 it is owed under the third mortgage.

B  is  incorrect  because  junior  mortgage  holders  do  not  split  the
remaining  proceeds.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  junior  mortgage
holders  do  not  have  priority  over  the  foreclosed  mortgage.  D  is
incorrect because the principal and interest on the first mortgage must
be paid before any proceeds can go to other mortgagees.

135. C  An  admission  is  a  declaration  by  a  party  offered  against  that  party.
Under  the  common  law,  admissions  are  admissible  as  exceptions  to
the  hearsay  rule;  under  FRE  801(d)(2),  admissions  are  not  hearsay.
Matters  to  which  a  party  has  stipulated  on  the  record  are  known  as
“judicial admissions” and are conclusive in the proceeding in which
they  were  made.  Since  the  plaintiff  specified  that  the  information
contained in the industry publication was to be used as its response to
the  defendant's  interrogatories,  the  appropriate  portions  of  the
industry publication may be regarded as a judicial admission.

A is therefore incorrect. B is incorrect because an admission is either
admissible hearsay (under common law) or not hearsay at all (under
the  FRE).  A  court  may  take  judicial  notice  of  facts  contained  in  a
reference  work  that  is  shown  to  be  a  reputable  source  beyond

1279

reasonable dispute. Since the portions of the industry publication are
admissible  as  admissions,  however,  judicial  notice  is  not  the  only
way that they would be admissible. D is therefore incorrect.

136.  C  Murder  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought. Among other things, malice aforethought may consist of
the intent to cause serious bodily harm or of a reckless disregard for
human life. Stabbing with a knife is evidence of both these states of
mind. Therefore, if the defendant's stabbing of the victim proximately
caused  the  victim's  death,  it  was  probably  murder.  An  act  is  a
proximate  cause  of  death  if  it  was  a  factual  and  legal  cause  of  the
death.  The  defendant's  act  was  a  factual  cause  of  the  victim's  death
because  the  victim's  death  would  not  have  occurred  without  it.
Conduct is a legal cause of death if the death was a foreseeable result
of it, and if there were no superseding intervening causes. The wife's
conduct  was  also  a  cause  of  the  victim's  death,  since  the  victim's
death  would  not  have  occurred  if  the  wife  had  secured  medical
attention. Further, her failure to do so was an intervening cause of the
victim's death because it came after the defendant's act and before the
victim's  death.  If  the  wife's  conduct  was  unforeseeable,  it  can  be
called a superseding intervening cause of death. Under the definition
given above, this would prevent the defendant's conduct from being a
legal (or proximate) cause.

As indicated above, the defendant's conduct was a factual cause of the
victim's  death,  since  the  death  would  not  have  occurred  if  the
defendant  had  not  stabbed  the  victim.  The  wife's  failure  to  secure
prompt  medical  attention  was  also  a  factual  cause  of  the  victim's
death,  since  it  would  not  have  occurred  if  she  had  secured  prompt
medical  attention.  Any  result  may  have  several  causes;  the  fact  that
the wife's conduct was a cause does not establish that the defendant's
was  not.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  If  the  victim's  death  was  an
unforeseeable result of the defendant's act, the defendant's act was not
a proximate cause of it. The term foreseeable, however, means “that
which  the  reasonable  person  would  anticipate.”  Thus,  even  an
unusual  result  may  be  foreseeable.  For  this  reason,  the  fact  that  leg
wounds  do  not  usually  cause  death  does  not  necessarily  justify  the
conclusion that the victim's death was an unforeseeable result of the
defendant's act. B is therefore incorrect. If the wife's conduct was a
substantial  factor  in  producing  the  victim's  death,  it  was  a  factual
cause  of  that  death.  Any  result  may  have  several  proximate  causes,

1280

however. D is incorrect because the defendant's act was also a cause
of the victim's death.

137. C Unless it involves a fundamental right (i.e.,  voting,  or  marriage  and
procreation) or discriminates on the basis of a suspect classification,
state  regulation  of  social  or  economic  interests  is  valid  if  it  has  a
rational  basis.  Since  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that
age is not a suspect classification, the state mandatory retirement law
is valid if it has a rational basis. Under this test, if any state of facts
can be imagined that would make the legislative choice a reasonable
way  to  achieve  a  legitimate  legislative  purpose,  the  law  will  be
upheld.  Since  providing  state  employees  with  the  best  insurance
protection  at  the  lowest  cost  is  a  legitimate  legislative  purpose,  the
mandatory retirement law probably has a rational basis that makes it
valid. (Note: Although it is possible to conclude that the law does not
have  a  rational  basis  because  mandatory  retirement  is  not  a
reasonable  means  of  achieving  this  objective,  C  is  the  only  answer
that could possibly be correct.)

Under the Supremacy Clause, a state law is invalid if it conflicts with
a  valid  federal  law  covering  the  same  subject  matter.  Since  the
federal  law  fixes  the  retirement  age  for  federal  employees,  and  the
state  law  fixes  the  retirement  age  for  state  employees,  the  two  laws
do  not  cover  the  same  subject  matter  and  are  therefore  not
inconsistent  with  each  other.  A  is  thus  incorrect.  A  law  may  have  a
rational  basis  even  though  its  application  to  one  particular  person
does not advance its objective. Thus, if many other state jobs require
skills  or  abilities  that  are  related  to  age,  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff's
does  not  will  not  be  sufficient  to  invalidate  the  law.  B  is  therefore
incorrect.  D  is  too  general  a  statement  to  be  correct;  the  federal
government  may  impose  some  economic  burdens  on  the  states  (e.g.,
may tax certain state activities).

138. B If a case is initially not removable to federal court, a defendant has 30
days  to  file  a  notice  of  removal  after  the  case  becomes  removable.
See  28  U.S.C.  §1446(b)(3).  Here,  the  case  became  removable  to
federal  court  once  the  doctor  was  dismissed  because  there  is  now
complete diversity between the plaintiff and defendant and the amount
in  controversy  is  over  $75,000.  Because  the  lawyer  sought  removal
within 30 days, the case can be removed.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  there  is  now  complete  diversity  of

1281

citizenship,  the  lawyer  would  still  need  to  seek  removal  within  30
days of the doctor's dismissal. Consequently, B is a better answer. C
is  incorrect  because  the  lawyer  has  30  days  to  seek  removal.  D  is
incorrect because the fact the banker voluntarily dismissed the doctor
does not change the analysis.

139. B An intervening cause is an event without which the accident would not
have occurred and which took place after the defendant's negligence.
The defendant's encounter with the pothole was, thus, an intervening
cause  of  the  collision.  A  superseding  cause  is  an  unforeseeable
intervening  cause.  In  this  context,  the  word  unforeseeable  may  be
used  to  mean  either  something  that  the  reasonable  person  would  not
have anticipated, or something which, in retrospect, appears to have
been extraordinary. If potholes are frequently found on road surfaces
in  the  area,  the  presence  of  the  pothole  was  foreseeable  (in  either
sense of the word), and could not have been a superseding cause of
harm.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  violation  of  a  statute  may  establish
that  the  defendant  was  negligent,  it  does  not  establish  that  the
defendant's  conduct  was  causally  related  to  the  plaintiff's  injury.  A
superseding  cause  may  relieve  a  defendant  of  liability  by  justifying
the conclusion that his or her conduct was not a legal cause of harm,
whether or not the person responsible for the superseding cause can
be  required  to  compensate  the  plaintiff.  Thus,  the  plaintiff's  liability
does  not  depend  on  whether 
the  Department  of  Highway
Transportation is liable for its negligence or on whether governmental
immunity  has  been  abolished.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  fact  that
the accident would not have occurred without the pothole proves that
the pothole was one of its factual causes. Unless the presence of the
pothole was an unforeseeable intervening cause, however, it was not
a superseding cause of the plaintiff's harm and would not relieve the
plaintiff of liability.

140. D The majority of jurisdictions recognize a client's privilege to prevent
disclosure of a confidential communication that he or she made to his
or her attorney while seeking legal advice even before retaining him
or her. In addition, the privilege applies to confidences that the client
communicates  to  an  agent  of  the  attorney  in  connection  with  the
subject  of  the  attorney-client  relationship.  Since  the  plaintiff's
communication  with  the  witness  was  at  the  attorney's  request  to

1282

enable the attorney to make decisions relative to her representation of
the plaintiff, it is protected by the attorney-client privilege.

A document prepared by or for an attorney that contains the attorney's
mental impressions may be privileged as an attorney's work product.
A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  conversation  between  the
plaintiff and the witness was not a document and did not contain the
attorney's mental impressions. B is incorrect because there is no rule
of  privilege  that  protects  records  kept  in  the  course  of  business
simply  because  of  that  fact.  (Note:  Records  kept  in  the  course  of
business are sometimes admissible under an exception to the hearsay
rule.) An admission is a declaration by a party that is offered against
that  party.  Under  common  law,  admissions  are  admissible  hearsay;
under FRE 801(d)(2), 
admissions are not hearsay at all. Since the defendant seeks to offer
the plaintiff's statements against the plaintiff, they cannot be classified
as inadmissible hearsay. C is therefore incorrect.

141. B Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(a), the requirements for a class action are
numerosity,  common  questions  of  law  or  fact,  typicality  of  claim  or
defenses, and adequate representation. Here, there are 800 residents
who  are  all  being  forcibly  removed  from  their  homes  by  the  city,
which  is  apparently  doing  so  in  an  effort  to  combat  crime.  The  best
law firm in the city has taken the case, and the two named members
are  longtime  residents  and  business  owners.  Consequently,  it  seems
as if the four requirements are met. Importantly, an injunction can be
the basis of a class action under Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b)(2) so long as
“the party opposing the class has acted or refused to act on grounds
that  apply  generally  to  the  class,  so  that  final  injunctive  relief  or
corresponding  declaratory  relief  is  appropriate  respecting  the  class
as  a  whole.”  Here,  an  injunction  to  stop  the  city's  plans  would  be
appropriate  respecting  the  class  as  a  whole.  Therefore,  C  is
incorrect.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  action  would  be  heard  in  federal  court
based the alleged violation of federal law, not based on diversity of
the parties. D is incorrect because 800 residents are likely too large a
group of people to make joinder feasible.

142. B Generally, if a tortfeasor negligently causes an injury, the tortfeasor is
liable for the full consequences of the injury even though a unique or
rare  medical  condition  causes  the  injury  to  be  much  worse  than  it

1283

would  have  been  for  an  ordinary  person.  Since  the  man's  negligent
flying  of  the  drone  knocked  over  the  woman,  the  fact  her  medical
condition caused blindness when the injury would not have done so in
an ordinary person does not relieve the man from liability. Therefore,
C and D are incorrect.

A is incorrect because the man's failure to register the drone had no
relation to his negligently hitting the woman with it. Negligence per se
only  applies  when  a  violation  of  a  law  leads  to  the  plaintiff  being
injured (i.e., speed limits).

143. B Ordinarily, a relevant object is admissible into evidence if a witness
testifies that he or she recognizes it. Because writings are particularly
subject  to  fraud,  however,  special  rules  have  developed  regarding
their  admission.  Where  the  legal  significance  of  a  writing  depends
upon  its  authorship,  the  writing  cannot  be  admitted  unless  the  court
(i.e., judge) finds that there is sufficient evidence to warrant a finding
regarding its authorship.

that 

the  court  determines 

there  has  been  sufficient
Unless 
authentication, the jury should not be given an opportunity to see the
document. A  is  therefore  incorrect.  FRE  901(b)(3)  and  the  common
law permit the jury to consider an authenticated exemplar of a party's
signature in determining whether a document in question was signed
by the party. C is incorrect, however, because this is not the only way
of getting the promissory note before the jury. D is incorrect because
once the court determines that there is sufficient evidence to justify a
finding  by  the  jury  regarding  the  genuineness  of  a  signature,  the
question of whether it actually is genuine is one of fact for the jury.

144. B A statute that establishes a system of classification that discriminates
against  members  of  a  particular  ethnic  group  may  violate  the  Equal
Protection  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  to  the  United  States
Constitution.  Even  if  a  statute  does  not  establish  such  a  system  of
classification,  however,  it  may  be  enforced  in  a  way  that  makes  it
unconstitutional as applied. In determining whether the application of
a  statute  violates  the  Equal  Protection  Clause,  the  United  States
Supreme  Court  has  examined  statistical  evidence  that  the  statute  is
being  enforced  in  a  discriminatory  manner.  Since  the  fact  that  100
percent of the officer's speeding tickets were issued to members of an
ethnic minority constituting only 10 percent of the population suggests
a  discriminatory  application  of  the  speed  limit  statute,  that  fact

1284

furnishes effective support for the plaintiff's assertion.

On  the  other  hand,  the  fact  that  the  plaintiff  has  received  such
summonses  only  from  the  officer  does  not  indicate  a  discriminatory
application  of  the  statute  by  the  officer  unless  it  is  coupled  with
information  about  other  summonses  issued  by  the  officer.  A  is
incorrect for this reason and because three incidents are probably not
enough to justify any generalization. Coupled with the facts in option
B,  the  facts  in  option  C  might  support  the  conclusion  that
discrimination  was  behind  the  apparent  inequity  in  the  officer's
issuing  of  speeding  tickets.  Standing  alone,  however,  the  fact  that
members of the plaintiff's minority do not drive any differently from
members of other groups does nothing to show that the summons was
issued  to  the  plaintiff  on  a  discriminatory  basis.  C  is  therefore
incorrect. It is, of course, physically impossible for a police officer to
apprehend all violators of a particular statute. This means that some
will be apprehended, while others will not. For this reason, the fact
that one member of a particular ethnic group was apprehended while
some  persons  who  did  not  belong  to  that  ethnic  group  were  not
apprehended is not in itself sufficient to indicate that the apprehension
of  the  plaintiff  was  the  result  of  discrimination.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

145.  A  Criminal  battery  consists  of  the  intentional,  reckless,  or  criminally
negligent application of force to the body of another person. One who
knows  that  he  or  she  often  becomes  intoxicated  upon  drinking  small
quantities  of  alcoholic  beverages  may  be  guilty  of  recklessness  or
criminal negligence by drinking half a glass of beer in the company of
other  people.  Since  this  is  all  the  mens  rea  required  for  a  battery
conviction,  the  fact  that  it  was  the  alcohol  that  made  the  defendant
become  violent  would  not  be  relevant  to  any  material  issue  in  the
case. For this reason, the psychiatrist's testimony should be excluded.

The psychiatrist's testimony had no bearing on the defendant's sanity
under  any  definition  of  that  term  currently  applied  in  the  United
States,  but  it  might  be  admissible  for  some  other  reason.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  criminal  battery  may  be
committed  recklessly  or  criminally  negligently  without  the  intent  to
injure (i.e., criminal battery is a general-intent crime). A defendant's
intoxication  is  involuntary  if  the  intoxicant  was  taken  against  his  or
her will or without knowledge of its intoxicating properties. Since the

1285

defendant  was  aware  that  even  a  small  quantity  of  alcohol  could
intoxicate  him,  he  cannot  be  said  to  have  become  intoxicated
involuntarily. The psychiatrist's testimony would simply confirm what
the defendant already knew about himself when he drank the beer, and
therefore it could not establish that the intoxication was involuntary.
D is therefore incorrect.

146. B  To  be  enforceable,  a  contract  must  be  definite  and  certain  in  all  its
basic terms. One way of determining whether a purported agreement
is sufficiently definite and certain is to ask whether its terms make it
possible  for  a  court  to  fashion  a  remedy  for  its  breach.  Most  of  the
time,  this  requires  that  the  agreement  identify  the  parties  and  show
that they have agreed to the subject matter, the time for performance,
and the price. The writing between the buyer and the seller leaves the
price  to  be  determined  by  a  later  agreement.  But  if  the  parties  have
not agreed as to how that subsequently-to-be-agreed-on price shall be
determined, there is no way that a court could fashion a remedy for its
breach.  The  writing  would  thus  fail  because  it  is  not  sufficiently
definite and certain.

The Statute of Frauds requires that an agreement to transfer an interest
in  real  estate  be  in  writing.  A  writing  might  satisfy  its  requirements
even  though  it  does  not  specify  a  price,  so  long  as  it  indicates  the
method  that  the  parties  have  agreed  to  use  in  setting  the  price.  For
example, if the parties have agreed to set “a reasonable price” in the
future,  the  writing  might  satisfy  the  Statute  of  Frauds  even  though  it
does not specify what the price will be. A is therefore incorrect. C is
incorrect  because  the  parties  did  not  agree  to  be  bound  by  the
objective value of the property, even if it could be determined. D is
incorrect  for  two  reasons:  First,  the  UCC  provision  that  deems  an
omitted  price  term  to  call  for  a  reasonable  price  applies  only  to
transactions in goods, and second, this contract did not omit the price
term  but  provided  that  it  would  be  set  by  mutual  agreement  in  the
future.

147. D A person is guilty of an attempt when, with the intent to bring about a
result  that  is  criminally  prohibited,  he  or  she  commits  some  act  that
brings  him  or  her  substantially  close  to  accomplishing  that  result.  If
the result that the defendant intended is criminally prohibited, and if
the  defendant  came  substantially  close  to  accomplishing  it,  she  is
guilty of attempting it. If an exam answer is “information” as defined

1286

by the statute, its theft would be a crime whether the defendant knew
it or not. Similarly, if she intended to steal it and came substantially
close to doing so, she is guilty of an attempt to violate the statute even
though  she  did  not  know  that  what  she  was  attempting  to  do  was  a
crime.

A person may be guilty of attempting to commit a crime even though
facts unknown to him or her would have made successful completion
of  the  crime  impossible.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  As  a  matter  of
policy, all persons are irrebuttably presumed to know the law. Thus, a
defense  cannot  be  based  on  the  defendant's  ignorance  of  the  statute
that  prohibits  his  or  her  conduct  (i.e.,  ignorance  of  the  law  is  no
excuse). B is therefore incorrect. Since criminal attempt requires the
intent  to  bring  about  a  result  that  is  criminally  prohibited,  a  person
cannot be guilty simply because the result that he or she intended to
achieve was immoral. C is therefore incorrect.

148. B Battery  is  the  intentional  infliction  of  a  harmful  or  offensive  bodily
contact.  However,  consent  is  a  complete  defense  to  battery,  and  a
plaintiff's consent can be implied by the plaintiff's actions. Here, by
taking  part  in  the  soccer  game,  the  plaintiff  impliedly  consented  to
having  the  ball  kicked  away  from  him  (a  common  occurrence  in  the
game). While the defense of consent can be lost if the defendant goes
beyond the consented-to level of contact, the defendant's actions here
do not seem to rise to that level (e.g., if he had punched the plaintiff
or intentionally kicked him directly in the leg). A is incorrect because
assumption of the risk is a defense in negligence actions that generally
applies in clearly dangerous situations where the plaintiff voluntarily
takes  his  or  her  chances  that  a  particular  harm  will  occur  (e.g.,  sky
diving). C is incorrect, because a defendant does not need to intend to
injure the plaintiff, so long as he or she intends to cause a harmful or
offensive  contact.  D  is  incorrect  because  the  contact  here  was  truly
“harmful”  in  that  it  injured  the  plaintiff.  “Offensive  to  a  reasonable
sense of dignity” involves situations where the plaintiff is not actually
harmed by the contact.

149. D  The  right  of  survivorship  is  the  best  known  characteristic  of  a  joint
tenancy.  It  means  that  if  one  of  the  joint  tenants  dies,  the  survivor
becomes the owner of the deceased tenant's share. Thus, if the brother
died while he and his sister were joint tenants, the sister would have
become the sole owner of the realty. When a joint tenant conveys his

1287

or her interest, however, the joint tenancy is severed, and his or her
grantee  becomes  a  tenant  in  common  with  the  remaining  co-owner.
Tenants  in  common  do  not  have  a  right  of  survivorship.  Since  a
quitclaim deed conveys the grantor's interest, the brother's quitclaim
to his wife severed his joint tenancy with his sister and made his wife
and his sister tenants in common. When the sister died, her daughter
inherited the sister's interest, thus becoming a tenant in common with
the wife.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  for  the  reasons  given  above.  C  is  incorrect
because  the  brother's  quitclaim  deed  to  his  wife  severed  the  joint
tenancy.

150. A  Article  IV,  Section  2,  paragraph  2  of  the  United  States  Constitution
contains what is known as the Property Clause: “Congress shall have
power  to  dispose  of  and  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations
respecting  .  .  .  property  belonging  to  the  United  States.”  The  United
States  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  the  Property  Clause  leaves  the
lease or other disposition of federal property within the discretion of
Congress.

Although the Commerce Clause gives Congress the power to regulate
interstate commerce, B is incorrect because there is no fact indicating
that the lease of grazing land was for that purpose or would have that
effect. A person has standing to assert a constitutional challenge if he
or she is faced with some actual or immediately threatened concrete
harm that the court could avoid by granting the relief requested. If the
low rate will cause the plaintiff to lose revenue, the plaintiff faces an
immediately  threatened  concrete  harm.  If  the  court  declares  the
federal  lease  unconstitutional,  the  problems  created  by  competition
with  the  federal  government  will  be  solved,  and  the  harm  will  be
averted.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  This  proceeding  challenges  the
constitutionality of the action of Congress and the agency to which it
delegated  power.  The  authority  of  Congress  and  the  federal
government  is  limited  by  the  Constitution.  If  the  federal  government
were immune from such a challenge, constitutional limitations on its
exercise  of  power  would  be  meaningless.  Whether  the  federal
government is immune from tort claims based on allegations of unfair
competition is irrelevant. D is therefore incorrect.

151. A Under the Restatement approach, whether the breeder could rescind
the contract would depend on whether the characteristic on which the

1288

parties were mistaken was a “basic assumption.” Here, the belief of
the  parties  that  the  cow  was  barren,  and  the  huge  price  difference
between a barren and breeding cow, shows that the characteristic was
a basic assumption of the contract. B is incorrect because that answer
choice  only  mentions  the  price  difference,  and  does  not  take  into
account  whether  it  was  a  basic  assumption  of  the  contract.  C  is
incorrect  because  the  mistake  concerned  a  basic  assumption  of  the
contract, not merely the price. D is incorrect for the same reason.

152. C  The  Fifth  Amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  provides  in
part that “No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be
a  witness  against  himself.”  The  privilege  only  prohibits  the
government from requiring a testimonial communication, however. It
does  not  protect  a  person  against  being  required  to  participate  in
identification procedures that might lead to his or her conviction. For
this  reason,  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege  does  not  protect  the
defendant against being required to walk across the courtroom.

required 

to  utter 

A defendant who testifies in his or her own behalf thereby waives the
privilege  and  may  even  be 
testimonial
communications  that  might  tend  to  incriminate  him  or  her.  Since  the
include  non-testimonial
Fifth  Amendment  privilege  does  not 
communications, however, the question of waiver is irrelevant. A is
therefore  incorrect.  A  prosecutor  may  not  comment  on  a  defendant's
assertion  of  the  Fifth  Amendment  privilege;  the  jury  may  not  draw
inferences  from  it.  B  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  Fifth
Amendment does not privilege the defendant to refuse to walk across
the courtroom. Since no penalty can be imposed for the assertion of a
constitutional 
right,  and  since  a  criminal  defendant  has  a
constitutional  right  to  be  present  at  his  or  her  own  trial,  the
defendant's presence in the courtroom cannot be a waiver of any other
right. D is therefore incorrect.

153. A The United States Supreme Court has held that because manipulation
of  circumstances  surrounding  a  lineup  could  create  considerable
likelihood of inaccuracy, and because it would be difficult at trial to
fully  develop  evidence  regarding  such  manipulation,  the  Sixth
Amendment  requires  the  presence  of  counsel  at  a  post-indictment
lineup. For this reason, the defendant's objection would probably be
sustained for the reason given in A.

The constitutional right to confront witnesses requires that a defendant

1289

be given an opportunity to cross-examine such witnesses at a trial. It
does not require, however, that the defendant be given an opportunity
to question those witnesses at any other stage of the proceeding (i.e.,
at a lineup). B is therefore incorrect. The Fifth Amendment protection
against self-incrimination applies only to testimonial communication.
For this reason, it does not prohibit compelling a defendant to show
himself  or  herself  to  witnesses  for  identification  purposes.  C  is
therefore  incorrect.  Since  a  defendant  has  no  constitutional  right  to
refuse to appear in a lineup, police may compel or coerce him or her
to  do  so  by  the  use  or  threat  of  reasonable  force.  D  is  therefore
incorrect.

154.  C  A  negligent  defendant  is  liable  for  additional  damage  caused  by
foreseeable rescue efforts. This is true even if these rescue efforts are
negligent in themselves. When faced with a severally injured person,
it is foreseeable that an ambulance driver would drive faster than the
speed limit and negligently crash into a pole. Consequently, the man is
also liable for his friend's death in the ambulance accident.

A is incorrect because a foreseeable rescue does not break the chain
of  liability.  B  is  incorrect  because  it  was  foreseeable  that  the
ambulance  might  drive  negligently  and  crash  into  a  pole.  D  is
incorrect because the simple fact the death happened after the friend's
injuries  would  not  make  the  man  liable  for  the  friend's  death.
Importantly, there is no connection between the accident injuries and
the actual death.

155. B Under the Rule Against Perpetuities, no interest is good unless it must
vest if at all within a period measured by a life or lives in being plus
21  years.  Thus,  a  future  interest  that  might  never  vest  at  all  is  valid
under the Rule so long as the language that created it will prevent it
from vesting after the prescribed period (i.e., if it vests, it will do so
during  the  prescribed  period).  Since  the  church  might  never  cease
using  the  land  for  church  purposes,  and  since,  even  if  it  did,  the
hospital might never cease using the land for hospital purposes, it is
possible  that  the  son's  interest  as  created  by  the  landowner's  deed
will never vest at all. The language of the landowner's deed provides,
however, that in no event is the interest of the son to vest unless the
son is alive when the conditions precedent are satisfied. Thus, since
the interest of the son must vest if at all during a period measured by a
life in being (i.e., the son's life), it does not violate the Rule Against

1290

Perpetuities.

Many  jurisdictions  recognize  an  exception  to  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities  for  the  interest  of  a  charitable  organization  that  follows
the  interest  of  another  charitable  organization.  The  son  is  not  a
charitable organization, however, so this exception would not prevent
the Rule Against Perpetuities from applying to the son's interest. A is
therefore  incorrect.  C  is  incorrect  because  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities  does  not  require  that  the  interest  in  question  will  vest
during  the  prescribed  period,  but  that  if  it  vests  at  all,  it  will  be
during  that  period.  In  a  jurisdiction  that  does  not  recognize  an
exception  for  the  interest  of  a  charity  that  follows  the  interest  of
another  charity,  the  hospital's  interest  would  be  void  under  the  Rule
Against  Perpetuities.  This  is  because  the  condition  that  would  make
its  interest  vest  (i.e.,  cessation  of  use  for  church  purposes)  might
occur after the period established by the rule. Since the landowner's
deed provides that the interest of the son cannot vest unless it does so
during the life of the son, however, the interest of the son would not
violate the Rule even if the interest of the hospital did. D is therefore
incorrect.

156. D Although the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment (applied to
state  action  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment)  prohibits  the  arbitrary
regulation of economic interests, it is almost never used to justify the
conclusion that an economic regulation is unconstitutional. In general,
so  long  as  such  a  regulation  employs  a  means  reasonably  related  to
accomplishing a purpose within the scope of a state's general police
power and does not amount to a “taking,” it will be regarded as valid
under  the  Due  Process  Clause.  Since  regulating  the  storage  of
radioactive  wastes  is  reasonably  related  to  the  legitimate  police
power objective of protecting the public good, and since there is no
indication that Section 40 drastically interferes with the operation of
out-of-state  power  plants,  the  Section  does  not  violate  the  Due
Process Clauses. Although it is not certain that Section 40 would be
declared unconstitutional, due process is the only argument listed that
could not possibly result in such a declaration.

The Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV prohibits a state
from  arbitrarily  discriminating  against  out-of-staters.  Since  Section
40  effectively  denies  the  use  of  state  storage  facilities  to  out-of-
staters,  it  might  violate  this  clause.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The

1291

Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment
prohibits  a  state  from  interfering  with  any  of  the  rights  that  go  with
United  States  citizenship.  One  of  these  is  the  right  to  travel  freely
from  state  to  state.  Since  the  Section  effectively  prevents  the
importation  of  radioactive  wastes  from  outside  the  state,  it  may  be
unconstitutional  because  it  interferes  with  this  freedom.  For  this
reason,  B  is  incorrect.  The  Equal  Protection  Clause  prohibits
invidious  discrimination  by  a  state.  Since  Section  40  effectively
disqualifies  out-of-state  producers  of  radioactive  waste  from  using
facilities  available  to  in-state  producers,  it  discriminates  against
them. 
is
unconstitutional. C is therefore incorrect.

that  discrimination 

invidious, 

section 

the 

is 

If 

157. B The United States Supreme Court has upheld a state court's personal
jurisdiction over a defendant when the defendant is personally served
with  process  while  he  or  she  is  within  the  state's  borders.  See
Burnham v. Superior Court, 495 U.S. 604 (1990). This is true even if
the defendant is only in the state for a short time. Therefore, C and D
are incorrect.

A is  incorrect  because  the  fact  the  action  was  filed  in  state  court  in
State  B  would  not  automatically  confer  personal  jurisdiction  over  a
defendant.

158.  D  In  general,  all  evidence  is  admissible  if  it  is  relevant  to  a  fact  of
consequence in the litigation. The fact that there were stolen license
plates on the defendant's van tends to establish that he was attempting
to  avoid  recognition,  and  therefore  that  he  was  planning  to  commit
some crime. Since the burglary statute requires an intent to commit a
crime inside the entered premises, the defendant's plan is relevant to a
fact  of  consequence.  For  this  reason,  evidence  of  the  stolen  license
plates may be admissible in the burglary prosecution.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  It  is  generally  understood  that  evidence  of
unconvicted bad acts by a defendant is inadmissible for the purpose
of establishing that he or she had a criminal disposition. Where such
evidence is offered not merely to prove that defendant had a criminal
disposition,  however,  but  to  establish  an  inference  that  he  or  she
committed the act charged, it may be admissible. Here, evidence that
the  defendant  made  special  preparations  for  a  crime  justifies  the
inference that he entered the warehouse to commit a crime therein. B
is therefore incorrect. C is incorrect because evidence of unconvicted

1292

acts  is  inadmissible  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a  criminal
disposition.

159. A Generally, in the absence of an agreement by the promisee to release
the  promisor  from  his  or  her  obligations  under  a  contract,  the
promisor  continues  to  be  bound  by  his  or  her  promise  even  after
assigning his or her rights. Thus, any rights that the seller had against
the  buyer  under  the  contract  of  sale  survived  the  assignment  by  the
buyer  to  the  attorney.  Even  in  the  absence  of  a  specific  provision
requiring it, a contract for the sale of real property is understood to
impose upon the seller an obligation to deliver marketable title. But
the seller satisfies this obligation if his or her title is marketable at the
time set for performance (i.e., the closing). Since the seller acquired
title  to  the  land  prior  to  the  closing,  he  is  entitled  to  enforce  the
contract of sale against the buyer.

The doctrine of estoppel by deed provides that when a seller acquires
title to realty that he or she has already purported to grant to another
person, he or she acquires it on behalf of that grantee and is estopped
from  denying  the  validity  of  his  or  her  previous  conveyance.  It  is
inapplicable to this case because the seller obtained title to the land
before attempting to convey it to the buyer. B is therefore incorrect. C
is incorrect because the contract did not require the seller to deliver
marketable title until July 15, and on that date he did hold marketable
title. An interest is said to be outside the chain of title if it could not
have been discovered by a reasonable title searcher. Sometimes this
occurs  when  a  person  claims  to  have  received  an  interest  from  a
grantor after a transfer of that same interest by the same grantor had
previously  been  recorded.  (For  example,  O  transfers  to  A.  O  then
transfers  to  B.  B  records  before  A.  A's  interest  may  be  outside  the
chain of title, because a reasonable title searcher finding O's transfer
to B in the record would not look for any subsequent transfers of the
same interest by O.) D is incorrect, however, for two reasons: First,
this argument is normally relevant only in determining the priority of
two  different  interests,  and  second,  there  is  no  indication  that  the
farmer  had  previously  conveyed  the  land  to  another  person  or  that
such a conveyance had been recorded before the farmer's conveyance
to the seller.

160. A An action must be dismissed if the federal court does not have subject
matter jurisdiction over the action. For a federal court to have subject
matter jurisdiction over an action, the plaintiff and defendant must be

1293

citizens of different states or the action must arise under federal law.
Here,  the  businessman  is  a  citizen  of  State  A.  A  corporation  is  a
citizen  of  where  it  is  incorporated  and  where  its  principal  place  of
business  is  located.  A  corporation's  principal  place  of  business  is
where  the  corporation's  high-level  officers  control  the  business.
Consequently,  the  company  is  a  citizen  of  State  B,  where  it  is
incorporated,  and  State  A,  where  its  executives  are  based.  Because
both  the  businessman  and  the  company  are  citizens  of  State  A,  the
action should be dismissed.

B is incorrect because the issue presented here is not one regarding
personal  jurisdiction,  and  the  location  of  the  majority  of  the
company's  apartments  does  not  affect  its  citizenship  in  regards  to
determining  subject  matter  jurisdiction.  C  is  incorrect  because  the
appeals  court  would  be  required  to  dismiss  the  action  for  lack  of
subject  matter  jurisdiction  even  if  the  company  did  not  challenge
jurisdiction.  D  is  incorrect  because  federal  question  jurisdiction
cannot be based on a defendant's defense.

161. B Police may search a vehicle incident to a recent occupant's arrest only
if  the  arrestee  is  within  reaching  distance  of  the  passenger
compartment at the time of the search or it is reasonable to believe the
vehicle  contains  evidence  of  the  offense  of  arrest.  When  these
justifications  are  absent,  a  search  of  an  arrestee's  vehicle  will  be
unreasonable  unless  police  obtain  a  warrant  or  show  that  another
exception to the warrant requirement applies. Here, the defendant was
secured  in  the  police  car  at  the  time  of  the  search,  and  there  is
unlikely  to  be  any  evidence  relating  to  his  offense.  While  searches
conducted without prior approval are unlawful, this statement is too
broad because it fails to note the exceptions to this rule. A is therefore
incorrect. C is incorrect because an inventory search is not the only
way  a  police  officer  can  lawfully  discover  evidence  contained  in  a
car. D is incorrect because there is no rule stating that the interior of a
car is always within the immediate control of an arrestee.

162. A Generally, the federal rules only require that a complaint contain “a
short  and  plain  statement  of  the  claim  showing  that  the  pleader  is
entitled to relief.” See Fed. R. Civ. P. 8(a)(2). Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 9,
certain  other  matters,  such  as  fraud,  mistake,  and  special  damages
require  a  party  to  give  more  detail.  Here,  since  the  man  is  simply
making a claim under federal employment law, he does not need to do

1294

more than make a short and plain statement of the claim.

B is incorrect because the relevant analysis requires more than mere
notice. For example, a plaintiff could not simply file a complaint that
stated “I'm suing defendant!” In that case, while the defendant would
certainly  have  notice,  the  defendant  would  know  nothing  about  the
claim. C is incorrect because the salesman does not need to set out a
prima facie case. D is incorrect because “a party may state as many
separate claims or defenses as it has, regardless of consistency.” See
Fed. R. Civ. P. 8(d)(3).

163. D A person is guilty of a criminal attempt when, with the specific intent
to  bring  about  a  criminally  prohibited  result,  he  or  she  does  some
significant  act  that  brings  him  or  her  substantially  close  to
accomplishing  that  result.  Thus,  although  a  person  may  be  guilty  of
murder  without  actually  intending  to  bring  about  a  death,  he  or  she
cannot be guilty of attempted murder without the intent to bring about
a death. Since the druggist did not really believe that the wife would
die, he could not have intended to bring about her death and cannot be
guilty of attempting to murder her.

Murder  is  the  unlawful  killing  of  a  human  being  with  malice
aforethought.  Malice  aforethought  includes  a  reckless  disregard  for
human life. If the druggist's conduct showed a reckless disregard for
human life, and if it resulted in the death of the wife, then the druggist
would  be  guilty  of  murder.  A  is  incorrect,  however,  because  no
person can be guilty of attempted murder without the specific intent to
bring about a death or to cause great bodily harm. B is incorrect for
the same reason, and because ordinarily a person is under no duty to
stop  another  from  committing  a  crime.  Since  the  druggist  did  not
believe the drug that he furnished would harm the wife, he lacked the
specific intent necessary to make him guilty of attempting to kill her.
C is therefore incorrect.

164. A  Under  FRE  803(8),  the  file  itself  may  be  admissible  as  an  official
written statement since it was made at or near the time of the matter
recorded  by  a  public  official  regarding  matters  in  the  declarant's
personal  knowledge  in  the  course  of  the  declarant's  duties.  (Note:
The  file  may  also  be  admissible  as  a  business  record.)  Even  if  the
personnel  file's  contents  are  admissible,  however,  the  witness's
testimony about its contents might not be. Under the common law and
FRE  1002,  the  best  evidence  rule  prohibits  secondary  evidence  to

1295

http://barbeyond.taobao.com  QQ&Wechat: 1014347461  email: barbeyond@vip.qq.com  Skype ID: barbeyond

prove the terms of a writing unless the writing itself is shown to be
unavailable. Since the purpose of the witness's testimony is to prove
the  contents  of  the  file,  he  will  not  be  permitted  to  do  so  unless  the
file is shown to be unavailable.

If  the  requirements  of  the  best  evidence  rule  are  satisfied,  the
witness's  testimony  would  be  as  admissible  as  the  file  itself.  Since
the  FRE  make  business  records  and  official  written  statements
admissible without regard to the availability of the person who made
entries  in  them,  B  and  C  are  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect  because  the
official  written  statement  exception,  although  it  is  sometimes  called
the “public document” exception, does not require that the record be
one that is available for public inspection.

165. A  Ordinarily,  a  promise  is  not  enforceable  unless  something  of  value
(i.e.,  consideration)  was  given  in  return  for  it.  Since  the  plaintiff
paved the driveway before the neighbor promised to pay, he could not
have  done  so  in  return  for  the  promise.  The  paving  job,  therefore,
could not have been consideration for the neighbor's promise. Under
the  view  of  the  Restatement  (2d)  of  Contracts,  however,  a  promise
made in recognition of a benefit previously received by the promisor
from  the  promisee  is  binding  to  the  extent  necessary  to  prevent
injustice.  Thus,  if  the  neighbor  knew  that  the  plaintiff  had  paved  his
driveway and made the promise to pay in recognition of this benefit,
the promise would be enforceable.

B  is  incorrect  because  the  neighbor's  promise  could  not  have  been
given  in  recognition  of  the  paving  job  if  the  neighbor  did  not  know
about it at the time he made the promise. Since the paving job done by
the  plaintiff  was  not  given  in  return  for  the  neighbor's  promise,  it
would  not  be  consideration  for  that  promise  no  matter  when  the
neighbor  decided  to  have  the  job  done.  C  and  D  are  therefore
incorrect.

166. D A landlord's failure to take prompt action when he or she learns of an
attempted assignment or sublease constitutes a waiver of the right to
block  it.  Here,  the  landlord  will  probably  not  be  permitted  to
terminate  the  lease  since  he  likely  waived  his  right  to  do  so  by
accepting rent and failing to take prompt action when he discovered
the assignment. Consequently, A is incorrect. B is incorrect because,
by accepting rent and waiting to protest, the landlord did not appear
to be protesting within a reasonable time. C is incorrect because the

1296

issue  involves  the  landlord's  actions,  not  the  nature  of  the  property
interests.

167. D If a person's behavior is grossly negligent, he or she may be liable for
involuntary manslaughter if his or her conduct results in the death of
another person. Nearly all states hold that the defendant's negligence
must be something more than ordinary negligence. “Gross negligence”
usually  means  the  defendant  disregarded  a  substantial  danger  of
serious  bodily  harm  or  death.  However,  there  must  be  a  causal  link
between the gross negligence and the death. Consequently, if the death
would  have  occurred  even  without  the  defendant's  gross  negligence,
involuntary manslaughter wouldn't apply. Here, the facts state that the
defendant drove the correct speed and obeyed all traffic regulations.
Consequently, his gross negligence, specifically his intoxication, was
not the cause in fact or proximate cause of the man's death. Thus, A is
incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because,  even  though  courts  look  at  the
totality  of  the  circumstances  in  determining  gross  negligence,  the
important  point  is  that  the  defendant's  gross  negligence  was  not  the
cause  of  the  accident.  C  is  incorrect  because,  even  if  a  violation  is
malum  in  se  (dangerous  in  itself),  there  still  needs  to  be  a  causal
relation between the negligence and the death.

168.  A  An  illusory  promise  is  a  statement  which  appears  to  promise
something,  but  in  fact  does  not  commit  the  promisor  to  anything.
Importantly,  such  a  promise  will  not  give  sufficient  consideration  to
support  a  contract.  Here,  there  was  no  consideration  for  the
endorsement because the plaintiff could have sued immediately if he
decided  he  wanted  his  money.  Thus,  he  really  didn't  promise  to  do
anything at all. The fact that the plaintiff in fact did not collect on the
note  for  two  years  is  irrelevant.  Under  promissory  estoppel,  a
promise is binding if “. . . (c) the promisor should reasonably expect
the promise to induce action or forbearance of a substantial character
on  the  part  of  a  promisee  or  a  third  person,  and  the  promise  does
induce such action or forbearance.” Here, a court might find that the
defendant's guarantee should reasonably have been expected to induce
the plaintiff to refrain from suing, that it did have this effect, and that
this  was  of  a  substantial  character.  In  such  an  event,  the  defendant
would have been bound. Based on the facts here, a court could find
that the plaintiff did in fact rely to his detriment on the promise. Thus,
B is incorrect, and A is a stronger answer. C is incorrect because the
fact  that  the  husband  is  the  primary  debtor  does  not  change  the

1297

analysis. Unconscionability arises in situations where an agreement is
grossly  unfair.  Here,  there  is  no  indication  of  any  unfairness  in  the
agreement, so D is incorrect.

169. A Specific performance is a remedy available for breach of a contract
for  the  sale  of  something  unique.  Since  each  parcel  of  realty  is
regarded  as  unique,  specific  performance  is  usually  available  as  a
buyer's remedy for a seller's breach of a contract for the sale of realty.
Unless  such  a  contract  has  been  formed  and  breached,  however,  no
remedy is available at all. A contract is formed by the acceptance of
an  offer.  An  offer  is  an  expression  of  an  unequivocal  willingness  to
enter into a contract with another on specified terms. Since the seller
never indicated a willingness to enter into a contract with the buyer
on  any  particular  terms,  he  never  made  an  offer  to  the  buyer.  The
buyer  twice  made  offers  to  the  seller,  but  the  seller  did  not  accept
either of them. Thus, no contract was ever formed between the seller
and  the  buyer  or  breached  by  the  seller.  The  buyer  is  therefore
without any remedy.

Whether  the  seller's  statement  to  the  broker  on  April  10  was  an
attempt to modify an existing agreement is not at all certain under the
facts regarding that agreement. B is incorrect in any event because the
agreement between the seller and the broker did not require the seller
to accept an offer procured by the broker, and it is not relevant to the
buyer's  rights  against  the  seller.  Specific  performance  is  not  usually
available as a remedy for the breach of a contract for sale unless the
subject of the contract is unique or damages would be an inadequate
remedy.  C  is  incorrect,  however,  because  —  for  the  reasons  given
above  —  there  has  been  no  breach,  and  the  buyer  therefore  has  no
remedy  at  all.  Since  the  seller  made  no  offer  to  the  buyer,  the
document  that  was  presented  to  the  seller  on  April  14  was  nothing
more  than  an  offer.  Since  the  seller  did  not  accept  it,  no  contract
between him and the buyer was formed. D is therefore incorrect.

170.  C  Hearsay  is  defined  as  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  for  the
purpose  of  proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.
Since the plaintiff's attorney's notes were made out of court, and since
the only apparent reason to offer them is to establish the truth of their
contents, they are hearsay.

FRE  803(6) 
for  properly
recognizes  a  hearsay  exception 
authenticated business records recorded as part of the regular course

1298

of business, while the transaction recorded was fresh in the entrant's
mind, regarding facts within the entrant's personal knowledge or from
an  inherently  reliable  source.  Since  the  facts  do  not  indicate  what
information was contained in the attorney's notes, there is no way to
determine whether all the information actually contained in them was
within  the  attorney's  personal  knowledge  or  from  an  inherently
reliable  source.  An  additional  question  exists  as  to  whether  an
attorney's notes regarding a negotiation between a client and another
party are kept in the regular course of business. No matter how these
questions  are  resolved,  however,  the  attorney's  notes  cannot  be
admitted  as  a  business  record  unless  they  are  authenticated  by  a
person  who  testifies  to  the  record's  identity  and  its  mode  of
preparation.  Since  no  one  has  testified  as  such,  A  is  incorrect.
Documents  that  have  been  used  to  refresh  a  witness's  recollection
while  testifying  may  be  consulted  by  an  adverse  party  in  cross-
examining  that  witness.  In  addition,  an  adverse  party  may  introduce
into evidence those portions of the document that are relevant to the
witness's testimony. B  is  incorrect,  however,  because  the  fact  that  a
party  used  a  document  to  refresh  his  or  her  recollection  is  not
sufficient  to  justify  its  introduction  by  the  party  that  used  it.  Under
certain circumstances, an attorney may resist discovery of his or her
own  work  product  and  prevent  it  from  being  received  in  evidence.
This  privilege  belongs  to  the  attorney  (and  his  or  her  client),
however, not to his or her adversary. For this reason, the defendant's
attorney could not successfully object on the ground that the document
was the plaintiff's attorney's work product. D is therefore incorrect.

171. D The Equal Protection Clause prohibits invidious discrimination by the
state,  but  not  all  discrimination  is  invidious.  Ordinarily,  statutory
systems  of  classification  (i.e.,  discrimination)  are  valid  so  long  as
they have a rational basis. If the discrimination is based on a suspect
classification  or  interferes  with  a  fundamental  right,  however,  it  is
presumed  invalid  unless  it  is  proven  to  be  necessary  to  achieve  a
compelling state interest. The Supreme Court has held that the right to
vote  is  a  fundamental  right.  For  this  reason,  the  Township  Council's
assertion that the registration schedule had a rational basis would not
be sufficient to prevent it from being declared unconstitutional.

Discrimination on the basis of lifestyle or wealth has been held not to
involve  a  suspect  classification.  A  and  B  are  therefore  incorrect.
Some  forms  of  sex  discrimination,  referred  to  as  “benign”  because

1299

they  are  aimed  at  compensating  for  the  demonstrated  economic
disadvantages of women, have been found constitutional. Some forms
of sex discrimination, called “benign” because they are based on old
thought patterns about sex roles and the dependency of women, have
been 
sex
discrimination”  is  not  relevant  in  determining  whether  a  statute  is
constitutional, and C is incorrect.

found  unconstitutional.  Thus, 

term  “benign 

the 

172. C Unless a landlord specifically agrees to release a tenant from further
obligations under a lease, assignment or sublease does not relieve the
original  tenant  from  those  obligations.  For  this  reason,  the  landlord
can collect unpaid rent from the first attorney. Since the landlord was
an intended third-party creditor beneficiary of the agreement between
the attorneys, the landlord can also collect from the second attorney.
A, B, and D are therefore incorrect.

173. C Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 59(d), a district court can order a new trial on
its  own  for  any  reason  that  would  justify  granting  one  on  a  party's
motion.  Because  inadequate  damages  could  be  the  basis  for  a  new
trial, the trial judge can order a new trial.

A  and  B  are  incorrect  because  additur,  or  offering  a  defendant  a
choice between a higher damage award or a new trial, had been found
to  be  a  violation  of  the  Seventh  Amendment  (although  this  does  not
apply to state courts). D is incorrect because a motion for judgment as
a matter of law must be made by a party before the case is submitted
to a jury.

174.  A  Unless  the  parties  expressly  agree  otherwise,  the  owner  of  the
servient estate is not required to repair or maintain the property used
in  the  easement.  Here,  there  was  no  express  agreement  regarding
repair  between  the  parties,  so  the  owner  who  granted  the  easement
has no duty to repair the bridge. B is incorrect, because, although the
holder of the easement has an implied right to maintain the property
used in the easement, if the servient estate holder does not enjoy any
of the benefits of the easement, he is under no obligation to reimburse
for  repairs.  Here,  there  is  no  indication  that  the  owner  who  granted
the easement uses the easement. C is incorrect because the owner of
the  servient  estate  has  no  obligation  of  repair,  even  if  the  lack  of
maintenance means that the easement holder cannot use the easement
as the parties intended. D is incorrect because the fact that this was an
express easement does not change the analysis.

1300

175. B State action that imposes a penalty for the exercise of a constitutional
right  is  a  deprivation  of  liberty.  If  the  decision  not  to  renew  the
plaintiff's  contract  was  based  on  his  speech  (an  exercise  of  First
Amendment rights), it interfered with a liberty interest. Since the Fifth
and  Fourteenth  Amendments  protect  against  deprivation  of  liberty
without due process, the additional fact set forth in B could result in a
finding that a hearing (i.e., due process) was required.

A is incorrect because there is no indication that the contracts of the
probationary  employees  who  received  hearings  permitted  non-
renewal  without  cause,  as  did  the  plaintiff's.  C  is  incorrect  because
the United States Supreme Court has specifically held that state action
does  not  require  a  prior  hearing  merely  because  it  interferes  with
reputation, particularly since a tort action for defamation is available
to  prevent  abuse.  Sometimes  urgency  plays  a  role  in  the  court's
decision  about  whether  a  prior  hearing  is  required  for  a  particular
action.  For  example,  it  has  been  held  that  because  the  denial  of
welfare  benefits  could  leave  a  person  in  a  desperate  financial
situation, a prior hearing is required. Similarly, if delaying governing
action until after a hearing is held is likely to result in serious harm to
the government, it might be appropriate to act without holding a prior
hearing.  The  fact  set  forth  in  D  might  justify  the  conclusion  that
keeping the plaintiff on the job until a hearing is held would result in
serious harm to the state. In that case, it would hurt rather than help
the plaintiff's cause.

176. A In jurisdictions that recognize the spousal privilege, a spouse is not
permitted  to  testify  to  a  confidential  communication  received  during
marriage  if  the  spouse  who  made  the  communication  objects  to  the
testimony.  For  this  reason,  the  court  should  exclude  his  wife's
testimony if the defendant objects to it.

In  general,  all  evidence  that  tends  to  establish  a  material  fact  is
relevant and should be admitted unless excluded by some rule of law.
Since  the  defendant's  statement  that  he  committed  the  crimes  he  is
charged with tends to establish that he did so, it is relevant. Hearsay
is  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  to  prove  the  truth  of  the  matter
asserted in that statement and is inadmissible unless it falls within an
exception to the hearsay rule. A statement by a party offered against
that  party  is  an  admission,  however.  An  admission  is  admissible
under  common  law  as  an  exception  to  the  hearsay  rule  and  is  not

1301

hearsay under FRE 801(d)(2). Thus, the defendant's statement should
be  admitted  unless  excluded  by  the  spousal  privilege.  A  privilege
may only be asserted by one who holds it. In some jurisdictions (and
the FRE follow local state law as to privileges), the spousal privilege
can  be  asserted  only  by  the  spouse  who  made  the  confidential
communication.  In  other  jurisdictions,  the  privilege  may  also  be
asserted  by  the  spouse  who  received  the  communication.  But  all
jurisdictions agree that the communication may be excluded only if a
person  holding  it  objects.  Therefore,  if  neither  spouse  asserts  the
privilege, it cannot be used to exclude the wife's testimony. B, C, and
D are therefore incorrect.

177. A A party's unequivocal statement that he or she will not perform is an
anticipatory  repudiation  and  entitles  the  other  party  to  all  rights
resulting  from  a  breach.  The  plaintiff's  statement  that  she  would  not
accept the coins in payment for the chickens was such a statement. Its
result was to free the defendant from any further obligation under the
contract  and  to  give  the  defendant  a  right  to  an  immediate  action
against the plaintiff for breach of contract.

A  prospective  inability  to  perform  occurs  when  a  party  engages  in
some  conduct  that  divests  that  party  of  the  ability  to  perform.  All
jurisdictions  agree  that  one  party's  prospective  inability  to  perform
excuses  the  other  party's  performance,  and  some  jurisdictions  hold
that  it  gives  him  or  her  an  immediate  right  to  sue.  B  is  incorrect,
however,  because  the  defendant's  prospective  inability  to  perform
would not in any jurisdiction give the defendant a right of action. For
the reason stated above, the defendant's refusal to accept delivery of
the  chickens  was  excused  by  the  plaintiff's  anticipatory  repudiation
and  was  therefore  not  a  breach.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  (Note:  C
may  be  confusing  because  of  its  use  of  the  word  impossible.  If  an
unforeseeable  change  in  circumstances  makes  it  impossible  for  a
party  to  perform  his  or  her  obligation  under  a  contract,  his  or  her
the  doctrine  of
failure 
impossibility of performance. Since the defendant's refusal to accept
delivery  did  not  result  from  an  unforeseen  change  in  circumstances
but  rather  from  his  decision  to  treat  the  plaintiff's  repudiation  as  an
immediate breach, the doctrine of impossibility of performance is not
relevant  to  this  case.  If  it  were  relevant,  it  would  tend  to  defeat  the
plaintiff's claim, not support it.) Since the defendant chose to treat the
plaintiff's  anticipatory  repudiation  as  an  immediate  breach,  the

to  perform  might  be  excused  under 

1302

plaintiff cannot subsequently undo the breach by offering to perform.
D is therefore incorrect.

178. D A defendant's conduct is not privileged solely by virtue of the fact that
he  or  she  made  a  mistake.  Consequently,  while  the  defendants  may
have  made  a  good  faith  mistake  in  mistaking  the  farmer's  dog  for  a
wolf, they will still be liable for the farmer's damages.

A, B, and C are therefore incorrect.

179. D Expression with a primarily commercial purpose may be regulated so
long  as  the  regulation  directly  advances  a  substantial  government
interest by the least burdensome means necessary. Whether protecting
the  public  against  annoyance  by  computerized  telephone  calls  is  a
substantial  government  interest  and  whether  the  prohibition  against
the  use  of  the  robocall  computer  within  the  state  directly  advances
that interest are two questions open to debate. If the answer to either
question  is  “no,”  then  the  statute  violates  the  First  Amendment.  It  is
far  from  certain  that  a  court  would  come  to  this  conclusion,  but  the
argument  set  forth  in  D  is  the  only  one  listed  that  could  possibly
support the company's position.

Because  of  the  importance  of  free  expression,  the  rules  of  standing
are  ordinarily  relaxed  for  First  Amendment  challenges  based  on  a
claim  of  overbreadth.  Thus,  a  person  whose  speech  can  be
constitutionally  punished  may  challenge  the  constitutionality  of  a
statute that punishes it on the ground that the statute is “overbroad” in
that  it  also  punishes  speech  that  cannot  be  constitutionally  punished.
The  purpose  of  this  rule  is  to  prevent  the  “chilling”  of  First
Amendment  rights  by  state  regulations.  Since  it  is  believed  that
advertisers  are  unlikely  to  be  chilled  by  such  regulations,  however,
this  rule  does  not  apply  in  commercial  speech  cases.  A  is  therefore
incorrect.  The  selection  of  a  standard  to  be  applied  in  deciding  the
constitutional validity of a law regulating expression may depend on
whether the regulation is content-related. This fact alone, however, is
never sufficient to justify the conclusion that the regulation is invalid.
B is therefore incorrect. A statute is said to have a “chilling” effect on
freedom of expression if its terms are so unclear that the reasonable
person  could  not  tell  what  forms  of  expression  are  prohibited  and
might  therefore  be  afraid  to  engage  in  unprohibited  forms  of
expression.  Although  the  high  cost  of  using  telephone  solicitation
computers  outside  the  state  to  call  numbers  inside  the  state  might

1303

discourage  people  from  doing  so,  this  will  not  be  because  they  are
uncertain about what expression the law forbids. Thus, the law cannot
be said to have a chilling effect for this reason, making C incorrect.

180. A A direct restraint on alienation is a covenant or condition that attempts
to control the alienability of the estate granted. A disabling restraint
purports  to  withhold  the  grantee's  power  to  alienate.  A  promissory
restraint  consists  of  a  covenant  not  to  alienate.  It  does  not  withhold
the  covenantor's  power  to  alienate  but  subjects  the  covenantor  to
liability  for  damages  for  breaching  the  covenant  by  alienating.  A
forfeitural restraint terminates the estate upon an attempt to alienate it,
causing the property to vest in someone else. Direct restraints on the
alienation of fee simple estates are generally void and unenforceable,
whether  they  are  disabling,  promissory,  or  forfeiturial.  While
disabling restraints on the alienation of life estates are similarly void,
promissory  or  forfeiturial  restraints  on  the  alienation  of  life  estates
may be valid if reasonable. From the language of the farmer's will, it
is  difficult  to  determine  whether  the  restraint  that  it  creates  is
disabling or forfeiturial. The argument presented in A is the only one
listed, however, that might possibly support the son's claim.

B and C are incorrect because promissory and forfeiturial restraints
on the alienation of life estates may be enforceable. D is incorrect in
spite of the 40-year period that it specifies, because the son could not
possibly alienate his interest except during his own lifetime. Thus, the
vesting  of  the  daughter's  interest  could  not  possibly  occur  beyond  a
period measured by a life in being (the son's) plus 21 years, making
the Rule Against Perpetuities inapplicable to it.

181. B The “plain view” doctrine allows a police officer to seize evidence
falling  into  the  officer's  “plain  view”  when  that  officer  sees  the
evidence from a place where it is lawful for the officer to be. Here,
by consenting to have the officer in her home, the police officer was
lawfully  in  the  living  room.  However,  the  question  in  such
circumstances  is  what  the  homeowner  would  have  reasonably
believed her consent amounted to. Importantly, if one consents to have
another person in his or her home, that does not mean there is consent
for the person to open things he or she finds in the home. People do
not  expect  casual  guests  to  open  boxes,  dig  through  closets,  etc.
Therefore,  the  plain  view  doctrine  would  not  apply  because  the
homeowner did not give her consent to open the gun case. Therefore,

1304

C is incorrect.

A  is  incorrect  because  the  homeowner  leaving  the  room  did  not
change the analysis. D is incorrect because the police officer simply
saw a gun case. In many instances, guns and gun cases are perfectly
lawful. Here, the police officer did not know about the illegality until
the case was opened.

182. A  Article  I,  Section  10  of  the  United  States  Constitution  prohibits  the
states  from  passing  laws  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts.  This
prevents  a  state  from  unjustifiably  repudiating  its  own  contractual
obligations or interfering with the contract rights of individuals. If the
plaintiff  was  a  state  employee  prior  to  the  time  the  mandatory
retirement  law  was  passed,  the  state  owed  him  certain  obligations
under the employment contract. Under the laws that then existed, these
included the obligations to grant an annual salary increase and to pay
a  retirement  pension  based  on  the  salary  he  earned  the  year
immediately  prior  to  this  retirement.  Accompanying  all  contract
obligations  is  the  implied  warranty  that  the  promisor  will  not
willfully prevent the promisee from enjoying the benefits thereunder.
By  mandating  retirement  at  65,  the  state  has  prevented  the  plaintiff
from  further  increasing  his  annual  salary  and  thus  increasing  the
amount  of  his  retirement  pension.  Since  he  had  this  right  under  the
employment  contract  that  existed  prior  to  passage  of  the  mandatory
retirement  law,  the  law  may  be  held  to  impair  an  obligation  of
contracts.

On the other hand, unless the plaintiff was a state employee prior to
the  passage  of  the  mandatory  retirement  law,  he  has  no  contractual
expectation  of  continued  employment  after  65.  This  is  true  even
though  he  undertook  financial  obligations  in  contemplation  of
continued employment, because although he might have detrimentally
relied  on  that  expectation,  such  reliance  was  not  justified.  B  is
therefore  incorrect.  The  fact  that  the  plaintiff  was  fit  for  continued
employment after the age of 65 would not result in a finding that the
mandatory retirement law impairs the obligation of contracts because
his  fitness  did  not  create  a  contractual  expectation  unless  he  was
employed  prior  to  passage  of  the  law.  C  and  D  are  therefore
incorrect.

183. A There are various theories that might exclude performance because of
a  change  in  circumstances,  but  all  require  that  the  change  in

1305

circumstances be unforeseeable at the time the contract was formed. If
the  defendant  knew  on  May  1  that  many  hogs  in  the  area  had
contracted  the  disease,  it  was  probably  foreseeable  to  him  that  the
hog would contract it also. If the hog's disease was foreseeable to the
defendant, it would not excuse his performance under any theory.

If  performance  required  by  a  contract  becomes  illegal  after  the
contract is formed, both parties are excused from further performance.
Thus, if the state issued an order prohibiting the exhibition of the hog,
the  defendant  would  be  excused  from  exhibiting  him,  and  the  court
would  find  against  the  plaintiff.  B  is  therefore  incorrect.  C  is
incorrect because the contract called for the exhibition of the hog, and
not merely for the exhibition of a hog with the other hog's qualities, so
the  fact  that  the  defendant  had  a  hog  like  him  is  irrelevant.  D  is
incorrect  because  if  the  change  of  circumstances  that  resulted  in  the
plaintiff's loss was unforeseeable, the plaintiff cannot collect for that
loss even if it can be established with particularity.

184.  D  Under  the  doctrine  of  accession,  the  owner  of  realty  becomes  the
owner of anything that becomes part of it as well. Thus, if the storage
building has become part of the realty, the tenant may not remove it.
Unless  the  parties  agree,  however,  the  decision  as  to  whether  the
building has become part of (i.e., annexed to) the realty can be made
only by a court. A is incorrect because the landlord does not have the
power to decide it unilaterally. B is incorrect because if the building
has become part of (i.e., annexed to) the realty, the landlord is already
its owner by accession, and cannot be required to pay for it. For the
above reasons, C is also incorrect.

185. C Private nuisance is a tortious interference with the plaintiff's right to
use and enjoy real property in which he or she has a present or future
possessory interest. In effect, a plaintiff suing a defendant for private
nuisance is claiming that the defendant's use of its realty unreasonably
violates the plaintiff's right to use his or her realty. For this reason, in
deciding  a  claim  for  private  nuisance,  the  courts  must  balance  the
rights of the plaintiff and defendant in an attempt to determine which
right is more worthy of protection. In doing so, courts consider many
factors,  including  the  relative  importance  of  the  plaintiff's  and  the
defendant's activities, the appropriateness of each to the location, and
the  ability  of  each  to  avoid  the  harm  complained  of.  Because  the
insecticide is an important agricultural product, the fact that it cannot

1306

be manufactured without producing bad smells could lead a court to
conclude that the production of bad smells is not a nuisance. It is by
no means certain that a court would come to this conclusion, but of all
the  additional  facts  listed,  C  is  the  only  one  that  might  result  in  a
judgment for the company.

the 

to  obtain 

There  was  a  time  when  a  1,000-mile  distance  might  have  made  it
impossible  for  farmers 
insecticide  from  other
manufacturers.  Then,  in  balancing  the  rights  of  the  company  against
those of the farmer, a court might have concluded that the importance
of the company's activity outweighed the importance of the farmer's,
and  that  the  manufacture  of  the  insecticide  was  therefore  not  a
nuisance.  Modern  transportation  makes  that  argument  unpersuasive,
however.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  a  tenant
(i.e.,  the  holder  of  a  leasehold  interest)  has  sufficient  possessory
interest in realty to maintain an action for private nuisance against one
who  interferes  with  his  or  her  right  to  use  or  enjoy  it.  A  private
individual may not maintain an action for public nuisance unless his
or  her  harm  is  substantially  different  from  that  sustained  by  the
general public. No such requirement is imposed on the plaintiff in a
private nuisance action, however. He or she must show only that the
defendant tortiously interfered with his or her right to use and enjoy
his or her realty. D is therefore incorrect.

186.  C  Hearsay  is  defined  as  an  out-of-court  statement  offered  for  the
purpose  of  proving  the  truth  of  the  matter  asserted  in  that  statement.
The  language  of  a  promissory  note  creates  an  indebtedness.  It  is
offered into evidence for the purpose of establishing that indebtedness
(i.e.,  for  its  independent  legal  significance),  not  for  the  purpose  of
establishing  the  truth  of  any  facts  that  it  incidentally  communicates.
For this reason, it is not hearsay.

A  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  indication  that  the  note  was
prepared  in  the  regular  course  of  business,  which  is  one  of  the
requirements  of  a  business  record.  Under  the  best  evidence  rule,
secondary evidence to prove the terms of a writing is not admissible
unless the writing itself is shown to be unavailable. This rule is thus a
rule  of  exclusion.  Although  it  may  prevent  the  admission  of  a
document that is not an original, it does not keep an original document
from being hearsay or permit the admission of an original document
that is inadmissible for other reasons. B is therefore incorrect. If an

1307

out-of-court statement is offered to prove the truth of a matter that it
asserts, it is hearsay. The fact that the declarant (i.e., the person who
made the statement) is in court does not prevent it from being hearsay
or permit its admission. D is therefore incorrect.

187.  D  Most  courts  impose  accomplice  liability  on  a  defendant  when  one
person commits a killing with reckless indifference to human life, and
the defendant, acting with the same reckless indifference, encourages
the person in the conduct leading to the death. A scenario that is likely
to  involve  accomplice  liability  for  depraved-indifference  murder  is
when  multiple  defendants  all  carry  very  dangerous  weapons  into  a
crime  scene.  Even  in  jurisdictions  not  applying  the  felony-murder
rule,  these  defendants  may  have  accomplice  liability  imposed  upon
them. Here, all three men carried extremely dangerous weapons into
the pharmacy, and all three aided and abetted each other in the crime.
The one robber then acted with depraved indifference by shooting 30
bullets into the metal ceiling, where there was a large risk of the sort
of ricochet that caused the death. Consequently, the two men who did
not  fire  their  weapons  are  accomplices  to  the  killing,  making  them
guilty  of  depraved-indifference  murder.  Thus,  A,  B,  and  C  are
incorrect.

188. D Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 18(a), joinder of the additional contract claim
against  the  dealer  would  be  proper.  However,  a  claim  joined  under
Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  18(a)  cannot  be  brought  into  federal  court  based  on
supplemental jurisdiction unless the claims are part of the same case
or  controversy.  Because  the  contract  claim  involves  a  different
“common  nucleus  of  operative  fact”  than  the  accident,  it  must
independently  meet  the  requirements  for  federal  subject  matter
jurisdiction.  Here,  since  the  salesman  and  the  dealer  are  citizens  of
the same state, the claim would fail to do so.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  the  accident  and  the  firing  are
tangentially related, they are not part of the same case or controversy.
One claim involves the facts and evidence related to the car accident,
while the other involves facts and evidence related to the salesman's
contract. B is incorrect because the accident and the firing are not part
of  the  same  case  or  controversy,  as  stated  above.  C  is  incorrect
because all counterclaims would necessarily contain additional facts
from the main claim.

189. C The defense of improper venue is waived if it is not made either as a

1308

pre-answer  motion  under  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  12  or  as  part  of  the
defendant's  answer.  When  the  defendants'  submitted  their  answers
without the defense, they waived it. Once that happened, “nothing . . .
shall impair the jurisdiction of a district court of any matter involving
a party who does not interpose timely and sufficient objection to the
venue.”  See  28  U.S.C.  §1406(b).  Consequently,  the  court  in  the
Western  District  of  State  A  will  get  to  hear  the  case  even  though
venue is technically improper.

Therefore, A, B, and D are incorrect.

190. B The defendant's mother's promise to pay $1,000 is enforceable only if
it is supported by consideration. Consideration is something of value
—  either  benefit  to  the  promisor  or  detriment  to  the  promisee  —
given in exchange for the promise. A promise to do something that the
promisor has no legal right to do cannot be regarded as consideration
because it has no value. Unless a privilege exists, no person has the
right  to  refuse  to  testify  in  a  criminal  prosecution.  Certainly,  no
person  may  do  so  in  return  for  payment.  Thus,  the  victim's  promise
not to testify was a promise to do something that she had no right to
do.  For  this  reason,  it  would  not  have  been  consideration  for  the
mother's promise to pay $1,000.

A  is  incorrect  because  although  the  defendant's  mother  was  not
legally obligated to pay for damage caused by her adult son, she may
have  made  an  enforceable  promise  to  do  so.  An  accord  is  an
agreement to substitute a new obligation for one that already existed.
Satisfaction occurs when the accord is completely performed. Since
the  defendant  may  have  had  a  duty  to  pay  all  the  victim's  medical
expenses resulting from his act, and since the victim agreed to accept
$250 instead, there may have been an accord that was satisfied when
the defendant's mother paid as promised. But this accord existed only
with  respect  to  the  obligation  to  pay  medical  expenses.  Since  the
obligation to pay for pain and suffering is a separate obligation, it is
not  extinguished  by  satisfaction  of  the  accord  regarding  medical
expenses.  C  is  therefore  incorrect.  A  promise  to  pay  the  debt  of
another is unenforceable unless it is written. But a promise to pay in
return for the promisee's forbearance to sue (even a third person) is
not  a  promise  to  pay  the  debt  of  another  but  rather  a  personal
obligation  of  the  promisor.  As  such,  it  need  not  be  in  writing.  D  is
therefore incorrect.

1309

191.  C  The  Fifth  Amendment  right  against  self-incrimination  protects  a
defendant  against  being  coerced  into  answering  questions  asked  by
the  police.  Because  police  interrogation  of  a  person  in  custody  is
inherently  coercive,  a  person  in  custody  is  entitled  to  Miranda
warnings like those given the defendant when she was first taken into
custody.  If,  after  receiving  such  warnings,  the  person  in  custody
asserts his or her right to have an attorney present during questioning,
all  interrogation  must  stop  and  may  not  be  continued  without  the
presence  of  an  attorney  or  a  subsequent  valid  waiver.  Because  any
further interrogation is regarded as coercive, a confession obtained in
its  course  is  not  admissible  in  evidence.  Although  these  rights  were
once  held  to  apply  only  to  a  person  who  was  a  suspect,  it  is  now
clear that they apply to any person in custody.

A  is  therefore  incorrect.  B  is  incorrect  because  upon  receiving  the
warnings, the defendant asserted her right to have an attorney present
during  questioning.  Although  the  police  are  required  to  advise  a
defendant of his or her rights when he or she is in custody, they are
not  required  to  advise  him  or  her  of  their  suspicions  or  of  their
reasons for asking a particular question. D is therefore incorrect.

192. C The grant of an interest in realty “for so long as” a certain condition
continues  to  exist  or  “until”  a  certain  condition  shall  exist  is
traditionally  held  to  create  a  fee  simple  determinable.  One  of  the
characteristics  of  this  particular  interest  is  that  it  terminates
automatically upon the happening of the specified event or condition.
Since the conveyance to the church was “for so long as” the land is
used  for  church  purposes,  it  was  a  fee  simple  determinable,  and  it
was  terminated  automatically  when  the  church  conveyed  the  land.
According to the language of the deed, the interest of the hospital was
to  become  possessory  at  that  time.  Although  this  might  not  have
occurred  within 
the  Rule  Against
the  period  prescribed  by 
Perpetuities,  the  hospital's  interest  is  valid  because  in  most
jurisdictions, the rule does not apply to the future interest of a charity
that follows the interest of another charity. C is correct for this reason
and because it is the only option that could possibly be correct in any
jurisdiction.

The  estate  system,  and  in  particular  the  law  of  future  interests,  was
developed  so  that  a  grantor  could  exercise  some  control  over  the
subsequent  use  of  the  land  conveyed.  For  that  reason,  restrictive

1310

language such as that contained in the landowner's deed is understood
to relate to the way the conveyed land itself is used. Although the sale
by the church might serve to enable the church to continue operation
elsewhere,  it  violates  the  special  limitation  contained  in  the
landowner's deed since it results in a cessation of the use of the land
itself  for  the  purpose  stated  in  that  limitation.  For  this  reason,  A  is
incorrect. B  is  incorrect  for  two  reasons.  First,  as  explained  above,
an  exception  prevents  the  interest  of  the  hospital  from  being  void
under  the  Rule  Against  Perpetuities.  Second,  the  Rule  Against
Perpetuities  prevents  the  vesting  of  certain  interests  but  does  not
prevent the divesting of any interest. Thus, even if the interest of the
hospital  was  void  under  the  Rule,  the  violation  of  the  special
limitation  contained  in  the  landowner's  grant  would  terminate  the
interest of the church no matter when it occurred. The language of the
landowner's grant limited the use for which the realty conveyed could
be  put.  Restrictions  of  this  kind  are  enforceable,  even  though  they
indirectly  restrain  alienation.  The  effect  of  the  language  used  by  the
landowner  is  to  divest  the  church  of  its  interest  when  the  church
ceases to use the land for church purposes. Since the sale would have
that  effect,  the  church  is  divested  of  its  interest,  and  D  is  incorrect.
(Note: Sometimes the language of a conveyance attempts to directly
restrain subsequent alienation of the interest conveyed by prohibiting
such alienation. Most of the time, courts hold that direct restraints on
alienation are invalid. If a restraint on alienation is held to be valid, it
might make the person who violated it liable for damages, but it does
not void the alienation. Thus, even if the conveyance created a direct
restraint on alienation, it would not make the subsequent conveyance
by the church invalid.)

193. B Although the Commerce Clause gives Congress the power to regulate
interstate  commerce,  some  regulation  by  the  states  is  permitted  so
long  as  the  effect  is  not  to  discriminate  against  or  impose  an  undue
burden  on  interstate  commerce.  Even  state  regulations  that  do
discriminate  against  interstate  commerce  or  impose  a  burden  on  it
may be constitutional if they are aimed at a legitimate health or safety
objective that cannot be achieved by less drastic means. It is possible
that  the  additional  fact  set  forth  in  B  would  result  in  a  finding  that
Section  40  is  valid  because  it  protects  the  health  and  safety  of  the
people  of  the  state  in  the  least  drastic  way  possible.  It  is  far  from
certain that a court would come to this conclusion, but B is the only

1311

one  of  all  the  additional  facts  listed  that  could  possibly  result  in  a
finding of constitutionality.

One  of  the  purposes  of  the  Commerce  Clause  is  to  ban  artificial
barriers  to  interstate  competition.  Since  the  fact  in  A  would  make
creation  of  a  business  advantage  for  in-state  nuclear  power  plants  a
purpose of the Section, it would show that the statute is designed to
create exactly the kind of artificial barrier that the Commerce Clause
was  designed  to  prevent.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  The  shortage  of
storage facilities within the state underscores the competition for the
use of such facilities. Thus, C would not justify finding Section 40 to
be  constitutional  since  its  terms  effectively  eliminate  out-of-staters
from  that  competition.  Even  if  there  are  many  safe  storage  locations
outside  the  state,  there  may  be  sound  business  reasons  why  out-of-
staters prefer to use state locations. The discrimination resulting from
the  provisions  of  Section  40  would  thus  not  be  justified  by  the
existence of out-of-state locations. D is therefore incorrect.

194. B It is generally understood that evidence of a person's bad character is
inadmissible  for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  he  or  she  acted  in  a
particular way on a particular occasion. Since evidence of a criminal
conviction is evidence of character, it is usually excluded by this rule.
Under  FRE  609,  a  judgment  of  conviction  may  be  admitted  for  the
purpose of impeaching the credibility of a witness, however, because
it tends to establish that the person convicted is untrustworthy. If the
defendant did not testify, there is no reason to impeach his credibility,
and evidence of his prior conviction would be inadmissible.

On the other hand, if he did testify, evidence of his conviction would
be  admissible  under  the  FRE.  A  is  therefore  incorrect.  Under  FRE
609,  evidence  of  a  conviction  for  a  felony  in  any  state  or  nation  is
admissible  to  impeach  a  witness  without  regard  to  the  nature  of  the
felony.  Since  involuntary  manslaughter  is  a  felony,  C  is  incorrect.
Since the FRE make a conviction from any state or nation admissible,
D is incorrect.

195. B To get a copy of the police report, the boxer's attorney must cause the
clerk of the court to issue a subpoena duces tecum (an order requiring
the  recipient  to  appear  before  the  court  and  produce  documents)  on
the police department under Fed. R. Civ. P. 45.

A is  incorrect  because  a  request  to  produce  documents  may  only  be

1312

served  on  a  party  to  the  suit.  See  Fed.  R.  Civ.  P.  34. C  is  incorrect
because it is unnecessary to take the deposition of the police officer
in order to get the police report. D is incorrect because only parties to
an action are required to respond to interrogatories. See Fed. R. Civ.
P. 33(a).

196. B A plaintiff who experiences mental suffering as a result of witnessing
the  infliction  of  a  physical  injury  on  another  may  recover  from  a
person  who  negligently  inflicted  that  physical  injury.  Although  the
majority of jurisdictions permit such recovery only when the plaintiff
is  in  the  same  zone  of  physical  danger  as  the  person  who  sustained
physical injury, an important minority permit the plaintiff to recover if
his  or  her  mental  suffering  was  a  foreseeable  result  of  the  physical
injury  that  he  or  she  witnessed.  In  this  minority  of  jurisdictions,  the
plaintiff might recover from the manufacturer for her mental suffering
at witnessing the patient's death if it was likely (i.e., foreseeable) that
the  manufacturer's  negligence  in  causing  the  patient's  death  would
lead to the plaintiff's mental suffering. Because this is a minority rule,
there is no guarantee that it would lead to a judgment for the plaintiff.
Of those listed, however, B is the only argument that could possibly
be effective in support of the plaintiff's claim.

A  defendant  who  engages  in  outrageous  conduct  with  the  intent  to
cause  the  plaintiff  to  experience  mental  suffering  may  be  liable  for
mental  suffering  that  the  plaintiff  experiences  as  a  result.  A  is
incorrect,  however,  for  two  reasons:  First,  outrageous  conduct  is
conduct that exceeds bounds normally tolerated by decent society, not
conduct that creates a high probability of harm, and second, there is
no fact indicating that the manufacturer intended to cause the plaintiff
to  experience  mental  suffering.  When  a  plaintiff  voluntarily
encounters  a  risk  of  which  he  or  she  knows,  he  or  she  assumes  that
risk.  Since  the  plaintiff  did  not  know  that  the  oxygen  tank  contained
anesthetic gas, she could not have assumed the risk resulting from that
fact. C is incorrect for this reason and because assumption of the risk
would prevent the plaintiff from recovering. A defendant who intends
mental  suffering  to  result  from  its  outrageous  conduct  may  be  liable
for  the  intentional  infliction  of  mental  harm.  In  this  regard,  a
substantial  certainty  that  the  suffering  will  occur  is  equivalent  to  an
intent to bring it about. D is incorrect, however, because even if the
manufacturer  was  certain  that  the  apparatus  would  be  used  on  a
patient, it did not intend the plaintiff's suffering unless it was certain

1313

that  the  patient  would  die  and  that  the  plaintiff  would  suffer  as  a
result.

197.  B  A  conspiracy  occurs  when  two  or  more  persons  with  the  specific
intent to commit a crime agree to commit it. Since the druggist did not
believe that the wife would be hurt by the drug that he furnished, he
did  not  have  the  requisite  specific  intent  and  did  not  really  agree  to
commit murder. For this reason, there was never an actual agreement
between him and the man, and therefore no conspiracy.

Conspiracy, if it exists, is separate from the substantive crime and is
complete  when  the  unlawful  agreement  is  made.  For  this  reason,  a
defendant  may  be  guilty  of  conspiring  to  commit  a  particular  crime
even though he or she never succeeded and was not likely to succeed
in  committing  it.  A  and  C  are  therefore  incorrect.  D  is  incorrect
because  it  is  an  inaccurate  statement  of  law:  The  inchoate  crime  of
conspiracy never merges with the substantive crime; a defendant can
be convicted of both.

198. A Under FRE 803(6), a properly authenticated writing may be admitted
under the business record exception to the hearsay rule if it was made
in the regular course of business while fresh in the declarant's mind
about  facts  that  the  declarant  knew  or  learned  from  an  inherently
reliable  source.  Since  the  witness's  testimony  satisfied  all  these
requirements,  the  personnel  file  should  be  admitted  as  a  business
record.  (Note:  Do  not  be  confused  about  a  controversy  that  exists
over whether police records describing an accident  are  kept  in  the
“regular  course  of  business.”  Police  department  personnel  records
clearly are.)

B  is  incorrect  because  to  be  admissible  as  “past  recollection
recorded,” a writing must have been made by the witness himself or
herself,  and  because  under  FRE  803(5)  and  the  common  law,  the
writing may be read aloud but not physically admitted into evidence.
C  is  incorrect  because  business  records  and  official  written
statements  may  be  used  by  any  party.  Although  negative  evidence
presents some special problems, FRE 803(7) specifically permits the
absence  of  a  business  record  to  be  admissible  as  evidence  that  an
unrecorded transaction did not occur.

199. B A motion for judgment as a matter of law is made before the case is
submitted  to  a  jury  and  asks  the  court  for  judgment  in  the  moving
party's favor based on the argument that no reasonable person could

1314

come to a different conclusion. A renewed motion for judgment as a
matter of law comes after entry of judgment and can only be made if
the  moving  party  made  a  motion  for  judgment  as  a  matter  of  law
during the trial. Because the bank did not make a motion for judgment
as a matter of law during trial, it cannot now try to make one after the
entry of judgment.

A is incorrect because a motion for judgment as a matter of law does
not  need  to  be  supported  by  new  evidence.  C  and  D  are  incorrect
because the bank had to have made a motion for judgment as a matter
of  law  before  the  jury  verdict  to  have  the  court  grant  the  bank's
attempt at a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law after the
verdict.

200. A  Under  28  U.S.C.  §1446(b),  a  defendant  must  file  notice  of  removal
within  30  days  after  formal  service  of  the  complaint.  Since  the
builder removed 29 days after formal service, the builder's removal
was  timely.  See  Murphy  Brothers  v.  Michetti  Pipe  Stringing,  Inc.,
526 U.S. 344 (1999).

B  is  incorrect  because  there  is  no  special  rule  regarding  notice  by
certified mail. C is incorrect because the 30-day period begins when
the defendant receives official service. D is incorrect because there is
no rule regarding challenging notice received by email.